-- German Retail Sales Fall for Third Month as Unemployment Rises
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-31T07:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/german-retail-sales-fall-for-third-month-as-unemployment-rises.html
German retail  sales (GRFRIAMM)  unexpectedly fell
for a third month in April as unemployment rose, suggesting the
recovery in Europe’s largest economy is struggling to take hold.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, dropped
0.4 percent from March, when they fell a revised 0.1 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast an increase of 0.2 percent, according to
the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . From a
year earlier, sales increased 1.8 percent.  German unemployment rose more than economists forecast in
May, even as it remained near a two-decade low, signaling six-straight quarters of recession in the euro-area are affecting
the domestic economy. Still, business confidence rose this month
for the first time since February and  consumer confidence  is set
to climb to the highest since 2007 in June, according to market
researcher GfK AG.  “After a host of positive news recently from the German
consumer, the moderate decline in retail sales in April makes
for a slightly disappointing start to the second quarter,” said
 Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“The fundamentals for consumption in  Germany  remain strong.
Unemployment and inflation are very low, and real wages are
rising thanks to more generous wage deals between unions and
employers.”  Household spending rose 0.8 percent in the first quarter,
according to a breakdown of first-quarter gross domestic product
released on May 24. The Bundesbank, which in December predicted
growth of 0.4 percent this year and 1.9 percent in 2014, will
publish new forecasts next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  