-- German Stocks Drop on Higher Yields, Retail-Sales Decline
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-05-31T08:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/german-stocks-drop-on-higher-yields-retail-sales-decline.html
German stocks  fell, paring a monthly
gain for the benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index, as investors weighed the
effect of increasing bond yields and as a report showed retail
 sales (GRFRIAMM)  in the country missed forecasts.  Bayer AG (BAYN) , the Leverkusen, Germany-based maker of health-care products, and  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the nation’s biggest
steelmaker, led the retreat with declines of at least 1.5
percent each.  The DAX dropped 1 percent to 8,316.86 at 10:50 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The gauge is still heading for a 5.1 percent increase
in May and has risen in all but one of the last 12 months as
central banks around the world maintained their stimulus
efforts. The broader HDAX Index also lost 1 percent today.  “While the mid-term outlook seems positive for equities,
you will experience a spike in volatility in the short term,”
Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps oversee $780 million at Ofi
Gestion Privee in Paris, said in a phone interview today. “It
will become more difficult to forecast what the Fed is going to
do as each month passes. But also stocks have had a phenomenal
performance and higher prices infer more volatility.”  The German VDAX Volatility Index, which measures the cost
of buying protection against swings on the DAX, on May 23 rose
the most in seven weeks after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the central bank may reduce purchases if the economy improves.
The risk gauge in January fell to a record low of 12.29.  The  yield  in the benchmark 10-year German bund rose to 1.53
percent on May 29 from 1.17 on May 2, and rates in similar U.S.
Treasuries climbed to 2.17 from 1.63 this month on concern the
 Federal Reserve  may taper its bond-buying program.  German retail sales unexpectedly fell in April for a third
successive month, a release showed today. Sales, adjusted for
inflation and seasonal swings, dropped 0.4 percent from March,
when they fell a revised 0.1 percent, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
had forecast an increase of 0.2 percent.  Bayer declined 1.5 percent to 82.39 euros. ThyssenKrupp
fell 1.7 percent to 15.56 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  