-- GM Says Malibu Changes Intended to Boost Chevrolet Sales
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-05-31T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/gm-says-malibu-changes-intended-to-boost-chevrolet-sales.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , after failing to
gain sales with its redesigned  Chevrolet  Malibu last year, said
it’s updating the mid-size sedan with a sportier front end,
roomier back seat and better fuel economy.  The 2014 Malibu will have an additional 1.25 inches (3.2
centimeters) of rear knee room, a base engine that gets 5
percent better fuel efficiency in city driving and a front end
that takes design cues from the larger, redesigned Chevrolet
Impala sedan, which has been receiving positive reviews, the
company said today in an e-mailed statement  “The mid-size sedan segment is the most contested in the
industry and we’re not sitting still with the 2014 Chevrolet
Malibu,”  Mark Reuss , president of GM’s North American
operations, said in the statement. The changes are to make the
Malibu “a stronger choice for customers,” he said.  The revisions to the 2014 Malibu, unusually quick following
last year’s total redesign, underscore the importance of the
model to Chevrolet, Detroit-based GM’s largest brand. Malibu
competes in a segment that includes five of the 20 most popular
vehicles in the U.S.  First-quarter U.S. sales of the Malibu declined 16 percent
compared with a year earlier after a 6.1 percent drop in 2012’s
fourth quarter, according to data compiled by researcher
Autodata Corp. Malibu deliveries for 2012 rose 3 percent to
210,951 while sales of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s segment-leading
Camry increased 31 percent to 404,886.  Intensified Competition  Competition in the mid-size segment intensified last year
as  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Honda Motor Co. and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
introduced redesigned versions of the Fusion, Accord and Altima.  “Having a segment in which there are so many new entries
that are good from so many different brands makes it so hard,”
Jessica Caldwell, an analyst with Edmunds.com, a website that
tracks automotive sales, said this week in a telephone
interview. “The Malibu was the one car people pointed to that
was relatively new but not as successful as the others.”  GM has already taken steps this year to help the struggling
Malibu. It lowered the price of the model by as much as $770.
The entry-level Malibu starts at  $21,995 , which excludes an $810
freight charge.  Part of Malibu’s troubles lay with its introduction last
year, which stretched several months. The most expensive version
arrived in U.S. showrooms in February while the cheaper, higher
volume edition didn’t reach buyers until October.  ‘Bragging Point?’  The Malibu also received middling  reviews . The redesigned
car was “good, but not great at any single thing,” Lawrence
Ulrich wrote in January in the  New York  Times.  Mark Phelan, auto critic for the  Detroit Free Press ,  wrote 
in a May 10 review that the Malibu “was a beacon of hope in
GM’s darkest days, has gone adrift like a Carnival cruise
ship.”  “The 2013 Malibu lacks any single, outstanding
characteristic that shoppers simply can’t ignore,” Phelan
wrote. “The Fusion has drop-dead looks. The Altima boasts a 38-mpg EPA highway rating. The Accord has a nonpareil reputation
and resale value. What is the Malibu’s bragging point?”  The Malibu is a stumble in an otherwise improving lineup of
new cars and trucks for GM. The automaker is bringing out about
20 new or refreshed vehicles in the U.S. this year as it tries
to rebound from last year’s 88-year-low market share. GM joined
Ford and Chrysler in gaining U.S. market share in the first
quarter for the first time in 20 years.  Revamped Features  The 2014 Malibu with a 2.5-liter engine has start-stop
technology, which shuts down the engine at stoplights, and
variable valve lift control to get an estimated 23 miles (37
kilometers) per gallon in city driving and 35 mpg on the
highways, GM said. The 2013 base Malibu got 22 mpg in city and
34 mpg in highway driving, according to the  U.S. fueleconomy.gov
website .  Other changes include a redesigned center console to make
the armrest longer, suspension enhancements derived from the new
Impala and an optional blind zone and rear-cross traffic alert
system, GM said.  “We made changes within 18 months, demonstrating an
unprecedented commitment to make the Malibu the best car it can
be,” Ken Kelzer, GM’s executive chief engineer for global full-size and mid-size cars, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  