-- Goldman Salvages Fees With Bausch After Failed Deals
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-06-02T16:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/goldman-failed-deals-yield-bausch-merger-fee-advising-both-sides.html
(Corrects to fix spelling of name in 17th paragraph and to
remove quote in third paragraph of story that originally ran on
May 31.)  Sometimes deals that never happen are
the best kind -- at least for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   In recent months the New York-based investment bank failed
to put together three potential mergers in the health-care
industry. Yet Goldman Sachs managed to pull a takeover out of
the wreckage -- Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) ’s $8.7
billion acquisition of contact-lens maker Bausch & Lomb Holdings
Inc., announced this week.  Goldman Sachs not only salvaged a role for itself, it
landed on both sides of the deal and is likely to reap as much
as $35 million in advisory fees along with the largest portion
of as much as $140 million in financing fees, according to
Freeman & Co., a  New York  research firm. The bank is arranging
debt financing to Montreal-based Valeant, while serving as lead
adviser to Bausch & Lomb, according to the companies’ statement
on May 27.  The feat comes as Goldman Sachs leads rivals in number of
deals done so far this year while trailing in third place in
dollar volume, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Through
May 30, Goldman Sachs had worked on 107 deals, compared with 66
for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 57 for Bank of America Corp.  “The league tables become very important,” said Michael Mazzeo, finance professor at the Eli Broad School of Management
at  Michigan State University  in East Lansing. “If you’re
consistently on top, it denotes superiority. So they will keep
finding a deal until it works.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Missed Deals  In total deal size, Bank of America leads with $171 billion
followed by JPMorgan’s $149 billion, the data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Goldman Sachs, the leading M&A advisory firm in
2011 and 2012, has advised on about $140 billion in deals this
year.  The bank had no role in the $23 billion acquisition of H.J.
Heinz Co. by Brazilian investment firm 3G Capital and  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., announced in February.  Goldman Sachs also worked for a group of private-equity
firms in its bid for life-sciences equipment maker Life
Technologies Corp., people with knowledge of the matter said.
That company instead agreed in April to be bought for $13.6
billion by  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO)  in the largest health-care deal this year, leaving Goldman Sachs out of the money.  Multiple Roles  In the recent spate of health-care deals, Goldman Sachs was
aided by representing each of the pivotal companies in various
roles.  Goldman Sachs was hired in December to shop Rochester, New
York-based Bausch and tried to sell the company for at least $10
billion, people familiar with the process said in January. When
that effort failed -- a person with knowledge of the situation
said price expectations were too high -- Bausch started
interviewing banks in February for an initial public offering.  Rivals JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup Inc. landed
the lead advisory positions while Goldman Sachs was relegated to
a minor role.  Around the same time, Goldman Sachs was working with
Valeant in its attempt to buy rival drug maker Actavis Inc.,
according to two people familiar with the matter. Howard Schiller, who became Valeant’s chief financial officer in 2011,
previously worked for Goldman Sachs for more than 20 years.  Big Fees  The firm was on the losing side a second time when Activis
rebuffed Valeant and instead agreed to buy  Warner Chilcott Plc 
in early May.  Goldman Sachs wasn’t sidelined, though. The rejection left
Valeant to set its sights on Bausch & Lomb -- and Goldman Sachs
had a role with both companies. Meanwhile, Goldman Sachs had
also represented Chilcott in a failed attempt to find a buyer
last year. Chilcott later named Deutsche Bank AG as adviser in
the Activis deal to avoid the appearance of a conflict, as
Goldman Sachs was already representing Valeant.  Fees for the Valeant-Bausch deal dwarf what Goldman Sachs
would have made as a secondary underwriter on the IPO, said Lam Nguyen, a director at Freeman.  Goldman Sachs is likely to get around half of the $50
million to $70 million for sell-side advice to Bausch & Lomb,
Nguyen estimates. JPMorgan would get the rest.  Managing Conflict  Lenders are likely to earn 1 to 2 percent on the amount
they finance for Valeant, or $70 million to $140 million,
according to Freeman, with Goldman Sachs probably receiving the
largest portion.  While banks with mandates on both sides of a deal can be
vulnerable to criticism about being conflicted and not getting
the seller the best price, Goldman is unlikely to face
complaints in this case because Bausch & Lomb is closely held,
owned by Warburg Pincus LLC, said Antony Page, vice dean of
Indiana University School of Law in Indianapolis.  “I’m not too concerned about Warburg since they are
sophisticated and aware of the potential to be compromised,” he
said. “It’s awkward but investment banks face a lot of
conflicts of interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  at   dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  