-- Gold Traders Divided as Physical Buying Surge Slows: Commodities
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-05-31T14:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/gold-traders-divided-as-physical-buying-surge-slows-commodities.html
Gold traders are divided in their
outlook for prices on signs the rush for  coins  and jewelry that
followed the start of the  bear market  last month is slowing, at
a time when  hedge funds  are the least bullish in five years.  Fifteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect gold to rise
next week while 13 are bearish and five neutral. Premiums paid
by jewelers in  India  and Hong Kong to secure metal are tumbling
and sales of coins by the U.S. Mint in May are about one-third
of what they were in April. Investors sold more than 123 metric
tons held in exchange-traded products this month, valued at
about $5.6 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The surge in physical buying after gold fell to a two-year
low on April 16 helped boost prices by almost 13 percent in two
weeks. The rebound is now reversing and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg anticipate the first annual retreat since 2000. The
longest  bull market  in nine decades is poised to end as some
investors lose faith in bullion as a store of value at a time
when equities are gaining.  “We’d have to see another big move down to re-spark a
surge in retail buying,” said  David Wilson , a London-based
commodities analyst at Citigroup Inc. “The relatively big
downside moves we had in April definitely spurred retail buying,
but once that buying is done at a certain price level, it starts
to peter out.”  Trade Federation  Gold tumbled 17 percent to $1,395.27 an ounce this year in
 London , exceeding the 4.4 percent retreat in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities rallied 8.7 percent and a Bank of America
Corp. index shows Treasuries lost 1.1 percent. More than $40
billion was erased from the value of gold-backed ETPs this year.  The metal is selling at record premiums in  Singapore , said
Brian Lan, managing director at GoldSilver Central, a bullion
dealer in Singapore. Gold demand may not be as weak as thought,
UBS AG said in a report today.  Premiums paid by jewelers to banks in India are being
quoted at $3 to $3.50 an ounce over the London cash price, from
$10 to $12 early this month, said Haresh Soni, chairman of the
All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation. In  Hong Kong ,
consumers are paying about $3, compared with $5 to $6 last week,
according to Heraeus Metals Hong Kong Ltd.  Record Demand  The surge in physical buying probably will drive Indian
demand to a quarterly record as imports reach 300 tons to 400
tons in the three months through June, the World Gold Council
estimates. India is the biggest gold consumer. In  Australia ,
buyers were waiting in lines half a kilometer (0.3 mile) long to
get minted coins and jewelry shops in India and  China  ran out of
gold in a single day, according to the council.  Gold demand in China, the second largest consumer, may slow
in the second half of this year after surging in April, said
Zhang Bingnan, secretary-general of the China Gold Association.  The  U.S. Mint  sold 61,500 ounces of gold coins so far this
month, from 209,500 ounces in April, data on its website show.
Demand was so great last month that it suspended sales of the
smallest coins. The mint resumed taking orders on May 28. The
one-ounce American Eagle gold coin is selling for $1,710 an
ounce, according to the Mint website. That’s about 20 percent
higher than the price of gold.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds and other speculators cut bets on a rally by 9
percent to 35,686 futures and options by May 21, the least since
July 2007, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
Holdings of short contracts rose 6.7 percent to a record 79,416.  Assets in ETPs tracked by Bloomberg dropped 18 percent to
2,152.7 tons this year, the lowest since June 2011. Combined
assets are valued at $98 billion, from a peak of $147.7 billion
in October. Holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest, rose
on May 29 for the first time in about three weeks.  Demand for gold may weaken further should central banks
seek to curb their unprecedented money printing as economies
strengthen. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
week that the pace of bond purchases could be reduced if the
jobless rate keeps dropping. Bullion rose 70 percent as the Fed
bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative
easing through June 2011. Prices are up 1.8 percent this week on
speculation the Fed will maintain stimulus.  Central Banks  A reduction in central bank stimulus would support a rally
in the dollar, Citigroup’s Wilson said. Gold and the greenback
are inversely correlated, implying lower bullion prices should
that happen. Their 30-week correlation coefficient is at -0.54,
a level last reached in December, and from as high as 0.26 in
April. A figure of -1 means the two move opposite to each other.  Investors’ frayed faith in gold is also extending to
silver, ETP holdings of which are contracting for a second
consecutive month. Investors own 18,965 tons, valued at $13.9
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The premium charged by wholesale dealers for the Mint’s
American Eagle silver coins fell to 13 percent in May, from 25
percent in April, according to Williamsville, New York-based
coin dealer Richard Nachbar.  In other commodities, 14 of 28 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg expect corn to rise next week, while nine were bearish
and five were neutral. The proportion of bulls was the highest
in four weeks, as wet weather delayed U.S. planting. December
futures rose 5.4 percent on May 28 and 29 on the Chicago Board
of Trade, paring this year’s drop to 6.2 percent.  Four Neutral  Soybean traders are bearish, with 14 expecting prices to
decline, 10 a rally while five are neutral. Wheat traders are
divided, with 10 anticipating a rally and 10 a decline and a
further four neutral, according to the survey. Soybeans rose 7.6
percent to $15.1625 a bushel as wheat fell 11 percent to $6.9425
a bushel this year.  Ten traders predicted raw sugar prices will decline next
week, while four were bullish and one was neutral. Analysts are
bearish for a fourth week. Futures dropped 15 percent to 16.55
cents a pound in  New York  this year.  Copper traders are the most bearish in seven weeks, with 10
expecting a decline. Six are bullish and six neutral. The metal
for delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, fell 8.4 percent to $7,265 a ton this year
as stockpiles tracked by the exchange expanded to the highest
level in a decade.  Monetary Fund  The S&P GSCI gauge dropped to a two-week low yesterday,
poised for a second monthly decline. The  International Monetary
Fund  cut its forecast for  China’s economy  on May 29, estimating
that growth will be about 7.75 percent this year and next. In
April, the IMF forecast growth of 8 percent this year and 8.2
percent in 2014. China is the biggest consumer of everything
from copper to cotton to coal.  “China’s slowdown could impact industrial metals and
oil,” said Ole Hansen, the head of commodity strategy at Saxo
Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “Commodities are seeing negative
momentum across most sectors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  