-- Tim
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-05-31T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/tim.html
Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  is holding on to
its title as  analysts ’ favorite Brazilian telecommunications
stock, with Banco Santander SA and Concordia SA Cvmcc arguing
that concern about government-mandated fee cuts is overblown.  Tim has  dropped  16 percent over the past 12 months in Sao
Paulo and is trading at nine times earnings, compared with the
average of 18 times for the Ibovespa index. That makes Rio de
Janeiro-based Tim the cheapest Brazilian phone stock. The shares
dropped last year after an industry crackdown by regulators, who
pressed for better quality and lower prices.  By enticing users to make calls within its network, Tim
will be able to offset revenue lost to mobile-phone connection
fees, said Valder Nogueira, an analyst at Santander in  Sao
Paulo . He rates the stock a buy, as he has since 2010, because
Tim is setting the pace in the industry with first-of-their-kind
offers like unlimited phone calls between Tim users for 25
centavos (12 cents) apiece.  “When Tim started Tim-to-Tim calls at 25 centavos, it knew
that it would create a revenue structure that would sooner or
later depend less on interconnection,” said Nogueira. “The
growth in revenue recently was because of this plan, where
interconnection rates weren’t the big impacting factor.”  Revenue Gain  Tim, the nation’s second-biggest wireless carrier after
Telefonica Brasil SA,  reported  a 5.4 percent increase in revenue
last quarter to 4.71 billion reais. Sales at Telefonica Brasil,
which uses the Vivo brand,  rose  2.9 percent, and Oi SA’s  rose 
3.5 percent.  Tim, a unit of Milan-based  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , added 1.1
million subscribers in the first four months of this year, the
most in the industry, according to data from regulator Anatel.
Its subscriber base is up 5 percent from a year earlier,
outpacing the industry’s 4.6 percent expansion.  In addition to promoting packages for in-network calling,
Tim is banking on a new fiber-optic network to offer high-speed
 Internet service . Lower mobile fees are also encouraging more
consumers to shut off their landlines, hurting the competition
and aiding Tim by driving more phone traffic to wireless
devices. The company gets more than 80 percent of gross revenue
from mobile-phone service.  Tim’s stock slump in the past 12 months compares with a 49
percent drop for Oi and a 13 percent increase for Telefonica
Brasil. Oi is trading at 9.2 times earnings for the past 12
months, compared with Vivo’s 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Analyst Favorite  Thirteen analysts advise buying Tim shares, with five
saying hold and one recommending selling it. That means 68
percent of analysts covering the company recommend buying it,
the highest since June 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At least half of analysts have favored buying Tim
since May 2010. Sixty percent of analysts recommend buying Vivo,
compared with 27 percent for Oi.  While Tim gets 14 percent of gross sales from
interconnection fees, the tariffs also make up part of its
expenses, said Karina Freitas, an analyst at Concordia, in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. Since she upgraded the stock
to a buy rating in October, it has climbed 14 percent.  “If Tim can continue having the same success of adding
lines within its network, the company can benefit from reducing
costs and can neutralize this question of interconnection
loss,” she said.  Tim said in an e-mail it wouldn’t comment on
interconnection costs and the impact on the business. Press
officials from Vivo and Oi didn’t respond to e-mail messages
seeking comment.  Fee Reductions  Customers paid 38.70 centavos a minute to call operators
other than their own in 2012, a rate that will decrease to 16.70
centavos by 2015, according to estimates from  Robin Bienenstock ,
a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Anatel may
expand the cuts, she said.  The steep interconnection rates, among the most expensive
in the region, have forced people to carry lines from various
operators, said Richard Dineen, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc
who rates Tim neutral. They’ll get rid of some of those as rates
fall, and that will hurt Tim, he said.  “The most exposed is Tim, we believe, because it derives
the largest portion of its revenue from mobile,” he said in a
telephone interview from  New York . “All other companies have
sizable fixed-line businesses that will incur lower costs.”  Tim’s in-network calling plan was devised exactly to create
a revenue structure that would not depend on those rates,
Nogueira said. Its low-cost plans force customers to recharge
more and not just receive calls, he said.  “The company’s doing the right thing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  