-- IATA May Propose Carbon-Cut Strategy Next Week, EU Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-05-31T16:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/iata-may-propose-carbon-cut-strategy-next-week-eu-says.html
The International Air Transport
Association may propose measures to cut emissions from airlines,
a step that could help a global deal on tackling pollution by
the industry, a senior European Union official said.  IATA is expected to announce its initiative next week at
its annual general meeting in Cape Town, South Africa, said Jos Delbeke, director general for climate at the European
Commission. The aviation industry is seeking an international
solution to curb greenhouse gases from airlines after it
condemned the inclusion of foreign flights in the EU emissions-trading system last year.  “I’m going to be in Cape Town next week where IATA will
make a number of important decisions on carbon reductions,”
Delbeke said in a May 29 interview in Barcelona. “We don’t know
the detail of it, but the industry may be more forthcoming
compared to what we anticipated two years ago.”  After the expansion of the EU cap-and-trade program abroad
caused industry and diplomatic reverberations in countries from
Russia and  China  to  Mexico , Europe decided to defer the
imposition of carbon curbs on flights into and out of the bloc.
The aim of the freeze was to facilitate talks on a global deal
to reduce pollution from airlines in the United Nations’
International Civil Aviation Organization.  “There is such a wide array of measures that countries may
take so the private industry would like to make a proposal that
could then be input to the ICAO process,” Delbeke said in the
interview during the Carbon Expo conference. “It could be quite
a significant contribution by the private sector to what ICAO
could do.”  Aviation Leaders  EU carbon permits for delivery in December rose 3.4 percent
to 3.95 euros ($5.12) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  today.  About 700 aviation leaders will gather in Cape Town for the
IATA meeting and the World Air Transport Summit on June 2-4, the
association said in a statement yesterday. They will discuss
issues including environment, safety, distribution and finance,
according to IATA.  Anthony Concil, a spokesman for IATA, referred to remarks
made at a meeting of the Air Transport Action Group on May 13 in
Montreal by IATA director general Tony Tyler, in which he said
the group would be calling on its membership to “balance their
individual short-term interests with the long-term future of the
industry as a whole.”  Montreal-based IATA represents 240 airlines worldwide,
comprising 84 percent of global air traffic. Members include
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, British Airways,  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) 
and Delta Air Lines Inc.  “The importance of IATA’s proposal could be that for the
first time we could see a sectoral agreement kicked off by an
initiative from industry, that then has to be encapsulated by
regulators,” Delbeke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Barcelona at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in Barcelona at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  