-- Ibovespa Futures Drop After Bigger Than Expected Rate Rise
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-31T12:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/ibovespa-futures-drop-after-bigger-than-expected-rate-rise.html
Ibovespa futures fell, signaling
Brazilian stocks are headed for their fifth straight month of
losses, after the nation’s central bank raised its target
lending rate more than economists forecast.  Oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA may move after the
company said production dropped in March. Petrochemicals maker
Braskem SA may be active after Bradesco BBI raised its
recommendation on the stock to outperform. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA may move after  Eike Batista  said on Twitter
that the  oil company  will present its business plan “soon.”  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in June fell 0.3
percent to 54,470 at 9:23 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials dropped 0.4 percent,
falling a third day. The real lost 0.5 percent to 2.1214 per
dollar.  Brazil’s central bank board voted unanimously on May 29 to
raise the benchmark Selic rate by a half-percentage point to 8
percent even as first-quarter growth trailed estimates. The
decision surprised 38 of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
who had expected a second straight increase of a quarter-percentage point. The other 19 correctly forecast the half-point
increase.  The Ibovespa has fallen 2.3 percent in May, set for a fifth
straight monthly drop, the worst losing  streak  since September
2011. The gauge has declined 10 percent this year,
underperforming  emerging markets  including China, Russia and
 India , amid concern quickening inflation will curb the nation’s
economic recovery.  Brazil’s main equity index trades at 13 times analyst
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared with a
multiple of 10.8 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  