-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Rises to Highest Since July 2007
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-05-31T14:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-climbed-to-84-5-in-may.html
Consumer confidence  rose in May to
the highest level in almost six years as a rising stock market
and property values helped lift Americans’ outlook on the
economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
sentiment increased to 84.5 in May, the strongest since July
2007, from 76.4 a month earlier. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for the gauge to hold at its preliminary
reading of 83.7.  The increase in personal wealth from higher real-estate
 values  and stock prices that’s bolstering sentiment may help
keep  consumer spending  from faltering after a decline in April.
Household finances also helping blunt the effect of higher
payroll taxes and  federal budget  cuts that threaten to limit
hiring.  “Housing is improving,  house prices  are rising, gasoline
prices have been a support for much of this year to confidence,
and we have stock prices that have climbed -- I think all of
that is helping to lift consumer sentiment,”  Ryan Sweet , senior
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “If consumers remain
relatively upbeat about the economy’s prospects, they’re
unlikely to pull back on spending.”  Forecasts of the 64 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 81.5 to 85.8. The index averaged 64.2 during the
recession that ended in June 2009, and 89 in the five years
prior to the 18-month slump.  Personal Spending  Another report today showed consumer spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, unexpectedly
declined in April as incomes stagnated at the start of the
second quarter. Purchases dropped 0.2 percent after a 0.1
percent gain that was smaller than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department said. Incomes were unchanged.  The Michigan survey’s  current  conditions index, which takes
stock of Americans’ view of their personal finances, jumped to
98 in May, the highest reading since August 2007, from 89.9 last
month. The preliminary May figure was 97.5.  The index of  expectations  six months from now surged to
75.8 this month from 67.8 in April and a preliminary May reading
of 74.8.  The Michigan report corroborates other measures this week
of sentiment. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index held near a
five-year high last week as Americans’ views on the current
state of the economy matched a mid-April reading that was the
strongest since January 2008. The Conference Board’s  confidence
index  rose in May to the highest level since February 2008.  High-Income Earners  The Bloomberg measure showed sentiment for households
earning between $75,000 and $100,000 annually reached a five-year high, climbing last week to within a point of the reading
for those making even more.  The outlook has shown less improvement for lower-income
consumers, who continue to struggle with the effects of higher
taxes that went into effect in January, said Mary Winston, chief
financial officer at Family Dollar Stores Inc., a discount
retail chain based in Matthews,  North Carolina .  “There continues to be pressure on that consumer,”
Winston said at a May 21 conference. “They’re going to continue
to focus on buying the things that they need, because they do
live on a fixed budget and as fluctuations occur in the economy
or as unexpected things happen like payroll tax increases or
whatever, that causes them to spend less on more discretionary
items. We’ve certainly seen that in our business.”  The Michigan survey showed that Americans expect an
inflation rate of 3.1 percent over the next 12 months, the same
as in April. Over the next five years, Americans expect a 2.9
percent rate of inflation, also the same as the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  