-- IMF Loan Makes Jamaica Dollar Hemisphere's Best Performer
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-05-31T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/imf-loan-makes-jamaica-dollar-hemisphere-s-best-performer.html
The International Monetary Fund-led
bailout following  Jamaica ’s second debt restructuring in three
years helped the Caribbean island’s dollar outperform all other
currencies in the Western Hemisphere this month.  After tumbling 6.5 percent in the first four months of the
year, the Jamaican dollar has climbed 0.1 percent this month to
98.725 per dollar, the only one of 16 Latin American and
Caribbean currencies tracked by Bloomberg to gain against the
greenback. The Brazilian real and Mexican peso both lost about 5
percent versus the dollar over the same period, respectively,
while the Canadian dollar fell 2.2 percent.  Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller’s government
restructured about $9 billion in local bonds in March as
economic growth contracted five quarters in a row and central
bank reserves plunged. That paved the way for about $2 billion
in loans this month from the IMF,  World Bank  and  Inter-American
Development Bank .  “If the IMF is happy, it will continue to disburse funds
and this will continue to keep the ship afloat for the
foreseeable future,” said Franco Uccelli, a Latin America and
Caribbean analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Miami. “Everything
is contingent on the Jamaicans staying the course right now.”  Central bank  reserves  tumbled 51 percent in April from a
year earlier to $866 million, prompting policy makers to create
a U.S. dollar-indexed bond and four new certificates of deposit
to staunch demand for foreign currency. Reserves should recover
“gradually” to about $1.2 billion in the 2013-2014 fiscal
year, the IMF said in a report this month.  Debt-to-GDP  Simpson Miller’s government is also making progress in
narrowing the  budget deficit  after the restructuring, according
to the IMF. The first-quarter deficit of $72 million was less
than the $77 million forecast by the government. The country’s
ratio of debt-to-gross domestic product reached 140 percent last
year, the IMF said, more than the 93 percent that triggered a
European Union bailout of Cyprus.  Jamaica’s budget “outperformed projections, with the
central government primary surplus improving to 5.4 percent of
gross domestic product, mainly owing to a decline in primary
expenditure,” the IMF said May 21. “Although the full benefits
of the reform agenda may take time to materialize, the reforms
are urgent.”  U.S. Stimulus  Demand for most global currencies and bonds eased this
month on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will pare back
stimulus efforts. The yield on benchmark  10-year U.S. bonds  have
jumped 44 basis points this month, the biggest increase since
December 2010, to 2.11 percent. All 16 major global currencies
tracked by Bloomberg have weakened against the dollar this
month.  The yield on Jamaican  dollar debt  rose six basis points
this month through May 29 to 7.4 percent, according to
JPMorgan’s CACI index.  The IMF accord and the central bank’s efforts helped
“diminish speculative and hoarding activities,” which had
undermined the Jamaican dollar, Gregory Samuels, head of trading
at Scotia Investments Jamaica Limited, said by e-mail.  Still, the rally won’t last as the government is “more
comfortable” depreciating the currency at a “moderate pace”
to boost exports and tourism, said Dino Hinds, vice president of
markets and trading at Mayberry Investments Ltd. in Kingston.  Officials at the central bank didn’t respond to messages
left by  Bloomberg News .  Default Probability  Economically, Jamaica is still struggling to ignite growth.
Moody’s Investors Service warned in a May 20 report that Jamaica
and Belize, which restructured about $544 million of global
bonds this year, face a “high probability” that they will
default again.  Jamaica’s GDP declined 0.5 percent in the fiscal year
ending March 31, the IMF said. Tourist arrivals fell 2.5 percent
to 541,000 in the first quarter, according to the Jamaican
Tourist Board. Unemployment climbed to 14.2 percent in the
fourth quarter from 13.7 percent in the previous three-month
period. Growth will probably rebound to 0.4 percent this year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five
economists.  “It’s really one of the weakest credits in the Caribbean
and all of  Latin America ,” said Uccelli. “It’s obviously so
highly indebted, and with the precarious fiscal situation and
the inability to grow, once you combine those factors, it’s very
difficult really to improve your outlook unless some drastic
measures are undertaken, and that’s what the government is
trying to do now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Miami at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  