-- Limits on Short-Term Currency Bets to Cut Japan Broker Profits
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a ,   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2013-05-31T06:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/limits-on-short-term-currency-bets-to-cut-japan-broker-profits.html
Broker profits from short-term bets
on exchange rates may be reduced as  Japan ’s financial regulator
considers limiting the trades, according to  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a
currency-margin brokerage in Tokyo.  The minimum expiration time on binary options, contracts
that pay out when a rate moves in the chosen direction, will be
extended to two hours, and controls on time lapses between
orders and executions will be tightened this year, said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director at FX Prime. Trades at some
brokers now expire in five minutes.  “We’re reviewing our products,” Ueda said. “There will
be some impact on our profits, but the proposals for the binary
option rules have been talked about since last fall around
September, so we have already taken that into consideration in
our business plan.”  The Financial Services Agency hasn’t made a final decision
on the limits, said Hiroshi Okada, a Tokyo-based spokesman at
the regulator. “We are continuing to seek public opinions on
the proposal,” he said. The Nikkei newspaper reported details
of the rule changes earlier today, saying the agency may levy
fines as large as 100 million yen ($990,000) for violations.  “Binary options trades have deep-rooted popularity among a
small number of investors for their simplicity,” said Takuya Kanda, an analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute, a unit of
the nation’s largest currency-margins trader. “Trading volumes
of binary options will fall, at least temporarily,” he said.  Shares in Japanese companies that offer  currency-trading 
services fell on the news of tighter regulations.  GMO Internet
Inc. (9449)  dropped 4 percent to 979 yen today, while SBI Holdings Inc.
declined 4.1 percent to 1,298 yen.  Trading Impact  The volume of currency trades plunged two years ago when
regulations halved the amount of leverage, the use of debt to
multiply trading bets investors could use in foreign currency
trading, Kanda said. The impact on the  currency market  as a
whole will be smaller this time, he said.  About 10 percent of more than 70 Japanese margin-trading
firms offer the contracts, according to Kaz Shirakura, a senior
researcher at Tokyo-based Yano Research Institute.  Binary options are among the most risky speculative trades,
Javier Paz, a Boston-based senior analyst at research firm Aite
Group, said in an interview in  Tokyo  on Feb. 12.  “They were created as an instrument that’s very simple,
that anybody thinks that they can use,” Paz said. “In reality,
you still have to contend with which direction? Do I buy or
sell? When will the trade go in the right direction?”  One of the regulator’s concerns is slippage, the difference
between the expected price of trade and the actual price, FX
Prime’s Ueda said. The exchange rate can move before the
transaction is complete.  “In theory, there should be a 50-50 chance the executing
price will be favorable for the customer,” he said, “but there
are some bad companies that approve transactions at rates that
are favorable for them, or change rates deliberately.”  “Those fraudulent acts certainly need to be eliminated,”
Ueda said. “The gist of the new rules isn’t to ban all
slippage, but to pursue fairness for customers and brokers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  