-- Impala to Fusion Impress as Detroit Stymies Hyundai-Kia
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-31T15:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/impala-to-fusion-impress-as-detroit-stymies-hyundai-kia.html
Just a couple of years ago, dealers
like Scott Fink were benefiting from steady inroads made for
more than a decade by Korean carmakers in the U.S. Now, the
owner of three Hyundai outlets is buying a Chevy store.  “The new Malibu and Impala are good-looking cars, the
Fusion’s an excellent-looking car, and the customers are
speaking with their wallets,” Fink, who owns three Hyundai
stores in Florida and chairs the brand’s national dealer
council, said in a telephone interview.  Fresh cars from Detroit such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fusion and
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Impala are pacing a comeback that
may have seemed unthinkable in 2011, when  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and
 Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  capped a 13-year streak of combined U.S. market
share increases. Hyundai and Kia are giving up more ground to
the Americans this year than the Japanese, whose rebound last
year from a tsunami a year earlier snapped the run of gains.  The trend probably continued this month, with Hyundai and
Kia sales slipping a combined 1.6 percent from a year earlier,
the average estimate of seven analysts in a survey by  Bloomberg
News . No other automaker’s deliveries are projected to drop, and
industrywide sales may rise 7.1 percent, led by gains for  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  and Ford.  Falling Behind  Even if the analysts are proven wrong this month, it’s
clear that Hyundai and Kia’s momentum has slowed. Combined sales
for the two Seoul-based affiliates fell 2.3 percent through
April in a U.S. market that grew 6.9 percent, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. The two have trailed industrywide
sales growth in every month since September.  “There’s no doubt that the domestics have come back post-recession with good product across the board,” Finbarr O’Neill,
president of J.D. Power & Associates and a former chief
executive officer of Hyundai’s U.S. unit, said in a phone
interview. Hyundai and Kia “are now in a cycle where their
product is a little older. It’s just harder and harder as time
goes on to maintain a steep growth curve.”  U.S. light-vehicle sales in May probably climbed to 1.43
million, the average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The annualized industry sales  rate , adjusted for
seasonal trends, may have risen to 15.2 million, the average of
17 estimates, from 14 million a year earlier. That would keep
the market on pace for its best year since 2007.  Production Constraints  Hyundai and Kia’s slowdown has to an extent been its own
choosing: Chairman  Chung Mong Koo  chose a push for improved
quality instead of adding to their North American manufacturing
capacity. That has stretched thin the automakers’ ability to
produce enough vehicles to keep up in the growing U.S. auto
market, especially when they’ve faced strikes by South Korean
union workers in the past year.  “We’re constrained by volume,”  John Krafcik , CEO of
Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit, said this week in a telephone
interview. “The cars haven’t lost their competitive edge.”  A one-two punch since early November 2012 has since stopped
Hyundai and Kia’s growth in its tracks. The two admitted to the
most extensive overstatement of fuel economy ratings ever found
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and the Japanese
yen began plunging against the Korean won.  The fuel-economy flub, which led Hyundai and Kia to
reimburse buyers of about 900,000 vehicles sold in the U.S. for
some pump purchases, dented their reputations as fuel-economy
frontrunners. The weakening yen threatens to arm Japanese
competitors with the ability to stuff their cars with more
content without raising prices, threatening the value
proposition pitch that has served Hyundai and Kia so well during
their ascent in the U.S. market.  Replacing Models  On top of all that, other “major players” in the industry
have caught up to the Koreans on the basis of replacing their
models with new or revamped versions, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s annual Car Wars report released this
month. The gap will be closed by the 2014 model year, or this
calendar year, said  John Murphy , a New York-based analyst for
Bank of America.  “It’s a much, much more competitive market,”  Tom Loveless , Kia’s vice president of U.S. sales, said by telephone.
With mid-size cars and small utilities, “there’s lots of noise,
lots of activity in those segments, and those are big
segments.”  The Korean automakers replaced their models at a faster
rate than every automaker except  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  in the last
decade, according to the Bank of America report. That helped
drive market share for Hyundai and Kia to 8.9 percent in 2011,
from 1.1 percent in 1998, according to researcher Autodata Corp.
After slipping last year to 8.7 percent, their combined market
share may slide to 8.2 percent by 2016, Murphy wrote.  ‘Year Older’  “Our competitors have great product, newer product,
especially in some of the largest segments,” said Fink, the
Florida Hyundai dealer. “We think our cars face off
extraordinarily well, but they are a year older.”  Ford, which has gained the most U.S. market share this
year, probably led American automakers this month with an 11
percent increase in sales, the average of 13 estimates. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based company will add capacity to build
200,000 more vehicles annually in  North America  on demand for F-Series pickups and Fusion sedans.  For the first time in two decades, Ford, Detroit-based GM
and Chrysler Group LLC pulled off a sweep in the first three
months of a year, with all three gaining U.S. market share in
2013’s first quarter. Deliveries may have increased 5.5 percent
for GM and 6.4 percent for  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler
in May, the average estimates of 13 analysts.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , based in Wolfsburg, Germany, may post an 7.7
percent gain in combined sales for its VW and Audi brands in
April, the average of four estimates.  Accord, Fusion  Hyundai and Kia rolled out updated versions of the Accent
subcompact, Elantra compact and Sonata and Optima mid-size
sedans in 2010 and 2011. While demand for Elantra has continued
to grow, the carmaker has had trouble keeping up with newer
models in the mid-size car segment such as Tokyo-based Honda’s
Accord and Ford’s Fusion, and the Accent has fallen behind GM’s
Chevy Sonic and Ford’s Fiesta.  To counter the new-product challenge, Korean automakers
have been boosting incentives on important models. Spending on
Hyundai Elantra rose sixfold in April to $1,196 from $196 a year
earlier, according to researcher Edmunds.com. Incentives rose 94
percent for Kia Rio, to $838, 63 percent for Hyundai Sonata, to
$2,377, and 42 percent for Kia Optima, to $2,598.  Tough Comparisons  “We’re comparing ourselves to brands now that are doing
better than they’ve done in five years,” Hyundai’s Krafcik
said. “Those comparisons at times disadvantage us because
they’re up year-over-year, but we were very strong last year.”  The weakening yen may already be giving Japanese
manufacturers a leg up. Nissan,  Japan ’s second-largest
automaker, this month cut the price of seven models, including
its top-selling Altima sedan.  Nissan probably will lead all automakers with a 22 percent
increase in U.S. sales, the average of eight estimates. The
Yokohama, Japan-based company said its price cuts aren’t related
to the yen and instead are aimed at getting sticker prices in
line with what customers actually pay for their models.  Honda and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  sales may have risen 5.7
percent and 3 percent in May, respectively, the average
estimates of eight analysts. Toyota forecast an increase in May
sales from a year earlier, helped by a gain in Prius hybrid
deliveries. Carly Schaffner, a company spokeswoman, declined to
provide specific figures for total sales or Prius.  The yen has weakened about 21 percent versus the  U.S.
dollar  and 18 percent versus the Korean won since Oct. 31, when
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe advocated for its decline to aid his
country’s economy.  ‘Product Offensive’  “Shinzo Abe may go down as the greatest car salesman in
Japanese history,” Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley’s auto analyst,
wrote in a May 28 report. “We don’t think the Japanese will
start a price war, but rather a product offensive.”  The average Japanese car selling in the U.S. has 44 percent
content from Japan, according to Morgan Stanley, which cited
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration figures. Nissan
and Toyota have 52 percent and 48 of content in their cars
sourced from Japan, behind  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s 85 percent and
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s 84 percent.  “We look for the Japanese to use the model-year change-over to adjust option packages at favorable prices, leading to
more profound product enhancements from mid-2014 onward,” wrote
Jonas, who is based in New York.  Value Proposition  Such moves would be straight out of Hyundai and Kia’s
playbook, said O’Neill, who led Hyundai as its U.S. sales more
than quadrupled from 1998 to 2002. When Hyundai introduced a new
Accent small car in the middle of his tenure, it was the only
model in its class to offer airbags as standard, he said.  “It was pricing and packaging,” O’Neill said. “What are
the features that people really wanted in cars, and how do you
offer them at a competitive price relative to the competition?
These are ways of adding value to your product that cause
consumers to look twice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  