-- Indian Bonds Headed for Worst Week Since August on RBI Comments
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-05-31T05:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/indian-bonds-headed-for-worst-week-since-august-on-rbi-comments.html
Indian bonds headed for the worst
week since August after central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
said retail inflation remains elevated and the nation’s balance
of payments is under stress.  The pace of consumer-price  gains  held above 9 percent for
14 months through April, while a record current-account deficit
contributed to a 4.8 percent slide in the rupee this month, the
biggest in a year. Subbarao also said slowing economic  growth  is
a concern for policy makers, before official data today that
economists predict will show gross domestic product increased
4.8 percent in the three months through March, compared with an
average 6.3 percent in the previous eight quarters.  “The governor’s comments have pushed back expectations of
a rate cut in the next review on June 17,” said Arvind Sampath,
Mumbai-based head of treasury at Fullerton India Credit Co.,
owned by a unit of Temasek Holdings Pte. “The weaker rupee is a
problem as it pressures the current account and pushes inflation
higher.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent government notes due June
2022 rose 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, since May
24 to 7.46 percent as of 10:18 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system. That’s the first weekly increase
since the period ended March 22. The rate climbed two basis
points today.  The securities are still headed for the best month since
they were first issued in June 2012 after the central bank
lowered  interest rates  on May 3 for the third time this year.
The shortfall in the  current  account, the broadest measure of
trade, probably widened to a record of around 5 percent of gross
domestic product, Subbarao said yesterday.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose seven basis
points today and nine basis points this week to 7.19 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  