-- India’s Nifty Stock-Index Futures Advance Before Growth Report
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-05-31T02:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/india-s-nifty-stock-index-futures-advance-before-growth-report.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may rise a second day, before the
government releases fourth-quarter economic growth data today.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for June delivery rose 0.2
percent to 6,137 at 9:54 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index climbed 0.3 percent to 6,124.05 yesterday. The S&P
BSE Sensex added 0.3 percent to 20,215.40, heading for a 3.7
percent advance this month, the most since November. The Bank of
 New York  Mellon  India  ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares increased
0.4 percent.  Data today may show gross domestic product  increased  4.8
percent in the three months through March, according to the
median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. That compares with
4.5 percent in the previous quarter, the slowest pace since
2009. Full-year growth may be 5 percent, the least in a decade,
according to the survey.  “All eyes will be on the GDP data,” Kishor Ostwal,
managing director of CNI Research (India) Ltd., said by phone
yesterday. “Given that the overall earnings were good and the
foreign inflows remains strong, the downside is limited.”  Overseas investors bought $173 million of local stocks on
May 29, taking this year’s inflows to $14.9 billion, a record
for the period and the most after  Japan  among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  Shares of  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the wind-turbine maker behind
India’s biggest convertible-bond default, may be active after
the company reported a record quarterly loss as the business
stalled under mounting debts.  Real estate developer  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  may move after the
company posted a fourth-quarter profit of 303.3 million rupees,
compared with the 918 million-rupee estimate of analysts.  Earnings Forecasts  Net income at just eight, or 27 percent, of the 30
companies in the Sensex have  missed  forecasts for the March
quarter, compared with 43 percent in the three months ended Dec.
31 and 40 percent in the previous two quarters, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have seen the worst of the earnings cycle downgrade
and it’s pretty typical for the markets to turn three to six
months before the earnings downgrades turn,”  Adrian Mowat ,
chief Asian and emerging-market strategist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., told Bloomberg TV India yesterday. “We’re entering a sweet
spot. We had a period of time where Indian growth was poor and
inflation was high, and now that poor growth is translating into
less inflation the central bank has a lot of flexibility to cut
rates.”  ‘Cause for Concern’  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao lowered the
 repurchase rate  to 7.25 percent from 7.50 percent on May 3, the
third straight quarter-point cut, part of a wave of monetary
easing this month from  Asia  to Europe, as inflation eased to a
41-month low in April.  Still, Subbarao said yesterday that retail inflation
remains elevated, and flagged the challenges to the nation from
a record current-account deficit and slowing economic growth.  “Investment growth has decelerated,” Subbarao said,
adding “today’s investment is tomorrow’s production capacity.”
The economic picture is “a cause for concern,” he said.  The Sensex has risen 4.1 percent this year, reaching the
highest level in more than two years on May 17, as monetary
easing by global central banks increased flows to  emerging
markets .  The Sensex is valued at 13.9 times  projected 12-month
profits , compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10.4
times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  