-- Iran Presidential Candidates to Hold First Televised Debate
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-31T10:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/iran-presidential-candidates-to-hold-first-televised-debate.html
Iranian presidential candidates will
hold their first televised debate today as they compete to
replace  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in next month’s election.  All eight candidates will participate in the program
organized and aired by Iran’s state television starting at 4
p.m. local time, state-run media including  Mehr  news agency
reported. Each will be given 30 minutes to answer questions,
mostly focusing on the country’s economy, according to reports.  The shortlist for the June 14 vote mostly consists of
loyalists to Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , who is
seeking to avoid a repeat of protests that broke out four years
ago amid claims that Ahmadinejad’s victory over a reformist
president was engineered by ballot fraud. Two prominent would-be
candidates , including a former president and a key Ahmadinejad
aide, were barred from running.  Khamenei takes the final decisions on affairs of state and
has signaled he wants Iran’s establishment to present a  united
front  during the contest.  Iran’s economy has suffered under international sanctions
over its nuclear program, with declining  oil output , a weakened
currency and surging inflation. While most candidates have
raised these issues in the first week of campaigning, few have
presented concrete plans for addressing them.  Saeed Jalili,  Iran ’s nuclear negotiator, Ali Akbar
Velayati, Khamenei’s longtime foreign-policy adviser, and Tehran
Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf are prominent candidates in the
race. Others include Hassan Rohani, who had the nuclear
portfolio in the early 2000s, and former parliament Speaker
Gholam-Ali Haddad Adel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  