-- Iran Petrochemical Industry Targeted for U.S. Sanctions
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-05-31T21:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/iran-petrochemical-industry-targeted-for-u-s-sanctions.html
The U.S. announced sanctions today
aimed at  Iran ’s petrochemical industry, targeting the Persian
Gulf nation’s second-largest source of foreign revenue in an
effort further isolate it from the international financial
system.  The Treasury Department also cited companies in Kyrgyzstan,
Ukraine and the  United Arab Emirates , saying they leased
aircraft that two Iranian carriers used to move “illicit
cargo” to help the Syrian regime fight its opposition.  “We are committed to intensifying the pressure against
Iran, not only by adopting new sanctions, but also by actively
enforcing our sanctions and preventing sanctions evasion,”
Treasury Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial
Intelligence  David Cohen  said in a statement.  The U.S. is ramping up sanctions in an effort to dissuade
Iran from pursuing a nuclear program that the West suspects is
meant to produce weapons. Iran insists that it is for civilian
purposes.  “It is a losing strategy for companies to assist Iran in
evading sanctions and today’s announcement serves as a
warning,” said Senator  Robert Menendez , the New Jersey Democrat
who heads the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “Cease this
illicit activity immediately or face severe consequences.”  ‘Economic Hardship’  Iran’s supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , “must
understand that every day going forward will result in increased
economic hardship unless Iran changes course immediately,”
Menendez said in a statement.  The sanctions announcement came a day after an annual State
Department report on terrorism said Iran’s sponsorship of
terrorism and terrorist activity by Hezbollah, which Iran backs,
“have reached a tempo unseen since the 1990s, with attacks
plotted in  Southeast Asia ,  Europe , and  Africa .”  Kyrgyzstan’s Kyrgyz Trans Avia, Ukraine’s Ukrainian-Mediterranean Air, known as Um Air, and Sirjanco Trading LLC of
the United Arab Emirates were all cited for helping Iran’s Mahan
Air and Iran Air acquire aircraft that moved people and illicit
cargo, according to a Treasury statement.  Petrochemical Sanctions  The petrochemical sanctions, announced by the State and
Treasury departments, were the authorized under an executive
order President  Barack Obama  signed last year allowing the U.S.
to penalize companies involved in the purchase or acquisition of
Iranian petrochemicals.  The Department of State imposed sanctions on Jam
Petrochemical Co. and Niksima Food and Beverage JLT for
knowingly doing business with Iran’s petrochemical sector, while
Treasury designated eight Iranian petrochemical companies as
owned or controlled by Iran’s government and subject to
sanctions.  Ferland Co., based in Cyprus and Ukraine, was targeted for
trying to disguise the source of Iranian oil and evade sanctions
by passing it off as Iraqi in origin. To do that, Ferland helped
arrange ship-to-ship transfers of oil among three tankers and
furnished a falsified certificate of origin, the Treasury said.  The sanctions against Ferland ban visas for corporate
officers or loans from U.S. financial institutions, and prohibit
financial, property or foreign exchange transactions subject to
U.S. jurisdiction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  