-- IRS Chief Says 2010 Meeting Under Review Was Unfortunate
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-06-01T04:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/irs-chief-says-2010-meeting-under-review-was-unfortunate.html
A 2010 Internal Revenue Service
conference that Congress is looking into was an “unfortunate
vestige from a prior era,” said the tax agency’s acting
commissioner.  The conference in Anaheim,  California , for workers
overseeing small businesses and self-employed taxpayers featured
an IRS-produced video parody of  Star Trek . Agency employees also
participated in a “dance party” video, released yesterday,
that mentioned plans for the conference.  “Taxpayers should take comfort that a conference like this
would not take place today,” Danny Werfel, the acting IRS
commissioner, said in a statement yesterday. “Sweeping new
spending restrictions have been put in place at the IRS, and
travel and training expenses have dropped more than 80 percent
since 2010 and similar large-scale meetings did not take place
in 2011, 2012 or 2013.”  The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration is
expected to issue a report next week about the IRS’s spending on
the conference. The House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee will hold a hearing on the matter June 6.  The conference-spending issue is a new dimension in
controversy surrounding the IRS, which faces inquiries from six
congressional committees and a criminal probe by the  Justice
Department  regarding scrutiny of some groups seeking tax-exempt
status.  The Star Trek video became public earlier this year, as did
a parody of the 1960s television show “Gilligan’s Island.”  Line Dancing  The  dance party  video, which shows employees being
instructed in line dancing to prepare for the Anaheim
conference, was released by the House Ways and Means Committee.  It ends with an employee dancing and singing, “New
Carrollton in the house! Ooh! Ooh!” in reference to an agency
operations center in New Carrollton,  Maryland .  The IRS said in a statement that the video was
“unacceptable and an inappropriate use of government funds.”
The agency said it and the entire government have “strict new
policies” to ensure taxpayer funds are used properly.  “Clearly this is an agency where abuse and waste is the
norm and not the exception,” Representative Charles Boustany, a
Louisiana Republican, said in a statement. “It is clear that
this is a broken agency that is empowered by a broken  tax
code .”  Four Employees  Separately, congressional investigators are interviewing
four IRS employees as part of a probe into the agency’s scrutiny
of groups advocating limited government, according to a
spokesman for Representative  Darrell Issa .  The IRS is making the four available for transcribed
interviews with the House Ways and Means and Oversight and
Government Reform panels. The employees work in the Cincinnati
office that handles applications for tax-exempt status, said Ali
Ahmad, a spokesman for Issa, a California Republican and
chairman of the House Oversight panel.  The committee has already questioned Holly Paz. The other
four employees are John Shafer, Gary Muthert, Liz Hofacre and
Joseph Herr.  Ahmad said in an e-mail yesterday that Issa’s panel will
seek to interview more IRS workers. Lawmakers, investigators and
IRS officials haven’t identified who began selecting groups for
extra attention in 2010 when they sought tax-exempt status.  So far, extensive questioning by lawmakers on three
committees directed at the IRS hasn’t revealed who decided to
single out the groups applying for tax-exempt status based on
their names. It hasn’t explained why the agency kept using what
an inspector general called “inappropriate” criteria even
after IRS officials tried to stop it in 2011.  Three Controversies  The tax agency’s disclosure earlier this month that it
singled out groups with “ Tea Party ” or “patriot” in their
names for the scrutiny before deciding whether to grant tax-exempt status is one of three controversies besetting President
 Barack Obama .  Also spurring congressional hearings are the
administration’s response to the attacks last year on a U.S.
diplomatic outpost in Benghazi,  Libya , and the Justice
Department’s seizure of telephone records and e-mails of
journalists.  Issa announced another IRS hearing, this time on the
agency’s conferences. The hearing on June 6 will focus on the
inspector general’s audit about “excessive spending” at the
tax agency, according to the committee.  Missed Deadline  The IRS hasn’t responded to some congressional requests for
information and documents. The Senate Finance Committee, which
requested documents by yesterday, hasn’t received anything, the
communications offices of Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, and  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the panel’s top Republican,
said in a joint statement.  “It’s disappointing that the IRS failed to produce any of
the documents requested by the committee,” the statement said.
“This is an agency that revolves around making the American
taxpayer meet hard deadlines each and every year when they file
their taxes, oftentimes penalizing those that are late. The IRS
needs to do much better.”  Three IRS officials have left their jobs as a result of the
controversy.  Steven Miller , the former acting commissioner, was forced
out of that position. Joseph Grant, who oversaw tax-exempt
groups and government entities, announced his retirement eight
days after being promoted.  Paid Leave  Lois Lerner, who managed the office that handled
applications from tax-exempt groups, was placed on paid
administrative leave May 23. A day earlier, she gave Issa’s
panel a short statement denying wrongdoing and then refused to
testify, invoking her constitutional right against self-incrimination.  She disclosed the IRS’s actions on May 10 and apologized,
four days before an inspector general’s report was released on
the scrutiny issue.  The House Ways and Means panel is set to hold a hearing
June 4 where representatives from some of the groups that
received the extra attention will testify.  Representative Sam Graves, chairman of the House Small
Business Committee, sent a letter to the IRS yesterday asking
about the agency’s practices for deciding which small businesses
to audit and how much money those audits recover.  Graves, a Missouri Republican, didn’t accuse the IRS of
auditing small businesses for political reasons. Still,  he
wrote , “These investigations have only raised more questions as
to the extent these practices may have extended beyond
conservative groups.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  