-- Israel Said to Review Requirements for More U.S. Weapons
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-31T13:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/israel-said-to-review-requirements-for-more-u-s-weapons.html
Israel  is re-examining its five-year
military modernization plan to make the best use of the $3.1
billion in U.S. military aid it receives each year, in light of
the threat posed by  Iran  and the Obama administration’s offer to
provide additional advanced weaponry.  According to two people familiar with the matter, the two
countries are discussing how Israel could utilize more American
military technology, including V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft,
as they negotiate continued U.S. military financing after the
current package ends in 2018. The officials spoke on the
condition of anonymity to discuss the negotiations.  Unlike most recipients of U.S. military aid, Israel can
order equipment before it receives its annual grants and
therefore has committed funds for future years to current
programs, said a U.S. official. Israel is reviewing those
financial commitments, said the official, who also spoke on the
condition of anonymity because talks between the two countries
are still under way.  Among other things, the U.S. is proposing that Israel
shouldn’t use American aid to maintain its fleet of aging KC-707
aerial refueling tankers because the Pentagon is buying new
 Boeing Co. (BA)  KC-46 tankers and plans to offer its current KC-135
models to Israel, the U.S. official said.  Israel has seven KC-707 tankers made by Chicago-based
Boeing and two propeller-driven KC-130Hs made by  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda,  Maryland , according to the 2013 edition of
The Military Balance, published by the International Institute
for Strategic Studies in London.  New Package  The value of the new arms package to Israel will depend on
how many V-22 planes Israel wants and what changes in
configuration and weapons the  Israel Defense Forces  want in
their aircraft, according to the U.S. official. The planes are
made by Boeing and Providence, Rhode Island-based  Textron Inc.’s (TXT) 
Bell Helicopter unit.  The U.S.-Israel discussions on the new weapons are likely
to be completed in the next two months, after which Congress
will be officially notified, the U.S. official said.  The Obama administration last month announced an arms
package to Israel,  Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates
worth as much as $10 billion. The proposed sales includes air
defense radars, refueling planes and precision anti-radar
missiles, U.S. officials said at the time. The U.A.E. plans to
buy 26 Lockheed Martin F-16 jets in addition to the 80 it’s
already buying.  Israel’s Edge  The move to beef up the capabilities of Middle East allies
began with President  Barack Obama  asking then-Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  to examine ways to boost Israel’s military edge in
light of potential threats in the region, three U.S. defense
officials told reporters at a Pentagon briefing in April.  The U.S. and Israel suspect that Iran is trying to develop
nuclear weapons. They also are concerned the Syrian regime of
President Bashar al-Assad may use its chemical and biological
weapons; give them to the Lebanese group Hezbollah, which the
U.S. and Israel consider a terrorist organization; or lose
control of them to Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qaeda.  The U.S. and Israel also are discussing replacing the
mechanically steered radars on Israel’s fleet of F-16 jets with
electronic versions, the U.S. official said.  The Active Electronically Scanned Array radar for F-16s
made by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  of  Falls Church ,  Virginia , is
capable of tracking multiple targets at once, allowing pilots to
perform air-to-air as well as air-to-ground missions, according
to Northrop’s  website . The electronic radar offers a two-fold
increase in reliability over mechanical versions, according to
Northrop.  Upgraded Radar  The size of the new arms package will also be determined by
how many F-16s Israel decides to upgrade, the U.S. official
said. Replacing mechanical radars with electronic ones would
provide Israel additional capability while it waits to get
Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, the official said.  Israel has a fleet of 320 F-16s of various models,
according to The Military Balance report.  Israel is the largest recipient of U.S. foreign assistance,
and has received about $118 billion since its founding,
according to an April  report  by the  Congressional Research
Service . In 2007, President  George W. Bush ’s administration
negotiated a 10-year, $30 billion military aid package that ends
in fiscal year 2018.  The Obama administration also has funded Israel’s Iron Dome
system, designed to shoot down short-range rockets.  In its 2014 budget request, the Pentagon sought $220
million to buy additional Iron Dome batteries for Israel. If
approved by Congress, that spending would be in addition to the
$486 million the U.S. has added for the system in recent years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  