-- IVG Immobilien Said to Start $3.9 Billion Restructuring Talks
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p   a n d   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-05-31T14:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/ivg-immobilien-said-to-start-3-9-billion-restructuring-talks.html
IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , the German real
estate company that plans to restructure more than 3 billion
euros ($3.9 billion) of  debt , starts talks with creditors today,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The company is seeking to conclude talks by the end of June
so it can present a financing plan to its annual shareholder
meeting, according to the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. The shareholder meeting is
currently due to take place on Aug. 14.  IVG, whose  share price  has dropped about 97 percent since
2008 following a series of writedowns in its property values,
needs to repay more than 2 billion euros of  loans  next year. The
Bonn-based company owns commercial properties valued at 21
billion euros and reported a 45 million-euro loss in the first
quarter of 2013.  The company asked creditors to form committees and appoint
advisers before financing talks, it said in a May 24 statement.
It then appointed Hans-Joachim Ziems to lead a newly-formed
restructuring division, according to a May 28 statement.
Rothschild is also advising the company.  Creditors invited to negotiate include holders of 2.4
billion euros of syndicated loans maturing September 2014, a 400
million-euro hybrid deal and a 400 million-euro convertible
bond, IVG said.  A spokesman for IVG, who asked not to be named citing
company policy, declined to comment on the timing of the
restructuring talks.  Advisers Hired  A group of loan holders hired Blackstone Group LP as
financial adviser and  Kirkland & Ellis  LLP as their legal
counsel, said three people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Advisers have been hired by each
of the other debt-holder groups, the people said.  A spokesman for Blackstone, who asked not to be identified
citing company policy, declined to comment. Officials at
Kirkland & Ellis didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and
telephone call seeking comment.  IVG changed the address of the borrower of the convertible
bond, IVG Finance BV, to London, it said May 24. European
companies sometimes move their center of main interest to London
to use English legal mechanisms to restructure debt.  Holders of the convertible bond can request payment from
March 2014, according to its latest  annual report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Miecamp in  London  at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net ;
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  