-- Japan Pays Record Price for LNG Imports in April as Yen Weakens
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-05-31T06:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/japan-pays-record-price-for-lng-imports-in-april-as-yen-weakens.html
Japan  paid a record for liquefied
natural gas in April as a government pledge to boost monetary
stimulus weakened the nation’s currency, increasing the price of
imports of the fuel.  The world’s largest buyer of LNG paid 82,477 yen ($816) a
metric ton for the fuel last month, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on Finance Ministry data released yesterday.
That’s higher than the previous  record  of 81,089 yen in
September 2008 and a 2.8 percent increase from March.  Japan’s nine biggest regional power utilities cited
increased fuel costs when they reported combined losses of 1.59
trillion yen in the year ended March 31. The currency traded at
an average of 97.76 yen against the dollar in April, compared
with 83.91 yen in December, when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe came
to power promising increased Bank of Japan monetary easing.  “Electric utilities are importing a lot of LNG,” said
Osamu Fujisawa, an independent energy economist in  Tokyo  who has
worked for Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K., an
oil refiner. “In the end, they’ll pass those costs along and
the consumer will have to bear it.”  Japan imported a record 86.9 million tons of LNG in the 12
months ended March 2013, as most of the country’s nuclear
reactors remained shut because of safety concerns after the
March 2011 disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic station.  Kansai Electric Power Co.’s No. 3 and No. 4 units at its
Ohi plant are the only operational facilities among the nation’s
50 atomic reactors. Utilities have to meet the Nuclear
Regulation Authority’s new safety standards, to be drawn up by
July, before they can restart idled facilities.  U.S. Request  Abe planned to ask President  Barack Obama  to allow gas
exports to Japan when they met in  Washington  in February,
according to Japanese officials who asked not to be identified.
A shale-gas production boom in the U.S. has driven prices below
those in much of Asia and Europe,  Japan’s trade ministry plans to establish a futures
contract for trading the fuel, Takashi Ishizaki, the director of
the ministry’s commerce policy division, said March 29. The
futures will allow consumers and producers to hedge against
price swings, while challenging the current method of linking
LNG’s cost to oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  