-- Japan’s April Crude Imports From Iran Drop on Insurance Squeeze
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-05-31T09:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/japan-s-april-crude-imports-from-iran-drop-on-insurance-squeeze.html
Japan ’s crude imports from  Iran 
 slumped  96 percent in April from a year ago, as sanctions aimed
at halting the Middle Eastern country’s atomic program limited
insurance for transportation of the cargoes.  Oil purchases from Iran for the month dropped to 36,005
kiloliters, or about 7,550 barrels a day, compared with 902,115
kiloliters in April 2012, according to data today from the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Imports fell 97 percent
from 1.39 million kiloliters in March, the data showed.  Japan’s total crude purchases shrank 6.2 percent in April
to 17.59 million kiloliters, the trade ministry said. Oil-product imports declined 17 percent to 2.54 million kiloliters,
while oil-product exports rose 16 percent to 2.42 million
kiloliters.  The Japanese government began providing sovereign insurance
to tanker operators that import Iranian oil after European Union
sanctions were introduced last year as an attempt to persuade
Iran to halt its nuclear program. The sanctions barred coverage
for 95 percent of the global fleet because London-based
underwriters arrange most of the insurance.  Japan’s oil buyers reduced their purchases in April to
ration out the government coverage and avoid using it up early
in the year, according to Akitsugu Takahashi, the  executive
director  for retail fuel sales at JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp.,
Japan’s biggest refiner.  “There’s a limit to how much insurance is available and
that limit can not be exceeded,” Takahashi, who did not specify
the limit, told reporters today in Tokyo.  U.S. and EU officials say Iran’s nuclear development is
aimed at producing atomic weapons, while the government in
Tehran says the project is for civilian purposes.  Statistics based on customs-clearance data by the Ministry
of Finance yesterday showed a 6.1 percent decline in crude
imports from Iran. Today’s trade ministry figures are based on
data collected from buyers via questionnaire and include fuel in
so-called bonded storage tanks that haven’t yet passed through
customs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  