-- Japan Output Gains as Tokyo Prices End Four-Year Slide: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-05-31T08:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/japan-output-exceeds-estimates-in-boost-for-abe-revival-campaign.html
Japan ’s industrial  production  rose
1.7 percent in April from March, exceeding the highest estimate
in a  Bloomberg News  survey and helping Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic revival campaign.  The pace quickened from 0.9 percent the previous month, a
Trade Ministry report showed in Tokyo today. National consumer
prices fell for a sixth month in April, separate data showed. At
the same time, a price gauge for the city of Tokyo rose in May
for the first time in four years, a gain that may point to a
shift in the next national reading, according to SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc.  The  International Monetary Fund  endorsed Abe’s policies and
Bank of Japan easing today, saying that a slide in the yen is
“not problematic,” provided the government rolls out a
“complete package” of fiscal and structural reforms. Abe and
BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda can achieve 2 percent inflation in
the near to medium term so long as additional measures
complement BOJ easing, according to the IMF.  “Abenomics is improving corporate and consumer sentiment,
helping to fuel people’s inflation expectations little by
little,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at  Itochu
Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo. “Japan is getting closer to emerging from
deflation.”  The gain in industrial output exceeded the median forecast
of 30 analysts for a 0.6 percent increase. The highest estimate
was for 1.5 percent.  Tokyo consumer prices excluding fresh food rose 0.1 percent
in May from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said today.
The national price gauge fell 0.4 percent in April, matching the
 median estimate  of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News.  ‘Third Arrow’  In a report on Japan, the IMF said a “concrete and
credible” plan to make public debt sustainable is urgently
needed. According to the IMF, achieving the inflation goal will
depend on successfully implementing growth strategies and
reforms, efforts that the government describes as the “third
arrow” of Abenomics, in addition to fiscal and monetary
stimulus.  The  Topix index  closed 0.1 percent higher in  Tokyo , after a
3.8 percent decline yesterday. A 6.9 percent slide on May 23 was
the biggest since March 2011, when an earthquake and tsunami
triggered a nuclear crisis. The gauge is up 32 percent this
year. The yen was at 100.62 a dollar, down about 14 percent this
year. Apple Inc. said it had raised some product prices in
Japan, including for iPad tablet computers.  India reported today first-quarter gross domestic product
rose less than 5 percent for a second quarter, compared with an
average annual pace of about 8 percent in the past decade.  Global Outlook  Around the world,  Germany said retail sales  rebounded in
April from a year earlier. The euro region will release
inflation numbers, and  consumer spending  data is due in the U.S.  Reversals in Japan’s stock rally have coincided with a jump
in government bond yields as central bankers attempt to stoke
inflation in a nation with 15 years of entrenched consumer-price
declines. Along with monetary and fiscal stimulus, Abe, 58,
plans a structural reform package to be unveiled next month.  Abe said May 17 that he aims to get annual private
investment back to 70 trillion yen ($695 billion), the level
before the depths of the 2008 financial crisis, through
deregulation, taxes, spending and equipment-leasing deals. The
figure was an annualized 65.15 trillion yen in the first three
months of 2013, down for a fifth straight quarter.  ‘Unimpressive’ Investment  “ Capital investment  at home is still unimpressive,”
 Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo, said today. “However, given that business
sentiment is improving and corporate profits are expanding with
the yen’s weakness, we can expect Japanese companies will
reverse their cautious attitude to investment and start to spend
gradually, which will provide support for industrial output.”  The prime minister also outlined a target of tripling
infrastructure exports to about 30 trillion yen by 2020. Abe has
said he will reveal his full growth plan ahead of the Group of
Eight summit in  Northern Ireland  on June 17-18.  Japan’s economy expanded the most in a year in the first
quarter as pledges for monetary easing weakened the yen and
boosted shares, supporting exports and consumer spending.
Outlines of the third-arrow initiatives encompass plans from
boosting the participation of youth and women in the workforce
to making it easier for new businesses to start up and joining
the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks.  ‘Not Perturbed’  Economy Minister Akira Amari, who last week said there was
“no need to be perturbed” by the May 23 tumble in stocks,
yesterday said that the government’s growth strategy is the most
important of its three-pronged approach to reflating the
economy.  Benchmark 10-year government bonds yielded 0.86 percent
today, up from 0.56 percent four weeks ago and 0.455 percent on
April 4, the day that  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
unveiled his plan to achieve 2 percent inflation in two years.  A rapid rise in yields can affect the economy and people’s
livelihoods, and the central bank will deal with the increase
appropriately, Amari said.  The central bank yesterday increased the frequency of its
monthly asset purchases after bond-market participants told
officials that changes were needed in the wake of increased
volatility. The BOJ said in a statement that it will buy
government debt about eight to 10 times a month starting in
June, compared with about eight times now.  In Tokyo, Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Hiroshi Nakaso said
today that seizing the opportunity to overcome deflation and
spur sustainable growth is “our manifest mission.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  