-- Japan M&A Demand to Withstand Yen Slide, JBIC’s Watanabe Says
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-05-31T07:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/japan-m-a-demand-to-withstand-yen-slide-jbic-s-watanabe-says.html
Japanese companies’ appetite for
overseas acquisitions will remain even after a slide in the yen,
according to the deputy chief of the nation’s export-credit
agency.  “There continues to be demand for overseas M&A even though
a weaker yen may make it harder,”  Hiroshi Watanabe , executive
managing director of the  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  said in a May 29 interview. Japanese businesses need
operations in foreign countries with rising populations and
incomes, Watanabe said.  JBIC is preparing to expand lending to Japanese companies
in foreign currencies, by issuing bonds and using swaps with
local banks, Watanabe said. The yen has tumbled about 18 percent
against the dollar in the past six months, enhancing the
competitiveness of Japanese exports while increasing the cost of
foreign acquisitions, which reached a record last year.  Watanabe said that Southeast Asian nations offer large
potential to  Japan ’s manufacturers, while slower-growing
developed nations also hold promise.  Japan’s infrastructure exporters are shifting focus from
just selling equipment to include maintenance and operations,
Watanabe said, pointing to the need for JBIC to provide longer-term loans to companies and offer local currencies. “There is no
doubt that the demand for local currency is increasing,” he said.  Japanese companies last year mounted a record $112 billion
in overseas mergers and acquisitions as the yen averaged 79.83
per dollar, a value 33 percent stronger than its mean of 105.81
over the previous decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency was at 100.84 as of 2:26 p.m. in Tokyo.  Bond Market  Watanabe, a former head of currency policy at the  Finance
Ministry , also said that volatility in Japan’s  bond market  has
calmed down compared with April. The central bank yesterday
increased the frequency of its monthly asset purchases after
bond-market participants told officials that changes were needed
in the wake of increased volatility.  The BOJ said in a statement that it will buy government
debt about eight to 10 times a month starting in June, compared
with about eight times now.  JBIC last year extended loans to Hitachi Ltd., which won a
contract to provide and maintain inter-city trains in the U.K.
There will probably be emerging demand in other advanced nations,
including the U.S. and  Australia , Watanabe said.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is targeting a tripling in
infrastructure-related exports to about 30 trillion yen ($297
billion) by 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  