-- Abe Offers $32 Billion to Africa as Japan Seeks Resources Access
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-06-01T04:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/japan-seeks-african-trade-inroads-at-summit-as-china-dominates.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
pledged 3.2 trillion yen ($32 billion) to  Africa  today as his
government seeks to catch up with  China  in pursuing resources,
markets and influence on the continent.  Abe announced the five-year commitment of public and
private support in a speech today at the  Tokyo  International
Conference on African Development. Officials from about 50
nations are attending the meeting, held every five years, which
is the biggest African development event outside the continent
since it began in 1993.  Africa’s economic growth is luring Japanese exporters,
while the government wants to tap the natural gas and oil there
after the 2011 Fukushima disaster led to the closing of Japan’s
nuclear plants. Chinese firms fueled $138.6 billion in  China-Africa trade  in 2011, nearly five times  Japan ’s commerce with
the continent, according to the Foreign Ministry, citing
International Monetary Fund data.  “China has become a far greater presence than Japan in
Africa -- it’s overwhelming,” said Kazuyoshi Aoki, a professor
at Nihon University in Tokyo who specializes in African matters.
“The difference lies in the level of determination. There’s a
different perception of Africa’s importance.”  In his speech, Abe outlined policies to encourage
investment by Japanese companies and support advances in health,
education and agriculture. Today’s pledge compares with publicly
funded assistance of about $9.2 billion from 2008-2012.  China Pledges  Abe hasn’t visited Africa since taking office in December,
in contrast with Chinese President Xi Jinping, who stopped in
Tanzania, the Congo Republic and  South Africa  in March as part
of his first trip abroad less than a month into office.  While in Africa, Xi reiterated a pledge for $20 billion in
loans over the next two years. China also paid for and built the
African Union’s $200 million headquarters in  Addis Ababa ,
 Ethiopia  that opened last year.  Most of Japan’s current purchases from Africa consist of
metals and fuels, including 10 percent of last year’s liquefied
natural gas imports, according to Ministry of Finance data
compiled by Bloomberg. Japan exports mostly vehicles and
machinery, according to the Japan External Trade Organization.  Japan is now also seeking rare earth minerals, and agreed
with South Africa on May 16 to extend joint exploration for the
elements used in high-tech manufacturing as Japan seeks to
escape its reliance on imports from China.  Renewed Focus  The conference renews focus on Africa as a business partner
and not just an aid recipient. For the first time, corporations
will be invited to an official session, Masaji Matsuyama, a
parliamentary senior vice-minister for  foreign affairs  who holds
responsibility for Africa, said in an interview.  Abe will hold individual meetings with about 40 African
leaders, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said. President  Jacob Zuma  of South Africa is attending, alongside the presidents of
Uganda and Zambia.  “The number one request from African nations is promotion
of trade and investment,” Matsuyama said. He said the
government’s role will be to smooth the way by investing in
infrastructure and sealing accords to protect private
investments from the risk of sudden nationalization.  Japan reached an investment agreement with Mozambique that
will be announced soon, he added.  Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in Tokyo
last month Japanese leaders turned their attention inward during
the economic downturn, missing opportunities for overseas
investment while China became more aggressive abroad.  ‘Overall’ Perspective  “You have not been able to develop an overall national
Japanese perspective of what is in Japan’s interests and make a
decision,” Lee said. “The Chinese were able to do that.”  As an example, he said Japan is yet to sign an investment
accord with the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , 13 years
after announcing a plan to do so.  Asked about a rivalry between China and Japan in Africa,
South Africa’s Ambassador to Tokyo said more top-level visits
were needed to build relationships. Mohau Pheko told a press
conference in Tokyo on May 21 that her suggestions about such
trips had met with a negative response from the Japanese
government.  “China does service the relationship,” Mohau Pheko said
on May 21. “Many top level visits. Japan is invisible,” she
added. “But you want my minerals at the same time. Terrible
thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  