-- Javer’s Planned Purchase of ICA Homebuilding Unit Canceled
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-31T21:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/javer-s-planned-purchase-of-ica-s-homebuilding-unit-collapses.html
Servicios Corporativos Javer SAPI’s
deal to buy most of  Empresas ICA SAB (ICA*) ’s homebuilding unit has
been canceled.  ICA (ICA)  shares tumbled.  ICA,  Mexico ’s biggest construction company, agreed on Dec.
3 to exchange 20 housing developments in five states for a 23
percent stake in Javer. The companies decided to cancel the deal
after failing to reach a final agreement 180 days after the
announcement, ICA said in a statement sent today to the nation’s
stock exchange.  “This is bad news” for ICA, said Javier Gayol, a Latin
America housing equity analyst at Corporativo GBM SAB, a Mexico
City-based brokerage firm. “ICA was losing money in this
business.”  Homebuilders Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB and  Corp. Geo SAB (GEOB) 
defaulted last month after a shift in government policy to
promote more capital-intensive apartments in urban areas over
homes in commuter towns depleted their cash.  ICA fell 7.8 percent to 23.15 pesos at the close of trading
in Mexico City trading. The yield on Javer’s $320 million of
bonds due in 2021 declined 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 11.81 percent today, compared with 9.13 percent when
the company on Dec. 3 agreed to an all-stock deal for assets of
ViveICA, as ICA’s subsidiary is known.  Javer, which reported a one-time expense of 193 million
pesos ($15.1 million) related to the ViveICA transaction on
April 22, is the only Mexican homebuilder that hasn’t had its
 credit rating  cut this year. The company’s B1 rating from
Moody’s Investors Service, four levels below investment grade,
is still on negative outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net  