-- Junk Returns Most of Century Amid No Economy Doubts: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-05-31T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/junk-returns-most-of-century-amid-no-economy-doubts-muni-credit.html
The riskiest debt in the $3.7
trillion municipal market is on pace for the biggest rally since
at least 1999 as a growing U.S. economy spurs investors to hunt
for higher yields.  Powered by tobacco bonds, municipal securities ranked below
investment grade or lacking a  credit rating  are gaining for the
 18th straight month ,  Standard & Poor’s  total-return data show.
An advance in June would extend the streak to the longest in at
least 14 years. The securities are joining a global high-yield
rally. Bonds of  Greece  are the world’s best performers this
quarter.  In the U.S., junk-graded munis are defying the steepest
monthly loss this year in local debt. The gains in speculative
munis come even as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset
manager, recommends that some investors scale back on the
securities on the view that yields will rise. City and state
bonds rated junk have earned 0.3 percent in May, compared with a
1.1 percent drop for the broader market, S&P data show.  “You have the so-called yield hogs, or just folks that
want to earn more than 3 to 4 percent tax-free, who are going to
migrate to the high-yield area,” said Alan Schankel, head of
fixed-income research in Philadelphia at Janney Montgomery
Scott. “There’s more comfort in doing that with a stronger
economy underlying things.”  Risk Lure  An expanding economy gives investors confidence to take
added risk in weaker credits. State tax collections have risen
12 straight quarters, according to the Nelson A.  Rockefeller
Institute  of Government in  Albany ,  New York . Property values in
20 cities rose  10.9 percent  in the year through March, the most
since 2006, the S&P/Case-Shiller index shows.  “Economic growth has caused the amount of municipal
receipts to go up dramatically, and that makes high-yield a
better bet,” said Scott Colyer, chief executive officer of
Advisors Asset Management in Monument,  Colorado , which oversees
about $11.1 billion of assets.  High-yield munis have returned 3.4 percent this year, more
than five times the rest of the tax-exempt market, S&P data
show. Speculative-grade borrowings are ranked below BBB- by S&P,
and lower than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Market Slump  Yields on 30-year munis jumped this week to  3.3 percent ,
the highest in a year, part of a broader decline in fixed-income
assets amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce its debt
purchases. Yet that rate is still below the 3.93 percent average
since January 2009, when Bloomberg data begin. That means demand
persists for the extra yields on lower-rated munis.  The investor appetite benefited the largest-ever
speculative-grade tax-exempt deal. The $1.2 billion issue from
the Iowa Finance Authority, rated BB-, three steps below
investment grade, has been gaining since its April 30 sale.
Proceeds are slated for a nitrogen fertilizer plant.  The extra yield investors demand to buy the debt has
shrunk. Bonds maturing in December 2025 traded May 30 with an
average yield of 4.89 percent, about 2.8 percentage points above
benchmark munis, Bloomberg data show. The gap is down from 3.3
percentage points when the bonds first sold.  In a deal this week,  Delaware ’s Health Facilities Authority
issued $46 million of debt rated BB+, one step below investment
grade, on behalf of Nanticoke Memorial Hospital.  BlackRock’s View  For BlackRock, the junk rally is an opportunity to sell
before interest rates jump and yield spreads widen. Muni buyers
who typically favor safer debt should reduce high-yield while
there’s demand, said  Peter Hayes , who manages $114 billion as
head of munis at New York-based BlackRock.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries will climb about 0.6
percentage point to 2.68 percent by the third quarter of 2014,
according to the median forecast of 59 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  “Look at your risk tolerance, and if you have more high-yield than you’d normally have in this market environment, then
think about paring it back while liquidity is good,” Hayes said
in an interview. “And the liquidity is still good because the
returns have been there and demand is still there.”  Bonds repaid with tobacco revenue have helped high-yield
munis outpace the market. Of the $91.8 billion value of high-yield munis in S&P’s index, tobacco obligations account for
$25.8 billion. Such debt has earned  4.1 percent  this year.  Cigarette Cash  The bonds are backed by payments cigarette companies make
to states as part of a 1998 settlement to cover the makers’
liability in health-care cost litigation. The debt is rallying
after manufacturers in December said they would distribute $4
billion they had withheld because of a dispute over how their
loss of market share would change their payments. Those sums are
based on annual cigarette shipments.  “There’s more clarity about the non-participating
manufacturers dispute,” Schankel said. “Certainty is always
the friend of an asset class.”  In the broader municipal market, states and cities are
poised to sell $3.8 billion in debt this week, the least since
March,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  At 2.19 percent, the  interest rate  on benchmark munis due
in 10 years is the highest since March 2012. The 0.44 percentage
point  jump  in May is the biggest for a month since October 2009.  State and local bonds have followed  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  in slumping
this week amid signs of an expanding economy. Federal debt
maturing in 10 years yields  2.12 percent .  The yield ratio between the two asset classes rose to about
 103 percent , the highest since May 2. The higher the ratio, the
cheaper munis are relative to Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  