-- Khan Party to Run Pakistan Northwest as Taliban Reject Peace Bid
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-05-31T07:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/khan-party-to-run-pakistan-northwest-as-taliban-reject-peace-bid.html
The political party led by Imran Khan
formed a government in  Pakistan ’s militancy ravaged northwest,
where his call for an end to army offensives against the Taliban
and U.S. drone strikes resonated with voters.  Pervez Khattak of Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party was
elected today as chief minister of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province,
a gateway to the tribal area on the Afghan border that guerrilla
groups use as a base. He takes over amid fresh turmoil in the
region after the May 29 killing of the Taliban’s No. 2
commander, Waliur Rehman, by a U.S. pilotless aircraft.  Pakistan’s Taliban reacted to Rehman’s death by withdrawing
an offer for peace talks, the Dawn newspaper reported today,
citing the group’s spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan. The Pakistani
government and military are equally responsible for the missile
attack as they provide intelligence to the U.S., the report
said, quoting Ehsan.  Ending violence “is a very big challenge for us,” Shafqat
Mahmood, a senior official in Khan’s party, said by phone from
Lahore this week. “We want to work with the federal government
and the military to solve the problem in the tribal areas.” The
PTI plans to hold elections to local councils within 90 days, he
said.  In simultaneous ballots for regional assemblies and the
federal parliament on May 11, Khan ended almost two decades on
the fringes of Pakistani politics. The PTI will lead an alliance
including religious and regional parties in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.
It’s also the third largest party in the national legislature.  Jirga Plan  Incoming Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who is scheduled to
take office June 5, had planned to invite the Taliban to a
“peace jirga” or council as one of his first acts in office,
local media  reported . Khan has also called for negotiations to
end fighting with the insurgent movement and allied guerrillas
that has killed 40,000 people since military leader Pervez Musharraf decided to support the U.S. war in  Afghanistan .  A spokesman for Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League-N party
told the Associated Press it would continue to push for talks
with the Tehreek-e-Taliban. “There must be a formal contact
between the TTP and our government when we come into power,” AP
quoted Siddique-ul-Farooq as saying.  Any renewed drive for talks by civilian authorities will
have to win the support of the military which dominates security
policy. The army has in the past agreed to support deals with
the Taliban which quickly collapsed. A 2009 pact to end fighting
in the Swat valley in return for the government placing the
region under Shariah rule was abandoned as insurgents broke the
agreement and advanced to within 100 kilometers (62 miles) of
Islamabad.  ‘Full Support’  “There is no convergence, at least for now, between the
military thinking” and the approach of politicians like Sharif
and Khan, said Talat Masood, a retired army general and
independent political analyst, by phone from Islamabad. “The
military wants full support for its campaign.”  The U.S., Pakistan’s biggest aid donor, has long demanded
the army extend its offensives in the northwest to include
groups like the Haqqani network that attack American and Afghan
forces across the border.  Pakistan’s Taliban movement is a loose alliance of militant
and sectarian organizations that are opposed to Pakistan’s
security alliance with the U.S. and want to impose their own
interpretation of Islamic law. In a video message in February,
the Taliban said it was willing to hold negotiations if Sharif
supported the process.  Khan, who led Pakistan to victory in the 1992 cricket world
cup, won 35 out of 99 contested seats in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa’s
assembly. His party will govern the province in an alliance that
contains the Jamaat-e-Islami, Pakistan’s most powerful Islamist
party, and Qaumi Watan Party.  NATO Convoys  Seven federally administered tribal regions such as North
and South Waziristan, many of them Taliban strongholds, won’t be
governed by the PTI-led coalition.  Still, the Taliban carries out regular attacks in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, including in the provincial capital of  Peshawar .
Convoys carrying supplies for U.S. forces in Afghanistan travel
through the region.  “The KPK government will be a test case for Imran Khan’s
party,” Hasan-Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based political analyst
and former professor at the University of Punjab, said in a
phone interview. “They will have to prove themselves as a
better administrator and better guarantor for peace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  