-- Kingfisher Airlines Loss Widens as Fleet Remains Grounded
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-05-31T07:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/kingfisher-airlines-loss-widens-as-fleet-remains-grounded.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , controlled
by liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , posted a wider fourth-quarter
loss as the carrier has grounded its fleet since October because
of a lack of cash.  The  net loss  in the three months ended March was 21.4
billion rupees ($379 million), compared with 11.5 billion rupees
a year earlier, the carrier said in an e-mailed statement today.
Kingfisher had no sales in the period.  India’s aviation regulator is reviewing a revival plan
Kingfisher submitted in April after rejecting a previous
proposal saying the funding pledged wasn’t adequate.  Jet Airways
(India) Ltd. (JETIN)  and  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  also posted wider than expected
losses in the quarter as carriers struggle with fuel costs and a
price war.  “You have to pay for aircraft lease, interest obligations
and employee salaries,” said Mark D. Martin, chief executive
officer of Dubai-based Martin Consulting LLC that advises
airlines. “The expenses may be just there for the record.”  The carrier reported an employee expense of 738 million
rupees in the fourth quarter. It also had aircraft lease cost of
1.35 billion rupees and other operating expense of 2.42 billion
rupees, according to the statement.  Kingfisher fell 3.2 percent to 6.10 rupees as of 12:36 p.m.
in Mumbai trading. The stock has dropped 59 percent this year,
after declining 29 percent in 2012.  Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for Kingfisher Air, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comments on the
company’s expenses during the quarter.  A380 Superjumbos  Kingfisher, the only Indian carrier to order Airbus SAS
A380 superjumbos, has defaulted on payments to creditors, fuel
suppliers and airports. The carrier, which was No. 2 in  India  by
market share in 2011, had a  net debt  of 86.4 billion rupees as
of March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The carrier’s present revival plan is “more practical”
and backed by shareholders of parent UB Group, an Indian
government official said in April. Kingfisher proposed to resume
services with seven aircraft, Sanjay Aggarwal, the carrier’s
chief executive officer, said in April.  The airline grounded its fleet in October after employees
walked out, protesting delays in salary payments. The aviation
regulator later suspended the airline’s permit because of the
service disruptions. The carrier’s permit lapsed Dec. 31.  Kingfisher’s lessors sought to repossess aircraft after
payment defaults and the nation’s state-owned Airports Authority
of India sued the airline because it failed to pay 3 billion
rupees of airport fees.  Kingfisher has been seeking funds from investors for more
than two years. Jet Airways last month agreed to sell a 24
percent stake to Etihad Airways PJSC, becoming the first Indian
carrier to win investment from an overseas airline after India
eased aviation rules in September.  Indian airlines lost about $1.65 billion in the year ended
March 31 as they struggled with high fuel costs and a weaker
rupee, according to CAPA Centre for Aviation, a Sydney-based
consultant. The combined debt at Indian carriers may have
reached $14.5 billion at the end of March, according to CAPA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  