-- Kings’ Sale for NBA-Record $534 Million Is Made to Ranadive
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-06-01T00:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/kings-sale-for-nba-record-534-million-is-completed-to-ranadive.html
The sale of the  Sacramento Kings  to a
group led by  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX)  founder  Vivek Ranadive  was
completed for a National Basketball Association-record $534
million, ending the 14-year ownership of the Maloof family.  The price, announced in a news release from the Maloofs,
was $84 million more than the previous NBA record that Joe Lacob
and  Peter Guber  paid for the Golden State Warriors in July 2010.  “We congratulate Vivek Ranadive and the entire Sacramento
investor group for their willingness to come forward and
purchase the franchise for the people of Sacramento,” George Maloof said in a statement “We are confident they will provide
the stewardship necessary to continue to guide the organization
to successful levels.”  Coach Keith Smart, 48, was fired after amassing a 48-93
record during his two years with the Kings, Ranadive said. Smart
became the team’s 24th coach when Paul Westphal was dismissed
Jan. 5, 2012.  “I enjoyed my time immensely in Sacramento,” Smart said
in a statement. “From working with the people in basketball
operations to the business side of the organization to
interacting with the people of the city, it was a pleasure to be
around such a classy group.”  Maloof also praised Sacramento Mayor  Kevin Johnson ’s
efforts in keeping the team in the California capital.  Today’s announcement ended years of questions about the
team’s future. The Maloofs initially failed in attempts to get a
new arena built and eventually agreed to sell the club to a
group that planned to move the Kings to Seattle. Johnson then
put together a bid that included Ranadive, 24 Hour Fitness
founder Mark Mastrov and former Facebook Inc. executive  Chris
Kelly . The deal, which includes a plan for a new downtown arena,
was completed after the NBA Board of Governors voted not to
allow the Seattle bid.  Ranadive is a native of Mumbai and the league’s first
Indian-born owner. He previously held a minority stake in the
Warriors.  The Maloofs, whose ownership of the Kings was the
lengthiest in the franchise’s 65-year history, owned 65 percent
of the team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  