-- Korea Credit-Linked Notes Jump to Nine-Month High After Rate Cut
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-05-31T01:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/korea-credit-linked-notes-jump-to-nine-month-high-after-rate-cut.html
Sales of structured notes tied to
South Korean government bonds surged to a nine-month high after
the central bank unexpectedly cut interest rates, spurring
demand for higher-yielding investments.  Issuance this month jumped more than five-fold to $274
million from April, the most since $592.7 million of sales in
August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , Barclays Plc and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  issued the notes in
May. The credit-linked securities pay investors a higher coupon
than the underlying debt in exchange for transferring default
risks to investors.  The Bank of Korea cut the  benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate  to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent on May 9, the lowest level
since December 2010. Six of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predicted the move while the remainder had forecast no
change. The country’s 10-year sovereign debt yielded 3.09
percent as of May 31, as much as about 120 basis points less
than what the credit-linked notes with a similar maturity can
pay.  Investors can “get a yield pick-up by going long Korean
sovereign risk,” William Shek, the co-head of rates for Asia-Pacific at HSBC, said in a phone interview. “There’s always a
group of investors, in particular those in  Korea , that monitor
for this kind of opportunity.”  In the two days from May 13, HSBC sold $87 million of 10-year notes that pay a fixed 3.62 percent coupon in U.S. dollars
and $17 million of securities with the same maturity that earn
3.58 percent a year. The buyers are mostly South Korean
institutional investors who typically purchase U.S. dollar
assets, Shek said.  Market Volatility  Standard Chartered, via its South Korea brokerage unit,
sold a combined $70 million of notes in two offerings on May 8
and May 13, Bloomberg data show. The earlier 10-year securities,
totaling $40 million, yield a fixed 3.15 percent while the other
15-year notes pay 3.95 percent for days when the three-month
dollar London interbank offered rate is less than 6 percent. The
benchmark was at 0.275 percent on May 30.  Barclays’s 10-year, $100 million notes issued May 28 earn
4.3 percent annually as long as the Euro Stoxx 50 Index is above
1,800 for half the interest-accrual period or more.  Sales of South Korea-linked notes increased after the cost
to insure South Korean government debt against non-payment
spiked amid heightened tensions with North Korea. Five-year
credit default swaps on the nation’s debt touched a more than
six-month high of 88 basis points on April 8, according to data
provider CMA. The swaps have declined 13.5 basis points since
then through May 30.  Moody’s Investors Service grades South Korea at Aa3, its
fourth-highest rating, with a stable outlook. Also rated Aa3 by
the ratings company are Saudi Arabia,  China ,  Chile  and  Japan .  “Whenever CDS are sold off to the level where this group
of investors feel it’s cheap to buy, some clients express their
interest” in credit-linked notes tied to South Korean
government bonds, Shek said. “Since they’re bullish on Korean
fundamentals, they’re basically taking advantage of market
volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  