-- Natural Gas Futures Drop in Survey on Milder Weather Outlook
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-05-31T20:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/natural-gas-futures-drop-in-survey-on-milder-weather-outlook.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week on forecasts for milder U.S. weather in June, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Five of 12 analysts, or 42 percent, predicted that futures
will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through June 7.
Four, or 33 percent, said gas will stay the same and three said
prices will advance. Last week, 45 percent of participants said
gas would decline.  The eastern two-thirds of the U.S. will see below-normal
temperatures from June 4 through June 8 following Northeast heat
this week, according to MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland .  Gas prices  yesterday fell 3.9 percent, the biggest
one-day drop in four weeks, after a government report showed a
stockpile gain that exceeded forecasts.  “If you compare the June forecast, it’s looking cooler at
this point, particularly than where we were last year,” said
Alan Lammey, an energy analyst with WeatherBell Analytics LLC in
Houston. “It keeps demand at bay and that means more natural
gas is going to go into storage on a weekly basis.”  Natural gas futures fell 25.3 cents, or 6 percent, to
$3.984 per million British thermal units this week on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange, the first decline in three weeks.
Prices declined 8.3 percent this month, halting a two month
streak of gains with the biggest drop since August.  The high temperature in  New York City  on June 7 will be 66
degrees Fahrenheit (19 Celsius), 11 below normal, after reaching
90 yesterday, according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania .  Power Plants  Power plants  will account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
consumption this year, Energy Information Administration data
show.  U.S. inventories  expanded by 88 billion cubic feet to 2.141
trillion in the week ended May 24, below than the five-year
average gain of 92 billion for the period, the EIA said. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg predicted an increase of 86
billion.  A  supply deficit  versus the historic norm held steady at
3.9 percent, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm. A  deficit  versus year-earlier levels narrowed
for a seventh week, dropping to 23.7 percent from 24.9 percent.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3      5      4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  