-- New Zealand Needs to Rethink ‘Bad Guy’ Developers, Minister Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-31T01:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/new-zealand-needs-to-rethink-bad-guy-developers-minister-says.html
New Zealand  must encourage property
developers if it wants to successfully stoke housing supply and
curb prices, according to Housing Minister Nick Smith.  “There’s sort of been a view from local government that
developers are the bad guys and the more regulation and cost you
throw at them the better,” Smith said in an interview in
Wellington yesterday. “We’ve got to wake up and realize we need
developers because they are the agents for home buyers.”  The government wants to increase residential construction
to help curb rising  house prices , which  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler says pose a threat to inflation
and financial stability. The central bank is reluctant to raise
 interest rates  to curb property prices because that may stoke
demand for the currency, hurting exports.  Smith this month announced an agreement with Auckland City
Council, which administers the nation’s most populous city,
aiming to build 39,000 new houses in the next three years. The
accord is designed to get city officials working closely with
developers to speed up planning processes.  “There needs to be a change in culture in the way we
interact with the development community,” he said. In some
parts of the country, the costs companies face to develop
housing subdivisions have tripled and they are being reflected
in rising land prices and falling home ownership, he said.  “A culture that says just dump whatever costs, whatever
regulatory burdens you like on them as sort of an easy to hate
group is one that ultimately backfires,” he said. “We should
put some restrictions in place that say councils can only charge
the developer what are the fair costs associated with that
development and not treat it as some sort of deep cash cow.”  Auckland Accord  Developers are welcoming the government’s approach in
Auckland because it will help break an impasse with planners,
Smith said, citing meetings with units of Fletcher Building
Ltd., the nation’s biggest construction company, and closely
held Fulton Hogan Ltd.  The so-called Auckland Accord could be in place by
November, with a target of 9,000 new homes in 2014 and 30,000
the following two years.  Developers will also realize that, rather than sitting on
blocks of land and watching the value grow, they will be pressed
into action, Smith said.  “When section prices go up less than their cost of
capital, then they’ll be on the losing end, they’ll want to cash
up and move that land into development,” he said.  Auckland Prices  The RBNZ is concerned about the scale of housing lending
and the proportion of high loan-to-value lending, which are
loans made in excess of 80 percent of the property value,
Governor Wheeler said in a  speech  yesterday.  House prices rose 9.8 percent in April from the year
earlier, the fastest annual pace since 2007, according to a May
13 report from the Real Estate Institute. Auckland prices rose
14 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month estimated New
Zealand house prices are about 25 percent over-valued. The
increase is being driven by supply shortages, pent-up demand and
the low interest rates, the central bank says. The variable
mortgage rate was 5.86 percent in April, the lowest since
February 1965, according to RBNZ figures.  Wheeler last month kept the  official cash rate  at a record-low 2.5 percent, where it has been since March 2011, and
signaled no increase until 2014. The central bank this month
agreed with the government on how to use new policies that may
influence bank lending.  Productivity Issues  Smith said he has officials working on a range of issues
including improving industry productivity and ensuring
construction costs aren’t excessive. There are structures in
place in the industry relating to rebates and standards that are
not in the public interest and may be designed to lessen
competition, raising costs to home owners, he said.  He said he’s also optimistic skilled workers and laborers
will be available for the construction task which, as well as
building in Auckland, includes rebuilding earthquake damaged
Christchurch.  “Skills flow in and out of the  construction industry ,” he
said, noting a loss of industry workers to  Australia  in recent
years which is starting to reverse. “It’s going to be a good
time to be in the building and construction industry for the
next five years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  