-- New Gold Agrees to Buy Rainy River for $355 Million
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-05-31T20:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/new-gold-agrees-to-buy-rainy-river-for-370-million.html
New Gold Inc. (NGD) , a producer of the
metal in North America and  Australia , agreed to buy  Rainy River
Resources Ltd. (RR)  in a cash-and-stock deal currently valued at
C$367.7 million ($354.6 million) to add a 4 million-ounce
reserve in Ontario.  Investors in Toronto-based Rainy River will get half of a
New Gold share or C$3.83 in cash, the companies said today in a
joint statement. The maximum cash consideration will be about
C$198 million and New Gold won’t issue more than 25.8 million
shares.  With a 50-50 split of cash and stock, the offer values
Rainy River at C$3.68 a share, based on today’s closing prices.
The cash offer was 69 percent more than the 20-day average price
of the stock prior to today’s announcement, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The market may view the transaction negatively, Steven Green, a Toronto-based analyst at TD Securities Inc., said in a
note today.  “While we believe the time is right for producers with
strong balance sheets to be buying assets, given the early stage
of this project (still in permitting), relatively low grades,
and significant funding required (initial capex just under $1
billion), we’re not of the view that this is the right fit,”
Green said.  The project also has a similar timeline to New Gold’s
Blackwater project, which could put pressure on the company’s
balance sheet if it builds both mines at the same time, he said.  Shares Drop  New Gold  fell  8.7 percent to C$7.05 at the close in
Toronto, while Rainy River rose 35 percent to C$3.65.  The Rainy River gold project is located about 65 kilometers
(40 miles) northwest of Fort Frances in northwestern Ontario.
Vancouver-based New Gold operates gold mines in British
Columbia,  California ,  Mexico  and New South Wales.  RBC Capital Markets is New Gold’s financial adviser while
its legal advisers are Cassels Brock & Blackwell LLP in Canada
and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP in the U.S.  Rainy River’s financial adviser is BMO Capital Markets and
its legal advisers are Bull, Housser & Tupper LLP and Davies
Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP. CIBC World Markets provided a
fairness opinion to a special committee of Rainy River
directors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  