-- New Zealand Beats England by 5 Wickets in First One-Day Match
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-31T17:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/new-zealand-beats-england-by-5-wickets-in-first-one-day-match.html
Martin Guptil’s century helped  New
Zealand  beat England by 5 wickets in their first one-day cricket
International at Lord’s in London.  The opening batsman hit 103 from 123 balls to pull New
Zealand to victory after the visitors started 2-2, with Luke
Ronchi and Kane Williamson both out without scoring. Guptil won
the match with a four, pushing New Zealand to 231-5, as James
Franklin finished 16 not out.  “It’s a confidence booster,” New Zealand captain Brendon
McCullum said in a televised interview.  James Anderson  took 3-31 for England, which lost the toss
and was put in to bat.  The hosts reached 227-9 in their 50 overs as Jonathan Trott
led the way with 37 runs. Anderson finished not out on 5 after
Graeme Swann was caught on 15 on the final ball of the innings.
Tim Southee was the leading wicket taker for the visitors,
finishing 3-37.  “Its frustrating,” England coach  Alastair Cook  said in a
televised interview. “We’ve got quality players: we’ve got to
score runs.”  New Zealand, which lost the opening two-match Test series
on this tour of England, takes a 1-0 lead in the three-match
series. The sides will meet again June 2 at Southampton before
it ends three days later in Nottingham.  Pace bowlers  Stuart Broad  and  Steven Finn  will miss
the first two games of the series for England because of
injuries. Broad bruised his right knee in the recent Test
match against New Zealand and Finn has soreness in his shin, the
England and Wales Cricket Board said on its website.  Both players will be reassessed early next week ahead of
the final game June 5 at  Trent Bridge  in Nottingham. England
added pace Boyd Rankin to the squad for the Southampton match.  New Zealand named seam bowler Ian Butler as the replacement
for Trent Boult, who was ruled out of the series yesterday with
a torn muscle in his side.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  