-- NYSE Files to Bring Back Trading Brakes That SEC Is Phasing Out
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-05-31T19:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/nyse-files-to-bring-back-trading-brakes-that-sec-is-phasing-out.html
Liquidity replenishment points, the
New York Stock Exchange’s system of curbs to slow trading when
prices move rapidly, shouldn’t be banished from U.S. equity
markets just yet,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  said.  The company is seeking to  amend  stock market rules to
reinstate LRPs during the first 15 minutes and last half hour of
trading, periods that aren’t currently covered by the program
that replaced them, known as limit-up/limit-down. Both systems
are designed to restore order when share prices swing unusually.
Technology changes to add the LRPs should be ready by June 6,
NYSE said in the filing.  Regulators have been fine-tuning systems for pausing
trading since the so-called flash crash of May 2010 briefly
erased $862 billion from equity markets. Two initiatives for
curtailing volatility were implemented last month for one-year
pilots, among them limit-up/limit-down for individual shares.  “NYSE is just trying to have some sort of protection in
the short term while LRP is completely phased out by LULD,”
Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-based research firm Aite
Group LLC, said in an e-mail. “There seems to have been some
gap between when LULD is in effect and being phased in. I think
the NYSE has always made it clear that LRP will be replaced by
LULD.”  NYSE and NYSE MKT, the exchange operator’s platform for
smaller companies, said in April they would phase out LRPs as
the new curbs are introduced for specific stocks.  ‘Impact Analysis’  At the time, NYSE criticized the Securities and Exchange
Commission for ending the program without an “impact analysis”
study, according to a filing in April. While the regulator has
said multiple volatility curbs operating together could create
confusion, the exchange said it should have been allowed to test
whether its LRPs could run smoothly in conjunction with the new
programs.  LRPs “will benefit investors, issuers and market stability
by offering an additional layer of protection during the periods
currently not covered by the limit-up/limit-down protections,”
 Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE, said in an e-mail today.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
and  Deutsche Bank AG  told the SEC in letters in 2011 that too
many curbs might impair the effectiveness of single-stock
circuit breakers.  U.S. stock exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees almost 4,300 brokers, introduced curbs
for individual stocks after the flash crash to halt shares when
they rise or fall at least 10 percent in five minutes. The
limit-up/limit-down system, which is replacing that program, is
likely to cause fewer halts, according to the SEC.  Under the limit-up/limit-down system, trades aren’t allowed
to take place more than a specified percentage above or below a
stock’s recent average price. If no trades occur within the band
for more than 15 seconds, a five-minute halt will ensue,
according to the SEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  