-- Obama Says Next NATO Summit to Focus on Postwar Afghanistan
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-05-31T18:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/obama-says-nato-s-next-summit-to-focus-on-plans-for-afghanistan.html
The U.S. and its NATO allies will
focus their summit next year on postwar planning for
 Afghanistan , President  Barack Obama  said.  Obama announced the subject of the alliance’s 2014 summit
today as he finished a meeting at the White House with Anders Fogh Rasmussen, secretary general of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. The men also discussed  Syria ,  Libya , cybersecurity
and joint surveillance capabilities. They didn’t publicly
address non-combat troop levels in Afghanistan beyond 2014.  The summit will be an opportunity for the 28-member
organization “to underscore this final chapter in our Afghan
operations but also to paint a picture of the future whereby
we’re partnering with the Afghan government on behalf of the
Afghan people and on behalf of world security,” Obama said. The
location hasn’t been set.  The U.S. and its allies want to be sure that “Afghan
security forces are effective and can control their own borders
and that NATO members can be assured the Afghanistan will not be
used as a base for terrorism in the future,” he said.  Obama and Rasmussen didn’t answer questions about whether
they discussed potential NATO involvement in Syria, where Obama
has said all options remain on the table to respond to violence
by Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  Syria Discussed  White House National Security Council spokeswoman Laura
Lucas said in an e-mail that Obama and Rasmussen “did discuss
the continuing violence in Syria” while “we do not see a role
for NATO at this time.”  Today’s meeting followed an April visit by U.S. Secretary
of State  John Kerry  to the NATO council in Brussels, where Kerry
talked about the alliance considering a response if the Syrian
regime is found to be using chemical weapons on its people. Any
NATO intervention could fuel tensions with  Russia .  The U.S. still has 66,000 forces in Afghanistan, more than
11 years after the invasion. It plans to withdraw most of its
troops by December 2014 with a small force staying on for
training Afghans and conducting counterterrorism operations.
NATO and non-NATO countries have pledged $4.1 billion in annual
support through 2017 to help Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  