-- Obama Presses Congress to Adopt His Student Loan Plan
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-31T14:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/obama-presses-congress-to-adopt-his-student-loan-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  surrounded
himself with college students to urge Congress to pass his
legislation to prevent an automatic doubling of student loan
 interest rates  to 6.8 percent on July 1.  “Higher education cannot be a luxury for a
privileged few,” the president said today at the White House.
“It’s an economic necessity that every family should be able to
afford.”  An election-year deal last year froze rates at 3.4 percent
for one year on subsidized Stafford loans, which are available
to low-income students. That agreement expires in a month.  The Republican-controlled House voted 221-198 on May 23 to
reset interest rates on federal  student loans , linking them to
yields on the 10-year Treasury note, with the maximum capped to
prevent large swings.  The Senate, where Democrats have a majority, hasn’t acted.  The administration says it opposes the House measure,
because it fails to lock in lower rates. Obama proposed a plan
in his 2014 budget that would freeze rates again this year, and
guarantee those rates over the life of the loan. In the future,
he would set a fixed rate, in line with the government’s
borrowing costs.  “The House bill isn’t smart, and it’s not fair,” Obama
said.  Extra Interest  A freshman who borrows $27,000 over the next four years, a
typical debt for a college graduate, would pay an extra $4,000
in interest payments without Obama’s plan, the White House said
in a statement.  Republicans called Obama’s event a political stunt.  “ House Republicans  have already passed legislation that
would prevent a rate hike, and Senate Republicans have proposed
a solution similar to one the president himself called for in
this year’s budget,” Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell 
of  Kentucky  said in a statement. “No one should be fooled by
today’s campaign-style event.”  Minnesota Republican Representative  John Kline , sponsor of
the House measure, said in a May 23 interview that “Senate
Democrats and some Democrats in the House are calling to kick
the can down the road for two years so Congress can get together
again and have a big political fight.”  In addition to subsidized Stafford loans, on which interest
doesn’t accrue until after a student graduates, the House
measure would affect rates for unsubsidized Stafford loans,
which are available regardless of financial need, and Plus
loans, which are available to graduate students and parents of
undergraduates.  The current rate for unsubsidized Stafford loans is 6.8
percent; for Plus loans, the rate is 7.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  