-- Oil Drops to One-Month Low as OPEC Keeps Output Target
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-31T19:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/oil-heads-for-weekly-drop-as-opec-keeps-output-target.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell to
a one-month low as OPEC kept its output target unchanged for a
third consecutive time and U.S. inventories climbed to the
highest level in 82 years.  Futures dropped 1.8 percent after the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries maintained its objective of 30
million barrels a day at a meeting in today in Vienna. Ministers
from the 12-member group will next gather on Dec. 4. U.S. crude
supplies increased  3 million barrels  to 397.6 million last week,
the most since 1931, a government report showed yesterday. The
decline in prices accelerated in the last hour of floor trading
as equities moved lower.  “Prices are down because of OPEC’s decision to roll over
the quota,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC,
a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “They
needed to cut back, given rising supplies and the demand
outlook, but pushed the problem off until December.”  WTI crude for July delivery declined $1.64 to $91.97 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since May 1. The volume of all futures traded was 9
percent above the 100-day average for the time of day at 2:55
p.m. Prices slid 2.3 percent this week and 1.6 percent in May.  Brent oil for July settlement fell $1.80, or 1.8 percent,
to end the session at $100.39 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, the lowest close since May 1. Prices
decreased 2.2 percent this week and 1.9 percent in May. Volume
for all contracts was 15 percent below the 100-day average.  The European benchmark grade traded at a $8.42-a-barrel
premium to WTI futures, compared with $8.58 yesterday. The
spread narrowed for a third month.  Agreeable Meeting  OPEC members are “happy because Brent is over $100 a
barrel,” said Phil Flynn, a senior market analyst for Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “If it were any lower, it would have
been a much more contentious meeting.”  The organization has no formal target for prices, the
group’s secretary-general, Abdalla El-Badri, said at a news
conference in Vienna after the ministers’ meeting.  “I said in March $100 is a reasonable price,” Saudi
Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said earlier today. “Where
are the prices today? They are still at the reasonable level.”  Most member states also expressed their support for $100
oil. Some, including  Venezuela , voiced concern over excessive
production by other members, with OPEC pumping about 1 million
barrels a day more than the informal target.  “It’s a very close call these days and OPEC will have to
stay actively engaged in the months ahead,” said Sarah Emerson,
managing director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “They will have to keep an eye on things and if
necessary call an emergency meeting.”  Surging Output  U.S. crude production  rose 34,000 barrels a day to 7.29
million last week, the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, reported yesterday. Output
reached 7.37 million barrels a day in the week ended May 3, the
most since February 1992. Production has surged as horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, have unlocked
supplies trapped in shale formations in the central U.S.  “It’s a new world right now,” Flynn said. “Eventually,
OPEC will have to come to terms with the rise in production here
and in other nations.”  OPEC  has formed a committee to examine the impact of U.S.
shale oil, an admission that the burgeoning supply is worrying
some of its members.  ‘Tenuously Balanced’  “The market is tenuously balanced,” Emerson said. “If
they want to maintain $100, they are going to need to get
through July and August and then cut back. They aren’t going to
cut during a major demand period.”  Fuel consumption on the Arabian Peninsula peaks in the
summer months, when high temperatures lead to increased use of
air conditioners.  Futures also dropped as equities slipped after better-than-forecast reports on business activity and consumer confidence
bolstered speculation the Federal Reserve will scale back its
bond purchases. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the Dow
Jones Industrial Average each declined 0.8 percent.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer  increased to
58.7, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey and the
highest level since March 2012, from 49 in April. The 9.7-point
jump in the Chicago index was the biggest since July 1983.  Consumer Confidence  Consumer confidence  increased to 84.5 in May, the strongest
since July 2007, from 76.4 in April, according to figures from
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six
others, rose as much as 0.7 percent to 83.598 on signs the U.S.
economy is strengthening. A stronger U.S. currency reduces the
appeal of raw materials as an investment. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell as much as 1.2 percent to
615.18, the lowest level since May 2.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
July was 22.4 percent, compared with 22.2 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 572,477
contracts as of 3:45 p.m. It totaled 586,332 contracts
yesterday, little changed from the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.73 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  