-- Holder Tells Journalists He May Tighten Probe Rules
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/holder-tells-journalists-he-may-tighten-probe-rules.html
Attorney General Eric Holder told
U.S. news organizations he’ll consider tightening rules on when
and how federal investigators may seize telephone records and
other information to identify reporters’ confidential sources.  At a meeting yesterday with representatives of the Los
Angeles Times, USA Today and  Bloomberg News , Holder said a
consistent concern that he has heard from journalists is that
the recent records seizures in leak probes were made without
notice, preventing targets from challenging the actions or
seeking to limit their scope.  Holder pledged to weigh the issue as he reviews department
guidelines, a process President  Barack Obama  ordered completed
by July 12, said Susan Goldberg, a Bloomberg News executive
editor in  Washington  and one of the participants. In a May 30
session, Holder didn’t commit to specific steps, said James Warren, The Daily News of New York’s Washington bureau chief.  “We forthrightly pressed a variety of concerns to Holder
and his top aides while they expressed some of the challenges
they face in balancing national security and free-press
interests,” Warren said. “I felt it was a worthwhile, if not
path-breaking session.”  The attorney general began meeting with news organizations
after an uproar over his department’s tactics in probing leaks.
In one case, investigators secretly subpoenaed records of calls
during a two-month period to and from the general office lines
of four Associated Press news bureaus, as well as reporters’
mobile and home phones.  Obama ‘Troubled’  Obama said he was “troubled” by the possibility that
hunting down leak sources “may chill” investigative reporting,
in a May 23 speech in which he announced the  Justice
Department ’s review. At the same time, the president has
defended the investigations, arguing that the leaks involved
disclosure of classified national-security information.  Under Obama and Holder, the Justice Department has
prosecuted more government officials for alleged news leaks
using the World War I-era Espionage Act than all prior attorneys
general combined.  Less than two weeks after the AP investigation was
revealed, a court filing disclosed that the department, in a
separate probe regarding classified information about  North
Korea , got a warrant to search Fox News reporter James Rosen’s
personal e-mail and obtained his telephone records.  Considering Changes  Holder pledged to consider changes to department procedures
to give greater weight to journalists’ concerns over aggressive
leak investigations, Warren said. Along with Warren, Holder met
May 30 with representatives of the Washington Post, The Wall
Street Journal, The New Yorker and Politico. It was the first of
several meetings with media and free-press advocates.  Lawyers accompanied the Washington editors for Bloomberg
News,  USA Today  and the Los Angeles Times when they met with
Holder. A group that included ABC News representatives
participated in an earlier session with the attorney general.  Some organizations, including the New York Times, AP,
Reuters and  CBS News , declined to participate in the first
meeting May 30 because the Justice Department insisted that the
discussion be off-the-record. During the session, participants
agreed to revise the ground rules to allow reporting of the
talks in general terms.  Participants in Holder’s meeting with Bloomberg News were
free to describe the conversations.  Congressional Backlash  The Justice Department and Holder have faced a backlash
from U.S. lawmakers of both parties and media organizations
since the public disclosure on May 13 that investigators
secretly obtained telephone records for more than 20 phone lines
used by AP reporters.  Investigators got information on general lines used by
reporters in the news service’s bureaus in  New York  City,
Washington, Hartford,  Connecticut , and the U.S. House of
Representatives. Because the authorizing court order was kept
secret, the  news agency  was prevented from asking a judge to
block it or limit its scope.  The U.S. attorney’s office in Washington informed the AP on
May 10 that prosecutors had obtained the records.  Fourteen Republican members of the House Judiciary
Committee sent a letter to Deputy Attorney General  James Cole ,
who supervised the investigation, requesting details of the
decision to seize the AP telephone records, including questions
about the scope of the subpoena.  Holder recused himself from the AP probe because he was
interviewed by the FBI as part of it. He participated in the
decision on the Fox News warrant, the Justice Department said.  Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  has
called for the appointment of a special counsel or independent
investigator to look into the Justice Department’s actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  