-- Lonmin’s Majority Union Seeks 35% Threshold to Award Rights
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-31T13:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/lonmin-s-majority-union-seeks-35-threshold-for-awarding-rights.html
Unions at  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  should have 35
percent of workforce membership to gain rights to organize,
according to the AMCU, which is in arbitration with the world’s
third-largest platinum producer over the issue.  Other unions “will have to recruit,” Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union President Joseph Mathunjwa
said by phone. The AMCU has 70 percent of Lonmin’s workers in
low-skilled jobs and is the majority union, according to Lonmin.  Lonmin operations have been a battleground between AMCU and
the  National Union of Mineworkers , which had been the majority
union and whose members make up 20 percent of the workforce. The
NUM has until July 16 to regain its majority or lose its office
and associated privileges, a labor court ruled, after Lonmin
attempted to expedite the process “in the interests of peace
and security on the ground,” the company said on May 29.  The AMCU and Lonmin haven’t been able to agree how unions
will be recognized under an accord to be drafted acknowledging
its majority.  South Africa ’s Commission for Conciliation,
Mediation and Arbitration has scheduled a hearing on June 26 to
make a final decision.  A union should have 45 percent of representation to
participate in bargaining and have shop stewards, and 50 percent
plus one should allow a union to negotiate separate issues,
Mathunjwa said.  ‘Extremely Unbearable’  Lonmin, which ranks behind Impala Platinum Ltd. and  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , known as Amplats, among producers of the
metal, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  There are two central bargaining forums, the one NUM held
the majority in and another consisting of miners, artisans and
officials, for which there is a 20 percent threshold for
recognition, said Franz Stehring, head of mining at UASA. The
unions Solidarity, NUM and UASA all have enough members to
belong to that group.  “AMCU cannot insist that management derecognize” the
forum UASA is represented in, he said. “It makes life extremely
unbearable at the mine, even though you have rights but you
can’t fulfill them because of an obstructive party in a
different bargaining unit but in the same workplace.”  Solidarity represents just under 30 percent of employees in
the bargaining unit that typically includes the more skilled
workers, Gideon du Plessis, general secretary of the union, said
in an e-mail response to questions.  “This winner-takes-all principle is also very dangerous
and was the underlying reason for most of the tension that lead
to the labor unrest at Impala, Lonmin and Amplats, and employers
should know it by now,” he said. “Solidarity’s contribution
should be weighed and not counted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  