-- Top Finnish Fund Deserts Thailand for Vietnam Seeking Growth
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-05-31T06:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/top-finnish-fund-deserts-thailand-for-vietnam-seeking-growth.html
PYN Elite (ELITE) ,  Finland ’s best-performing
fund, is helping to drive a stock rally in Vietnam as it
abandons Thailand, where the portfolio has reached annual
returns of almost 25 percent for the past 14 years.  Petri Deryng, who manages 220 million euros ($285 million)
in two funds called Elite and Populus, has sold over 100 million
euros in Thai stocks during the past five months, while
investing about 40 million euros in 51 different Vietnamese
companies, including  PetroVietnam Drilling and Well Services JSC 
and Dinh Vu Port Investment & Development JSC.  “Vietnam’s economy will grow faster than Thailand’s
economy during the next 10 years,´´ Deryng said in an e-mail.
‘‘As Vietnam’s stock exchange is trading below historical
average valuations and  Thailand  above them, it’s clear that the
Vietnamese market has a more attractive growth potential.”  International investors are buying the most Vietnamese
stocks in five years, lured by Southeast  Asia ’s cheapest
valuations and government efforts to boost growth. The country’s
benchmark index rose the most in Asia to a 27-month high on May
30.  PYN Elite has had an average annualized return of 23.4
percent since its 1999 inception, returning more than 18 times
the initial capital over 14 years and beating the Bangkok SET
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is the top
performer among funds domiciled in Finland over the past 10
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asian Crisis  Deryng started buying Thai stocks shortly after the Asian
financial crisis of 1997, which brought the booming economy into
a halt and caused the baht to be disconnected from its U.S.
dollar peg.  During his first visit to the country in 1998, he bought a
data CD containing balance sheets and price quotes of Thai
listed companies at the library store of the Bangkok stock
exchange, Deryng said. The CD cost the equivalent of 15 euros.  “I focused all my time into studying Thai stocks, made
company visits and bought shares through a Finnish broker,´´ he
said. He established Elite in February of 1999.  Thailand’s central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate 
this week as slowing economic growth bolstered government calls
for easing. The government had earlier lowered its 2013 growth
forecast to as little as 4.2 percent. The SET reached a 20-year
high of 1643.43 on May 21, compared with 363 points when Elite
started.  Overhaul Plan  Vietnam’s government is currently preparing a plan to
overhaul state enterprises and recently approved a formation of
a debt asset management company to absorb bad loans.  ‘‘The reform of state-owned companies seems to proceed very
slowly,” Deryng said. “The more essential thing now is to
recognize the problematic credit in Vietnamese banks and move
them in a separate company under the central bank.´´  The country is set to benefit from a young population,
access to natural resources like offshore oil and gas, strong
agriculture and a long coastline suitable for ports, according
to Dennis Lai, a Hong Kong-based senior portfolio manager at
Allianz Global Investors.  ‘‘Nordic investors are more familiar with Asia and more
willing to take risk,’’ Lai said in an interview in Helsinki
after meeting clients in Finland and  Sweden . ‘‘Even the smaller
frontier markets in Asia are attracting attention -- Vietnam,
 Sri Lanka ,  Pakistan . These are high-volatility markets where the
valuation is attractive for long-term investors.’’  Dampened Demand  Vietnam’s economy expanded 5 percent last year, the slowest
pace in 13 years as a slump in bank lending damped domestic
demand. The growth will accelerate at an annual rate of 0.5
percentage points, reaching 6.5 percent in 2015, according to
estimates by 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  After a burst property bubble, Vietnam is restructuring its
economy gradually, said Lai, who manages about $700 million in
Asian small- and medium-sized company equity and a separate $75
million frontier market fund.  ‘‘The growth isn’t very high at the moment because of this
restructuring,” Lai said. “It’s still a very attractive
economy for the long term. Out of all my frontier countries, I
prefer  Vietnam .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  