-- OPEC Has Consensus for Quota Rollover, Four Nations Say
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k ,   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-05-31T10:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/opec-has-consensus-for-quota-rollover-four-nations-say.html
OPEC is aligned on keeping its oil-output ceiling unchanged for a third time, judging there is a
comfortable balance between demand and supply, four nations said
as they headed into the group’s meeting in Vienna.  “We think there is a consensus for a rollover,”
 Venezuela ’s Energy Minister  Rafael Ramirez  told reporters.
Ministers from Algeria and  Ecuador  and Kuwait’s top oil official
made similar comments just before the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries started its closed-door talks.
 Saudi Arabia ’s Petroleum Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said prices are
“reasonable” and he’s “comfortable” with the output target.  OPEC, which accounts for about 40 percent of global oil
supply, is meeting in the Austrian capital today to determine
production policy. The 12-nation group is pumping more than its
current target of 30 million barrels a day, putting pressure on
Brent, which is used to price more than half the world’s crude.
The grade has lost 8.5 percent this year and traded near $102 a
barrel today.  The OPEC  basket  price, which represents the group’s export
crudes, stood at $99.77 a barrel yesterday, according to OPEC’s
website, and has averaged about $106 so far this year. West
Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, is trading at about $93.  “The market situation is excellent, demand and supply are
in good shape, inventories are moderate,” said al-Naimi,
minister for the group’s largest member and world’s biggest
crude exporter.  Comfortable Situation  Kuwait ’s OPEC Governor Siham Razzouqi and Pedro Merizalde,
Ecuador’s minister of non-renewable natural resources said they
expect the group to maintain its current ceiling. Algeria’s
Minister of Energy and Mines Youcef Yousfisaid OPEC will have
no difficulty agreeing on a rollover.  “The situation is stable between supply and demand, the
situation is comfortable for both producers and consumers,”
said Mohammed al-Sada, Qatar’s energy and industry minister.  The group will decide on its replacement for Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri at its next meeting later this year and
will use today’s meeting to agree on the criteria for the job,
El-Badri told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Vienna at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Vienna at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Vienna at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  