-- OPEC Keeps Output Target Unchanged, Content With $100 Oil
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k ,   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-31T12:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/opec-keeps-output-target-unchanged-content-with-100-oil.html
OPEC kept its production target
unchanged for a third consecutive time, signaling that crude
prices at about $100 a barrel are sufficient to buoy members’
revenue as the global economy recovers.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil, maintained its
group ceiling of 30 million barrels a day at a meeting today in
Vienna, Venezuelan Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez told reporters
after the conference finished. The 12-nation group will next
gather on Dec. 4, he said.  The producer group risks delaying an organized response to
the challenge of its own burgeoning supply and that of non
members and should pare output back to the agreed target to
prevent prices from falling later this year, according to
Citigroup Inc. and Societe Generale SA.  Iraq , the biggest
producer behind Saudi Arabia, is expanding production with the
help of foreign companies including  BP Plc (BP/) , while a growing
supply of U.S. shale oil threatens to displace some of OPEC’s
own crude sales.  “There is a consensus within Saudi Arabia and its allies
that $100 a barrel is a good price,” Abhishek Deshpande, an
analyst at Natixis SA in London, said in an e-mail. “If OPEC
oversupply does start impacting oil prices negatively, we can
expect Saudi Arabia to proactively reduce output to provide
support to oil prices this year.”  OPEC Basket  Brent, which is used to price more than half the world’s
crude, has lost 8.5 percent this year and traded near $102 a
barrel today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The OPEC basket
price, which represents the group’s export crudes, was at $99.77
a barrel  yesterday, according to OPEC’s website, and has
averaged about $106 so far this year.  OPEC kept the output target unchanged at its last meeting
in December. Actual  production  has fluctuated from 30.6 million
to 32.4 million barrels a day since that target was introduced
in December 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The group
pumped 31.03 million this month, the most in six months, with 
Saudi Arabia producing 9.35 million, according to the data.  Brent crude prices have slumped this year as Europe
struggled to move beyond its debt crisis and Chinese growth and
manufacturing showed signs of a slowdown. The decline brings
prices in line with a level favored by Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister  Ali Al-Naimi .  “I said in March $100 is a reasonable price,” al-Naimi
said earlier today. “Where are the prices today? They are still
at the reasonable level.”  Excessive Production  While the group doesn’t have a formal price target, most
member states also expressed their support for $100 oil. Some,
including  Venezuela , voiced concern over excessive production by
other members, with OPEC pumping about 1 million barrels a day
more than its target.  Iran  has complained that other exporters around the Persian
Gulf have benefited at its expense from U.S. and European Union
sanctions driving its customers away.  The rising supply of U.S. shale oil poses a threat to
some OPEC exporters and represents a “barrel-for-barrel”
displacement of OPEC crude on the global market, even though the
U.S. doesn’t yet export much, according to Roy Mason, founder of
tanker tracker Oil Movements, in Halifax,  England .  “This is not the first time the world sees supplies from
new sources,” al-Naimi told reporters. “New supplies came in
the past from areas such as North Sea,  Brazil ,  Russia , and 
 Mexico . What did happen after that? You can see by yourself 
today.”  Shale Oil  U.S. shale is a light crude and doesn’t affect exporters
of medium and heavy grades such as Venezuela, the Latin American
nation’s oil minister, Ramirez, told reporters yesterday.  Imports of comparatively light Angolan crude to the U.S.
declined to 85,000 barrels a day in March, the lowest level
since 1993, data from the U.S. Energy Department’s Energy
Information Administration showed yesterday. U.S. imports from
Nigeria rebounded to 376,000 barrels a day in March, after
dropping to 194,000 barrels in February.  “They’re all impacted,” Kamel al-Harami, an independent
oil analyst based in  Kuwait , said by phone from  London  on May
29. “At what stage will they tackle the issue of shale oil and
its impact on OPEC next year and the year after? This is not on
the agenda yet.”  The 12 members of OPEC are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Vienna at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Vienna at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in Vienna at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  