-- Oprah Winfrey’s ‘Own Your Power’ Trademark Win Overturned
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-05-31T21:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/oprah-winfrey-s-own-your-power-trademark-win-overturned-1-.html
Oprah Winfrey ’s victory in a
trademark-infringement case brought against her over the phrase
“Own Your Power” was overturned by a federal appeals court.  The district court was incorrect in finding that Winfrey’s
use of the phrase in her magazine, on her website and in an
event constituted fair use under trademark law, the U.S. Court
of Appeals in  New York  said today. The judges sent the case back
to the lower court.  Simone Kelly-Brown sued Winfrey and her company, Harpo
Productions Inc., and her magazine publisher,  Hearst Corp. ,
claiming they violated Kelly-Brown’s trademark for “Own Your
Power,” which she uses for a motivational services company. She
also sued corporations including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Estee Lauder
Cos. (EL) , Clinique Laboratories LLC and  Chico’s FAS Inc. (CHS)  that
sponsored Winfrey’s Own Your Power event.  “The defendants have not adequately established a fair-use
defense,” U.S. Circuit Judge Chester Straub wrote in his
opinion. “Kelly-Brown has plausibly alleged that Oprah was
attempting to build a new segment of her media empire around the
theme or catchphrase ‘Own Your Power.’”  The appeals judges also overturned the lower-court rulings
in Winfrey’s favor on the claims of reverse confusion and false
designation of origin. They affirmed U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty’s order dismissing the claims for counterfeiting,
vicarious infringement and contributory infringement.  Companies’ Comment  Hearst and Harpo said in a joint e-mailed statement that
they were pleased with the outcome. “The editorial use of the
single phrase at issue, ‘Own Your Power,’ is fully protected by
the First Amendment,” they said.  Calls for comment to Kelly-Brown’s company,  Own Your Power
Communications Inc. , weren’t returned.  Kelly-Brown hosts a radio show, conferences and a blog that
promote the message of personal empowerment.  Straub wrote in his opinion that Winfrey sought to
trademark her new enterprise, Oprah Winfrey Network, or OWN,
about the same time that Kelly-Brown registered her trademark.  “Defendants would likely have been aware of Kelly-Brown’s
pending registration for the service mark in Own Your Power,”
Straub wrote.  In September 2010, an issue of  O the Oprah Magazine 
prominently featured the phrase Own Your Power on the cover.
That month the magazine hosted an Own Your Power event that
included a seminar, workshop and motivational advice.  Celebrity Pictures  Celebrities posed for photos with a backdrop of the phrase
and the logos of companies like Wells Fargo and Clinique.  Straub said the event was billed as the “first-ever,”
which suggested it “was to be a recurring enterprise.”  Following the magazine cover, the event and the displaying
of the cover on Winfrey’s TV show, Kelly-Brown claimed she got
“numerous inquiries from people who appear to have confused”
her services with Winfrey’s event, the court filing said.  Kelly-Brown sued in New Jersey federal court in July 2011
and in November the case was transferred to New York. The
defendants moved for dismissal of all the claims. Crotty granted
that motion in March 2012.  “There was no chance that an observer of the magazine or
event could believe that they were created by Kelly-Brown and
her company,” the defendants said in their motion.  The appeals case is Kelly-Brown v. Winfrey, 12-1207,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha @bloomberg.net 