-- Morgan Stanley’s Hadden Barred From CME Trading for 10 Days
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-31T19:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/morgan-stanley-s-hadden-suspended-from-cme-trading-for-10-days.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s head of interest-rates trading, Glenn Hadden, was suspended from accessing all
CME Group Inc. trading floors for 10 days to resolve claims tied
to his 2008 transactions in Treasury futures.  The sanctions, including an $80,000 fine, stem from
Hadden’s handling of trades while at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
according to a statement today from the Chicago Board of Trade.
New York-based Goldman Sachs also was fined $875,000 for failing
to supervise employees, the CBOT said.  The CBOT’s business conduct committee found that Hadden
didn’t liquidate a large position in Treasury futures in an
orderly manner required by the exchange’s rules. Hadden made
orders in the final minute prior to expiration of a 10-year
futures contract on Dec. 19, 2008, and the price rose in the
process, according to the panel’s findings.  “This matter arose from standard risk management
procedures for Treasury note futures contracts,” James Benjamin, Hadden’s attorney at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld
LLP, said in an e-mailed statement. “Although Mr. Hadden acted
in good faith and attempted to follow a textbook approach, he
had difficulty liquidating the futures position in an orderly
manner in light of stressed and illiquid market conditions.”  Hadden and Goldman Sachs didn’t admit or deny violations in
settling. The suspension starts on July 15, according to the
CBOT’s statement.  Trading Head  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
said Hadden remains the firm’s head of global rates.  “We’re pleased to have resolved this matter,” said
 Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman.  Hadden worked at Goldman Sachs from 1996 through 2010,
according to his employment record with the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. He rose to head of U.S. government-bond
trading at Goldman Sachs and was named a partner in 2008. Morgan
Stanley hired him in 2011 to turn around its interest-rates
business.  Interest-rates trading involves buying and selling products
including U.S. Treasury notes and bonds, other government debt,
inflation-linked securities and interest-rate derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  