-- How Bride’s Magazine Created the Wedding Arms Race
-- B y   V i c k i   H o w a r d
-- 2013-05-31T19:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/how-bride-s-magazine-created-the-wedding-arms-race.html
Weddings are a $165 billion industry
in the U.S., according to the  Association of Bridal Consultants .
The introduction in 1934 of Bride’s magazine, the first
publication devoted to this market, played a central role in its
growth.  From the beginning,  Bride’s  linked weddings to consumption,
promoting the lucrative formal white wedding ideal. Behind the
scenes, the magazine worked with retailers to expand the market
and introduce new “traditions.”  Before bridal magazines came on the scene, businesses in
search of wedding trade had to cast a wide net. Beginning in the
1920s, kitchen-range makers, furniture dealers, ice companies,
and real estate agents sent congratulatory sales letters to
brides and grooms-to-be setting up a new household. Many of
these businesses then turned to traditional advertising media
such as newspapers and women’s magazines, and by 1930, to radio
soap operas.  Social observers of the time noted the role of business in
ballooning wedding expenditures. According to “Purveyors to the
Bride,” a 1925  Saturday Evening Post  article, the cost of
society weddings had doubled since the mid-1910s and “even the
trades have joined in the conspiracy for more and bigger
weddings.”  ‘Depression-Proof’  Bride’s magazine gave advertisers direct access to that
growing market. Founded by Wells Drorbaugh, a former advertising
manager for House and Garden, the slim magazine was first
called, So You’re Going to Be Married. Drorbaugh reportedly got
the idea after reading an article on the “Depression-proof”
wedding trade. His publication started small, in the  New York 
City living room of its first editor, Agnes Foster Wright.
Building on methods employed by the jewelry industry, it reached
its target audience by relying on clipping services to track
engagement announcements in newspapers. At first, it circulated
at no cost to a limited northeastern audience. It soon added
newsstand sales to become a national advertising publication.  Bride’s quickly increased the scale and scope of its
advertising, expanding the definition of what was considered
bridal. As a service for those about to marry, it published
lists of businesses that offered wedding-related services or
products across the country, a format followed by its rival
Modern Bride, founded in 1949.  According to Barbara Tober, the editor-in-chief of Bride’s
from 1966 to 1994, the magazine had to work to convince some
manufacturers that there was a bridal market for their product.
In doing so, it helped define what was necessary for the ideal
wedding and the new household. Over the decades this notion of
necessity expanded, along with the size of bridal publications.
The spring 2000 issue of Bride’s came in at 1,271 pages,
entering the Guinness Book of World Records as the largest
magazine ever produced.  Bride’s expanded the industry in other ways, too. Beginning
in the late 1930s, it hosted annual bridal business clinics for
department stores and those interested in starting specialty
bridal shops. Developed by  Alexandra Potts , the magazine’s head
of merchandising, these events helped stores open bridal
departments and gift registries.  Her clinics at the Waldorf-Astoria and the Ritz-Carlton
brought store executives and consultants to learn about the
bride as a “volume customer.” In the early 1940s, clinics
addressed wartime weddings and promoted new ideas on flower
displays, bridesmaid dresses and wedding gown fashions.  Unlimited Money-Making  A program for a clinic in the late 1940s listed
presentations on structuring store-wide bridal selling
operations and discussions on the gift bureau’s “unlimited
money-making possibilities.”  By the early postwar period, there were 500 bride’s shops
with full-time consultants in towns of 50,000 or more.  Aided by
soaring marriage rates, the wedding industry boomed.  In the late 1950s, Bride’s magazine sponsored the first
major study of the bridal market. The study randomly queried
3,800 brides and provided statistics on readership and spending
habits that helped the magazine sell advertising space to a
wider range of manufacturers, retailers and service-providers.  The bridal magazine industry flourished in the late 1960s
and 1970s, despite opposition from the women’s movement and the
counterculture. By the end of this period, bridal magazines had
expanded “tradition” in new directions. As social norms
changed, the magazines made accommodations, but always in
directions that expanded markets. In 1977, Modern Bride began to
address the “mature” bride, a segment previously ignored.  The wedding industry eventually even found profit in rising
 divorce rates . Priscilla of  Boston , a prominent wedding gown
manufacturer renowned for its White House weddings, designed a
“Contemporary-Romantic” line in the 1980s for brides who,
according to the company’s designer, John Burbidge, were
“marrying for the first to third time in a semi-formal
atmosphere.”  Betsy Kidder, the daughter of founder  Priscilla Kidder ,
reported that “the more often a woman gets married, the better
it is for business.”  By the late 1990s, bridal magazines urged other non-traditional brides, such as the visibly pregnant, to have a
formal white wedding with all the trimmings. And in 2003, for
the first time, Bride’s addressed the issue of gay marriage in a
short, one-page piece that noted “same-sex affairs can be
nearly as traditional as heterosexual ones.” And, one imagines,
just as profitable.  ( Vicki Howard  is an associate professor of history at
Hartwick College in Oneonta, New York. She is the author of
“Brides, Inc. American Weddings and the Business of
Tradition.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Vicki Howard at  HowardV@hartwick.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  