-- Toyota Forecasts Higher U.S. Sales in May as Prius Gains
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-31T01:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/toyota-forecasts-higher-u-s-sales-in-may-as-prius-gains.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest automaker, forecast an increase in its U.S. vehicle
deliveries in May from a year earlier, aided by an improvement
in sales of the Prius hybrid line.  Sales of Prius hatchbacks, v wagons, c subcompacts and a
plug-in version will top May 2012’s 21,477, Carly Schaffner, a
company spokeswoman, said in an interview yesterday. She
declined to provide a specific figure for either Prius or total
company sales in May. Prius sales through April were 12 percent
below the Toyota City, Japan-based company’s year-earlier volume
and not on pace for a full-year target of 250,000 units.  Toyota was the only one of the six largest automakers by
U.S. sales to report a drop in April, with deliveries down 1.1
percent from a year earlier on declines for Camry sedans and
Prius. The company has said lower U.S. fuel prices this year
have hurt Prius demand, which typically tracks gasoline cost.  Bill Fay, Toyota’s group vice president for U.S.  sales ,
said in an April interview the carmaker would begin a new Prius
television ad campaign in June to aid demand. The program will
run for six weeks, starting in mid-June, Schaffner said.  Toyota  rose  0.5 percent to 6,090 yen at 10:05 a.m. in Tokyo
trading, compared with a 2.3 percent advance for the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The stock has  surged  52 percent this
year, beating the 34 percent climb of the Nikkei. The company’s
U.S. sales unit is in Torrance,  California .  Toyota, which retook its global sales crown from  General
Motors Co. (GM)  last year, is looking forward to its highest  profit 
in six years for the current fiscal 12 months ending in March.
Still, in North America, the company’s biggest overseas market,
Toyota faces a resurgent  Detroit  where GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
Chrysler Group LLC are offering their best vehicle lineup in a
generation.  Automakers are to report May sales on June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  