-- P&G Said Planning to Promote Four as Contenders to Succeed CEO
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2013-05-31T04:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/p-g-said-planning-to-promote-four-as-contenders-to-succeed-ceo.html
Procter & Gamble Co . plans to promote
four executives to new senior roles as part of a reorganization
aimed at streamlining the company’s management structure, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The four executives may be in line to succeed the newly
returned Chief Executive Officer A.G. Lafley, said the person,
who requested anonymity because the matter is private. Lafley
started his second stint as CEO last week and is trying to turn
around the world’s largest consumer-products company.  Lafley is expected to stay for at least two or three years,
and one of his main goals is to prepare a lineup of executives
at Cincinnati-based P&G who could replace him, the person said.  P&G is reorganizing its brands into four sectors, each
headed by a president who will report to Lafley, the person
said. The Wall Street Journal, citing people familiar with the
plan, reported earlier that possible candidates include Melanie Healey, group president of North America;  David Taylor , group
president of global home care; Martin Riant, group president of
global baby care; Giovanni Ciserani, group president of global
fabric care; and Deborah Henretta, group president of global
beauty care, the Journal said.  The four sector presidents won’t be the only candidates for
CEO, the Journal said.  Struggling Growth  Lafley, who stepped aside almost four years ago, returned
last week to replace Bob McDonald after the Cincinnati-based
company struggles to rekindle growth at home and abroad while
losing market share to rivals like  Unilever. (UNA)   The 65-year-old executive said he plans to continue a
turnaround plan that McDonald embarked on last year aiming at
cutting $10 billion in costs through 2016 and renewing focus on
the company’s leading businesses.  In established markets, P&G has lost customers in such key
categories as detergents. The beauty business, which last year
generated 24 percent of sales, is ailing as competitors such as
 L’Oreal SA (OR)  seize share in  emerging markets .  P&G’s sales growth has averaged 2 percent over the past
three years, compared with 8.7 percent for Unilever, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. The company’s fourth-quarter forecast trailed analysts’ estimates, prompting shares
to plunge the most in more than four years.  Lafley’s second stint recalls the successful comebacks of
former leaders from  Steve Jobs  to  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s  Howard
Schultz . He started working at the Cincinnati-based company in
1977 and served as president and CEO from 2000 to 2009.  McDonald, 59, will retire on June 30 after 33 years of
service, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  