-- PetroEcuador Says Biggest Oil Pipeline Cut by Amazon Landslide
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-05-31T19:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/petroecuador-says-biggest-oil-pipeline-cut-by-amazon-landslide.html
OPEC member  Ecuador ’s biggest crude
pipeline, known as SOTE, was cut today by a landslide in the
country’s eastern Amazon region, said PetroEcuador, the nation’s
state-owned oil company.  The pipeline, which transports Ecuador’s Oriente crude to
the Esmeraldas refinery and the oil port of Balao on the Pacific
coast, halted operations after an avalanche of boulders and dirt
pushed the conduit 40 meters (131 feet) off course near
Ecuador’s Reventador volcano, the company said today in an e-mailed statement. Cleanup and repair efforts have begun and no
time frame was given for when the pipeline would restart,
PetroEcuador said.  Today’s accident is the second time in two months that a
landslide has damaged Ecuador’s oil pipelines. The avalanche may
have been triggered by recent explosions and tremors from the
nearby Reventador volcano, Ercilia Torres, a PetroEcuador
spokeswoman, said today by telephone from  Quito .  The volcano exploded eight times yesterday and sent a
column of steam 600 meters into the air, the country’s
geophysical institute known as IGEPN, said yesterday in a
statement.  PetroEcuador doesn’t know how much oil was spilled
in the region today when the pipeline was cut, Torres said,
adding that no one was injured.  The SOTE pipeline has a transport capacity of about 360,000
barrels a day, according to PetroEcuador. Oil accounts for about
57 percent of Ecuador’s exports, according to central bank data.  On April 8, Ecuador’s heavy-crude pipeline, known as OCP,
was damaged by a landslide near the city of Esmeraldas, spilling
about 5,500 barrels of oil. The OCP restarted operations four
days later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  