-- Pinnacle Said to Be in FTC Settlement Talks on Ameristar
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-06-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/pinnacle-said-to-be-in-settlement-talks-with-ftc-over-ameristar.html
Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. (PNK)  is in
talks with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to settle the
agency’s complaint seeking to block its purchase of  Ameristar
Casinos Inc. (ASCA) , two people familiar with the matter said.  The FTC moved to stop Pinnacle’s proposed $2.8 billion
acquisition on May 29, saying the deal would hurt competition
and lead to lower payouts for gamblers, especially in Missouri
and Louisiana, according to the administrative complaint filed
by the agency.  The FTC said that in  St. Louis , Pinnacle’s acquisition of
Ameristar would cut the number of casino service providers to
three from four. In Lake Charles, Louisiana, an Ameristar casino
going up adjacent to an existing Pinnacle one will be Pinnacle’s
“closest and most significant” competitor in the market, the
agency said.  Pinnacle and Ameristar, Las Vegas-based companies that run
casinos throughout the U.S., have already provided for the
divestiture of as many as two operational properties in their
proposed merger agreement, which was announced in December.  Julie Collins, a spokeswoman for Pinnacle, and  Peter
Kaplan , a spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment on whether
negotiations were taking place. The people familiar with the
talks asked not to be named because the discussions are
confidential.  Contentious Issues  The fact that the FTC and Pinnacle haven’t already reached
a settlement “suggests to us the contested issues are not
clear-cut and are more contentious or novel than previous gaming
mergers,” Cameron McKnight, a New York-based analyst with  Wells
Fargo & Co ., said in a May 30 note with associates Barry Jonas
and Rich Cummings.  “The real sign of productive settlement talks is if the
parties withdraw or stay the litigation,” said  Billy Vigdor , an
antitrust lawyer with Vinson & Elkins LLP in  Washington , who
served at the FTC for six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  