-- Raiffeisen Seeks Option to Refill Thin Capital Reserves
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-05-31T12:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/raiffeisen-seeks-option-to-refill-thin-capital-reserves.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , the
Austrian lender whose chief executive officer offered to resign
last week, may offer shares directly to outside investors,
preempting existing shareholders, as it tries to boost capital.  The bank is asking investors to allow it to sell almost 20
million new shares, equivalent to 10 percent of the company’s
outstanding stock, to new investors, according to the agenda for
Raiffeisen’s annual general meeting in Vienna on June 26.  “This is purely a reserve and there are no concrete
plans” to tap outside investors, Susanne Langer, Raiffeisen’s
investor relations chief, said in a telephone interview today.
“We are trying to be as flexible as we can.” The lender is
also seeking approval to sell stock in a rights offering.  Bolstering capital will be the biggest challenge facing the
successor to Herbert Stepic, who offered to resign last week
over a probe into offshore accounts. Raiffeisen has the weakest
capital ratio of all major banks that operate in eastern  Europe ,
according to Eleni Papoula, an analyst at Berenberg Bank.
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG, the bank’s parent company
which is ultimately owned by  494 local cooperatives , opposed a
rights offering last year saying the stock price was too low.  The bank says its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, stands at 10.6 percent. That’s inflated by
1.75 billion euros ($2.3 billion) of state aid and 750 million
euros of non-voting capital that are being phased out by
regulators. Under the stricter Basel III rules the measure falls
to 7.5 percent, Berenberg’s Papoula wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. By comparison,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s ratio is 9.6 percent
and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ’s 9 percent, she wrote.  Raiffeisen’s “weakest point, and investors’ main concern,
is capital,” Papoula, who recommends selling the stock, wrote
in her note. “Organic capital generation will not suffice for
Raiffeisen to build up its capital buffers. It must therefore
raise equity, in our view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  