-- Rand Drops Amid Speculation of Intervention to Calm Volatility
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-05-31T13:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/rand-extends-its-decline-as-south-africa-seeks-to-calm-investors.html
The rand fell to a four-year low, set
for its worst month since 2011, amid speculation the central
bank may sell dollars to soothe volatility and as government
officials tried to reassure investors.  Movements in the currency are “somewhat exaggerated,” the
central bank’s Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said in  Pretoria 
yesterday. While the regulator is committed to a flexible
exchange rate, it would be concerned by “abrupt and disorderly
movements,” he said. The comments may point to intervention if
daily moves “got out of hand,” said John Cairns, a currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy slumped as much as
2.4 percent to 10.2847 per dollar, the weakest intraday level
since March 11, 2009. It traded at 10.1255 as of 3:24 p.m. in
Johannesburg for a decline this month of 11 percent, the most
since September 2011. Yields on government bonds due December
2026 climbed 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 7.59
percent. The yield rose a record 84 basis points this month.  The swings in the rand “smacked a little bit of panic and
it is quite possible that the Reserve Bank would come into the
market in a period like this,” RMB’s Cairns said by phone from
Johannesburg. “While I don’t have direct knowledge of
intervention, I wouldn’t be surprised.”  The central bank isn’t conducting any market operations
outside its normal mandate, Mminele said in an e-mailed response
to questions today. Governor Gill Marcus has repeatedly said the
central bank doesn’t target a level for the rand and it has a
policy of accumulating reserves without severely influencing
foreign-exchange markets.  Daily Contact  “The South African Reserve Bank is in contact with market
participants on a daily basis, to execute various transactions
as part of monetary policy implementation or to service client
requests,” Mminele said. “Any transactions in the foreign
exchange markets resulting in significant changes to reserves
levels are reported and explained in a structured manner on a
monthly basis.”  The rand extended losses after South  Africa ’s trade deficit
widened more than estimated in April. The shortfall swelled to
15 billion rand ($1.5 billion), from 7.8 billion rand the
previous month. The median estimate of 13 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was 9.5 billion rand.  The currency will stop depreciating at “some point” and
retrace its losses, National Treasury Director General Lungisa Fuzile said yesterday in an interview with Johannesburg-based
Talk Radio 702. “When the depreciation is too fast and there is
a lot of volatility, we get concerned,” he said in an interview
with Johannesburg’s state-owned SAfm radio today.  Rand Oversold  The rand’s relative strength index fell to 14.7. It has
been trading below the 30 level that indicates a currency may be
oversold since May 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency’s three-month implied volatility versus the dollar
rose 102 basis points today to 17.32 percent, the highest since
October, as options traders anticipate wider swings in coming
months.  The rand has weakened 17 percent this year, the worst among
24  emerging markets  and 16 major currencies monitored by
Bloomberg. It has declined for 16 of the past 17 trading days.  Mining strikes caused more than 15 billion rand in lost
output and shaved about 0.5 percentage point off gross domestic
product last year, according to the Treasury. GDP growth slowed
to an annualized 0.9 percent in the first quarter from 2.1
percent in the fourth, Statistics South Africa said this week.  Rating Downgrades  “South Africa’s fundamentals are at risk because of all
the strike action and labor issues,” Bronwyn Blood, who helps
manage the equivalent of $1.8 billion in fixed-income
investments at Cadiz Asset Management Ltd., said by phone from
Cape Town. “There could be further rating downgrades off the
back of this. Significant rand weakness will feed through to
inflation.”  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service kept South
Africa’s rating on a negative outlook after lowering it by one
level last year. Fitch lowered the nation’s debt rating to BBB,
the second-lowest investment grade, in January.  President Jacob Zuma said yesterday he appointed a group of
ministers to mediate between rival labor unions. Labor unrest
that started at platinum mines in August spread to gold, iron-ore, chrome and coal producers with farmworkers and truck
drivers also joining protests last year.  “If the disruption is sustained, there’s no doubt about
it, it will impact on growth,” the Treasury’s Fuzile said on
SAfm today. “If we are able to avert it, and I think we will,
then we stand a good chance that if it impacts on growth at all,
the impact will be negligible.”  Metals and other commodities accounted for 53 percent of
South Africa’s exports in 2012, according to government data.
The country has the biggest platinum reserves and is the world’s
fifth-largest gold producer. Glencore Xstrata Plc, the world’s
fourth-biggest mining company, said production at three South
African chrome sites has been disrupted by unauthorized strikes
since May 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  