-- TransCanada CEO Says Keystone Aids Jobs and Environment
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/transcanada-ceo-says-keystone-aids-jobs-and-environment.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone
XL oil pipeline would benefit U.S. employment and support
efforts to tackle  climate change , according to the company’s
Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling .  “The opponents to this project have indicated that this is
a choice somehow between environment and jobs,” Girling said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for
“Capitol Gains” airing June 2. “That’s simply not true.”
Keystone XL would ensure North American  energy security , and
denying it would lower employment and increase emissions as the
U.S. imports more crude in tankers that run on oil, he said.  The U.S. State Department this month  posted  some of the
more than 1.2 million public comments it received on its draft
environmental study of the $5.3 billion Keystone XL, proposed by
Calgary-based TransCanada to ship crude from Alberta’s  oil sands 
to the U.S. Gulf Coast. Comments from some opponents suggesting
the oil sands are the planet’s most carbon-intensive fossil
fuels are “factually incorrect,” Girling said.  A rejection of Keystone would reduce spending on oil-sands
projects that need new pipeline capacity to reach markets by
C$9.4 billion ($9.13 billion) from 2014 to 2017, Dan MacDonald,
a Calgary-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a May 27
note to clients.  Keystone XL, which requires approval from U.S. President
 Barack Obama  because it crosses an international border, would
transport about 830,000 barrels a day of crude, crossing six
U.S. states.  Permit Denied  Obama initially denied a permit for the line in January
2012, citing concerns it might threaten the ecologically
sensitive Sand Hills region in Nebraska. TransCanada resubmitted
its plan a year ago with a new route from the Canadian border to
connect to an existing line in Steele City, Nebraska.  “Reject Keystone XL to put the U.S. on the right track to
climate recovery,” the National Wildlife Federation Action Fund
said in a  letter  on the State Department’s website, arguing the
line would pose spill risks and enable oil-sands projects that
threaten the climate, forests and wildlife.  Decision Expected  While the draft State Department review makes no
recommendation about building Keystone XL, it found that the
conduit doesn’t pose significant environmental risk because oil-sands development would continue without the line. TransCanada
expects a U.S. decision by “mid-summer,” Girling said.  Canada is moving to limit greenhouse gas emissions in the
oil sands with new legislation and has already lowered climate-warming gases, in part with an existing carbon tax in  Alberta ,
Girling said. Figures from the federal government show oil-sands
emissions amount to “1/10th of one percent of global GHGs, so
hardly a major carbon issue,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  