-- Rats Overrun Mississippi Prison for Mentally Ill: Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-05-31T02:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/rats-overrun-mississippi-prison-for-mentally-ill-lawsuit.html
Mentally ill inmates in a Mississippi
prison live in “barbaric and horrific conditions” with rats
climbing over their beds and mice crawling out of broken
toilets, according to a federal lawsuit.  The East Mississippi Correctional Facility in Meridian is
“extremely dangerous,” lawyers for the  American Civil
Liberties Union  and the Southern Poverty Law Center said in a
complaint filed on behalf of the prisoners today in federal
court in Jackson, Mississippi. The organizations seek to
represent prisoners in a class action, or group lawsuit.  Officials at the Mississippi Department of Corrections who
are responsible for the health and safety of the inmates have
known about the “grossly inhumane conditions” and have failed
to do take steps to protect the prisoners, according to the
complaint. The officials are accused in the complaint of
violating the prisoners’ civil rights.  “Rapes, stabbings, beatings, and other acts of violence
are rampant,” according to the complaint. “Defendants housed
one 16-year-old prisoner in a cell with an adult who sexually
assaulted him.”  Tara Booth, a spokeswoman for the  Mississippi  Department of
Corrections, didn’t immediately respond after regular business
hours to a call seeking comment.  Inmates at the prison, which is operated by Management and
Training Corp., capture rats, put them on improvised leashes and
sell them to other seriously mentally ill inmates, according to
the complaint.  The prison’s solitary confinement section is known as the
“dead area,” or the “dead zone,” because security officers
avoid the area, according to the complaint. Prisoners resort to
setting fires to get the attention of the staff, who often let
the fires burn themselves out, according to the complaint.  ‘Black Mucous’  “The air is so contaminated from frequent fires that some
prisoners expel black mucous from their noses,” according to
the complaint. “Prisoners with serious mental illness
exacerbated by solitary confinement throw feces and urine. Other
prisoners defecate into bags and food trays because their
toilets do not work, creating a cesspool.”  Issa Arnita, a spokesman for closely held Management and
Training Corp., based in Centerville,  Utah , said in an telephone
interview that the company has only been operating the facility
for the past 10 months and that the majority of the allegations
made in the complaint took place before then.  “This is a prison that has had issues,” Arnita said.
“It’s a lot better now than it was before.”  Arnita declined to comment on specific allegations because
the company isn’t a defendant in the case.  The case is Dockery v. Epps, 13-00326, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Mississippi (Jackson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at +1-   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 