-- RBS Outlook Changed to Negative by S&P Amid ‘New Failings’
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-05-31T19:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/rbs-has-credit-outlook-changed-to-negative-by-standard-poor-s.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
recipient of the world’s biggest banking bailout, had its credit
outlook changed to negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s 
amid “new failings” across the U.K. financial system.  Two smaller lenders also had outlooks downgraded along with
London-based RBS, according to a statement from S&P today. The
change reflects “our belief that industry risks for U.K. banks
have grown relative to other banking systems,” S&P said.  The U.K.’s biggest lenders have been embroiled in
regulatory probes since the financial crisis, when British
taxpayers bailed out firms including RBS and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc. (LLOY)  Banks have paid billions of dollars to settle
allegations that they rigged  interest rates  and failed to
prevent money-laundering. They’ve also had to compensate
customers who were improperly sold payment-protection insurance.  “Over the past two years, new failings have emerged,” S&P
said. “While the affected banks are addressing these issues,
they indicate to us that the industry still has a high risk
appetite and, in some cases, failings have continued after the
financial crisis.”  S&P also changed the credit outlooks for Virgin Money Plc
and Yorkshire Building Society to negative from stable. While
the moves were triggered by the ratings firm’s view of the
industry, the negative outlooks do not “reflect deterioration
in our assessment of their specific credit factors,” according
to the statement.  “S&P has specifically highlighted that this is an industry
action and does not reflect a deterioration of RBS’s individual
creditworthiness,”  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for RBS, said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  