-- Real Madrid Ready to Pay Suarez $213,000 a Week: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-31T08:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/real-madrid-ready-to-pay-suarez-213-000-a-week-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  Suarez Salary Offer  Real Madrid is prepared to offer  Luis Suarez  a four-year
contract worth 140,000 pounds ($213,000) a week and will try to
persuade Liverpool to sell the Uruguayan striker, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  The Spanish club believes Suarez has a 40 million-pound
buy-out clause in his contract and will offer Liverpool 25
million pounds plus striker Jose Callejon, the Mirror added.  Bale Request  Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas will ask Spurs
Chairman  Daniel Levy  to give Gareth Bale a new contract amid
interest from Real Madrid, the  Sun reported .  Paris Saint-Germain, Manchester United, Manchester City and
Chelsea are also willing to pay 80 million pounds for the Welsh
winger, who has three years remaining on his current agreement,
the newspaper added.  Levy will not sell Bale to another Premier League club, the
 Daily Express reported .  Wage Cull  David Bentley,  William Gallas ,  Emmanuel Adebayor , Benoit
Assou-Ekotto, Jake Livermore,  Tom Huddlestone  and Heurelho Gomes
could all leave Spurs as the club seeks to trim its wage bill to
fund a new deal for Bale, the  Daily Mail reported .  Bale, who currently earns about 110,000 pounds a week,
wants a new agreement closer to 200,000 pounds a week to stay
with the London club, the newspaper added.  Mourinho Wants Mangala  Jose Mourinho  wants to make Porto defender Eliaquim Mangala
his first player acquisition when he takes over for his second
spell as Chelsea manager, the  Sun reported .  Mangala, 22, cost Porto 5.5 million pounds from Standard
Liege two years ago and Chelsea isn’t willing to match the 30
million-pound buy-out clause in his contract, the Sun added.  Fabregas Future  Barcelona midfielder Cesc Fabregas will decide his future
next week and could rejoin former club Arsenal, which has the
first rights to buy him back for as much as 25 million pounds,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  