-- Treasuries Trail Stocks by Most Since January on Fed Outlook
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-31T05:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/treasuries-trail-stocks-by-most-since-january-on-fed-outlook.html
Treasuries lagged behind stocks this
month by the most since January on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will curtail its bond purchases if policy makers are
confident that improvements in economic growth are sustainable.  U.S. government securities fell 1.8 percent in May as of
yesterday, headed for the steepest monthly loss in three years,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of stocks returned 1.1 percent including
reinvested dividends, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A $29
billion seven-year sale yesterday drew the highest yield in more
than a year.  “We have been short Treasuries,” said Park Sungjin, head
of asset management in  Seoul  at Meritz Securities Co., which
oversees $7 billion. “I should have been much more aggressive.
The economy has been good, and that supports the stock market.”
A short position benefits when an asset falls.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed today at 2.11
percent as of 6:55 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 1.75 percent note due in May 2023
was 96 26/32. The yield climbed to 2.23 percent May 29, which
was the highest level in a year. It is still less than the
average of 3.58 percent for the past decade.  Japan ’s 10-year rate slid 2 1/2 basis points to 0.865
percent today. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The
nation’s government bonds have fallen 1.5 percent this month,
the biggest decline in five years, according to the Bank of
America indexes.  Securities in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Index have fallen 1.4 percent in May, poised for
the steepest loss since April 2004.  Bernanke Testimony  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a
month to support the economy by putting downward pressure on
 interest rates . Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the
Fed could “take a step down in our pace of purchases” in the
“next few meetings,” in testimony to lawmakers.  Treasury volatility as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE  index  climbed to 81.22 on May 29 as yields
surged, marking the highest level in almost a year. It was at
77.41 yesterday.  Trading  volume  dropped to $398 billion yesterday, after
rising to $631 billion the day before, according to ICAP Plc,
the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt . It
reached $662 billion on May 22, the highest level in data going
back to 2004. The average daily volume for this year has been
almost $300 billion.  Inflation Expectations  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures deflator, probably rose 0.8 percent in
April from 12 months earlier, based on a Bloomberg News survey
of economists before the Commerce Department reports the figure
at 8:30 today in  Washington . It would be the smallest increase
since October 2009.  Personal income rose 0.1 percent in April from March and
spending was unchanged, the report may show, according to the
survey.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and same-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, narrowed to 2.15 percentage points yesterday, the smallest
spread since July.  The U.S. 10-year yield adjusted for consumer prices, that
are running at an annual rate of 1.1 percent, was as high as
1.13 percent this week. The figure was negative as recently as
March.  The seven-year sale yesterday drew the most  interest  from
non-primary dealer investors since December. Primary dealers are
the 21 companies that underwrite the  U.S. debt .  Note Auction  Indirect and direct bidders combined to win about 61
percent of yesterday’s offering, compared with an average of
about 56 percent at the previous 10 auctions. The notes sold at
what is known as a  high yield  of 1.496 percent, the most for a
seven-year security at an auction since March 2012.  The Treasury’s sale of $35 billion of  five-year  notes on
May 29 attracted the most interest from non-primary dealer
investors since at least 2003.  Equities weren’t always beating bonds throughout May. The
opposite happened yesterday, when Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average tumbled 5.2 percent, spurring demand for the relative
safety of Treasuries during Asia trading hours.  It may be a sign of things to come in the weeks ahead, said
Will Tseng, a bond trader in Taipei at Mirae Asset Global
Investments, which oversees $50 billion.  “When equity investors begin to take profits, it will
cause cash to go into the  bond market ,” he said. Ten-year
yields will probably stay under 2.4 percent in June, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  