-- Regulators Said Set to Decide Systemically Risky U.S. Non-Banks
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-05-31T17:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/regulators-said-set-to-decide-systemically-risky-u-s-non-banks.html
U.S. regulators plan to vote next
week on whether to label some non-bank companies a potential
risk to the financial system, a move that would put them under
heightened Federal Reserve supervision, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, created as part
of the Dodd-Frank law to help prevent a future crisis, meets
June 3 in a closed session at the Treasury Department. The panel
voted last week to notify unidentified companies that it had
completed its study of whether they are systemically important.
American International Group Inc.,  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and
General Electric Co.’s finance unit,  GE Capital , have all said
they are in the final stage of review.  A vote would mark the strongest action by the council,
which first met in October 2010, to increase oversight of
specific businesses. While Dodd-Frank places bank-holding
companies with more than $50 billion in assets such as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  under increased Fed
supervision, the law also gives the council responsibility for
deciding which non-banks, such as insurers and asset managers,
could disrupt the financial system if they failed.  Being branded systemically important is “very punitive”
and shouldn’t be “viewed under any circumstances as a bailout
designation,”  Sheila Bair , who was on the council in 2010 and
2011 as chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said in
an interview.  ‘Burdens’  “You get more regulation and you are forced to demonstrate
to the government that you can be resolved in a bankruptcy
without hurting the rest of us,” Bair said. “Those are
burdens, not benefits.”  The designation vote is on the agenda for the June 3
meeting, according to the people familiar with the schedule, who
asked not to be named because the meeting isn’t public.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew is chairman of the council
called FSOC, whose 10 voting members also include Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and the chairmen of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, FDIC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission. A
two-thirds vote, including Lew’s, is required.  If designations are made, “it will be a fairly momentous
event because it will be the culmination of a very important
part of Dodd-Frank and the exercise of this authority.” said
Satish Kini, co-chairman of law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP’s
banking group in Washington.  Treasury spokeswoman Suzanne Elio declined to comment on
whether a vote will be held June 3.  Risk Management  AIG spokesman Jim Ankner declined to comment on the
designation process. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche ,
in a May 3 conference call, said that regardless of whether the
insurer is branded systemically important, “we’re going to be
able to demonstrate the financial strength of this company, that
our stress tests are very well-done, that we understand risk
management.”  Prudential spokesman  Bob DeFillippo  declined to comment.
Prudential has been answering FSOC staff questions over the past
few months and has told Treasury and Fed officials it doesn’t
think the insurer poses a potential risk to the financial
system, vice chairman Mark Grier told reporters in Washington on
May 7.  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for GE Capital, said the
finance unit is already regulated by the Fed and has a “strong
capital position.” He declined to comment on the FSOC
designation process.  Asset Managers  If the council designates the three companies, it may then
begin considering whether to put asset managers and real estate
investment trust activities under increased scrutiny, said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based Federal
Financial Analytics. She said she expects the FSOC will
designate few companies over the next couple of years.  “At their current course it would be a very small number,
because it has taken them this long on the first ones,” she
said.  The FSOC voted on May 24 to notify an undisclosed number of
non-bank  financial companies  that it had completed its review of
whether the company is systemically important. The council has
180 days from then to vote. Designated companies can request an
appeal within 30 days.  Lew told the House Financial Services Committee on May 22
he hopes the council will decide “soon” and told a Senate
panel a day earlier that he has “stepped on the accelerator”
of Dodd-Frank implementation.  Bair, who is now a senior adviser to the Pew Charitable
Trusts, said the council has taken too long. “They keep saying
soon, soon, but I think they really mean it this time,” she
said. “I think they will do it this time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  