-- Rinehart Trust Shuffle Acronym Sparks New Spat With Son
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-31T16:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/rinehart-trust-shuffle-acronym-sparks-new-spat-with-son.html
An abbreviation in an Australian
Securities & Investments Commission filing, outlining the
transfer of shares from a disputed multibillion dollar trust,
set off a new tiff between representatives of  Asia ’s richest
woman and her son, who is suing her for control of the holdings.  Gina Rinehart  transferred 51,584 shares to a company named
GH Rinehart as Trustee for the Hope Margaret Hancock Trust from
a unit of the trust on April 26, 2012. The transfer in ASIC was
identified with the letters DRP, which usually stands for a
dividend reinvestment plan, prompting her son,  John Hancock , to
say that would hurt the beneficiaries.  “If there really is a dividend reinvestment plan (I’ve
never heard of this, it’s not happened before and I would ask
why now) this is against the interest of the beneficiaries who
have not received anything from the trust since the litigation
started,” Hancock wrote yesterday in an e-mail.  The letters DRP might have been mistakenly used instead of
DPR, which might be a preferred-share class code, Jay Newby,
chief financial officer at Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting, said
yesterday in an e-mail after Hancock’s reaction.  “I can assure you there is no ‘Dividend Reinvestment
Plan,’” Newby said. “One might assume that ‘D class
Preference’ shares could be abbreviated as DPR, which is similar
to DRP.”  ASIC’s press office didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the coding, sent after regular
business hours in Sydney.  Sisters Divided  Hancock and his sisters Bianca and Hope Rinehart Welker
sued to remove their mother as trustee of the multibillion-dollar trust in September 2011, claiming she breached her duty
and failed to act honestly.  Welker pulled out of the lawsuit earlier this year and is
now named as a defendant. Ginia, the youngest of Gina’s four
children, has sided with her mother since the suit was filed.  Included in the trust is a 23.5 percent stake in Hancock
Prospecting, Rinehart’s iron ore company, which collects
royalties from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  operations and is building the
first mine it plans to operate on its own.  Based on current valuations, the trust holds almost a
quarter of Rinehart’s estimated net worth of $19.5 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , which ranks her
as the world’s 36th richest person.  The transfer of the 51,584 shares was disclosed in a May 29
filing with ASIC. A day after that transfer in 2012, Rinehart
moved two shares of the trust to Hancock Prospecting Pty, a
separate filing showed. The share transfers occurred days before
Rinehart allowed the trust to vest on April 30, 2012.  Share Transfer  The two shares were transferred at the market value of the
company’s assets, which consisted of about A$10,000 ($9,581)
worth of shares in publicly listed companies, Newby wrote.  “The funds remain in the trust -- there is no disadvantage
to the beneficiaries,” Newby said. The 51,584 D class
preference shares also remain beneficially owned by the
beneficiaries of the trust, he said.  Hancock, informed of the apparent typographical
misunderstanding, said he remains puzzled by the transfers.  “What was the impetus” for them, Hancock asked today in
an e-mail. “Strange timing.”  Rinehart had previously pushed back the vesting date to
2068 without notice to the children, after they refused to agree
to the extension without further information, according to an
amended statement of claim filed May 23 in the  Supreme Court  of
New South Wales in Sydney.  Date Extension  She insisted on the extension, falsely stating that not
doing so would lead to the children’s bankruptcy, according to
the filing. She also urged them not to verify their initial
statement of claim, writing in a Nov. 16 letter, “If you verify
under oath such statement, that will be held against you all
your life,” according to the filing.  Hancock, who adopted his grandfather’s last name in 2003,
had agreed in 2005 to drop claims against his mother and her
company. In exchange, he received A$398,125 in lieu of any
distributions from the trust before it was originally due to
vest in 2011, on Ginia’s 25th birthday.  “Our mother is trustee of the trust our grandfather set up
for his grandchildren’s support and benefit” and controls the
family company Hancock Prospecting, Hancock wrote in the e-mail.
“She also chooses who does or doesn’t work within the company
and their salaries, including the beneficiary family members.”  The case is John Langley Hancock v. Gina Hope Rinehart.
2011/285907, New South  Wales  Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney
at   jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 