-- Rinehart Trust Shuffle Raises Son’s Suspicion
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-31T15:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/rinehart-s-shuffle-of-trust-shares-raises-son-s-suspicion.html
(Corrects coding interpretation in filing in second, third
paragraphs.)  Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman,
acted against the interest of beneficiaries of a multibillion-dollar trust by shuffling shares between companies, said her son
 John Hancock , who is suing her over control of the trust.  Rinehart transferred 51,584 shares to GH Rinehart as
Trustee for the Hope Margaret Hancock Trust from a unit of the
trust on April 26, 2012, as part of what John Hancock thought
was a dividend reinvestment plan in a May 29 filing with the
 Australian Securities & Investments Commission , coded DRP. A day
after that transfer, she moved two shares of the trust to
Hancock Prospecting Pty, a separate filing showed.  DRP, which ASIC usually uses to stand for dividend
reinvestment plan, might have been mistakenly used instead of
DPR, which might be a preferred-share class code, Jay Newby,
chief financial officer at Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting, said
yesterday in an e-mail after Hancock’s reaction. Whatever
explains the coding, there is no dividend reinvestment plan, he
said.  “If there really is a dividend reinvestment plan (I’ve
never heard of this, it’s not happened before and I would ask
why now) this is against the interest of the beneficiaries who
have not received anything from the trust since the litigation
started,” Hancock wrote in an e-mail.  Hancock and his sisters Bianca and Hope Rinehart Welker
sued to remove their mother as trustee in September 2011,
claiming she breached her duty, failed to act honestly and
exercised her power for an ulterior and improper purpose.  Divided Sisters  Welker pulled out of the lawsuit earlier this year and is
now named as a defendant. Ginia, the youngest of Gina’s four
children, has sided with her mother since the suit was filed.  Included in the trust is a 23.5 percent stake in Hancock
Prospecting, Rinehart’s iron ore company, which collects
royalties from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  operations and is building its
first majority-owned mine. Based on current valuations, the
trust holds almost a quarter of Rinehart’s estimated net worth
of $19.5 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index ,
which ranks her as the world’s 36th richest person.  The share transfers occurred days before Rinehart allowed
the trust to vest on April 30, 2012.  Rinehart previously pushed back the vesting date to 2068
without notice to the children, after they refused to agree to
the extension, Hancock said in an amended statement of claim
filed May 23 in the Supreme Court of New South Wales.  Date Extension  She insisted on the extension, falsely stating that not
doing so would lead to the children’s bankruptcy, according to
the filing. She also urged them not to verify their initial
statement of claim, writing in a Nov. 16 letter, “If you verify
under oath such statement, that will be held against you all
your life,” according to the filing.  Hancock, who adopted his grandfather’s last name in 2003,
had agreed in 2005 to drop claims against his mother and her
company. In exchange, he received A$398,125 ($382,100) in lieu
of any distributions from the trust before it was originally due
to vest in 2011, on Ginia’s 25th birthday.  “Our mother is trustee of the trust our grandfather set up
for his grandchildren’s support and benefit” and controls the
family company Hancock Prospecting, Hancock wrote in the e-mail.
“She also chooses who does or doesn’t work within the company
and their salaries, including the beneficiary family members.”  The case is John Langley Hancock v Gina Hope Rinehart.
2011/285907. New South Wales  Supreme Court  (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  