-- Rupee Heads for Biggest Monthly Decline in a Year: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-05-31T05:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/rupee-heads-for-biggest-monthly-decline-in-a-year-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s rupee headed for its worst
month in a year on concern any reduction in bond-buying by the
 Federal Reserve  will curb dollar supply, leaving the Asian
currency vulnerable to a record current-account deficit.  India’s balance of payments is under stress,  Reserve Bank 
of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in Ahmedabad yesterday,
adding that it is a challenge to attract stable capital flows.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central bank may
cut the pace of debt purchases if there are signs of sustained
improvement in the  U.S. economy . India’s gross domestic product
increased 4.8 percent in the first three months of the year, the
second quarter of below 5 percent growth, according to a
Bloomberg survey before data due at 11 a.m. in  New Delhi  today.  “Market sentiment is firmly on Fed tapering and positive
economic momentum” in the U.S., Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist
at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mail today.
“India’s current-account deficit remains a big issue.”  The rupee weakened 4.8 percent this month to 56.53 per
dollar as of 10:16 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest loss since May
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped 0.3
percent today, touching the weakest level since June 29, 2012,
and fell 1.6 percent this week. The Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against six major trading partners, rose 1.7
percent this month.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade, probably widened to a record of around 5 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ended March 31, Governor
Subbarao said yesterday.  Probable Outflows  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
67 basis points, or 0.67 percentage point, this month to 8.98
percent.  Global funds have been net sellers of rupee-denominated
debt each day since holdings touched a record $38.5 billion on
May 21, exchange data show, while they have bought $14.9 billion
more of Indian stocks than they sold this year. Asia’s third-largest economy should be prepared for the probability of
outflows in 2014 as developed economies consider withdrawing
stimulus measure, Governor Subbarao said this month.  The surge that propelled the Dollar Index to its highest
level since 2010 is masking the greenback’s 30-year low versus
emerging-market currencies. India’s real-effective exchange rate,
which tracks the rupee against the currencies of six major
trading partners, was 106.29 in April, RBI data show. A number
above 100 shows appreciation.  ‘Difficult Environment’  “So do be careful in talking about currency weakness just
against one cross rate, which is the  U.S. dollar ,”  Adrian Mowat ,
chief Asian and emerging-market strategist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., told Bloomberg TV India yesterday. “We have entered a
strong dollar environment that tends to be a difficult
environment for emerging-market currencies.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 57.45 per
dollar, compared with 54.84 on April 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 57.48 versus 54.54 a month ago. Forwards are agreements to
buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  