-- S. Korea Boosts Inspection of U.S. Wheat Imports on Gene Concern
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-05-31T04:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/s-korea-boosts-inspection-of-u-s-wheat-imports-on-gene-concern.html
South Korea , Asia’s second-biggest
grain buyer, increased inspections of feed wheat imports from
the U.S. after an unapproved, genetically modified strain was
found growing in an Oregon field.  The government increased the amount of wheat samples taken
from each vessel for inspection, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Food and Rural Affairs said in a statement. No unapproved gene-altered crops have been found so far. The Ministry of Food and
Drug Safety will examine all wheat and flour shipments from
Oregon and check products distributed in the domestic market and
at inventories, according to a separate statement.  Scientists said the rogue wheat was a strain tested from
1998 to 2005 by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  the world’s top seed maker. The
finding may hurt U.S. exports at a time when the nation’s
Department of Agriculture is expecting record global production.
 Japan , the biggest buyer of U.S. wheat behind Mexico, suspended
some imports of wheat from the U.S., the world’s top exporter.  “The government is increasing inspection of U.S. feed
wheat imports in order to ensure safety,” the agriculture
ministry said in the statement e-mailed late yesterday.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday it was
investigating how the unapproved seeds slipped out and were
growing nine years after St. Louis-based Monsanto ended its
wheat program. The discovery may prompt foreign buyers uneasy
with gene-altered crops to stop buying wheat from the U.S.,
according to critics including the Union of Concerned Scientists
and the Center for Food Safety.  The Asian nation shipped in 1.2 million metric tons of feed
wheat from the U.S. in 2012, the agriculture ministry said.
Imports of U.S. flour were 1,121 tons last year, the  food safety 
ministry said.  Wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade fell as much as 0.7
percent to $6.9375 a bushel, dropping for a second day, and
traded at $6.9750 at 12:22 p.m. in Seoul. Futures are down 10
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  