-- Scotiabank CEO Waugh to Retire as Porter Named Successor
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-31T20:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/scotiabank-ceo-waugh-to-retire-nov-1-as-porter-named-successor.html
Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Canada ’s third-largest lender, said Chief Executive Officer  Richard Waugh  will
retire on Nov. 1 and be succeeded by President  Brian Porter .  Waugh, 65, will remain on the bank’s board and take on the
role of deputy chairman until Jan. 31, the company said today in
a statement. Porter, who has headed international banking and
overseen risk at the Toronto-based lender, said he plans no
“big deviation.”  “The bank has a great strategy and a great track record,
and I don’t envision any significant changes,” Porter, 55, said
in a telephone interview. “We’re not going to the U.S. retail
market, we’re not going to  Africa , we’ve got tons of opportunity
within our existing footprint.”  Waugh relinquished the president’s role to Porter seven
months ago, paving the way for an eventual transition to the top
job. Porter led the international banking business from 2010
until his appointment as president last year, and previously was
group head of risk and treasury from 2008 to 2010 and chief risk
officer between 2006 and 2008.  “The Canadian banks and Scotiabank in particular are
really well positioned,” said Porter, who joined Scotiabank in
1981. “European banks have to deal with the problems in their
local markets, the U.S. banks have recapitalized quite well, but
they’ve still got a lot of litigation issues and some regulatory
issues they have to deal with.”  Bank Teller  Porter will step into a position held by Waugh for almost a
decade. Waugh began his Scotiabank career as a branch teller in
Winnipeg, Manitoba, in 1970. He rose through the ranks, taking
on senior roles until becoming president and CEO in 2003.  Waugh led the lender through the financial crisis and added
acquisitions in  Latin America  and  Asia  while expanding
domestically through Canadian takeovers. During his tenure,
Scotiabank had an average annual return of 11 percent and a
 total return  of about 169 percent, outperforming Canada’s
benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The stock’s near multiyear highs, the Canadian banking
sector is strong, he steered the company away from financial
disaster, so why not leave on a high note?”  Barry Schwartz ,
portfolio manager at Baskin Financial Services in Toronto, said
in a phone interview.  ‘Solid Backer’  The lender  fell  0.3 percent to C$59.04 at 4 p.m. in Toronto
trading. The shares have returned 2.8 percent this year, the
 second-best performer  on the eight-company S&P/TSX Commercial
Banks Index.  Scotiabank announced takeovers totaling more than $13
billion while Waugh was CEO, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Deals included the C$3.1 billion ($3 billion)
takeover of ING Groep NV’s Canadian operations in November and
the $1 billion purchase of a 51 percent stake in  Colombia ’s
Banco Colpatria Red Multibanca Colpatria SA last year, its
largest foreign purchase.  “He’s been a solid backer of the company’s strategy, which
is the sustenance and development of overseas operations,
particularly in the southern Americas,”  Michael Smedley , who
helps manage C$1 billion at Morgan Meighen & Associates in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “They’ve also done
quite an amount of acquisitions under his watch, expanding the
company.”  ‘Downward Slope’  Waugh said he was “on the downward slope” when asked
about his retirement and accomplishments in a May 21 interview
at Bloomberg’s Canada Summit.  “I’ve been in the bank for so long, so it’s a long path,
but it’s the ability to come to a good bank and make it even
better,” Waugh said.  Waugh said he’s most proud of Scotiabank’s ability “to
execute well with discipline.”  “We’ve also made sense at seizing the opportunity,” he
said. “This crisis has not been easy for any of us, but we’ve
been able to seize the opportunity broadly based within the
bank, and we can all be proud of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  