-- Second Terror Suspect in Custody After Release From Hospital
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-31T15:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/second-terror-suspect-in-custody-after-release-from-hospital.html
One of the two suspects in the murder
of U.K. soldier Lee Rigby was released from the hospital and
taken into custody at a  London  police station.  The 28-year-old man, identified by the BBC as Michael
Adebolajo, was shot by police at the scene of the attack in
southeast London on May 22.  The attack, which took place on a busy road in broad
daylight, has heightened tensions over security in Britain and
raised fresh fears of home-grown terrorism. Rigby was stabbed
with knives and cleavers in the neighborhood of Woolwich, across
the street from an army barracks. Police are treating the case
as an act of terrorism.  Michael Adebowale, 22, was charged on May 29 with murder
and possession of a handgun in connection with Rigby’s death.  London police have arrested 12 people in the probe into
Rigby’s death, including Adebolajo and Adebowale. Two people
were arrested today on suspicion of being involved in the supply
of illegal firearms and remain in custody. Eight others have
been released.  Around 500 police officers and other investigators,
including members of counterterrorism units from forces around
the country, are working on the case, U.K. Home Secretary
Theresa May has said.  Rigby, a 25-year old father, was hit with a car and then
attacked by two men with knives outside a military barracks in
Woolwich, southeast London.  Rigby, who has a 2-year-old son, was a drummer in the 2nd
Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. A fan of the
Manchester United soccer team, he served as a machine gunner in
Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a fire support group in
Helmand province,  Afghanistan .  Queen Elizabeth II today visited Woolwich Barracks in
London, near where Rigby was killed last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  