-- Severe Storms With Tornadoes May Sweep Over Central U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-05-31T12:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/severe-storms-with-tornadoes-may-sweep-over-central-u-s-.html
Severe thunderstorms, baseball-sized
hail, flooding and possibly tornadoes may sweep across parts of
 Oklahoma , Missouri and  Arkansas  today, according to the U.S.
 Storm Prediction Center.   There’s a 45 percent chance of storms producing damaging
hail from Fort Sill, Oklahoma, to near Joplin, Missouri, and
Fayetteville, Arkansas, the center said. Central Oklahoma,
including Moore, where 24 people were killed by an EF-5 tornado
last week, has the highest odds of twisters touching down today.  The tornado threat “should diminish late evening and
overnight,” but strong to severe thunderstorms may persist and
move across portions of eastern Oklahoma and the Ozarks, said
Roger Edwards, a forecaster at the center in Norman, Oklahoma.  Powerful thunderstorms, hail and tornadoes swept across the
Great Plains from  Wisconsin  to Oklahoma yesterday, destroying
homes and tearing down trees and power lines, according to the
center. Nine people were injured, the Associated Press said.  Severe thunderstorms and the tornadoes that sometimes
accompany them caused $15 billion in insured losses in 2012 and
$25 billion in 2011, according to the  Insurance Information
Institute  in New York.  From 1992 to 2011, thunderstorms and tornadoes accounted
for the second-highest amount of catastrophic loss in the U.S.,
$130.2 billion, topped only by hurricanes and tropical storms
with $161.3 billion, according to the institute.  Flood Alerts  Flood and flash flood alerts are posted today from
 Illinois , including  Chicago , to Oklahoma. The entire region is
expected to receive heavy rain on ground that has already been
soaked by storms.  Chicago may receive at least 3 inches (8 centimeters) of
rain by tomorrow, according to the  National Weather Service .
Major flooding is occurring along portions of the Mississippi
River from Gladstone, Illinois, to Hannibal, Missouri. The river
at Hannibal is expected to crest at 25.9 feet in two days,
almost two feet above the major flood stage of 24 feet although
below the record 31.8 feet set in 1993.  As violent weather threatens the central U.S., temperatures
on the East Coast are forecast to rise into the 90s Fahrenheit
(30s Celsius) again today from  Washington  to  Boston , the weather
service said.  The temperature in Central Park reached 90 degrees
yesterday and is expected to peak at 92 today. Yesterday’s
normal high is 75.  Boston reached 88 yesterday, 17 degrees above normal, and
is expected to hit 92 today. Washington peaked at 90 yesterday,
11 above normal, and may see 91 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  