-- Shuanghui Says China Needs Overseas Food-Safety Technology
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-31T05:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/shuanghui-says-china-needs-overseas-food-safety-technology.html
Shuanghui International Holdings
Ltd., the Chinese company that agreed to pay $4.7 billion for
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s biggest hog producer, said
China needs food-safety technology from overseas.  “Chinese food companies need to go outside to learn
advanced technology and experiences on food safety,” Chairman
Wan Long said in e-mailed responses to questions from Bloomberg.
Smithfield has “strict food safety management and effective
measures on environmental protection” as well as advanced
technology and well-known brands, he said.  Acquiring Smithfield would give China’s biggest pork
producer access to more advanced production technology as well
as 460 farms that raise about 15.8 million hogs a year,
according to Smithfield, Virginia-based Smithfield’s website.
Valued at $7.1 billion including debt, the deal would be the
largest for a meat producer and the biggest Chinese takeover of
a U.S. company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Buying Smithfield will encourage Shuanghui and its
Chinese rivals to compete for higher food production standards
amid increasing concerns of  China ’s food safety issues,” Claire
Wu, a Beijing-based analyst at Zero2IPO Group, a research firm
focused on deals, said by telephone yesterday “The domestic
food industry would benefit from such competition.”  While China’s consumption of pork is rising with the
expansion of its middle class, the nation’s food industry has
been wracked by scandals ranging from tainted milk to the
illegal dumping of hogs in rivers.  Different Standards  Shuanghui apologized in March 2011 over illegal additives
found in its meat and halted output after China Central
Television reported that farmers in central Henan province fed
an additive to their pigs and then sold them to a slaughterhouse
owned by the group. The company subsequently pledged to step up
quality control.  “Each country has its own standards” on feed additives
used in hog raising, Wan said today.  Smithfield produces pork under American standards and will
continue to do so in the future, he said. In China, Shuanghui
will comply with Chinese standards, Wan said.  Shuanghui International is the Hong Kong-based holding
parent of Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co., China’s
biggest pork processor.  Smithfield accepted Shuanghui’s offer of $34-a-share on May
29, priced at a 31 percent premium to the close the day before,
the companies said that day in a statement. The U.S. producer
has 30 days to continue talks with possible buyers  Charoen
Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF)  and  JBS SA (JBSS3) , people familiar said.  Shuanghui International will fund the acquisition with its
own cash and financing from a group of banks, Wan says, without
naming any of them. The deal is subject to approval from
Smithfield shareholders and regulators, and is expected to close
in the second half.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  