-- Singapore Ex-Civil Defense Chief Convicted of Corruption
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-05-31T15:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/singapore-ex-defense-chief-convicted-of-corruption.html
(Corrects headline to add dropped word in title.)  Singapore ’s former civil defense
chief Peter Lim was found guilty of trading contracts for sex by
a district judge in the city state.  Lim was accused of obtaining oral sex in May 2010 from the
general manager of Nimrod Engineering Pte, who was seeking
contracts with the defense agency.  “There was corrupt element and guilty knowledge,” Judge
Hamidah Ibrahim said in delivering the verdict in a Singapore
subordinate court today. “He had become beholden to her after
the oral sex.”  The verdict follows Singapore’s former drug enforcement
agency chief Ng Boon Gay’s Feb. 14 acquittal on similar charges.
Hamidul Haq, Lim’s lawyer, had argued that the sexual encounter
didn’t influence his decisions in awarding business contracts.  Haq said today he will study the judgment before deciding
whether to appeal. A sentencing hearing has been scheduled for
June 7.  Lim, 52, and Ng were Singapore’s most senior officials
accused of corruption since 1995. They were fired last year. Tey
Tsun Hang was fired May 28 from the  National University  of
Singapore as an associate professor of law after he was
convicted of abusing his position by having sex with a student
and taking gifts from her.  Prosecutors argued that to excuse Lim’s behavior as “mere
infidelity” would severely compromise Singapore’s longstanding
zero tolerance of corruption. Under Singapore’s anti-graft laws,
civil servants are presumed guilty of corruption if they receive
favors, sexual or otherwise, from someone seeking business with
the government and must prove their innocence, prosecutor Tan
Kiat Pheng said during the trial.  Nine other charges against Lim involving two other women
are scheduled to be dealt with at a later stage.  The criminal case is Public Prosecutor v Peter Benedict Lim
Sin Pang. DAC2106-115/2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  