-- Billionaire Sy to Merge Real Estate Assets in SM Prime
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-05-31T09:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/sm-investments-orders-trading-halt-boosting-merger-speculation.html
Philippine billionaire Henry Sy will
merge property units and assets under  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) 
this year that will create the country’s biggest developer with
at least $14 billion in market capitalization.  SM Land Inc., a closely held unit, will offer existing
shares of SM Prime for outstanding stocks of listed affiliates
 SM Development Corp. (SMDC)  and  Highlands Prime Inc. (HP) , according to a
joint e-mailed statement issued today by SM Prime and parent SM
Investments Corp. SM Land will be combined with SM Prime, which
will acquire other property assets of its parent, it said.  SM Prime, the largest Philippine shopping mall operator, is
poised to surpass  Ayala Land (ALI)  Inc.’s 475.5 billion peso ($11.2
billion) market capitalization. The move will allow SM Prime to
pursue bigger projects, backed by the group’s experience in
developing malls, homes, hotels, offices and resorts, it said.  “This is a value enhancing transaction, giving SM Prime a
good size and range that will make the stock more interesting,”
Rico Gomez, who helps manage $2.8 billion at Manila-based  Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  “This will create an effective
competitor to Ayala Land, which commands a premium in the market
for its size and versatility.”  The planned consolidation is worth 279 billion pesos and
once completed will give SM Prime at least $14 billion in market
capitalization, SM Development President Jeffrey Lim, who will
remain as chief finance officer of SM Prime, said at a briefing
in Manila. He said the transaction will be done through share
swaps and cost the group 6.5 billion pesos in taxes.  Share Swap  Shares of Ayala Land, which builds malls, homes, offices
and hotels, are trading at 39 times its 12-month estimated
earnings. Shares of SM Prime, solely a mall builder and operator
before the planned combination, are valued at 27 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SM Investments (SM) , SM Prime, SM Development and Highlands
sought a trading halt today. SM Investments is the biggest
Philippine company by market capitalization. Ayala Land shares
rose 3.1 percent today, after sinking 6.3 percent yesterday.  SM Land will offer shares of SM Prime for SM Development
and Highlands from June 4 to July 9, according to the statement.
SM Prime will seek the approval from shareholders of the plan on
July 10.  SM Development and Highlands approved the plan to delist,
according to separate disclosures. SM Development said every
share can be exchanged for 0.472 SM Prime share, while every
stock of Highlands can be swapped for 0.135 of SM Prime.  Streamlining Businesses  “Streamlining our real estate businesses under SM Prime
would allow SM Investments to focus on pursuing new growth
opportunities,” said SM Investments’ Executive Vice President
Jose Sio said in the statement.  Henry Sy Jr. will be the chairman of SM Prime while younger
brother Hans Sy will stay as president.  SM Prime’s recurring income will still be “substantial,”
accounting for at least 50 percent of total, after the
combination and for now won’t affect the mall developer’s
dividend policy, Lim said during the briefing.  Manila-based SM Investments, the holding company of the 88-year-old billionaire Sy, fell 4.4 percent to 1,119 pesos
yesterday, while SM Prime sank 2.5 percent and SM Development
lost 4.2 percent. Highlands Prime, a builder of a mountain
resort south of  Manila , declined 10 percent on May 29.  Belle Rises  Belle Corp. (BEL) , which is building a Manila casino resort
complex with  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  and wasn’t mentioned
in the consolidation plan, rose 4.9 percent, the most in more
than a month, at the close of Manila trading.  Belle “isn’t totally excluded” from the planned
combination and “some matters have to be taken up internally,”
Henry Sy Jr. said in the briefing.  Other property assets of Sy include 4 hotels, offices, five
convention centers, a 16,000-seat sports arena and a 6,000-hectare beach and mountain resort in Batangas, a province south
of the capital.  “This consolidation is clearly intended to rationalize the
group’s property business,”  James Lago , head of research at
PCCI Securities Brokers Corp., said before the announcement.
“On the one hand, you have property sales that are explosive
and volatile and rental income, at the other, which is steady
and predictable.”  Sy, who migrated from  China  in 1936, has an estimated net
worth of $16.3 billion as of yesterday, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He ranks 45 in the list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  