-- Smiths Group Gets Approach for Medical-Equipment Division
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-05-31T09:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/smiths-group-surges-4-9-after-approach-for-medical-unit.html
Smiths Group Plc (SMIN)  said it received an
approach for its medical-equipment business, more than two years
after it spurned a 2.45 billion-pound ($3.7 billion) offer
for the division.  The new approach for the business that makes critical-care
and surgical products for hospitals may or may not lead to a
transaction and the talks are at an early stage, the London-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.  The company, which also makes airport-security scanners,
said in February 2011 that an offer for the medical business
wasn’t good enough. People familiar with the matter said at the
time that the offer came from private-equity firm Apax Partners
LLP. Smiths should now try to fetch at least 3.1 billion pounds
for the unit, said Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Alex Toms, adding that the major hurdle in any potential deal is the
actuarial pension deficit of 650 million pounds.  The deficit “would require a substantial cash injection
should medical be sold and management try to redistribute the
proceeds to shareholders,” he said, adding that  “valuation is
also an issue in our view.”  To fetch 3.1 billion pounds for the business, Smiths would
need to apply a valuation of 16 times enterprise value to
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, “which we
believe is full in the context of M&A multiples in the space and
Smiths Medical’s low growth profile,” Toms said.  Valuation Concerns  The stock rose  as much as  4.8 percent in London trading
today, after climbing 4.9 percent yesterday, and was down 0.4
percent at 1,384 pence as of 10:06 a.m., valuing the company at
5.4 billion pounds. The stock climbed 17 percent this year
before today, while the FTSE 100 benchmark index gained 13
percent.  The Financial Times reported the approach for Smiths’s
medical business yesterday, citing people familiar with matter
and saying that one potential buyer would be U.S. rival
 CareFusion Corp. (CFN)   CareFusion, which makes medical pumps, ventilators and
medicine dispensers, yesterday gained as much 7.2 percent in
U.S. trading after the FT report. Shares of the San Diego-based
company have climbed 29 percent this year as a turnaround plan
helped expand margins and health-care stocks led the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Pumping Fluids  CareFusion, which has one business that makes devices for
pumping fluids and drugs into patients and another that supplies
antiseptic products applied before surgery, could be acquired by
a private-equity firm and then broken into pieces to boost
returns, Gene Mannheimer, a San Diego-based analyst at B. Riley,
said last month.  CareFusion’s representatives couldn’t be reached
immediately for comment.  Smiths’s medical division, which makes devices such as the
Wallace embryo replacement catheter, employs 7,500 people with
manufacturing concentrated in the U.S.,  Mexico  and  Italy . The
medical business had sales of 856 million pounds in the 12
months through July 2012, representing about 28 percent of the
company’s total revenue.  Smiths fanned speculation about a possible breakup in
September 2007, when it appointed Philip Bowman as chief
executive officer. Bowman had negotiated the sales of Scottish
Power Plc and Allied Domecq when he was CEO of those companies.  Smiths, founded in 1851 as a watch shop, sold an aerospace
division to  General Electric Co. (GE)  for $4.8 billion in May 2007,
which left the U.K. company focused on X-ray machines and
scanners for airports and hospitals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  