-- Smithfield Traders Wager Shuanghui’s Deal Wins: Real M&A
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-05-31T21:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/smithfield-traders-wager-shuanghui-s-deal-wins.html
Investors in  Smithfield (SFD)  Foods Inc.
are betting Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd. will complete
the biggest Chinese takeover of a U.S. company, overcoming a
national security review and prevailing over potential rival
bidders.  Shuanghui agreed to pay about $7 billion including debt
assumption, or 7.4 times profit for the world’s largest hog and
pork producer. That’s also the median for similar-sized industry
deals during the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stephens Inc. said the $34-a-share offer for the
Smithfield, Virginia-based company, which is higher than the
stock has traded since 2007, is fair.  Smithfield yesterday closed 3.7 percent below the offer
from  China ’s biggest pork processor, signaling traders doubt
that another bid will materialize, according to Wall Street
Access Corp. While people familiar with the matter said
Smithfield has 30 days to continue talks with possible buyers
 Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF)  and  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the former may lack the
financial wherewithal to top Shuanghui’s offer and the latter
may face antitrust hurdles, BB&T Corp. said.  “The most likely outcome is that the deal closes,” Peter Lobravico, a New York-based vice president of merger arbitrage
trading and sales at Wall Street Access, said in a telephone
interview. “The stock is telling you that there’s skepticism
out there that JBS or CP Foods are going to come in with a rival
bid.”  31% Premium  Smithfield Chief Executive Officer C. Larry Pope declined
to comment on other potential bidders during a May 29 interview.
Keira Lombardo, a spokeswoman for the company, wouldn’t
elaborate when reached by e-mail yesterday.  Shuanghui Chairman Wan Long said in an interview today that
the company may raise its bid for Smithfield to match other
offers if necessary. Smithfield shares rose 0.6 percent to
$32.94 today.  The proposed $34 purchase price valued Smithfield at 31
percent more than its  closing price  on May 28, the day before
the deal was announced. It also gives Smithfield an  enterprise
value  of about $7 billion, or 7.4 times the company’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
median Ebitda multiple paid in meat producer deals larger than
$500 million during the past 10 years, the data show.  Shuanghui’s offer is fair, Farha Aslam, a New York-based
analyst for Stephens, said in a May 30 report.  Fueling Growth  Shuanghui, based in  Hong Kong , agreed to the deal amid
forecasts that the Asia-Pacific region will drive the majority
of growth in worldwide meat demand this decade. The Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development  says  that part of the
world will account for 56 percent of the increase in global
consumption through 2021, as compared with the base period of
2009 through 2011.  Smithfield produced 15.8 million hogs in fiscal 2012, owns
460 farms and has contracts with 2,100 other farms in 12 U.S.
states, according to the company’s  website .  “Shuanghui is set to benefit over the long run as it gets
advanced technologies and talents from Smithfield,” Zhu Weihua,
a Shenzhen-based analyst with China Merchants Securities Co.,
said by phone.  Shuanghui and Smithfield said the deal should be completed
this year, pending approval from the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S., or CFIUS.  CFIUS has blocked at least three transactions in the past
four years to prevent Chinese companies from gaining control of
assets near military facilities. Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the  largest  hog-producing state,  said  the  U.S.
Department of Justice  should take a “close look.”  No Hurdle  The regulatory approval process isn’t likely to derail the
deal, according to Credit Suisse Group AG’s  Robert Moskow .  “Politics are always an unknown factor, but we do not
think this represents a major hurdle,” Moskow, a New York-based
analyst, said in a report on May 29. He estimates that
Smithfield represents about 26 percent of U.S. pork processing
capacity.  Smithfield rose as high as $33.96 on May 29 after  Bloomberg
News  reported that CP Foods and JBS had courted the hog producer
prior to Shuanghui’s bid. The stock closed at $32.74 yesterday.  The gap between the stock price and Shuanghui’s offer is
wider than usual because of the potential regulatory risk tied
to a Chinese buyer, said  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist
for  Stamford , Connecticut-based MKM Partners LLC. Still, the
fact that Smithfield is trading below $34 signals investors are
wagering no other suitor will emerge, he said.  ‘Headline Risk’  “You have headline risk in this deal from the point of
view that there will be any number of politicians that over the
next five months will come out trying to stir the public up
saying, ‘We shouldn’t let the Chinese buy our food producers,’”
Moore said in a phone interview. “It’s not programmed in that
there will be another bid.”  While Smithfield can’t actively seek better offers, the
merger agreement permits it to respond to unsolicited bids that
are superior to Shuanghui’s. CP Foods, which is based in
Bangkok, and Sao Paulo-based JBS were preparing bids for
Smithfield before it agreed to Shuanghui’s offer, said people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
deliberations are private.  While another buyer can’t be ruled out, a bid from JBS
would likely face antitrust scrutiny and require the Brazilian
meat producer to sell assets, according to  Heather Jones , a
Richmond, Virginia-based analyst at BB&T. CP Foods is already
highly leveraged and may have more trouble securing financing
than Shuanghui, she said in a phone interview.  Debt Ratio  Officials at CP Foods and JBS declined to comment.  After buying a majority stake in its Hong Kong affiliate CP
Pokphand Co. in 2011, CP Foods’s total debt is now $5.4 billion.
That’s equal to 70 percent of its market capitalization, more
than triple the median for global food manufacturers valued at
more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With CP Foods likely needing to take on more debt or sell
assets to fund a Smithfield takeover, a deal would
“significantly weaken CP Foods’ financial status,” Nalyne Viriyasathien, an analyst at DBS Vickers Securities ( Thailand )
Co., said by phone. The “financial costs exceed the benefit.”  Still, while Shuanghui’s proposal is fair, it’s not a
“knockout bid,” giving other suitors the opportunity to
counter with a higher offer, according to Tim Ramey, a  Lake
Oswego , Oregon-based analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co.  The $34-a-share offer “leaves room on the table for
financial sponsors or other food industry players to take a shot
at it,” Ramey said in a phone interview. “Anybody could do a
highly accretive deal for Smithfield.”  Rival Offer  Bryan Agbabian of Smithfield  shareholder   Allianz SE (ALV)  said
the company could fetch more.  “I am happy with where the stock is, but I think there is
a chance someone could come in with a higher price,” Agbabian,
the San Francisco-based sector head of agricultural equities for
Allianz, said in a phone interview.  Before the deal was revealed, Smithfield faced pressure
from one of its biggest shareholders, Continental Grain Co., to
boost value for owners by breaking up. Doing so would boost
Smithfield’s value to $32.45 a share, according to the average
of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg in March.  Continental said on April 25 that Smithfield’s share price
could reach $40 in three years if the company adopted its
proposal. Representatives for Continental didn’t return a
request for comment.  “I think the deal gets done in the end,” Michael Cook Sr., the CEO of  Memphis , Tennessee-based SouthernSun Asset
Management, Smithfield’s sixth-largest shareholder, said in a
phone interview. While he would prefer $38 to $40 a share, $34
“seems reasonable,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  