-- Smithfield Bosses to Get $85.4 Million From Chinese Deal
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-06-04T22:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/smithfield-bosses-to-get-85-4-million-from-chinese-deal.html
(Corrects dates in sixth, seventh paragraphs.)  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  executives, who
run one of the worst-performing large U.S. food makers over the
past five years, are set to reap at least $85.4 million from its
sale to China’s Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.  The company has been under pressure from its biggest
shareholder for lagging behind competitors Hormel Foods Corp.
and Tyson Foods Inc. Continental Grain Co., which has a 6.8
percent stake, said in March that Smithfield should appoint new
managers and break itself into three businesses as rising
animal-feed costs made its hog-production unit unprofitable.  The total payout is based on the stock and share options
held by Smithfield’s five top executives, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Among the managers, Chief Executive
Officer C. Larry Pope owns stock valued at $25.4 million based
on the $34-per-share offer price, according a May 17 filing.  Pope would also get $11 million for his share options,
according to Smithfield’s most recent proxy filing in August,
which based its calculation on control of the company changing
on April 29, 2012. The stock on that date was 38 percent less
than the price that  China ’s biggest pork producer agreed to pay
this week. The other four executives also stand to get paid out
on their options.  Keira Lombardo, a Smithfield spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the payouts. Smithfield rose 0.6 percent to $32.94 in
New York.  No Dividends  The Smithfield senior managers, among the best-paid in
their industry, will stay on after the takeover, the company
said May 29 when it announced the takeover.  That’s despite Smithfield posting a negative return of 18
percent in the five years through May 28, the second-worst
performance of any U.S. food company with annual sales of $10
billion or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Grain
trader Bunge Ltd. was the worst in the period.  Continental said in a March 7 letter it had urged
Smithfield management and the board during the last seven years
to focus on creating value for investors, who have seen “very
little benefit” from the progress the company has made. During
that time, Smithfield paid no cash dividends while Tyson has
cumulatively paid $429 million and Hormel paid $728 million,
Continental said.  Smithfield Executive Vice President Joseph W. Luter IV, a
descendant of the family that founded the Smithfield, Virginia-based company, has stock valued at $21.1 million. He would get a
$1.1 million payment on his options, according to the August
proxy filing.  Termination Payments  Chief Financial Officer Robert Manly has $13.4 million of
stock and would get a change-of-control payment of $5.3 million,
filings show. The other executives are Chief Operating Officer
George Richter and Joseph Sebring, president of the company’s
John Morrell unit.  Chairman Joseph W Luter III, Luter’s father and Pope’s
predecessor as CEO, has $30 million of stock.  The five executives stand to get even more if their
employment is terminated during the takeover or within two years
of the change of ownership, according to the August filing. In
that case, total compensation and share sales would be at least
$126.4 million.  Pope, 58, got total compensation of $16.5 million last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The CEO, Manly,
Richter, and Joseph Luter received a combined $41.5 million last
year. That’s the most for any group of senior managers at a U.S.
food company except those at Deerfield, Illinois-based Mondelez
International Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  460 Farms  Buying Smithfield would give closely held Shuanghui control
of a company that owns 460 farms and the Smithfield, Farmland
and Eckrich packaged-meat brands. Smithfield’s livestock unit
raises about 15.8 million hogs a year, according to the
company’s website.  The deal needs approval from Smithfield shareholders and
regulators including the Committee on Foreign Investment in the
U.S., and is expected to close in the second half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  