-- Sousa Says Ontario Factories Succeed With Dollar at Par
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-31T16:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/sousa-says-ontario-factories-succeed-with-dollar-at-par.html
Ontario Finance Minister Charles Sousa said manufacturers in  Canada ’s most-populous province are
adapting to a currency that has strengthened to parity with the
 U.S. dollar .  “They have been transitioning and recalibrating themselves
with the reality of a dollar at parity,” Sousa, 54, said in an
interview today at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “That is
only going to help them going forward.”  Canada’s dollar has appreciated by 20 percent against the
U.S. dollar since March 2009. The  Bank of Canada  has cited the
persistent strength of the currency as a factor that’s been
restraining exports from the world’s 11th-largest economy.  Sousa also reiterated his pledge to eliminate the
province’s budget deficit by the fiscal year starting April
2017.  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday maintained a negative rating
outlook for Ontario debt, citing the pressures of making
“aggressive” cost cuts while having a minority of  seats  in the
province’s legislature. Sousa’s  Liberal Party  needs some support
from opposition lawmakers to pass budgets and remain in power.  Rating companies have recognized the government’s efforts
to close the budget gap and the results already achieved, Sousa
said. The government has “buffers” against setbacks to the
economy and is “not blind to what might happen.”  The May 2  budget  said the deficit will rise this year to
C$11.7 billion ($11.3 billion) from C$9.8 billion last year,
which was C$5 billion under the original projection. The plan
includes several measures proposed by the opposition  New
Democratic Party  such as a youth employment program.  Not Selling  “We’re not selling LCBO” as a way to boost revenue, Sousa
said, referring to the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, the
government-controlled agency that runs the province’s liquor
stores.  Sousa became finance minister of the country’s most
populous  province  in February after Kathleen Wynne replaced
Dalton McGuinty as premier and leader of the Liberal Party.  Toronto’s building boom “has come up quite a bit in the
last day or two I’ve been here,” Sousa said, referring to
discussions he’s held while in  New York . He said he was not
worried about a crash because of government measures to cool the
market and strong immigration to the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in New York at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  