-- South Korea Threatened by Worst Power Shortages This Summer
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-05-31T08:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/south-korea-threatened-by-worst-power-shortages-this-summer.html
South Korea  will make public
organizations cut power use and fine businesses that keep their
doors open while using air-conditioning as the country faces its
worst-ever electricity shortages.  All public offices must reduce power use by at least 15
percent in July and August compared with a year ago, the
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy said in a statement
today. Temperatures in large buildings must remain above 26
degrees Celsius (79 Fahrenheit) during peak demand periods.  South Korea, which depends on nuclear energy for more than
30 percent of its electricity, is trying to curb power
consumption after two nuclear plants were shut this week and the
start of operations at another was delayed. Demand may exceed
capacity by 1,980,000 kilowatts in the second week of August, as
consumption peaks amid higher-than normal temperatures, the
ministry said.  “We expect the worst power shortages this summer because
of the closures of the three nuclear reactors,” the ministry
said. “Positive efforts for conservation are urgently needed.
If we go through this summer safely, shortages will be resolved
next summer as new power plants come on stream.”  The Shin-Kori No. 2 and Shin-Wolsong No. 1 reactors will be
shut for about four months to replace control cables supplied
under fake quality warranties, the Energy Ministry said May 28.
The government also ordered the replacement of cables at the
Shin-Kori No. 1 reactor, which is already shut for regular
maintenance, and at the new Shin-Wolsong No. 2 plant, which is
being reviewed before commencing operations.  Solar Power  To increase supply, the country will build a solar power
plant with 100,000 kilowatts of capacity and increase operating
rates at private power plants, the ministry said. It will ensure
stable supply of liquefied natural gas.  The government will also encourage factories to adjust
operation schedules, the ministry said. It will impose
surcharges on peak-time use, while offering discounts to users
during low-demand time, it said.  Shares of  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , the state-controlled
monopoly distributor, fell 2.6 percent to close at 26,800 won,
the lowest level since December 11. The local benchmark Kospi
index was almost unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  