-- South Africa Trade Gap Widens as Mineral Imports Gain
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-31T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/south-africa-trade-gap-widens-as-mineral-imports-gain.html
South Africa ’s trade gap widened more
than economists estimated in April as mineral and machinery
imports climbed.  The  shortfall  increased to 15 billion rand ($1.5 billion),
the biggest deficit since January, from 7.8 billion rand in
March, the Pretoria-based South African Revenue Service said
today in an e-mailed statement. The median estimate of 13
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 9.5 billion-rand
deficit.  South Africa’s trade gap widened to 57 billion rand for the
first four months of 2013, keeping pressure on the rand and the
current account. The currency has declined by more than 16
percent against the dollar this year, the biggest drop among the
16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  Exports rose 3 percent to 65.4 billion rand in April from
the previous month, led by a 10 percent gain in shipments of
base metals and a 4 percent increase in mineral exports. Imports
gained 12 percent to 80.5 billion rand in the month, as mineral-product purchases, which includes oil, jumped 22 percent.
Imports of machinery and electrical appliances advanced 21
percent, and plastics and rubber 20 percent.  The deficit on the  current account , the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, will probably average 6.2 percent
of gross domestic product in the next three years, up from an
earlier estimate of 5.6 percent, according to the National
Treasury. It was at 6.5 percent of GDP in the fourth quarter of
last year, the fourth biggest gap of about 60 countries tracked
by Bloomberg.  South Africa relies mainly on foreign investment in stocks
and bonds to finance the current-account shortfall, inflows that
have fluctuated as investors sold riskier, emerging-market
assets.  The monthly trade figures are often volatile, reflecting
the timing of shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  