-- Star Physicist’s Spooky Drama; Malkovich’s Casanova
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-05-31T13:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/star-physicist-s-spooky-drama-malkovich-casanova-review.html
John Malkovich , in silk knickers, wig
and waistcoat, plays Casanova in Michael Sturminger and Martin
Haselbock’s intriguing show “The Giacomo Variations.”  Billed somewhat ambivalently as a “chamber opera play,”
it uses the Venetian libertine’s friendships with Mozart and
librettist Lorenzo Da Ponte to gild a conventional genre work --
with death imminent, an adventurer recounts his exploits mixing
self-justification and regret -- with arias from “Cosi fan
tutte,” “Nozze di Figaro” and “ Don Giovanni .”  The City Center stage is filled with the bodices and
enormous skirts of three period gowns (sets and costumes by
Renate Martin and Andreas Donhauser) that hide Casanova’s
writing desk, bedroom and living quarters on the estate of Count
Waldstein, where he spent his final years as librarian while
writing his memoirs.  When a long-ago lover Elisa (Ingeborga Dapkunaite) appears
to read the book, the couple are thrown back to earlier versions
of themselves and others who figured in Casanova’s bed-hopping.  The younger selves are played by the excellent soprano
Sophie Klussman and baritone Daniel Schmutzhard, accompanied by
the Orchester Wiener Akademie under Hasselbock’s direction.  Older Giacomo supplies his younger and somewhat befuddled
self with condoms of various outlandish sizes to prevent, he
explains, “disease and offspring, both of which I abhor.”  Tongue-in-Cheek  The text is mined with anachronisms (“What the hell is
going on here?”), revealing a tongue-in-cheek attitude on
Sturminger’s part that frequently stalls this overlong exercise
with patches of tedium and sophomoric humor.  Yet there’s method in Malkovich’s epicene nuttiness (though
where his kinda-sorta British accent is from is anyone’s guess).
The arias are well-chosen and beautifully sung (even when
Malkovich chooses to lend his own modest voice by singing
along).  Malkovich builds a kind of terrifying carapace around
Casanova, a man so empty he can’t restrain himself from seducing
his own daughter. The play, or whatever it is, concludes with a
palpable chill.  “The Giacomo Variations” is the first of two shows in a
newcomer called the Cherry Orchard Festival.  Through June 2 at N.Y. City Center, 131 W. 55th St.
Information:  http://www.nycitycenter.org  Rating: ***  Physical Entanglements  “Spooky Action: The Drama of Quantum Mechanics” is Brian Greene’s entrancing journey through the history of the elusive
and apparently hyperkinetic electron particle from 1897 to the
present.  Greene has a knack for explaining complex theories in plain
language. He also has a story-teller’s gift of bringing
narrative tension and passion to the telling, perhaps unexpected
for a theoretical physicist.  Even more unexpected is a tale that hinges on such sexier-than-science notions as “entanglement” and what  Albert Einstein  called “the struggle for the soul of physics.”  Aided by projections and humorous animations, an apparatus
on loan from  Princeton University  and four actors playing
Einstein, Niels Bohr, Werner Heisenberg, Erwin Schrodinger and
other key figures, Greene explains how particles can act like
waves. And that they could influence each other even across vast
distances --entanglement -- with no obvious connection.  Speaking for more than 90 minutes without notes, Greene,
the master bowsman of string theory, brings the story vividly to
life, conveying how these discoveries continue to change the
world. Not lost in the telling is the depth of the impassioned
relationships among these often contentious figures.  The show is being repeated tonight and started the
sixth annual World Science Festival, with events throughout the
city.  Through June 2 at the New Victory Theater, 209 W. 42nd St.
Information:  http://www.worldsciencefestival.com . Rating:
*****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include the  New York  and London  weekend
guides  and  Lewis Lapham  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 