-- Structured Note Buyers Favor Stocks Over Indexes in Yield Hunt
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-05-31T10:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/structured-note-buyers-favor-stocks-over-indexes-in-yield-hunt.html
Investors are shifting to structured
notes linked to stocks rather than equity indexes as they seek
to boost earnings by taking on more risk, according to Deutsche
Bank AG.  More than $545 million of notes tied to equities led by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Bank of America Corp.  were sold in the U.S. in
May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the first time
since February 2011 the two largest equity-tied structured notes
tracked single stocks. In Europe, Deutsche Bank said it doubled
sales of notes referencing individual companies this year.  “The move from indexes to single stocks is a strong
indicator of growing risk appetite,” said Nicolas Traissac, who
heads Deutsche Bank’s equity derivatives business in Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa . “Investors are more willing to climb
the ladder of complexity.”  Structured notes linked to individual stocks are
susceptible to greater price swings than equity indexes, so they
tend to offer higher coupons than those tied to benchmarks.
Investors are being encouraged to buy riskier assets as global
central banks flood financial markets with cheap cash, according
to Deutsche Bank.  Securities tracking indexes typically dominate issuance of
equity-linked structured notes in the U.S. and  Europe . Of the
$10.8 billion sold in the U.S. this year, $3.1 billion reference
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , $1 billion follow the  Euro
Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  and $890.6 million track the Russell 2000
benchmark, Bloomberg data show.  Apple Stock  Bank of America sold $148 million of one-year securities
tied to Apple in the biggest equity-linked offering this month,
according to Bloomberg data. Investors in the notes earn three
times any gains in the stock, with returns capped at 27.65
percent, while losses mirror any share price drop, according to
a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Implied volatility  for three-month options on Apple is  1.9
times higher  than the level for the  Technology Select Sector
SPDR Fund (XLK)  and double that of the S&P 500 Index, according to the
latest data compiled by Bloomberg through May 24.  When volatility is high, options embedded in certain
structured notes, such as reverse convertibles, become more
valuable. That enables issuers to create securities with more
attractive terms.  German insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  is among the most in demand
reference entities for structured notes sold in Europe,
according to Deutsche Bank. A measure of volatility for the
Munich-based company has climbed to 21.7 from 16.9 on May 7, the
lowest level this year.  Implied volatility for  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , another popular
pick, has reached a near five-year high compared with the Euro
Stoxx 50 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  