-- Sun Pharma Said to Seek Takeover Financing, Eye Mea Deal
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-05-31T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/sun-pharma-said-to-seek-takeover-financing-eye-mea-deal.html
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) ,
 India ’s biggest drugmaker by market value, is raising financing
for acquisitions, including for a possible takeover of  Meda AB (MEDAA) ,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Sun is talking with banks to arrange funding, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the process is
confidential. The valuation and structure of a potential
transaction have yet to be determined, they said. The process is
at an early stage and may not lead to a deal, they said. Meda
has a market value of 25.8 billion kronor ($3.89 billion).  Dilip Shanghvi, Sun’s billionaire founder, has been looking
to expand in  Europe  as the company tries to extend its
geographical reach. The Mumbai-based company last year
considered buying German generic-drug maker Stada Arzneimittel
AG, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  “If they can get it at a good valuation, Meda would be
good for Sun,” said Bino Pathiparampil, an analyst at  India
Infoline Ltd. (IIFL)  in Mumbai. “Meda is an innovator company with a
strong branded innovator business. It’s a direction Sun has to
move to move up the value chain from generics.”  Sun is also looking at other potential targets, said a
third person with knowledge of the matter. Chairman Israel Makov
said in an interview in January that the company wants to become
a “major global player” in specialty pharmaceuticals, and is
open to acquisitions in Europe.  Allergy Medicine  Buying Solna, Sweden-based Meda would bring Sun the Dymista
allergy medicine, which was approved in the U.S. last year.
Meda’s products, focused on respiratory, cardiology,
dermatology, central-nervous-system, pain and inflammation
treatments, generated sales of 12.99 billion kronor in 2012.  Mira Desai, a spokeswoman for Sun Pharma in Mumbai,
declined to comment. Paula Treutiger, an investor-relations
executive at Meda, and Anders Larnholt, vice president for
corporate development, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier today that Sun and
Meda are in talks.  Meda climbed 1.9 percent to close at 85.50 kronor yesterday
in  Stockholm , the highest close in more than five years. Sun
fell 2.8 percent to close at 1,044.1 rupees, giving the company
a market value of 1.08 trillion rupees ($19.1 billion). The
stock has advanced 42 percent this year.  Olsson Family  A purchase of Meda probably would require the backing of
 Sweden ’s Olsson family, which owns shipping, offshore-drilling,
finance and property companies. The family owns more than 22
percent of Meda’s stock through its  Stena Sessan AB  holding
company. Bert-Ake Eriksson, Stena Sessan’s CEO, is Meda’s
chairman. Stena Sessan’s office referred questions to Eriksson
and said he wasn’t available for comment.  Sun has announced six deals in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company acquired
DUSA Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Wilmington,  Massachusetts , for
about $230 million in December. In February, Sun ended a six-year effort to buy the remaining shares in Taro Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. after shareholders held out for a higher price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  