-- Swedish Banks Need to Double Mortgage Risk Weights, IMF Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-05-31T08:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/swedish-banks-need-to-double-mortgage-risk-weights-imf-says-1-.html
Sweden should consider gradually
raising risk-weights on mortgages to 35 percent from 15 percent
to prevent a housing bubble and  consumer debt  from spiraling out
of control, the International Monetary Fund said.  The Nordic country should also consider imposing minimum
amortization rules, paring  tax deductions  for mortgages and
promote policies that boost housing supply, the IMF said in a
 statement  published on the Swedish central bank’s website today.  It should also think about “increasing residential
property taxation over the medium term to lower incentives
towards the build-up of excessive household debt,” the
Washington-based group said.  Sweden this month tripled its mortgage risk-weights to 15
percent to limit house price gains and a build-up in debt, which
has swelled to a record 174 percent of disposable incomes this
year from about 90 percent in the 1990s, the central bank
estimates. Risk-weights determine how much capital banks must
set aside for mortgage lending.  The country is pushing through stricter capital
requirements for than elsewhere in Europe to protect the $500
billion  economy  from financial instability. Its four largest
banks,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  SEB AB (SEBA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , must have 12 percent core Tier 1 capital by 2015.  Bank Fee  Sweden should also charge banks a fee based on their
foreign funding to cover some of the costs of maintaining the
central bank’s currency reserves, the IMF said. There’s also a
need for improved coordination of macroprudential policy between
the central bank and financial regulator, it said.  “With strong macroprudential policies in place, the need
of the Riksbank in the future to resort to unconventional
monetary policy will be minimized,” the IMF said. “At the same
time, the Riksbank would be free to pursue its inflation target
without being concerned about the long-term macroeconomic
implications of its interest rate policy.”  Riksbank Deputy Governor Per Jansson last week said the
central bank’s main lending rate could have been lower had it
not been for the bank’s concern of  household debt . The Riksbank
kept  rates  unchanged at 1 percent for a second meeting in April.  A 20 percent slump in  house prices  over three years would
result in combined losses of 21 billion kronor ($3.2 billion)
for the four banks, Sweden’s central bank said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  