-- Swiss Stocks Decline for a Third Day as Richemont Falls
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-05-31T08:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/swiss-stocks-decline-for-a-third-day-as-richemont-falls.html
Swiss stocks  fell for a third day,
trimming their ninth consecutive monthly gain, before reports on
 consumer confidence  and business activity in the U.S.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA dropped 2.4 percent for the
biggest decline on the Swiss Market Index.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  led
construction shares lower.  Givaudan SA (GIVN)  advanced 1.1 percent
after Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the shares.  The  SMI (SMI)  retreated 0.9 percent to 7,952.4 at 10:44 a.m. in
Zurich, extending its drop this week to 2.7 percent. The
benchmark measure has still risen 0.6 percent this month as it
headed for its longest streak of gains since 1997. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also lost 0.9 percent today.  “We have to get used to much more volatility since the
future path of monetary policy is much more uncertain now,”
Witold Bahrke, who helps oversee $55 billion as a senior
strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, wrote in a message.
“The big threat is that the quantitative-easing medicine is
withdrawn earlier than expected. As this QE medicine has already
caused equities to overshoot relative to fundamentals, earlier
than expected tapering means a higher fear factor.”  In the U.S., a report at 9:55 a.m.  New York  time will
probably show that  consumer confidence  rose to the highest level
since July 2007. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
gauge of sentiment climbed to 83.7 in May, according to the
 median projection  of economists in a Bloomberg survey. That
would match the preliminary reading for this month.  A separate release at 9:45 a.m. may show that business
activity in the U.S. stagnated in May. The MNI Chicago Report’s
business barometer rose to 50 this month, from 49 in April,
 economists forecast  in a Bloomberg survey. A reading of 50 is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  