-- U.K.’s Hague Says Parliaments Should Have EU Veto Power
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-31T12:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/u-k-s-hague-says-parliaments-should-have-eu-veto-power.html
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
called for national parliaments to be given the power to veto
some European Union legislation to improve the democratic
accountability of the bloc.  Parliaments already have the power to show a “yellow
card” and ask the European Commission to rethink legislation
where action should be taken at a national rather than European
level and that should be extended to allow it to be stopped,
Hague said in a speech today in Neuhardenberg,  Germany .  “We should explore whether the yellow-card provision could
be strengthened or extended to give our parliaments the right to
ask the Commission to start again where legislation is too
intrusive and fails the proportionality test,” Hague said,
according to a copy of the speech e-mailed by his office. “We
should think about going further still and consider a red card
to give national parliaments the right to block legislation that
need not be agreed at the European level.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has pledged to renegotiate
Britain’s membership of the European Union and put the resulting
remodeling of the relationship to a referendum on pulling out of
the bloc in 2017. As part of preparations for the renegotiation,
Hague is running a review of how competencies should be divided
between the EU in Brussels and members states.  Hague also used the speech to reiterate U.K. opposition to
the proposed European financial-transaction tax, saying it would
damage all industries and not just penalize financial-services
companies.  ‘Excessive Requirements’  “If we impose excessive requirements on financial
institutions, we throttle businesses’ access to lending,” Hague
said. “If we tax transactions, we make it more expensive for
firms to hedge against risks, as great companies like Bayer and
Siemens need to do every day.  We end up holding back enterprise
in general: not just banking but everything that we make, build
or sell.”  Hague’s comments come after former Chancellor of the
Exchequer  Nigel Lawson  said the transaction tax will damage
 London , even though the U.K. isn’t participating. Eleven EU
members have signed up to the plan.  “Designed both to punish the bankers and to raise money
for the EU budget, its principal effect will be to drive
financial business away from the EU (including the UK) to more
hospitable jurisdictions elsewhere,” Lawson wrote in the
introduction to a pamphlet attacking the tax from the Centre for
Policy Studies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  