-- U.K. Plans to Boost Renewable Heat Tariff, Cut Some for Biomass
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-31T16:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/u-k-plans-to-boost-renewable-heat-tariff-cut-some-for-biomass.html
The U.K. government proposed
increasing payments made to commercial premises that generate
heat from renewable sources, while cutting tariffs for medium-sized biomass boilers.  Office blocks, factories and community centers may receive
increased payments for installing ground-source heat pumps,
large biomass boilers and solar-thermal technology, the
Department of Energy and Climate Change said today in a
statement as it starts a consultation on the proposals.  The rates for medium commercial biomass of 200 kilowatts to
one megawatt in capacity will be reduced by 5 percent from July
1 to 5 pence a kilowatt-hour or 2.1 pence a kilowatt-hour,
depending on the additional investment required in the
installation, according to the statement.  “The renewable heat incentive has been running for nearly
eighteen months, so now is a timely moment to look again at the
tariffs,” Energy and Climate Change Minister  Greg Barker  said
according to the statement. “We need to make sure they are set
at the right level to continue bringing forward investment and
growth and at the same time keep costs to the taxpayer to a
minimum.”  DECC also said it will reduce tariffs for new applicants if
uptake of the technologies is greater than forecast, according
to the statement.  The department proposed increasing the tariff for large
biomass boilers of more than one megawatt from 1 pence to 2
pence a kilowatt-hour. Ground source heat pumps would rise to
7.2 pence or 8.2 pence a kilowatt-hour from 4.8 pence or 3.5
pence now, depending on the size of the system. Solar thermal
kit of as much as 200 kilowatts in capacity would rise from 9.2
pence a kilowatt-hour to as much as 11.3 pence.  The consultation will close June 28, according to DECC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  