-- U.S.-Europe Diesel Cargoes Seen Climbing as Demand Strengthens
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-05-31T07:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/u-s-europe-diesel-cargoes-seen-climbing-as-demand-strengthens.html
Shipments of  diesel  to Europe from
the U.S.  Gulf Coast  are poised to rise over the next two weeks
on stronger demand for the fuel, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Traders will charter 10 Medium Range tankers for loading to
June 12, the average of estimates from six shipbrokers
specializing in the trade showed this week. That’s one more ship
than in a corresponding survey for the two weeks from May 15.
Each vessel would normally carry about 38,000 metric tons of
cargo. No survey was conducted on May 22.  European diesel usage will build as the summer months
approach, according to  Andrew Reed , an analyst at Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Mass. Demand slowed amid
ample supplies from  Russia , he said. Costs to haul refined oil
products to Europe from the Gulf Coast slid for an eighth
session yesterday, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in  London .  “Road-transport demand will pick up in June,” Reed said
by e-mail yesterday. “That should improve demand for trans-Atlantic cargoes. Europe has gone through the transition from
winter to summer without a great need for arbitrage flows.”  Four of the projected bookings have been arranged and the
rest are anticipated, the latest survey showed. Thirty tankers
will be seeking cargoes, one more compared with the previous
survey, according to the shipbrokers.  The survey is based on the Houston-to-Amsterdam route, a
benchmark for the trade that takes about 17 days at 12.5 knots,
according to the sea-distances.com website.  The table below details numbers of ships booked, likely to
be hired and available for charter for the two weeks from the
stated dates.  *T                             May 29      May 15      Change
Ships Hired                     4           6          -33%
Ships Probably Hired            6           3          +100%
Total Hired                    10           9          +11%
Available Ships, U.S.- Europe    30          29          +3.4% 