-- Boeing Max Demand Swells as TUI Travel Sees Order
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n ,   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-31T20:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/tui-travel-plans-6-1-billion-order-for-60-boeing-737s.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is poised to sell 60 of
its 737 Max aircraft to  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  in a deal valued at $6.1
billion amid rising demand for the new, fuel-efficient variant
of the world’s most widely flown jetliner.  A firm order is contingent on TUI Travel shareholder
approval, according to a statement today from the company, which
owns and operates six European airlines including the U.K.’s
Thomson Airways Ltd. Deliveries would begin in 2018 and run
until March 2023.  The Max has been a bright spot for Boeing in 2013 amid the
temporary grounding of the 787 Dreamliner, the Chicago-based
planemaker’s marquee model.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  agreed this
month to be the first buyer of the 737-7 Max, the smallest
version of the jet, and all-737 carrier  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  is
studying additional orders that may include the Max.  “The Max is very important to Boeing and every incremental
order they get is a positive,”  Michael Derchin , an analyst at
CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who rates Boeing
a buy, said by phone. “There’s definitely more orders out
there. The airlines are very focused on  fuel efficiency .”  Boeing is targeting the first delivery of the Max in 2017
as the company works to counter the Airbus SAS A320neo, the
upgraded model of that planemaker’s top-selling single-aisle
jet. Both will feature new engines to help shave fuel bills, the
global airline industry’s largest single cost.  Max Plans  The final configuration of the Max will be set in July,
giving customers “surety” on the plane’s performance and
timeline, Keith Leverkuhn, the program’s general manager, told
reporters yesterday at a briefing in Boeing’s commercial hub in
Seattle.  TUI Travel’s commitment comes about two weeks ahead of the
 Paris Air Show , where Boeing and Airbus probably will have more
order announcements for their narrow-body models. Airbus at the
last Paris air show two years ago scored a runaway victory by
offering the A320neo ahead of the Max, grabbing 667 contracts or
commitments. The neo is set to enter service in 2015.  Boeing fell 1.5 percent to $99.02 in New York as broad U.S.
stock indexes slumped. TUI Travel slid 1.2 percent to 358.5
pence in London. The Crawley, England-based company’s biggest
shareholder is Germany’s  TUI AG (TUI1) , which owns 54.5 percent.  “Following the delivery of the aircraft, TUI Travel will
continue to enjoy the benefits of a modern, fuel-efficient and
cost-effective aircraft fleet,” the company said.  TUI Travel’s current fleet of 140 aircraft is mainly
comprised of Boeing planes, the majority single-aisle, though
its Corsair unit flies Airbus wide-body A330s.  “The aircraft order, on first view, appears to be a
massive capital outlay,” said James Hollins, a London-based
analyst at Investec who rates TUI Travel as hold. Based on
standard discounts to list price, Hollins estimated that the 60-plane order marks a capital commitment of about $3.5 billion,
implying a discount of close to 50 percent.  The 737 MAX-8 has a list price of about $104 million, and
TUI Travel said it “secured substantial price concessions
against this list price.”  Jim Proulx , a Boeing spokesman, said the planemaker doesn’t
discuss prices or other contract terms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  