-- Hungary Central Bank Mulls Signal on Criteria for End of Easing
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-05-31T12:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/hungary-central-bank-mulls-signal-on-criteria-for-end-of-easing.html
Hungary’s central bank, which has cut
borrowing cost each of the past 10 months, has no target for its
benchmark  interest rate  and is considering ways of signaling
investors when it nears the end of the easing cycle.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank in Budapest “is considering ways
to signal to the market the principles for ending the rate-cut
cycle,” state news service MTI reported today, citing Vice
President Adam Balog. The bank has an internal study on a
“neutral interest rate,” which doesn’t necessarily limit an
easing or tightening cycle, Balog said.  The central bank lowered the benchmark two-week  deposit
rate  to a record-low 4.5 percent this month as President Gyorgy Matolcsy wants to help ignite economic expansion after a
recession last year, with inflation at the slowest in almost 39
years. Hungarian investments dropped the most in more than three
years in the first quarter, damping Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s optimism that his economic policies will lead to
sustained growth.  The forint dropped 0.6 percent to 296.28 per euro by 2:38
p.m. in Budapest, taking its three-day loss to 3.3 percent, the
biggest since November 2011. It has strengthened 1 percent in
the past month, the third-best performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark
BUX stock index fell 0.5 percent to 19,245.85, dropping for a
third day.  Hungary’s economy and investments face a “turnaround,”
partly as a result of the central bank’s “success-prone”
lending program, Matolcsy said today, according to MTI.  Funding Plan  The central bank is complementing monetary easing with a
Funding for Growth plan by allocating 750 billion forint ($3.3
billion) in zero-interest funding to commercial lenders to boost
corporate lending. Matolcsy this week announced the expansion of
the program from an initial 500 billion forint.  The European Union recommended on May 29 allowing  Hungary 
out of a budget monitoring for fiscal offenders for the first
time since the country joined the bloc in 2004. The EU at the
same time warned that the business environment in Hungary has
“constantly deteriorated in the last three years due to a
series of measures including restrictions on investors and an
unstable regulatory framework.”  The economy grew 0.7 percent from the previous three months
in the first quarter, expanding for the first time since 2011.
The Cabinet forecasts 0.7 percent growth this year, with Orban
predicting an expansion of as much as 1 percent.  The outlook for the Hungarian economy is “one of the most
promising in  Europe ,” Orban said yesterday at a conference in
Budapest on the “Hungarian model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  