-- Musk Says Fourth Tesla Vehicle to Be Small, Electric SUV
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-31T20:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/musk-says-fourth-tesla-vehicle-to-be-small-electric-suv.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , which has almost
tripled in market value this year, plans to expand its line of
electric vehicles to at least four with a compact sport-utility
vehicle, Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  said.  After expanding production and deliveries of its $69,900
Model S sedan this year and adding the battery-powered Model X
SUV in late 2014, the carmaker will begin adding lower-priced
vehicles, Musk said in a CNBC interview today.  “In about three to four years, that’s when we aspire to
bring into production a sedan that’s about half the price of the
Model S, and then shortly thereafter a small SUV as well,” said
Musk, who is also  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla’s  biggest
shareholder . “These should be quite affordable. The price would
be on the order of $35,000.”  The carmaker, named for inventor  Nikola Tesla , this month
established its best financial footing since its founding a
decade ago. Tesla’s first quarterly profit was followed by a top
rating from  Consumer Reports  for the Model S and a share-price
surge. Investor demand created an opportunity to raise $1
billion from selling equity and debt and to retire its U.S.
Energy Department loan nine years early.  Musk yesterday announced an expansion of the company’s
supercharger stations that rapidly repower its all-electric cars
to let customers drive across the U.S. from coast to coast by
the end of the year.  Musk has said the lower-priced sedan Tesla is developing
will be about 20 percent smaller than the Model S and compete
with entry-level premium cars such as Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG’s BMW 3 Series and Audi AG’s A4.  ‘Hyperloop’ Proposal  Tesla has a “meaningful” announcement set for June 20,
Musk told CNBC today. He made a similar comment on yesterday’s
conference call to discuss the charge-network expansion.  Following that, Musk said, he’ll begin discussing details
of a rapid transportation proposal called the “hyperloop.”  “It will be a really great way to travel between cities
and it will be a good mode of transport,” he told CNBC. “It’s
not a mode of transport that currently exists.”  Such a system would be “better than a high-speed rail or
plane between the right cities, like  San Francisco  or LA or New
York-Boston, that kind of thing.”  A hyperloop system could be done at “probably a tenth of
the cost” of  California ’s planned high-speed rail system, which
he said may have a price tag as high as $100 billion.  Musk didn’t elaborate on how the system would work or who
might fund it.  Tesla fell 6.9 percent to $97.76 at the close in  New York ,
its first closing price under $100 since May 24. The shares
gained 189 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent
increase for the Russell 1000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  