-- Vanguard Touts Canadian Debt Sunk by Worst Rout Since ’08
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-05-31T18:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/vanguard-touts-canadian-debt-sunk-by-worst-rout-since-08.html
Vanguard Group Inc. and CIBC Global
Asset Management are wagering the Canadian  bond market  will
rebound in June after its worst rout since the height of the
financial crisis.  An index of Canada’s broad market lost 1.5 percent in May
through yesterday, the biggest monthly drop since September 2008,
led by a selloff of  government bonds . The U.S. broad market
index lost 1.7 percent this month.  The swoon in bond markets on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will begin withdrawing extraordinary easing has tempered
appetite for risk and put Canada’s AAA credentials in favor
again. At the same time, record coupon and principal payments
due in June will put a floor under Canadian bond prices as
investors redeploy cash, helping to offset May’s losses.
Canadian government 30-year bond yields traded 67 basis points
lower than U.S. long-bond yields, the widest  gap  in more than a
year.  John Braive, vice chairman at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC Global Asset Management, which oversees $50
billion of fixed income assets, said he’ll “most likely” put
June redemption payments “back into Canada.”  “The market’s looking more attractive,” Braive said in a
phone interview from Toronto yesterday. “You’ve already seen
 Canada  outperform the U.S.; some of the money is already looking
for a home and investing ahead of time. June redemptions support
Canada outperformance.”  ‘Defensive Purposes’  Jonathan Lemco, senior sovereign-debt analyst at Vanguard
Group Inc., the world’s biggest mutual-fund manager overseeing
$473 billion in  assets , said he’s seeking buying opportunities
in Canada.  “I am looking for safety,” Lemco said in a phone
interview from  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania . “We’re seeing some
upheaval in the emerging-market bond markets right now -- as a
consequence, I have a mild preference for Canadian provinces for
defensive purposes.”  Lemco said he favors Saskatchewan and Manitoba as economies
with steady growth and Ontario and  Quebec  because among Canadian
provinces their bonds are easiest to trade.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told Congress on May 22 the U.S.
central bank could cut the pace of its monthly purchases of $85
billion in Treasury and mortgage debt if officials see
indications of sustained improvement in economic growth.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Bank of Montreal sold C$1.5
billion ($1.46 billion) of seven-year deposit notes yielding 104
basis points more than Canadian government debt.  Valeant Acquisition  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , Canada’s
largest drugmaker, will raise a $4.3 billion  term loan  and sell
$3.23 billion in senior unsecured bonds, the company said in a
regulatory filing. Proceeds will support the $8.7 billion
 acquisition  of Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc. and repay debt
amassed by the eye-care company in its 2007 buyout.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government declined nine basis points in May to 115 basis points,
or 1.15 percentage points, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Canada Corporate Index. Yields rose to 2.86
percent, from 2.69 percent on April 30.  Spreads on provincial bonds narrowed nine basis points to
68 basis points, according to Bank of America’s Canadian
Provincial & Municipal Index. Yields increased to 2.64 percent,
from 2.44 at the end of April.  First-quarter net  purchases  of Canadian bonds by foreign
investors totaled C$25 billion, the most since the third quarter
of 2010.  Bond Redemptions  A total of C$67 billion of semi-annual redemptions from
government and other bonds will flow to investors in June, the
most ever, according to  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  estimates.  The payments, which top last June’s C$63 billion, are
likely to be reinvested in government bonds, Ian Pollick, a
fixed-income strategist at RBC Capital Markets unit said May 7.  Canada is the sole Group-of-Seven country and one of only
three in the Group of 10 with stable AAA ratings from  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service.  The nation’s bond markets lagged behind global peers in the
past year as the Bank of Canada’s bias to increase  interest
rates  jarred with flagging growth and stifled gains. The broad
market index has handed investors a 1.7 percent return since the
end of May 2012, compared with global broad market returns of
2.8 percent.  “The market’s actually had a lot of bad news, and that’s
why returns are negative and we’re starting to think it’s
looking more attractive,” Braive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  