-- White Sugar Gains on Africa, Middle East Demand; Cocoa Retreats
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-31T09:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/white-sugar-gains-on-africa-middle-east-demand-cocoa-retreats.html
White sugar is heading for its first
weekly gain in more than a month in  London  as demand to supply
Muslim nations before Ramadan increased and countries in  Africa 
favor the refined variety. Cocoa fell and coffee gained.  Muslim nations usually stock up sugar before Ramadan, when
people fast during the day and sweet treats are common at night.
The fasting month starts in July this year. African nations are
replacing their imports of crystal sugar with refined sweetener
as the two varieties are trading at similar levels,  Naim Beydoun , a broker at Swiss Sugar Brokers in Rolle,  Switzerland ,
said in a report e-mailed on May 29.  “August white sugar continues to be supported by short
covering as there were some reports of shipments getting booked
ahead of the Ramadan holiday,” Arthur Liming, a futures
specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a report e-mailed yesterday. “Demand from Africa and the  Middle East  has
turned up in the past week.”  White, or refined, sugar for delivery in August added 0.2
percent to $479.10 a metric ton by 10:06 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in
London. The commodity is poised to gain 0.7 percent this week
and fell for the past five. Raw sugar for delivery in July was
up 0.4 percent to 16.71 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York.  Stronger demand from African countries helped boost the
premium white sugar commands over the raw variety even as
refined supplies from  Thailand  increase, Beydoun said. The so-called  white premium  gained 5.8 percent to $111.2876 a ton over
the past week, data on Bloomberg showed. Thailand is the world’s
second biggest exporter of sugar.  Crystal sugar has an International Commission for Uniform
Methods of Sugar Analysis level of between 130 and 180,
according to the website of Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo
research group. A lower level corresponds to a higher degree of
whiteness. Refined sugar futures traded on NYSE Liffe in London
call for an ICUMSA level of 45.  Robusta coffee for delivery in July rose 0.2 percent to
$1,888 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee for the same delivery
month was up 0.4 percent to $1.263 a pound on ICE.  Cocoa for delivery in July was down 0.1 percent at 1,498
pounds ($2,277) a ton in London. Cocoa for the same delivery
month slid 0.2 percent to $2,207 a ton in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 