-- Won Completes a Fourth Weekly Decline on Fed Concern; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-31T07:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/won-snaps-three-week-slide-on-korea-manufacturing-bonds-decline.html
The won completed a fourth weekly
loss as South Korean importers bought dollars to pay month-end
bills and amid concern the  Federal Reserve  will taper stimulus
policies that have spurred fund flows into  emerging markets .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank could reduce the pace of its monthly bond purchases if
there are signs of sustained improvement in the  U.S. economy .
Data this week showed  consumer confidence  in the world’s largest
economy at a five-year high. South Korean  government bonds 
extended the week’s drop after Statistics Korea said yesterday
that industrial production climbed 0.8 percent in April from
March, the first increase this year.  “Importers must have bought more dollars today as it’s the
last day of the month, pushing the won down,” said Yoo Hyen Jo,
an analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul. “U.S. economic
data added to concerns whether the Fed will taper its bond
buying.”  The local currency dropped 0.2 percent today and this week
to 1,129.64 per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It slumped 2.5 percent this month and touched
1,133.72 per dollar on May 29, the lowest level since April 11.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, declined 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, this week to 9.08 percent. It
fell seven basis points today.  Economic Outlook  Park Seong Dong, a director-general at Statistics Korea,
told reporters yesterday it’s hard to say if the economy is
showing an upturn yet. South Korean exports probably shrank 0.9
percent in May from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 12 economists by Bloomberg News survey before data
due tomorrow. That compares with a 0.4 percent gain in April.  Foreign funds bought more South Korean shares than they
sold on all days except one this week, exchange data show. An
index of manufacturers’ confidence jumped to the highest level
in a year, the  Bank of Korea  said yesterday.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 rose six basis points today and 19 basis points
this week to 2.89 percent, prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show.
That’s the highest level for a five-year note since Feb. 4, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  