-- Woods Is 10 Strokes Behind Haas at Weather-Hit Memorial Golf
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-06-01T04:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/woods-in-danger-of-missing-cut-at-memorial-golf-as-haas-leads.html
Bill Haas  holds a three-stroke lead
during the weather-delayed second round of the U.S. PGA Tour’s
Memorial Tournament, which was suspended by darkness last night
and will resume this morning.  Defending champion  Tiger Woods  made a pair of late birdies
to avoid missing the cut for weekend play.  Haas, a four-time U.S. tour winner, is at 9 under after a
5-under 67 yesterday at Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin,
 Ohio . He’s three strokes ahead of four golfers -- Americans
 Bubba Watson ,  Matt Kuchar  and Kyle Stanley, and Charl Schwartzel
of  South Africa .  Woods, a five-time winner of the Jack Nicklaus-hosted
event, is at 1 over for the tournament after a 2-over 74
yesterday. Strong wind gusts made birdies hard to come by, said
Woods, who finished play two strokes inside the projected 36-hole cut line.  “Tough conditions out there and I didn’t exactly play my
best either,” Woods told reporters in a televised interview
after the round. “All in all it was a day I fought hard. That’s
all I got. I’m not too disappointed.”  The top-ranked golfer in the world, Woods has won four
times on the U.S. tour this year, including three weeks ago at
the Players championship. He has missed the 36-hole cut 10 times
in his career, most recently at the European PGA Tour’s Abu
Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship in January.  Woods’s Round  Woods began play on the 10th hole yesterday. After a bogey
on his fourth hole and a double bogey on the par-5 15th, where
he three-putted from about five feet, dropped him to 2 over, he
birdied the par-5 fifth and seventh holes to reach even par. He
finished with a bogey on the par-4 ninth when his approach shot
from 150 yards landed about 20 yards short of the green.  “It’s not that hard to make bogeys and doubles on this
golf course,” he said. “If you missed the ball in the wrong
spot, get the wrong gust, it’s tough. We had a few shots in our
group that ended up in some interesting spots.”  Fourteen-year-old Tianlang Guan of  China  will miss the cut
after rounds of 72 and 79 left him at 7 over par.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  