-- Yankees Winning Without Jeter Proving Box Office Disappointment
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-31T04:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/yankees-winning-without-jeter-proving-box-office-disappointment.html
The  New York Yankees  have stayed at
or near the top this baseball season with journeymen and
reclamation projects replacing injured All-Stars like  Derek Jeter  and  Alex Rodriguez . Their fans remain unimpressed.  While the Yankees’ 30-23 record is one win better than last
season after 53 games, television ratings are down and
attendance at Yankee Stadium has dropped almost 8 percent from a
year ago. The team is also selling tickets at more than 50
percent off on the coupon website  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)   With Jeter, Rodriguez and  Mark Teixeira  yet to play this
season, Lyle Overbay, Travis Hafner and  Vernon Wells  have helped
produce wins for a team with a $233 million opening-day payroll.
The lack of star power, plus New York’s Knicks and Rangers
making playoff runs in the  National Basketball Association  and
the National Hockey League, have combined to keep the team from
capturing the hearts of local sports fans so far this season.  “The big question for fans is, ‘Do I watch a Yankee team
win ball games, but do it with second- and third-tier players
and rookies whose last names aren’t commonplace?” said Wayne McDonnell Jr., 36, an associate professor of sports management
at  New York University .  The Yankees drew an average of 38,035 fans through their
first 25 home games this season, down from 40,950 through the
same number of games a year ago. Television ratings on the
Yankees Entertainment & Sports network are down 39 percent from
the same point last season.  “There are a lot of factors involved,” Yankees co-owner
 Hal Steinbrenner  told reporters on May 18. “I still think the
economy is a big part of it. People are struggling out there.”  Big Contracts  Yankees spokesman Jason Zillo said the team would have no
further comment on attendance beyond what Steinbrenner
discussed. Steinbrenner’s father, George, was known for saying
fans turned out for stars and gave big contracts to players such
as  Reggie Jackson , Rich Gossage and Dave Winfield.  Major League Baseball attendance is  down by 631, 077 from
last year through games of May 29, with 19 of the 30 teams
recording drops, according to baseball-reference.com  The Yankees have sold $46 tickets for $20 on Groupon, and
discounted seats for games against the  New York Mets  and  Boston
Red Sox  were sold for as low as $20 through a corporate perks
program called  Plum Benefits . Free tickets were given away this
month at a frozen banana stand outside the stadium that was part
of a promotion with the television program “Arrested
Development.”  Bounce Back  McDonnell, who created the “Business of Baseball” course
at NYU, said he expects to see the Yankees’ attendance and TV
ratings bounce back as baseball swings into summer and some of
the team’s injured All-Stars return from the disabled list.  The Yankees host the American League East-leading Red Sox at
home this weekend after losing four straight games to the Mets.
There are 382 tickets for tonight’s game available on the
secondary market, according to TiqIQ, with prices ranging from
$21 to $1,058.  The season began for the Yankees with Jeter, Rodriguez,
Teixeira and  Curtis Granderson  -- who are being paid about $84
million in combined 2013 salary -- on the disabled list with
injuries.  Kevin Youkilis ,  Francisco Cervelli  and Ivan Nova
joined them. Granderson, who led the team in home runs last
season, came back for eight games, then broke a finger and will
be out for a month. Teixeira and Youkilis are scheduled to
return tonight for the Yankees.  Late Moves  The injured players represent 25 All-Star appearances.
Wells, 34, was acquired from the Los Angeles Angels for two
minor-leaguers the week before the season started. Hafner, 35,
was signed by the Yankees for $2 million after the  Cleveland
Indians  bought out his contract. Overbay, 36, was without a team
when given a minor-league deal by the Yankees, who will pay him
$1.25 million this season.  Together, the trio has combined for 26 homers and 79 runs
batted in. The team’s only holdover with more homers or RBIs
than those three is All-Star second baseman  Robinson Cano .  “We have a lot of really good players, maybe not the names
we’re used to having here, but guys who have had big years,”
Yankees manager  Joe Girardi , 48, told reporters this month,
before the team slipped to second place in the division. “This
group has worked really hard.”  Jayson Nix, David Adams and Brennan Boesch are among the
other players who have filled in for the Yankees, who trail
Boston by two games after their recent slide.  Superstars Lost  “When you lose that many superstar players, you expect if
they could play close to .500 or a couple games under and hang
in there until the rest of their guys got back you’d be very
happy,” said Larry Bowa, 67, a former Yankees’ coach now an
analyst for MLB Network. “It’s incredible what they’re doing
considering the offense they did lose.”  While getting injured stars back may help the Yankees’
ticket sales and TV ratings, the end of relief pitcher  Mariano Rivera ’s 19-year Hall-of-Fame career will also have an effect,
McDonnell said. Rivera, who has the most saves in baseball
history, missed almost all of last season after tearing a
ligament in his right knee and has announced this is his last
year pitching.  “When the summer comes and people come to the realization
that we’re not going to be able to see him much longer, you’re
going to see changes in attendance and television ratings,”
McDonnell said.  “I’m one who will look after Memorial Day as
the biggest gauge for television ratings, attendance,
statistics, everything like that.”  Optimistic Owner  So is Steinbrenner.  “Summer is coming around, warmer weather, and we have a
lot of half-price ticket days and $5 ticket days; things we have
done for years,” he said. “I think the fans are going to come
out and are going to support these guys because they have earned
it.”  Expectations may also increase when Jeter, Teixeira,
Youkilis and possibly Rodriguez eventually rejoin the lineup.  “There’s going to be a little bit of heat on them when
they come back because the team has played so well with these
extra guys,” said Bowa, a former Philadelphia Phillies manager
who was a coach with the Yankees in 2006-07. “If you asked
every one of those guys who are out if they thought they’d be
here, I’m sure most of them would say, “No, but we’ll take
it.”  -- With assistance from  Scott Soshnick  in New York. Editors:
Michael Sillup, Larry Siddons  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  