-- Euro Declines From 3-Week High as Unemployment Rises; Yen Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-31T21:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/yen-climbs-with-dollar-as-german-retail-sales-drop-euro-falls.html
The euro dropped from the highest
level in three weeks versus the dollar as demand for the
currency bloc’s assets faded after data showed German retail
sales fell and the region’s unemployment rose to a record.  The dollar gained as stronger-than-forecast data on U.S.
business activity and  consumer confidence  overshadowed an
unexpected drop in  consumer spending , bolstering bets the
 Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus. The yen strengthened
versus all of its 16 most-traded peers. A gauge of expected
price swings for the euro climbed to a two-month high.  “The disappointing data we saw out of the  euro zone ,
that’s really overshadowing the disappointing news we had
earlier today on the U.S. consumer,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western
Union Co., said in a phone interview from  Washington . Later U.S.
reports including the one on consumer confidence “pointed to
how the case remains pretty solid for the Fed to pull back on
stimulus before too long.”  Europe ’s shared currency weakened 0.4 percent to $1.2999 at
5 p.m.  New York  time, paring a weekly gain to 0.5 percent. It
rose to $1.3061 yesterday, the most since May 9. The euro
depreciated 0.6 percent to 130.64 yen.  Japan ’s currency gained
0.3 percent to 100.45 per dollar and climbed as much as 0.5
percent to 100.22, the strongest level in three weeks. The yen
has gained 0.9 percent this week against the greenback.  The Japanese currency fell 3 percent against the dollar in
May in its eighth consecutive monthly decline, the longest
losing streak since 1996. The dollar gained 1.3 percent versus
the euro.  Yen Bets  Futures traders increased their bets that the yen will
weaken against the dollar to the most since July 2007. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in Japan’s currency compared with
those on a gain, known as net shorts, was 99,769 contracts on
May 28, versus 95,186 a week earlier, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Traders increased wagers the euro will fall against the
greenback to the most since November. Net short-bets totaled
84,644 on May 28, from 80,949 a week earlier.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $36 billion, compared with $37 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  was $7 billion, the largest share
of trades at 19 percent. Euro-dollar options were the second
most-actively traded, at $5.7 billion, or 16 percent.  Below Average  Dollar-yen options trading was 45 percent below the average
for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day. Euro-dollar options trading was 13 percent above average.  The South African rand fell as much as 2.4 percent to
10.2847 per dollar, the weakest since March 2009, before paring
its loss to 0.5 percent. It slid 5.1 percent this week. The
currency fell earlier in the week amid concern the government
isn’t doing enough to end labor unrest at the nation’s mines.  “We remain structurally bearish on the rand,” Matthew Sharratt, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
Johannesburg, wrote in a note to clients today. “Sentiment
remains negative and there appear to be few positive catalysts
in the pipeline.”  Hungary’s forint fell versus most of 31 major peers amid
concern the central bank may keep lowering  interest rates . The
Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which cut borrowing costs over the past 10
months, has no target for its benchmark rate, the state news
agency MTI quoted Deputy President Adam Balog as saying.  The forint sank 1.2 percent to 228.31 per dollar. It
declined 0.8 percent to 296.73 per euro.  Real Tumbles  The Brazilian real slid to the weakest level since May
2009, depreciating 1.8 percent to 2.1495 per dollar before
trading at 2.1411. The real has tumbled 6.5 percent in May on
signs of economic weakness and bets that the U.S. central bank
will curtail its program of bond purchases, which has buoyed
emerging-market assets.  The euro weakened as  retail sales  in  Germany  dropped 0.4
percent in April, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said. A Bloomberg survey forecast a 0.2 percent increase. The
euro-area  jobless rate  rose to 12.2 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.  The one-week implied volatility of the euro, derived from
option premiums, jumped to as high as 11.5 percent, the most
since March 20.  “The long-term picture is that the European economy is
still struggling,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.  U.S. Confidence  U.S. consumer  confidence  rose in May to the highest level
in almost six years. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of sentiment increased to 84.5 in May, the strongest
since July 2007, from 76.4 a month earlier.  The MNI Chicago Report’s U.S. business barometer rose to
58.7 in May, beating all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey and the
highest since March 2012, from 49 in April. A reading greater
than 50 signals expansion.  The two reports followed Commerce Department data that
showed U.S. household purchases dropped 0.2 percent in April.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt
a month in a bid to boost the economy by pushing down borrowing
costs under its quantitative-easing stimulus strategy. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 policy makers could cut the pace of
the purchases if they see indications of sustained improvement
in economic growth.  The dollar has climbed 5.2 percent this year, the most
among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, amid speculation the  U.S. economy 
is improving. The yen has been the biggest loser, slumping 11
percent as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to stem 15 years of
deflation and the  Bank of Japan  doubled monthly bond purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  