-- Hypo Alpe Agrees to Sell Unit Amid Calls for Faster Pace
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-05-31T14:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/hypo-alpe-agrees-to-sell-unit-amid-calls-for-faster-pace.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the bailed-out Austrian lender under pressure from European
regulators to sell assets, made its first disposal of a banking
unit since it was nationalized four years ago.  Hypo Alpe agreed to sell Hypo Alpe Adria Bank AG, the unit
which operates in its southern Austrian home province Carinthia,
to Anadi Financial Holdings Pte. Ltd. for 65.5 million euros
($85 million), the Klagenfurt, Austria-based lender said in a
statement today. The sale can be closed once approved by
regulators, it said.  European Union Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has
called on the lender to step up the speed of divestments, saying
that he may demand Hypo Alpe to repay some of the 2.2 billion
euros in aid unless a new restructuring plan is found.  “The signing is a clear sign that you can succeed with
privatizing banks if expectations and time frames are set
realistically,” Hypo Alpe Chief Executive Officer Gottwald Kranebitter said in the statement. Anadi made “clearly” the
best offer for the unit, Kranebitter said.  The Austrian unit posted  net income  of 47.3 million euros
in 2012, up from 5.9 million euros a year earlier. That included
a 40 million-euro one-time gain. It has total assets of 4.1
billion euros and branches mostly in southern  Austria .  ‘Financial Expertise’  Hypo Alpe’s biggest units are a network of banks in ex-Yugoslavia with assets of 10 billion euros, and a wind-down unit
for 12 billion euros of non-performing and hard-to-sell assets.
It also owns an Italian lender.  Anadi is owned by Sanjeev Kanoria, the brother of Hemant Kanoria, chairman of Kolkata-based  Srei Infrastructure Finance
Ltd (SREI) , Hypo Alpe said. Srei will provide “financial expertise”
to the business, Sanjeev Kanoria said in the statement.  Wiener Privatbank SE (WPB) , the Austrian wealth manager being
acquired by Klaus Umek, told Hypo Alpe earlier this month that
it was also interested in buying the Austrian business. Prague-based Austrian investor Werner Ebm was also bidding, according
to a report published in Die Presse.  The sale was managed by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and TJP
Advisory & Management Services, Hypo Alpe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  