-- Yuan Deposits in Hong Kong Climb to Record on Currency Optimism
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-05-31T09:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/yuan-deposits-in-hong-kong-climb-to-record-on-currency-optimism.html
Yuan  deposits in Hong Kong climbed to
a record in April amid bets  China  will accelerate exchange-rate
reforms, spurring currency gains.  Savings rose 9 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) from March to
677 billion yuan, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said in a
 statement  on its website today. It was the seventh monthly
increase in a row and the smallest gain since October.  People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor Yi Gang said last
month that authorities will widen the yuan’s daily trading band
“in the near future.” The Chinese currency is the 13th most-used in the world, figures from the Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunication show. China completed its
once-a-decade leadership transition in March, with Xi Jinping
becoming the nation’s president.  “There’s stronger expectation yuan internationalization
will accelerate following the power handover,” said Ho Man Chun, economist and strategist at Bank of Communications Co.’s
 Hong Kong  branch.S  The yuan in  Shanghai  will appreciate 2.1 percent this year
to 6.10 per dollar, after 2012’s 1 percent advance, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Hong Kong handled 275.4 billion yuan of trade settled in
the Chinese currency in April, a 19 percent decrease from March,
HKMA data show.  China is looking into possible fraud relating to data on
exports to Hong Kong, Zheng Yuesheng, a spokesman for the
government’s customs administration, said last month, after a 93
percent  increase  in such shipments in March that was the biggest
in 18 years. The validity of the data has been questioned by
economists at financial institutions including Bank of America
Corp. and Nomura Holdings Inc.  The falsification of trade declarations does happen “but
is definitely not mainstream,” Zheng said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  