-- Yuan Band Bets Boost Dim Sum for Fullerton to UBS
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/yuan-band-bets-boost-dim-sum-for-fullerton-to-ubs.html
Signs  China  will widen the  yuan ’s
trading band have driven a rally in Dim Sum corporate bonds,
cutting their yield premium in May by the most in eight months.  The average yield on investment-grade corporate bonds
declined seven basis points this month to 3.176 percent on May
29, the least since November 2011, according to an index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The gap over offshore government
debt fell 12 basis points in May, the most since September, to
86. Yields on investment-grade debt climbed 27 basis points in
 emerging markets  and increased 25 basis points in  Asia , Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  UBS Global Asset Management and Fullerton Fund Management,
whose yen-denominated Dim Sum funds are 2013’s best performers,
are both favoring corporate yuan bonds because of their higher
yields and more-frequent issuances. People’s Bank of China
Deputy Governor Yi Gang said last month the authorities will
widen the limit on daily yuan moves “in the near future,”
while Premier  Li Keqiang  said this month the government will
propose plans this year for capital-account convertibility.  “China has highlighted foreign-exchange liberalization as
one of the priority reforms, which will likely entail band
widening in the near future,” said Patrick Yeo, portfolio
manager for the Fullerton RMB Fixed Income Fund in  Singapore .
“This would be positive for offshore yuan sentiment.”  Yeo prefers investment-grade debt, including banks and
insurers that tend to be more “defensive” in a slowing
economy, he said in a May 29 e-mail interview. He also favors
shorter-dated paper on concern that global  interest rates  will
rise. His fund returned 17.5 percent this year to its Japanese-currency investors, reflecting the yen’s declines.  Capital Inflows  The average yield on offshore yuan sovereign bonds rose six
basis points this month to a one-month high at 2.32 percent
yesterday, the HSBC index showed. That’s the first monthly
increase since September. The yield on China’s benchmark 10-year
 government bond  was steady at 3.44 percent in May.  Fullerton, which manages the equivalent of $9.5 billion, is
also looking to invest in onshore  government bonds  through the
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program because the
yields are more attractive, Yeo said.  The yuan has strengthened 1.5 percent this year, compared
with last year’s 1 percent gain, driven by inflows of capital.
The currency, which touched a 19-year high on May 27, fell 0.1
percent today to 6.1363. In the offshore market, the spot rate
climbed 0.9 percent since the end of March and was at 6.1469
today in Hong Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading Band  The People’s Bank of China sets a  daily reference rate  for
the yuan against the dollar in  Shanghai , and limits the spot
rate’s trade to a maximum 1 percent on either side. The currency
has stayed within 0.1 percent of the upper limit on most days
since October. The central bank, which last widened the band in
April 2012 from 0.5 percent, has raised the  reference rate  by
1.7 percent so far this year, compared with 0.24 percent for the
whole of 2012.  Yuan gains may slow on concerns about China’s slowing
economy, and if the Federal Reserve scales back debt purchases
that fueled demand for emerging-market assets, said Banny Lam,
Hong Kong-based co-head of research at Agricultural Bank of
China International Securities Ltd, a unit of the nation’s
third-largest lender.  “China’s growth is slowing more than expected,” he said.
“This may weigh on the yuan’s exchange rate.”  Slowing Economy  The  International Monetary Fund  on May 29 cut its China
growth forecast for this year to 7.75 percent from 8 percent,
saying that the government needs to make “decisive” policy
changes to ensure sustainable growth. China’s manufacturing is
set to shrink in May for the first time in seven months,
according to a report by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  The  cost  of insuring China’s debt against non-payment rose
three basis points this week to a seven-month high of 82 in  New
York  yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The credit-default swap for  Japan 
is at 77, while that for the U.S. is 28.  Playing Catch-Up  The yuan is playing catch-up after gaining almost nothing
last year and will rise another 1 percent to 2 percent before
the end of the year, Ashley Perrott, Singapore-based head of
pan-Asia fixed-income at UBS Global, said in a May 29 phone
interview. UBS Global, whose yen Dim Sum fund returned 23
percent this year, oversees the equivalent of $624 billion.  The Chinese currency will gain to 6.1 per dollar by the end
of 2013, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 33 analysts, while HSBC Holdings Plc forecast in March
that the yuan will be fully convertible within five years.  China will push ahead with opening its capital account
because current economic conditions are favorable, the PBOC’s Yi
said on April 18 in  Washington , where finance chiefs from the
Group of 20 nations met for talks on issues including exchange
rates. Yi said a day earlier that a widening of the yuan’s
trading band was likely “in the near future.”  Chinese government agencies including the central bank will
discuss a yuan capital-account convertibility plan in June, the
Economic Information Daily reported on May 28, without saying
where it got the information from.  Cleaning Up  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said on May 5
that it would send notices to companies whose goods and capital
flows don’t match, as well as to those importing large sums of
cash. The regulator also told lenders to limit foreign-currency
loans to 75 percent of deposits by the end of June. This is a
precursor to band-widening, Bank of America Corp. said in a
report, and the steps are aimed at ensuring yuan trades are for
genuine needs rather than for speculation.  Yuan positions  at Chinese financial institutions stemming
from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of cross-border
capital flows, rose by 1.22 trillion yuan ($199 billion) in the
first three months of the year, more than four times that of a
year earlier, central bank data show. April’s 294 billion yuan
increase compares with a 61 billion yuan decline a year earlier.  “The band is unlikely to widen until flows are less one
way and there is more of a balance between the spot and
fixing,” said UBS Global’s Perrott. “It seems unlikely within
the next few months.”  Currency policy changes are accelerating before President
Xi Jinping is due to meet U.S. President  Barack Obama  in
 California  early next month in their first face-to-face talks
since China’s power transition in March. New Zealand and China
are in talks to make their currencies directly convertible,
while Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Co.’s Singapore
branch started yuan clearing services this week.  “We expect offshore yuan bond yields to remain fairly
well-anchored and well-supported, given that it is the easiest
access for investors to get  renminbi  exposure,” said Perrott,
referring to the yuan by its official name. “We’ll generally
stay with corporate unless we were to expect a very sharp
contraction in  China’s economy , which is not what we expect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  