-- Zambia Sees Inflation Rate Below 10 Percent After Subsidies Cut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-05-31T07:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/zambia-sees-inflation-rate-below-10-percent-after-subsidies-cut.html
Inflation in Zambia will remain below
10 percent even as the removal of fuel and corn subsidies cause
“initial shocks,” Deputy Finance Minister Keith Mukata said.  Consumer prices accelerated to 7 percent in May from a year
ago, compared with 6.5 percent a month earlier, the first
increase in five months, after the government boosted fuel
prices by more than 20 percent.  “Of course you’re going to have the initial shocks, but
the long term benefits far outweigh this,” Mukata said in an
interview yesterday in Lusaka, the capital. The government still
sees the inflation rate remaining within “single” digits, he
said. Mukata replaced Miles Sampa in the post, the Lusaka-based
Zambia Daily Mail newspaper said May 9.  Africa’s largest copper producer removed subsidies on fuel
on May 1 and the government said it will stop the practice of
buying corn at higher prices than it sells to private millers to
rather invest the money it saves into infrastructure such as
roads, rail and power. The government is targeting an inflation
rate of 6 percent by the end of the year, central bank Governor
Michael Gondwe said on Feb. 21. Mukata didn’t say whether Zambia
will stick to the target or if it is still reachable.  The country spent 6.1 billion kwacha ($1.1 billion) on fuel
and corn subsidies from 2010 to 2012, according to Alexander Chikwanda, the finance minister. Petrol prices rose 21 percent
and diesel climbed 22 percent on May 1 following government’s
decision to stop artificially depressing the retail values of
fuel.  Second-Round  While removing the support is “commendable,” Zambia
should have rather done so in a more staggered manner, Paarl-based NKC Independent Economists said in a note yesterday.  “The removal of the fuel subsidy is yet to be fully
determined, as the second-round effects of increased input costs
have not completely materialized,” analyst Irmgard Erasmus
said. “Given the upside risks to inflation posed by the
expected upward momentum in food prices, coupled with the year-end target of 6 percent for headline inflation, a tightening of
the monetary policy stance may be on the cards.”  Zambia’s central bank will announce its interest rate
policy decision today, having held it steady at 9.25 percent for
six straight months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  