-- Zloty Pares Worst Slump in Year on Fed Speculation: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-05-31T13:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/zloty-pares-worst-slump-in-year-on-fed-speculation-warsaw-mover.html
The zloty clawed back some losses
after its biggest two-day slump in a year as speculation the
U.S. Federal Reserve may trim stimulus set off a “tectonic
shift” in  emerging markets , according to  Societe Generale  SA.  The Polish currency gained less than 0.1 percent to 4.2813
against the euro at 2:41 p.m. in Warsaw, after it fell 2.2
percent in the last two days, the worst streak since May 2012.
The zloty plunged to a 11-month low yesterday and its 2.8
percent depreciation in May is the largest monthly loss among
Europe’s emerging currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 the Fed “could
take a step down” in its pace of purchases of Treasury and
mortgage debt in the next few meetings if it saw sustained
improvement in the  U.S. economy , reducing the quantitative
easing stimulus which has rallied emerging-market assets in past
months. Further curbing the zloty’s allure, Poland’s central
bank will cut  interest rates  to a record low 2.75 percent on
June 5, according to the median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “A tectonic shift is happening in emerging markets”
because of the “uncertainty as to the timing of QE tampering,”
Guillaume Salomon, Societe Generale’s London-based chief
emerging market strategist, said in a research note today.
Investors should buy the euro for the zloty with a target of
4.44 as the “ongoing dovish tone” of Poland’s central bank
will pressure the currency, he said.  ‘Bubble Bursting’  The zloty is also hit by Poland’s slowing economy, set to
expand at the weakest pace since 2002 this year, according to
the  Finance Ministry ’s 1.5 percent growth forecast, Nomura
International Plc said in a research note on May 30.  “Markets are worried by the fiscal situation and low
growth,” Nomura economist Peter Attard Montalto said. Still,
“it’s too much to read across anything like ‘weak PLN=bond
bubble bursting.’ We still fundamentally believe Poland is a
strong and sound credit,” he said.  Poland’s government officials or central bankers may
“intervene verbally” and state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa
Krajowego may enter the  currency market  to stop the zloty from
further weakening, Montalto said.  The  yields  on the Polish government’s five-year bonds rose
seven basis points to 3.08 percent, increasing for the fifth day
to the highest since April 16. Zloty-denominated  government
bonds  maturing in one year or longer have lost 3.5 percent in
May in euro terms, the fourth-worst showing among the 26
sovereign indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies. Only debt from  South
Africa ,  New Zealand  and Australia performed worse last month.  Foreign investors have in in the past two days reduced
their positions in local-currency bonds because of concerns over
foreign-exchange losses, according to a note by Bank Pekao SA
economists, led by Marcin Mrowiec.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  