-- ‘Dual Directional’ Structured Notes Rise to Three-Year High
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-04-26T17:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/-dual-directional-structured-notes-rise-to-three-year-high.html
Banks are raising the most in at
least three years in issuance of U.S. structured notes that pay
the same returns whether the linked asset rises or falls.  Since November, banks have sold $350 million of so-called
“dual directional” securities, which yield the absolute value
of any return within a certain range, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Before then, the most recent month with more than
two offerings was March 2009, with nine deals for $58.1 million,
according to Securities and Exchange Commission records.  Demand for the notes has increased amid investor concern
that the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may decline after the best
first quarter since 1998 as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
threatens to flare up again, said Alexandre Ecot, a director at
Societe Generale SA’s cross-asset group, which sells derivatives
and structured notes.  “Investors have mixed feelings about the direction of the
market,” Ecot said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Investors don’t know if there is still some upside, and
they’re afraid of the potential downside.”  Most of the dual-directional sales, or $246.6 million, have
been since the beginning of March. The  S&P 500  dropped the most
this year on April 10 as a surge in Spanish and Italian bond
yields fueled concern that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. has issued $153.2 million of the
securities in the last six months, the most of any bank, with
the  S&P 500 (SPX)  as the most common underlying benchmark, Bloomberg
data show. After gaining 12 percent for the first three months
this year, the index is down 1.3 percent in April.  Citigroup Offering  The largest offering over that period was tied to the S&P
500. Citigroup Inc. sold $43.1 million of two-year notes that
yield a positive return if the gauge doesn’t decline by more
than 20 percent and 1.5 times any gains, with a 12.3 percent
cap, according to a prospectus filed with the SEC. Investors
risk losing their principal below that threshold. The New York-
based bank distributed the notes for a 2.25 percent commission.  Low market volatility makes it harder to create attractive
coupons on the notes, because the derivatives embedded in the
products have a lower value, Ecot said. The VIX, as the  Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX)  is known, fell to an
almost five-year low on March 26.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 