-- ‘Good Morning Vietnam’ DJ Makes Pitches to Troubled Borrowers
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-26T17:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/-good-morning-vietnam-dj-makes-pitches-to-troubled-borrowers.html
A U.S. military veteran made famous
by his portrayal in the movie “Good Morning  Vietnam ” is
accused by a consumer group of preying on financially troubled
homeowners seeking to lower their mortgage payments.  Adrian Cronauer, the former wartime disc jockey who was
played by  Robin Williams  in the 1987 film, is now a lawyer in
Washington. His firm improperly sought thousands of dollars in
up-front fees in exchange for helping borrowers negotiate better
mortgage terms, according to two complaints filed by the The
National Community Reinvestment Coalition, a Washington-based
fair-credit watchdog.  “It will be a good morning in America when we put an end
to this kind of loan-modification scam,” said  John Taylor , the
coalition’s president and chief executive officer. “Taking
advantage of a homeowner while they are vulnerable is shameful,
and it’s also against the law.”  The coalition filed the complaints with the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission on
April 17.  The Cronauer Law Center in  Washington  did not return phone
calls or e-mails seeking comment. FTC spokesman Peter Kaplan and
CFPB spokesman Michelle Person had no comment on the complaints.  Cronauer, a former special assistant at the Pentagon,
earned his law degree from the  University of Pennsylvania ,
according to the firm’s  website . The firm’s practice areas
include loan modifications, foreclosures and bankruptcy.  The Cronauer Law Center solicited homeowners with letters
and television ads, according to the complaint. One Maryland
homeowner received a letter urging recipients who had
experienced “financial hardship,” late payments or
unemployment to call the firm for help receiving a loan
modification. The homeowner did and was told that the service
would cost between $2,500 and $4,000, the complaint said.  Up-Front Fees  Another borrower, in  Georgia , was told to sign a contract
with the Cronauer firm so it could negotiate with the lender on
the homeowner’s behalf. The borrower was told to make payments
totaling $1,300, according to the complaint.  It is illegal for companies working to provide mortgage
relief to charge up-front fees, according to the FTC. Lawyers
can be exempted from the rule if they’re licensed in the state
in which their client or the home is located, according to the
commission.  Cronauer is not licensed to practice law in Maryland or
Georgia, according to the complaint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 