-- H&R Block Drops on Profit Outlook, Plans to Cut 350 Jobs
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-26T20:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/h-r-block-plunges-on-profit-outlook-as-tax-firm-plans-job-cuts.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  dropped the most in
almost eight months after the tax preparer announced preliminary
profit and revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates and said it
would cut about 350 jobs and close offices.  H&R Block  fell  11 percent today to $14.95, the most since
Sept. 2, and has declined 8.5 percent this year.  Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for
the fiscal year ending April 30 may be $1.09 to $1.15, the
Kansas City, Missouri-based company said in a statement
yesterday. The  average estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for adjusted earnings per share of $1.42. The job
cuts and closing of 200 offices will contribute to a pretax
charge of about $30 million, or 6 cents a share, the firm said.  “These steps are necessary so we can create a stronger
company, invest in our future, and produce greater value for our
clients and shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer Bill Cobb
said in the statement. “These actions will allow us to compete
more effectively.”  Cobb, 55, had increased spending on marketing and offered
free services to recapture market share from competitors
including TurboTax maker  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  H&R Block, the biggest U.S.
tax preparer, also has grappled with the loss of revenue from
refund-anticipation loans for the second year after U.S.
regulators prompted HSBC Holdings Plc to stop offering them.  Revenue Forecast  H&R Block said revenue will be about $2.9 billion, below
the $3.1 billion average estimate of analysts in the Bloomberg
survey. That is little changed from last year when excluding
revenue from its RSM McGladrey unit, which H&R Block sold,
according to figures released by the firm. Without adjusting for
the sale, revenue would decline 23 percent, based on the
company’s forecast.  Processed U.S. tax returns climbed 4.5 percent to 22.2
million this year as online returns increased 20 percent and
retail returns rose 1 percent, H&R Block said in a separate
statement. The company said that Phil Mazzini, president of
retail tax services, resigned as of April 30.  The firm also said it is seeking a replacement for Chief
Financial Officer  Jeff Brown , who took the job on an interim
basis in April 2010 after the departure of Becky Shulman. Brown
will stay on with the firm as chief accounting and risk officer,
the company said.  “These are unsettling changes when timed with the light”
revenue in fiscal year 2012, Scott Schneeberger, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in a research note today. “However, in
isolation, to us they seem acceptable pursuits and constructive
long-term.”  H&R Block agreed to pay more than $28 million this week to
resolve Securities and Exchange Commission claims its Option One
Mortgage Corp. unit, now known as Sand Canyon Corp., didn’t tell
investors it may be unable to make good on obligations to
repurchase faulty mortgages without assistance. From Jan. 31
through April 24, Sand Canyon received new claims tied to home
loans with principal of $543 million, H&R Block said yesterday
in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  