-- H&R Block Credit-Default Swaps Surge as Claims Increase
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-26T22:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/h-r-block-credit-default-swaps-surge-as-claims-increase.html
The cost to protect  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) 
debt from losses surged after the tax services company reported
preliminary profit and revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates,
with a jump in claims for so-called putbacks of loans.  Credit-default swaps on the  Kansas City , Missouri-based
company jumped 68 basis points to 508 basis points at 4:08 p.m.
in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. The
contracts jumped the most since May 2010, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps surged after the biggest U.S. tax preparer
reported yesterday that diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations for the fiscal year ending April 30 may be
$1.15 at most, compared with the  average estimate  of $1.42 from
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company’s Option One
Mortgage Corp., now known as Sand Canyon Corp., “received new
claims for alleged breaches of representations and warranties in
the principal amount of $543 million,” since the fiscal third
quarter ended Jan. 31, the company said in a  filing .  These claims were up from $35 million last quarter and
compared with the cumulative $826 million before this quarter,
according to a research note by Hale Holden and Danish
Agboatwala, debt analysts at Barclays Plc in  New York .  The swaps, which typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates, had eased from a high of 598 basis points in
December as the market perceived declining risk of put-backs
worsening. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Subprime Mortgage Securities  This week, H&R Block agreed to pay more than $28 million to
resolve regulatory claims that a subsidiary improperly sold
investors subprime mortgage-backed securities without disclosing
risks. Sand Canyon promised investors in more than $4 billion of
residential mortgage-backed securities it sponsored in early
2007 that it would repurchase or replace mortgages that breached
representations and warranties, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a statement on April 24. As its financial
condition worsened, the firm didn’t tell investors it could not
repurchase the investments on its own.  Gene King , a spokesman for Kansas City-based H&R Block,
said in an e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on
litigation.  Consumer Sentiment  A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell for the third
day. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.4 basis points to a
mid-price of 96.2 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  The credit swaps index climbed earlier in the day as an
index of executive and consumer sentiment fell to 92.8 this
month from a revised 94.5 in March, according to the European
Commission in Brussels. The measure was less than the median of
94.2 forecast by 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
raising concerns of a deepening slump in the euro region.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in debt markets, increased 1.32 basis point to 30.31
basis points. The measure widens when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  