-- Accretive Health Investor Sues After 42 Percent Share Drop
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-27T01:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/accretive-health-investor-files-suit-in-wake-of-share-drop-1-.html
An  Accretive Health Inc. (AH)  investor
sued the hospital billings collection company after a report on
its practices issued by Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson
triggered a 42 percent  share price  decline yesterday.  In a six-part report released April 24, Swanson criticized
company policies that she said included the posting of debt
collectors in emergency rooms and at patient bedsides.  Swanson sued the Chicago-based company in January, alleging
it failed to protect patient confidentiality and didn’t disclose
the degree of its involvement in revenue management for two
Minnesota hospital systems.  “The company failed to disclose it was violating health
privacy laws, state debt collection laws and state consumer
protection laws,” allowing its shares to trade at artificially
high levels, investor Linda Wong alleged in her lawsuit filed
today in federal court in  Chicago .  Wong is seeking class-action, or group, status on behalf of
anyone who bought Accretive shares from March 2, 2011, to April
24, 2012, as well as an award of unspecified money damages.  Also named as defendants in the investor suit are Chief
Executive Officer Mary A. Tolan and Chief Financial Officer John T. Staton.  Pending Litigation  Rhonda Barnat, an outside spokeswoman for the company,
later said it doesn’t comment on pending litigation. She is a
managing director with the Abernathy MacGregor Group Inc. in  New
York .  Francesca Luthi, senior vice president for  investor
relations  at Accretive Health, didn’t reply to a telephone
message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  “We have a great track record of helping hospitals enhance
their quality of care,” Luthi said yesterday in a statement.
“For example, we have helped over 250,000 patients get
insurance coverage.”  The case is Wong v. Accretive Health Inc., 12-cv-3102, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 