-- Accused N.Y. Subway Bomb Plotter Chose Murder, U.S. Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-26T18:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/accused-n-y-subway-bomb-plotter-chose-murder-u-s-says.html
A  New York  man accused of helping
plan a failed suicide attack on the city’s subway system around
the eighth anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks
chose to murder Americans, a prosecutor told a jury.  “This case is about the choices that that man made:
choices to murder Americans overseas, choices to come back and
murder Americans here in New York on behalf of al-Qaeda,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Berit Berger said in closing arguments
at the trial of Adis Medunjanin in Brooklyn, New York.  Medunjanin, 28, and two other New York men were recruited
by al-Qaeda for a planned bombing of subway lines in Manhattan
in 2009, according to an indictment. The plot was stopped within
days of its happening, prosecutors said. The two other men,
Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay, pleaded guilty in 2010 and
testified at the trial for the government.  A naturalized U.S. citizen born in Bosnia, Medunjanin faces
as long as life in prison if convicted. U.S. District Judge John Gleeson is presiding over the trial, which began April 16.  In his closing argument today,  Robert Gottlieb , a lawyer
for Medunjanin, said his client’s only goal was to fight on
behalf of Muslims in Afghanistan.  “His plan and intent was to join the Taliban and stand up
for his religion,” Gottlieb said. “The evidence is that
killing was not their intent. That was not their specific and
conscious intention.”  Flushing High School  Medunjanin, Ahmedzay, 27, and Zazi, 26, lived in the New
York borough of Queens and went to Flushing High School. In
August 2008, they left New York to join the Taliban in Pakistan,
where they were recruited by  al-Qaeda , which gave them military
training and encouraged them to conduct suicide attacks,
Ahmedzay and Zazi testified.  The three went to a terrorist camp in Waziristan,  Pakistan ,
and were taught to use rocket launchers, machine guns, grenades
and pistols, according to Zazi’s testimony. He was also trained
in bomb making, he said.  “He admitted that he was angry at American foreign policy
and the way Muslims are treated throughout the world,” Berger
said.  Gottlieb said his client had no intention of killing
Americans when he went to fight with the Taliban in Afghanistan,
as the government contends. He disputed testimony by an FBI
agent that when Medunjanin first met with investigators, he
admitted that he wanted to do that.  Not in Notes  “That phrase is nowhere to be found in any handwritten
notes,” Gottlieb said.  Gottlieb also said the three men were manipulated by al-
Qaeda.  “These three guys were the perfect targets,” he said.
“They were the perfect targets right from the beginning for al-
Qaeda.”  After al-Qaeda asked them to conduct a suicide mission,
they agreed and returned to the U.S., the government says.
Medunjanin went back to New York in September 2008 and waited
for the other two to return, which they did in January, Berger
said. In the meantime, he went to school and worked as a doorman
in a  Manhattan  apartment building, whose basement he later
offered as a place to build the bombs, the prosecutor said.  “He was readying himself to be a suicide bomber,” Berger
said. “This defendant was ready to die and he was ready to
kill.”  Al-Qaeda didn’t specify what to target, Zazi testified.
Other possible targets included Wal-Mart, the New York Stock
Exchange and movie theaters, he said.  Busy Subways  Zazi testified that when the plotters discussed bombing the
subways he mentioned the No. 3 train, which runs on Manhattan’s
West Side, or the No. 4 train on the East Side, because they are
busy lines.  The plan was for an attack during the Muslim holy month of
Ramadan during the morning or afternoon rush hour to create the
most casualties and property damage, Ahmedzay testified.  Zazi said they agreed to the plot because they were upset
about the U.S. presence in  Afghanistan .  Saajid Muhammad Badat, convicted in the U.K. in 2005 of
plotting to explode an airplane, testified via a recorded
deposition about his experiences with al-Qaeda. So did Bryant Neal Vinas of  Long Island , New York, who pleaded guilty in 2009
to charges related to his association with the terrorist group.  Badat is the first terrorist convicted in the U.K. to
present evidence in a U.S. trial, the  Crown Prosecution Service 
said in an April 16 statement.  Different Training  Gottlieb said Badat’s and Vinas’s testimony showed that
they had received extensive training and that, comparatively,
what the three men accused in the subway plot received couldn’t
even be considered training.  Medunjanin is charged with nine counts, including
conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction and providing
material support to a foreign terrorist organization, al-Qaeda.  He was taken into custody after a Jan. 7, 2010, incident in
which he swerved his silver Nissan Altima into another vehicle
at more than 90 miles an hour, followed by government agents, on
an expressway in Queens, prosecutors said.  Shortly before he crashed his car, Medunjanin dialed 911
and screamed in Arabic, “We love death more than you love your
life,” according to the government. The crash occurred about an
hour after law enforcement officers left his home in Flushing
where they executed a warrant to search for his passports.  Prosecutors said in a court document that Medunjanin
admitted after the collision that he was trying to kill himself
and others.  Keeping a Promise  “Rather than spend his life in prison, the defendant
decided he wanted to fulfill the promise he made to al-Qaeda,”
Berger, the prosecutor, said.  Ahmedzay immigrated to the U.S. from Afghanistan. Zazi was
born in Pakistan. He testified that he had falsely written on
immigration forms and told authorities that he was from
Afghanistan. The three men have been in custody since their
arrests.  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  