-- ACS Sells Abertis Stake as OHL Set to Raise Holding to 14.7%
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-04-26T13:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/acs-sells-abertis-stake-as-ohl-set-to-raise-holding-to-14-7-2-.html
ACS-Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA , a Spanish builder, sold 10 percent of  Abertis
Infraestructuras SA (ABE)  for  875.3  million euros ($1.2 billion) as
 Obrascon Huarte Lain SA (OHL)  builds a stake in the toll-highway
operator.  Abertis said it bought a 5.3 percent stake from ACS in a
 filing  late yesterday. OHL today said it took an equity swap
contract with ACS for a 4.7 percent stake.  That swap would increase OHL’s total stake in Barcelona-
based Abertis to 14.7 percent after the companies announced a
preliminary deal on April 24 which would hand Madrid-based OHL a
10 percent holding in Abertis in exchange for a share of OHL’s
business in  Brazil .  Abertis shares rose 0.7 percent to 11.64 euros at 3:47 p.m.
in  Madrid , while OHL was suspended from trading after declining
1 percent. ACS fell 7.5 percent to 13.32 euros.  ACS, a Madrid-based construction company that is selling
assets to pay down debt, estimates it had a pretax gain of 191.5
million euros from selling the 10 percent Abertis stake.  Abertis bought 41.4 million shares of its own shares from
ACS for 11.21 euros each, which it said was a 4.1 percent
discount to yesterday’s volume-weighted average  price .  Main Shareholders  OHL will become the third-biggest  shareholder  in the
Barcelona-based infrastructure company along with  La Caixa , the
owner of  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA. La Caixa said today its holding has
temporarily risen to 31 percent as a result of the agreements
although it will fall back below the 30 percent limit that would
trigger a takeover bid once the deal is executed.  OHL is reducing its presence in concessions in Brazil and
 Chile  as the pipeline for new projects in those markets wanes,
Chief Financial Officer Enrique Weickert said in a conference
call with analysts today. The company will target projects with
higher profitability in other markets, he added.  “This will allow OHL to be Abertis’s industrial partner
and shareholder and reap some synergies as it should replicate
the partnership ACS and Abertis had in the past,” Banco BPI
analysts Bruno Silva and  Pedro Oliveira  wrote in a report sent
to investors today.  OHL plans to keep its 14.7 percent stake in Abertis for the
long term and isn’t interested in increasing it in a significant
way or in a potential merger with Abertis in the short term,
Weickert said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  