-- Mad Cow Case Won’t Prevent Record Beef Sales: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-26T18:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/mad-cow-case-won-t-prevent-record-beef-sales-commodities.html
The first time mad cow disease
appeared in the U.S., beef exports plunged 82 percent. More than
eight years later, the discovery of an infected dairy cow in
 California  may do little to prevent shipments from surging to a
record for a second straight year.  U.S. beef sales to buyers including Mexico,  China  and Japan
will jump 6 percent to 1.34 million metric tons in 2012,
exceeding last year’s record, which the government valued at
$4.7 billion, said Global AgriTrends, a Denver-based researcher
that advises meat companies, investment banks and  hedge funds .
The company affirmed its forecast after the U.S. reported its
fourth case of mad cow since 2003 and first since 2006.  Detection of the tainted  carcass  before it entered the
human food chain should bolster confidence that U.S. meat is
safe, the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization said
yesterday, as cattle prices rebounded in Chicago. Canada,
 Mexico , Japan and South Korea, the four biggest buyers of U.S.
beef, said they won’t halt purchases, bolstering prospects for
agricultural exports that are a foundation of President Barack Obama’s goal of doubling U.S. sales overseas by 2015.  “The world market has shown that it can absorb any new mad
cow information without causing a disruption in trade,” said
Chris Hitch, the president of Hitch Enterprises in Guymon,
Oklahoma, which owns two feedlots that can hold about 90,000
head of cattle. “International demand for beef is growing, and
will continue to grow, with rising incomes in developing
nations, especially Asia.”  Recovering Exports  Last year was the first that U.S. beef exports topped those
of 2003, before the brain-wasting disease known as bovine
spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE, was found in a Washington
state cow imported from  Canada . Shipments in 2004 plunged to
460.3 million pounds (208,789 metric tons) from 2.52 billion
pounds a year earlier, as dozens of countries closed borders to
U.S. beef and cattle futures had the biggest monthly drop ever.  Since then, the U.S. has reported three more cases of mad
cow disease. During that period, domestic beef processors
slaughtered about 271.9 million cattle, government data show.
Canada had 17  cases  since 2003, while the U.K. had 817,
according to the World Organisation for Animal Health.  As importers eased restrictions, cattle futures rose to a
record $1.315 a pound on Feb. 22 on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, and retail-beef prices were the highest ever last
month, government data show. When the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  reported a tainted cow carcass had been found on
April 24, cattle plunged the most in 11 months, dropping the
maximum allowed by the CME to $1.11575. Prices rose 0.6 percent
yesterday and advanced another 0.1 percent today.  Importers Buy  Japan  won’t suspend imports because  shipments  are made
under a framework that assumes the disease isn’t eradicated,
Minoru Yamamoto, director at the farm ministry’s international
animal health affairs office, said yesterday. Taiwan doesn’t
plan to change existing rules, said Tai Yu-yen, chief secretary
of the Council of Agriculture.  Mexico’s  Agriculture Ministry  expects its cattle trade with
the U.S. to remain unchanged, and European Union spokesman
 Frederic Vincent  said the EU plans no measures in response to
the case. Canada said the finding won’t affect trade with the
U.S. Indonesian Agriculture Minister Suswono said today that
imports of U.S. beef shipped after April 24 would be suspended.
The country bought 0.4 percent of U.S. shipments last year by
value, data from the U.S. Meat Export Federation show.  “On the basis of one case that’s isolated and the carcass
had not entered into the food chain, we’ll see a knee-jerk
reaction in cattle prices like we did,” said  Steve Shafer , the
chief investment officer at Covenant Global Investors, an
Oklahoma City-based hedge fund that manages $320 million in
assets. “That’s normal. If there’s no further cases, I wouldn’t
expect any action at this point.”  Food costs  Farm exports in the U.S., the world’s largest agricultural
shipper, in the year that began Oct. 1 will reach $131 billion,
surpassed only by record shipments a year earlier,  Joe Glauber ,
the USDA’s chief economist, said in February. Net farm income
will reach  $91.7 billion  this year, second only to last year’s
$98.1 billion, the USDA said on Feb. 13.  Food prices are rising, threatening  food security  for
millions of people, with the cost increasing 8 percent from
December to March, the World Bank reported yesterday. Overseas
markets have raised U.S. beef imports to control their own costs
and supplement shrinking domestic supplies, said John Nalivka,
the president of livestock- and meat-industry consultant
Sterling Marketing Inc., an agricultural economic research and
advisory company based in Vale, Oregon.  More Dependent  Importers are more dependent on U.S. beef than they were in
2003, said Nalivka, a former USDA economist. Natural disasters
including the tsunami in Japan or disease outbreaks like foot-
and-mouth diseases in South Korea have sent buyers overseas,
benefiting U.S. producers.  Japanese  imports  of U.S. beef reached 456.2 million pounds
last year, up from 11.6 million pounds in 2004 and the highest
since buying 918 million pounds in 2003, USDA data show.
Shipments to South Korea totaled 379.7 million pounds, or 585
times the total in 2004, when they plunged to 648,000 pounds
from 586.6 million in 2003.  Japan restricts U.S. beef imports to cattle 20-months-old
or younger as older animals are at higher risk of having the
disease. The regulation was put in place when the Asian country
resumed purchases in 2005 of American beef, which had been
banned after the first case was discovered in the U.S.  Demand Risk  There remains a risk that demand for U.S. beef may slow.
While Brett Stuart, the co-founder of Global AgriTrends and
former economist at the U.S. Meat Export Federation, predicts
U.S. shipments will rise this year, the latest government
forecast before the latest case of BSE was for a drop of 2.3
percent to 2.725 billion pounds.  “We have just begun getting traction in Asian markets with
very protectionist bents,”  Peter Sorrentino , a fund manager who
helps oversee $14.7 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati, said in an e-mail. “This will give them renewed
firepower to push back on recent inroads.”  Japan, the third-biggest buyer of U.S. beef last year, has
said it may ease its policy on limiting U.S. beef imports to
cattle age 20 months or younger.  The discovery of mad cow “could be an issue in the outlook
for trade with Japan,” said Altin Kalo, a commodity analyst for
Steiner Consulting Group in Manchester,  New Hampshire . “The
hope was that we would see a relaxation of the 21-month rule.
This might delay that. Obviously, we’re speculating. We don’t
know how the Japanese government will react.”  Other Meats  It’s also too early to determine if U.S. shoppers will
switch to other meats or food choices, said Peter Saleh, an
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York .  “Mad cow, from a consumer point of view, is seen as being
pretty ominous, pretty scary,” said Bob Goldin, executive vice
president at Chicago-based restaurant researcher Technomic Inc.
“I don’t think it means consumers won’t go to restaurants. If
they’re concerned, they’ll probably order something else.”  While cattle futures are down more than 14 percent from
their record in February, yesterday’s rebound means the market
was affected less than in 2003, when prices plummeted 19 percent
over five sessions after the Washington case was announced.  More consumers are educated about the disease today, said
Karl Skold, the president of food consultant Westside Economics
and former head of commodity procurement at  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) 
There are more safeguards in place than there were nine years
ago, and the finding this time shows that the surveillance
system works, Skold said.  Knee-Jerk Reaction  “In 2003, when the Canadian case hit, that was a pretty
dramatic upheaval,” said  Elaine Johnson , an analyst at
Cattlehedging.com in Westminster, Colorado. “Things have
changed. We’re in a different situation inventory-wise. I don’t
think there were any standards for how they were going to deal
with the trade so the knee-jerk reaction was to slam the door.
This time we shouldn’t see the slamming of the door.”  The animal arrived April 18 at a Baker Commodities Inc.
facility in Hanford, California, where dead livestock are held
before going to a rendering plant, said Dennis Luckey, executive
vice president of operations at Los Angeles-based Baker.  The age and the source of the animal in the latest case
were being investigated, John Clifford, the USDA’s chief
veterinarian said. Luckey said the animal was at least 30 months
old and the disease was discovered as part of random testing
conducted to meet USDA quotas. He said it’s possible that a
diseased animal could be processed without being tested.  Spinal-cord Tissue  Scientists say the  disease  is spread through feed that
contains brain or spinal-cord tissue from infected animals.
People can get it from eating products containing such tissues,
such as head cheese. Since 1997, feed made from mammals has been
banned from cattle rations, and high-risk materials such as
brains have been kept from the human food supply.  The latest BSE case was “atypical,” Clifford said,
meaning that its disease form is very rare and not generally
associated with an animal consuming infected feed. Such cases
can occur spontaneously in older animals, said Guy Loneragan, an
epidemiologist and professor of  food safety  and public health at
Texas Tech University in Lubbock.  “No doubt, this increases the existential threat to the
U.S. livestock industry, but only marginally,” Nick Higgins, an
analyst at Rabobank International, said in an interview in
 London . “Without further cases, it won’t have a sustained
impact on prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  