-- Maersk Gains From U.S. Military’s $11.5 Billion War Shipments
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/maersk-gains-from-u-s-military-s-11-5-billion-war-shipments.html
The Alliance St. Louis docked at
the Port of Beaumont in  Texas  this month and rolled out 179
armored trucks. Two weeks later, it was at a Delaware port
loading 1,000 General Motors Co. cars and trucks bound for
overseas.  This mixing of military and commercial cargo is a shift for
the 11-deck container ship operated by  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S. (MAERSKB) 
Until 2008, it ferried commercial freight between the U.S. and
 Asia . Maersk dropped that route for one to the  Middle East ,
where the Alliance St. Louis picks up desert-tan trucks and
other equipment that survived the Iraq war.  The Department of Defense is increasingly shipping war
supplies on commercial lines. Since 2001, companies such as
Maersk and  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL)  have been awarded at least
$11.5 billion in defense contracts and have handled more than 90
percent of all military cargo to and from  Iraq  and Afghanistan.  “The Defense Department doesn’t have enough ships by
itself to do all of that in a timely manner,” Gordon Holder, a
retired Navy vice admiral, said in an interview. “It would take
a decade, it would be more expensive and it would detract from
its ability to do other missions. The partnership with our
commercial carriers is essential.”  Maersk, owner of the world’s largest shipping line, has
benefited the most from the U.S. military’s dependence on
commercial lines.  Military Contracts  The company, based in Copenhagen, received almost half the
military’s $1.82 billion in contracts last year to ship supplies
and equipment around the globe, most of it tied to Iraq and
 Afghanistan , according to Defense Department data. Maersk also
arranges rail and truck transport as part of the agreements.  Maersk got $800 million from the Pentagon in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, up almost sixfold from the previous
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That represents
1.3 percent of the company’s $60.2 billion in 2011 revenue, and
2.9 percent of its container shipping business.  While the military accounts for a small share of Maersk’s
revenue, the work tends to offer higher margins because of its
specialized nature, said  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst with  Sydbank
A/S (SYDB)  in Denmark. It also may help offset a commercial shipping
slowdown tied to a glut of new vessels, he said.  “It is quite logical that the Afghanistan exit would
increase the business done with Maersk Line -- but of course
only temporarily,” Pedersen said in an e-mail.  Afghanistan Withdrawal  American President Lines Ltd., part of Neptune Orient Lines
Ltd. of  Singapore , received $421 million in defense contracts in
fiscal 2011. That represented 4.6 percent of the the parent
company’s revenue of $9.21 billion in 2011, and 5.4 percent of
Neptune’s shipping business.  A spokesman for American President Lines didn’t return an
e-mail request for comment.  With the  Iraq war ’s end last year and the planned
withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2014, the market may not support
the number of commercial ships now operating, according to Eric
Ebeling, vice president and general manager at American Roll-on
Roll-off Carrier LLC, part of American Shipping & Logistics
Group Inc. of Park Ridge,  New Jersey .  The fleet increased to 60 ships from 47 ships in 2005 to
accommodate war demand, yet military cargo volume will probably
decline by 50 percent or more by 2015, he said.  “The present fleet size and cargo pool are becoming
unsustainable,” Ebeling said in an interview. If the government
doesn’t re-examine the size of the fleet and how much it pays
carriers, “some may reconsider participating in the program.”  Container Fees  The military estimates it has saved $5.7 billion on
equipment transportation costs since fiscal 2003, partly by
relying more on the cheaper and more efficient commercial
carriers, according to the U.S. Transportation Command, based at
Scott Air Force Base in  Illinois .  Even so, U.S. lawmakers accuse the Defense Department of
wasteful spending on shipping containers. The containers are
supposed to be returned to the commercial lines within 15 days.
Instead, troops in Afghanistan sometimes use them for storage,
shelter or even offices.  The Defense Department has spent at least $649 million on
container late fees since fiscal 2001, according to a Jan. 30
letter co-signed by Senator Tom Carper, a Democrat from
 Delaware .  Wasting “hundreds of millions of scarce taxpayer dollars
as a result of late fees and poor contracting on shipping
containers is unacceptable,” Carper said in an e-mail.  Port of Beaumont  Beaumont is the largest U.S. commercial port handling gear
from the war zones, according to John Roby, a port spokesman.
About 40 miles upstream of the  Gulf of Mexico , it’s centrally
located with rail and highway access to military bases and
depots across the country. Commercial ports such as Charleston,
South Carolina, and Jacksonville,  Florida , also handle war
equipment.  As the U.S. military’s shipping business has grown, the
Navy’s gray warships have gradually been displaced by commercial
vessels at Beaumont and other ports.  “When the war first started, it was all gray bottoms,”
Jim Heldreth, a transportation officer for an Army battalion
based at the Texas port, said in an interview, using the local
term for the warships’ color. He said he hadn’t seen a Navy ship
in months.  Alliance St. Louis  The Alliance St. Louis, which is 656 feet long and capable
of carrying 6,500 cars, typifies the commercial vessel being
used by the military.  It is part of a fleet of so-called “ro-ro” ships owned by
Jericho, New York-based Alliance Navigation LLC and operated by
Farrell Lines, part of  Maersk Line  Ltd. The term is short for
roll-on, roll-off, applied to vehicular cargo.  The ship left the Texas port on April 2. From Beaumont, it
headed up the East Coast, docking in Jacksonville, Charleston
and Wilmington, Delaware, before crossing the Atlantic for stops
including Egypt, Jordan,  Saudi Arabia  and Kuwait.  Companies often combine military and commercial cargo on
the same ship to maximize space and profit, said Army Lieutenant
Colonel Michael Arnold, the battalion commander.  “You would have never heard of anything like that during
the Gulf War, with GM cars on the upper deck and MRAPs down
below,” he said in an interview, using the military moniker for
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected trucks.  Last Truck  With the last U.S. armored truck returning from Iraq
scheduled to arrive at Beaumont next month, the military and
its shipping contractors are now focusing on Afghanistan.  “If the drawdown takes place the way we envision it, there
will be some opportunities,” Rick Boyle, a vice president at
Maersk Line Ltd., a U.S. subsidiary of Maersk, said of the exit
from Afghanistan.  Pulling out of the landlocked, mountainous country is more
expensive after  Pakistan  closed two key NATO supply routes, Navy
Commander Bill Speaks, a Pentagon spokesman, said in an
interview. The price of moving supplies through the north is
$15,800 per container, compared to $6,200 per container through
Pakistan, he said.  Pakistan in November closed the routes after a coalition
air strike killed two dozen Pakistani soldiers at a border post.
The decision forced the U.S. and NATO allies to move equipment
from a longer, northern route through countries such as
Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and  Russia .  “It is two completely different worlds,” Navy Captain
Kevin Carrier, operations director for the Military Surface
Deployment and Distribution Command, said of the differences
between the Afghanistan and Iraq drawdowns. “It will be much,
much more difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  