-- Aetna Shares Decline After Missing Analysts Estimates
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-04-26T20:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/aetna-shares-decline-after-insurer-says-medical-ratio-rose.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest
health insurer by sales, dropped the most in three years after
first-quarter profit missed analyst estimates.  Aetna slipped 8.2 percent to $45.31 at the close in  New
York , for its steepest one-day decline since April 2009. The
Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer today reported earnings
excluding one-time items that were 6 cents lower than the $1.40
average of 16 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, and a
full-year profit  forecast  below estimates.  Aetna said it spent 81.5 percent of premiums on member
care, up from 79.2 percent a year earlier. It also booked
nothing for saving on medical costs in prior quarters, revenue
that has typically boosted insurers in recent years. The company
said it saw signs that a slowdown in medical spending among U.S.
consumers might be coming to an end.  “We think it mostly reflects industry trends that are and
will impact others as we move through 2012,” said Matthew Borsch, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst in New York, in a
note to clients. Aetna’s reliance on selling plans to cost-
conscious private employers means “the longer-term growth
outlook is less robust” for them than other insurers, he said.  Guidance Reaffirmed  The company reaffirmed a full-year profit prediction of $5
a share, below the $5.15 average of 18 analysts’ estimates.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest U.S. health plan by
sales, recorded $530 million in “reserve development” from
prior quarters last week, helping it beat estimates. For Aetna,
the lack of such payments was “the elephant in the room,” said
 Jason Gurda , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in New York.  “We’ve seen consistently for the entire industry that the
medical-cost trend has come in below expectations, and it’s
unclear why Aetna would be different.”  Insurers have reported lower-than-expected medical costs
the last two years, as Americans cut back on health care to save
money. Aetna simply did a better job of predicting costs in the
fourth quarter of 2011, after months in which spending came in
under projections, said Chief Financial Officer Joseph Zubretsky. As a result, there were no reserves left over to add
to first-quarter  earnings , he said.  “At some point, it has to flatten, bottom out, and begin
to increase again, all of which was in line with our
forecasts,” Zubretsky said by telephone. “We just believe the
consumer has been retrenched for two years and that some element
of that will come back into the marketplace.”  ‘Fundamentals Are Strong’  Aetna’s “fundamentals are strong” based on the first
quarter, he said. The company had a 9.4 percent profit margin,
at the high end of its prior forecast, and  revenue  rose over the
year-earlier period for the first time since December 2009.
“Those are all good numbers,” the CFO said.  First-quarter net income dropped 13 percent to $511
million, or $1.43 a share, Aetna said in a statement. Revenue
climbed 6.2 percent to $8.86 billion from a year earlier.  The revenue beat analysts’ estimates while the medical
costs were only slightly higher, said Chris Rigg, a Susquehanna
Financial Group analyst, said by telephone.  “That suggests to us the company’s outlook for the full
year still remains achievable,” Rigg said. “There’s nothing
that says the wheels are off the wagon here.”  Aetna shares had gained 27 percent in the 12 months before
today.  UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , and
Indianapolis-based WellPoint, both reported first-quarter
earnings that beat estimates and raised their full-year
forecasts this month.  Enrollment in Aetna’s medical plans rose to 17.9 million
people, from 17.8 million a year earlier. The company said it
expected to add 300,000 more members by year’s end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  