-- Thai Baht Climbs a Third Day After Bernanke Comment; Bonds Fall
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-04-26T08:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/thai-baht-climbs-a-third-day-after-bernanke-comment-bonds-fall.html
Thailand’s baht rose for a third
day after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s
prepared to do more to stimulate U.S. growth if needed, spurring
investors to favor riskier assets over the dollar.  Government
bonds  declined.  The baht extended its rebound from the weakest level in
almost three weeks after the Fed upgraded its 2012 outlook for
the world’s largest economy. The Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against six major currencies, fell to the lowest level
since April 2. The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index of shares advanced
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday that he sees signs of Europe’s economy stabilizing.  “The baht’s movement is supported by the dollar story, as
well as a general improvement in the  Europe  situation,” said
Thanomsri Fungarunrung, an economist at Phatra Securities Pcl in
Bangkok.  The baht rose 0.2 percent to 30.87 per dollar as of 3:43
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 31.07 on April 24, the weakest level since
April 5. The baht’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, rose to 4.54 percent
from a 10-month low of 4.52 percent.  “We remain prepared to do more as needed to make sure that
this recovery continues,” Bernanke told reporters in  Washington 
yesterday. The Fed has announced two rounds of quantitative
easing since 2008 to hold borrowing costs down.  Thai Exports  Baht gains were limited after an official report today
showed  Thailand ’s overseas shipments slumped  6.5 percent  in
March from a year earlier, after a 0.9 percent gain in February.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was
for a 0.5 percent increase.  Government bonds dropped for a third day after investors
sought higher yields at central bank debt auctions today.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.57 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest
since April 16.  The Bank of Thailand auctioned 50 billion baht ($1.6
billion) of two-year bonds at 3.52 percent, up from 3.24 percent
at the previous sale of similar-maturity notes on Feb. 16. The
notes are more attractive than government debt maturing in July
2015 offering a similar yield, Barclays Plc said in a note to
clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  