-- Thailand's Sugar Set to Benefit From Ramadan Demand
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-26T16:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/thailand-s-sugar-set-to-benefit-from-ramadan-demand.html
Thailand, the world’s second-
biggest sugar exporter, is set to benefit this year from Muslim
nations’ demand before Ramadan because the crop in top global
producer  Brazil  will start later than usual.  The harvest in Brazil’s main growing region, which normally
starts in April, will begin on May 1, according to ICAP do
Brasil Ctvm. Muslim nations, which usually stockpile sugar
before the fasting month of Ramadan, may seek supplies from
Thailand as production there climbs to a record for a second
year, according to data from the Office of the Cane & Sugar
Board. Ramadan starts on July 20 this year.  Vessels waiting today at Brazil’s main ports are scheduled
to ship 352,300 metric tons of sugar to Muslim nations, data
from shipping agency Unimar Agenciamentos Maritimos Ltda. show.
That compares with 889,369 tons at about three months to the
start of Ramadan last year, according to the data.  Thailand  is
scheduled to ship 25 percent more sugar to Muslim countries in
March and so far in April compared to the same period last year,
broker and researcher Kingsman SA said, citing shipping data.  “With the crop in Brazil delayed by about a month and
white sugar production here set to pick up only in June, Muslim
nations will probably take advantage of the surplus in Thailand
at the moment to stockpile ahead of Ramadan,” Nicolle de
Castro, a commercial assistant at Santos, Brazil-based
consultancy SA Commodities, said by phone yesterday.  Thai Sweetener  Sugar production in Thailand will probably reach 10.5
million tons in the 2011-12 season started in November, beating
the 10.3 million tons predicted in late February, Prasert Tapaneeyangkul, secretary-general of the Office of the Cane &
Sugar Board, said in an interview on April 12. Output reached
10.1 million tons as of April 23, according to the board’s
website. About 36 of Thailand’s 47 sugar mills are likely to
have ended crushing for the marketing year by the end of April,
according to F.O. Licht GmbH.  White sugar delivered against the expired May futures
contract on NYSE Liffe in  London  totaled 263,950 tons, exchange
data show. As much as 106,700 tons were from Thailand, according
to the data. ED&F Man  Capital Markets  was the sole receiver of
the sweetener, according to data on NYSE Liffe’s website.  Rains forecast for this week have prevented the start of
the harvest in the center south, Brazil’s main growing region,
according to weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia. Growers in
the South American country will harvest 509 million tons of
sugar cane and produce 33.1 million tons of sugar in the 2012-13
season, industry group Unica has forecast.  “For now, some of the Ramadan demand is being met by
Thailand, but once the crop in Brazil starts, the bulk of the
Ramadan shipments will be met by the center south region,”
Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at Kingsman, said by phone from
Lausanne,  Switzerland , yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  