-- Air Canada Sees C$120 Million Aveos Costs in 1st Quarter
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-04-26T22:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/air-canada-sees-c-120-million-aveos-costs-in-1st-quarter.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  said first-quarter
results will include C$120 million ($121.7 million) in costs
related to the restructuring of its former maintenance and
repair unit now known as Aveos Fleet Performance Inc.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and rent, a closely watched measure of profitability, will
probably range between C$170 million and C$180 million for the
period, the Montreal-based carrier said today in a statement.
That compares with C$207 million a year earlier.  Montreal-based Aveos put about 2,600 employees out of work
when it shut plants and filed for insolvency protection on March
19. Air Canada, the country’s largest airline, later said it may
be required to pay severance to as many as 1,500 unionized Aveos
workers. Air Canada parent  ACE Aviation Holdings Inc. (ACE/A)  sold
control of the carrier’s technical services unit to a group of
private-equity investors in 2007.  Cash and short-term investments amounted to C$2.25 billion
as of March 31, Air Canada said in the statement. That’s C$135
million more than a year earlier.  All first-quarter figures are preliminary, haven’t been
reviewed by Air Canada’s auditors and are subject to change, the
company said today. Air Canada plans to release final first-
quarter results May 4.  The company has sent several aircraft to both Canadian and
international maintenance providers since Aveos closed. The
carrier is working with a network of about 40 Canadian
suppliers, in addition to unidentified international suppliers,
for engines and aircraft components maintenance.  The carrier also said it’s looking for new suppliers to
perform “longer-term” maintenance previously done by Aveos.
Preference will be given to companies that have or will
establish some portion of their operation in Montreal,
Vancouver, Toronto and Winnipeg, Manitoba, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  