-- Taiwan Dollar Advances to Three-Week High on Bernanke Comments
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-04-26T08:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/taiwan-dollar-advances-to-three-week-high-on-bernanke-comments.html
Taiwan ’s dollar rose to a three-
week high after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
more U.S. stimulus will be available if necessary, boosting
demand for riskier assets.  Government bonds  gained.  U.S. policy makers upgraded their forecasts for economic
growth and the labor market yesterday, while repeating their
view that borrowing costs are likely to remain “exceptionally
low” at least through late 2014. Taiwan’s  five-year  bonds rose
after the Cabinet approved a finance ministry plan to tax
capital-gains on stocks, options and futures trading.  “Bernanke’s comments spurred risk-taking today,” said
Samson Tu, a Taipei-based fund manager at Uni-President Assets
Management Corp., who helps manage $1.6 billion of fixed-income
securities. “It’s boosting the  Taiwan dollar  and regional
currencies.”  Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to NT$29.412 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency
was trading at a three-week high of NT$29.353 before trimming
the advance on speculation the central bank sought to curb
gains, according to two traders who declined to be identified.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings traders use to price options, rose 36 basis points, or
0.36 percentage point, to 3.53 percent.  The yield on Taiwan’s 1 percent bonds due January 2017
dropped one basis point to 1.017 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. That’s the lowest level for benchmark five-
year yields this month.  The overnight  money-market  was little changed at 0.5
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center. It reached 0.503 percent yesterday, the
highest level since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  