-- Akin Gump, Mark Lewis, Skadden Arps, Dewey: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-26T15:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/akin-gump-mark-lewis-skadden-sheppard-mullin-business-of-law.html
Patricia A. Millett, the head of
the  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP’s Supreme Court practice
and co-head of its national appellate practice, broke the record
on Tuesday for the most oral arguments before the court by a
woman.  “It’s a great privilege and very exciting and I’m happy to
be part of crossing lines that haven’t been crossed,” said
Millett in an interview. “But it’s not a record I want to keep.
I want lots of women arguing lots more cases in the Supreme
Court and I hope this is a non issue for my daughter’s
generation.”  Millett has argued 31 cases, besting Arnold & Porter LLP’s
Lisa Blatt, who has 30 arguments before the high court, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing an article in the National Law
Journal.  Millett represented the Match-E-Be-Nash-She-Wish Band of
Pottawatomi Indians in a case involving sovereign immunity and
federal Indian trust lands.  Millett credited Justice Department lawyer Beatrice
Rosenberg, who argued 28 or 29 cases between the 1940s and
1970s, and the first female assistant solicitor general Harriet
Shapiro with making her work possible. “They opened the door
and I came waltzing in,” she said.  Former deputy solicitor general Lawrence G. Wallace holds
the modern day record with 157 arguments, while Walter Jones
(1776-1861) holds the all-time record with 317 cases, according
to the Wall Street Journal.  The Match-E-Be-Nash-She-Wish case is Millett’s second this
year before the high court and third of the term. In January,
she argued the case of Filarsky v. Delia, which concerned
qualified immunity for private individuals retained by the
government to carry out its work, the firm said in a statement.
The court issued a unanimous decision in her favor on April 18.
In November, she argued before the court on Gonzalez v. Thaler.  The cases are Match-E-Be-Nash-She-Wish Band of Pottawatomi
Indians v. Patchak, 11-246; Salazar v. Patchak, 11-247; and
Filarsky v. Delia, 10-1018, U.S.  Supreme Court  ( Washington ).  Akin Gump Strauss has offices in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and
the Middle East.  Murdoch Shadowed by Lawyer Who Is Planning U.S. Suits  As Rupert Murdoch testifies this week before a judge-led
inquiry into media ethics, security at the Royal Courts of
Justice won’t protect the News Corp. chief executive officer
from a dangerous adversary, a Manchester lawyer who was
instrumental in putting the company’s hacking scandal in the
public eye.  The lawyer, Mark Lewis, took his usual perch in the gallery
at the so-called Leveson inquiry into media ethics when Murdoch
testified in  London  yesterday, just as he shadowed James Murdoch
when he appeared the day before. Lewis is observing the
Murdochs’ comments as he prepares to file phone-hacking lawsuits
against  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s London papers in U.S. courts, expanding the
measures he has taken so far in the U.K., Bloomberg News’s  Greg
Farrell  and Erik Larson report.  Rupert Murdoch told the Leveson inquiry under oath
yesterday that U.K. media abuses went beyond voice-mail
interceptions by journalists at the U.K. unit of News Corp. In a
witness statement, he said News Corp. has turned over evidence
of “suspected illegality” to the U.S. Justice Department and
London police.  Though just one observer of the tribunal led by Judge Brian Leveson, Lewis has been transformed by events of the past three
years from a lawyer acting on behalf of phone-hacking victims
into a key player in the drama. Likely victims number 1,174,
another lawyer suing News Corp. told a judge April 20.  “It’s been a strange experience, a bit surreal,” Lewis
said in one of a series of interviews in  New York  last week as
he laid the groundwork for U.S. lawsuits. “I was a face in the
crowd, and now I’ve become a lead character.”  While Lewis is largely unknown in the U.S., his successful
battles against News Corp.’s London tabloids have won him fame
in Britain, where he appears frequently on television, opining
on the latest twists and turns in the phone-hacking scandal that
has particularly damaged the career of James Murdoch, his
father’s one-time heir apparent.  Lewis’s success has also landed him on “hot” lists
compiled by various British publications, from The Lawyer’s
“Top 100” to the London Evening Standard’s “1,000 most
interesting people.”  For more, click here.  News  SEC Reaches $33 Million Settlement in Insider Trading Case  A lawyer, a stock trader and a mortgage broker who all
pleaded guilty to an insider-trading scheme that spanned 17
years agreed to pay $33 million to resolve a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit.  Stock trader Garrett D. Bauer will pay $31.7 million,
mortgage broker Kenneth T. Robinson will pay $845,235 and
attorney Matthew H. Kluger will pay $516,510, according to a
statement by the SEC. The agency sued the men in federal court
in Newark, New Jersey, where they pleaded guilty last year.  They admitted Kluger stole nonpublic data on about 30
corporate transactions while working at four law firms,
including Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Wilson,
Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati PC. Kluger passed tips to Robinson,
who gave them to Bauer, who made trades. The companies included
Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)   “Bauer, Kluger and Robinson schemed to outsmart law
enforcement by structuring their relationships and
communications to avoid detection and frustrate insider-trading
detection mechanisms,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s enforcement
director, said in a statement.  The men consented to final judgments that are subject to a
judge’s approval, according to the statement. Bauer has agreed
to a bar on working as a broker, while Kluger agreed that he
won’t appear before the SEC as an attorney. All three men are
scheduled to be sentenced on June 4 in Newark.  Robinson, 45, of Long Beach, New York, was a mortgage
broker who secretly recorded Kluger and Bauer for the U.S.
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation. All three were criminally
charged in April 2011. The SEC sued Kluger and Bauer last year
and filed a complaint against Robinson yesterday.  In his plea, Kluger said the scheme started in 1994, when
he first worked as an associate for New York-based firm Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP. Kluger at first passed tips only on those
deals on which he worked. As the scheme developed, Kluger stole
information about deals on which he didn’t work that he learned
about by searching the firm’s computers.  The scheme continued when Kluger worked from 1998 to 2001
at Skadden Arps, another New York-based firm, and when he worked
from 2001 to 2002 at Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP,
Kluger admitted. It began again in December 2005 and ran until
March 2011, when Kluger worked in the Washington office of
 Wilson Sonsini .  Kluger attorney  Alan Zegas  didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment.  The cases are Securities and Exchange Commission v. Kluger,
Bauer, 11-cv-01936 and SEC v. Robinson, 12-cv-02438, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Firm News  U.K. Top Court Rejects Appeal by Lawyer Forced to Retire  The U.K. Supreme Court dismissed an appeal by a lawyer who
claimed age discrimination when his law firm forced him to
retire on his 65th birthday.  Judge Brenda Hale ruled the partnership contract that
mandated retirement at 65 was justified in this case.  “All businesses will now have to give careful
consideration to what, if any, mandatory retirement rules can be
justified,” she said in a written  judgment .  The case was brought by Leslie Seldon, a partner at
 Clarkson Wright & Jakes Ltd,  forced to retire in 2006. Seldon
sued the firm for age discrimination before an employment
tribunal, which ruled the partnership deed imposing a mandatory
retirement age was legitimate.  Seldon’s lawyer Robin Allen didn’t immediately respond to a
call requesting comment.  While rejecting Seldon’s bid for a declaration that he had
been discriminated against, the Supreme Court did send the case
back to the employment tribunal to reconsider whether the law
firm’s reasons for requiring retirement at 65 in the partnership
deed were appropriate.  “Seldon is one of the most important cases in employment
law in recent years,” Claire Dawson, a partner at law firm
Russell Jones & Walker, said before the ruling. “If forcing a
partner to retire is justifiable, then employers may use similar
arguments to attempt to justify” forcing workers out even
though the government has decided to abolish mandatory
retirement at 65.  For more, click here.  On the Docket  Sun Co-Founder Scott McNealy Set to Testify at Oracle IP Trial  Sun Microsystems Inc. co-founder Scott McNealy will be
called by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  today as a witness in a trial over claims
that Google Inc. infringed intellectual property to develop
Android software.  Fred Norton, an Oracle attorney, told U.S. District Judge
William Alsup in  San Francisco  yesterday that McNealy will
testify for the database maker, which alleges that Google
infringed copyrights and patents for the Java programming
language to build the Android operating system for mobile
devices. Sun created the language, which is now Oracle’s
property after its 2010 takeover of Sun.  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  testified April 24 that Google
wasn’t required to license the parts of Java that it used in
Android and Sun made no demand for a license to use Java when
the search engine company announced Android in 2007.  Robert Van Nest of Keker & Van Nest LLP is Google’s lawyer
while David Boies of Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP is Oracle’s.  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , is seeking $1
billion in damages and a court order blocking sales of Android,
now running on more than 300 million smartphones, unless
 Mountain View , California-based Google pays for a license.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  For more, click here.  Moves  Dewey Loses Tax Partner, Second Defection to KPMG  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP lost another partner to KPMG LLP, as
the embattled firm’s losses continue. Hershel Wein, a tax
partner in the New York office has left, both firms confirmed.  Earlier this week Fred Gander, who was the chairman of
Dewey’s European supervisory committee, left for KPMG’s U.S. tax
practice for Europe and the Middle East.  Dewey & LeBoeuf has struggled with its finances, fueled by
partner departures that are reported to top 70 since the
beginning of the year. The firm said last month it would set up
a new chairman’s office with five equal members from its most
profitable groups.  Sheppard Mullin Hires New York Corporate Attorney  N. Adele Hogan joined the New York office of Sheppard,
Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP in the firm’s corporate practice
group. Hogan joins from Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in New
York.  Hogan specializes in securities transactions, M&A
transactions, restructurings/bankruptcies, corporate governance
and general corporate matters.  Sheppard Mullin has more than 580 attorneys in 14 offices
located in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  