-- Malaysia Braces for 100,000-Strong Protest as Venue Banned
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-27T10:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/malaysia-braces-for-100-000-strong-protest-as-najib-ponders-vote.html
Malaysian protesters demanding fair
elections plan to rally 100,000 people tomorrow without
government permission in a test of Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
pledge to allow greater freedom before a national vote.  Stocks (FBMKLCI)  fell the most in almost seven weeks as the Coalition
for Clean and Fair Elections, or  Bersih , vowed to go forward
with the demonstration at Kuala Lumpur’s Independence Square.
City officials last night ordered the open-air space closed
today and tomorrow, risking clashes similar to those that marred
a Bersih protest last year.  The order to close the square “doesn’t make any
difference,” Maria Chin Abdullah, a member of Bersih’s steering
committee, said by phone today. “We will proceed.”  Najib’s handling of any street clashes could affect plans
for timing an election after the arrest of 1,600 march
participants from the same group in July led to a drop in the
prime minister’s approval rating. A delayed vote would prevent
the prime minister from taking advantage of a swell in support
that followed increases to civil servant salaries and cash
payments to poor households.  The police will do what is “proper” tomorrow, Foreign
Minister Anifah Aman told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “The
law still has to be applied.”  Stocks Fall  The FTSE Bursa  Malaysia  KLCI Index dropped 0.8 percent
today, the biggest decline since March 12. While  Malayan Banking
Bhd. (MAY)  led declines for reasons unassociated with the
demonstration, lower trading volumes show investors are
skittish, said Scott Lim, chief executive officer of Kuala
Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd.  “Volume reflects the participation,” said Lim, who
manages 380 million ringgit ($125 million). “There is no panic
selling but people have turned cautious.”  Najib’s approval rating in peninsular Malaysia fell to a
two-year low of 59 percent a month after last year’s protests,
according to the  Merdeka Center for Opinion Research . It
increased to 69 percent in February after the government
announced it would give away cash handouts of 500 ringgit ($164)
to households with monthly incomes of 3,000 ringgit or less, and
overhaul security laws. The margin of error was 3.07 percent.  Resignation Demand  “We can expect Najib to be a lot more careful in how he
handles the demonstrators,” said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Singapore. “He should
capitalize on the positive mood and just ride on his popularity
surge, because it’s very hard to see how things will turn come
year end.”  Bersih is demanding that election officials resign after
failing to implement all but one of the group’s eight demands,
including a minimum 21-day campaign period, co-chairwoman Ambiga
Sreenevasan told reporters on April 24. She received a copy
today of a court order from  Kuala Lumpur  Magistrates Court Judge
Zaki Asyraf Zubir that prohibits the public from joining any
rally at Independence Square from tomorrow to May 1.  Home Minister Hishammuddin Hussein, who last year called
Bersih illegal and banned the group’s yellow T-shirts, said
yesterday in an earlier statement there was still time for the
government and protesters to agree on a location. He canceled a
planned press briefing this afternoon.  “While time is running out, I still believe that, working
together in the spirit of dialogue and democracy, there is time
to find a safe and lawful venue,” he said yesterday. “I urge
the organizers to work with us to achieve this.”  Bersih organizers have said 40,000 people joined their
protest in 2007 and 50,000 last year. About 6,000 people took
part in last year’s rally, according to authorities.  Water Cannons  Police used tear gas and water cannons to break up the July
rally attended by opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim , who suffered
a head injury in the crackdown. The group, whose name means
“clean” in the Malay language, wants its demands met before
the next poll, including the use of absentee ballots and a
review of the electoral roll to remove dead people and duplicate
voters.  Malaysia’s parliament passed a law last year allowing
limited public assemblies while maintaining a ban on street
protests. Lawmakers are now considering a bill that would reduce
the time police can detain suspects without charges to 28 days
from two years, replacing a five decades-old law that has been
used to detain political opponents.  ‘Huge Test Case’  The Bersih protest is “a huge test case” for how much
freedom Malaysian authorities will allow, according to Phil
Robertson, deputy Asia director at New York-based  Human Rights
Watch .  “The government is in a pickle,” Robertson said by
telephone. “On the one hand they are saying they are reformers,
on the other hand they don’t want to do too much and give up
real political control.”  Najib’s ruling National Front coalition has made
preparations to call an election in May or June, according to
four officials who spoke last month. The vote required by early
next year will take place amid decelerating growth in  Southeast
Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  Gross domestic product is set to grow 4 percent in 2012 on
a weak global outlook, slower than regional rivals Indonesia,
Thailand and  Vietnam , according to the  Asian Development Bank .
That compares with last year’s 5.1 percent rise.  “We are rushing because they are rushing,” said Ambiga,
whose group is also pushing for foreign election observers. “We
want this message that we want a clean and fair 13th general
election to get through.”  Election Process  Earlier this month, a parliamentary committee that includes
opposition members made 22 recommendations to improve the
election process. The government, which agreed to Bersih’s
proposal to use indelible ink on fingers to prevent multiple
voting, is not legally bound to follow the committee’s advice.  The Election Commission denied that voter registration
rolls are flawed and said it would ensure at least a 10-day
campaign period, according to a  statement  on its website.  In 2008, when eight days of campaigning preceded elections,
Najib’s National Front coalition won by the narrowest margin
since independence in 1957. A Bersih rally held three months
before the vote increased momentum for the opposition, according
to Joseph Chinyong Liow, associate dean of the S. Rajaratnam
School of International Studies in  Singapore .  “I’m sure this weighs on Prime Minister Najib’s mind,” he
said. “It’s very clear already that the opposition has every
intention to piggyback on Bersih.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  