-- Alcatel-Lucent Slumps on Operating Loss as Sales Trail Estimates
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-04-26T08:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/alcatel-lucent-posts-operating-loss-as-sales-trail-estimates-1-.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) ,  France ’s largest
telecommunications equipment supplier, dropped as much as 17
percent after reporting a first-quarter loss and as sales missed
estimates because European clients withheld spending.  The operating loss, adjusted for some items, was 221
million euros ($292 million), after a year-earlier profit of 4
million euros, the Paris-based company said today. Revenue fell
12 percent to 3.21 billion euros, partly reflecting the sale of
call-center software unit Genesys. Analysts had projected sales
of 3.24 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen is struggling to keep
the company profitable after Alcatel-Lucent in February reported
its first annual net income in six years, marking the end of his
three-year turnaround plan. Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens
Networks are cutting jobs to catch up with Ericsson AB and
Huawei Technologies Co. and cushion a slowdown in spending on
 network equipment .  “Look to the euro crisis all around us, that has an
impact,” Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen said on a
conference call. “It’s a serious issue to factor in and a good
reason to be cautious.”  Firings  Nokia Oyj last week reported a first-quarter operating loss
of 1.34 billion euros, burdened by charges of 772 million euros
for the unprofitable equipment venture with Siemens AG. Nokia
Siemens, which announced plans in November to eliminate 17,000
jobs, or about 23 percent of its workforce, has been
unprofitable in all but two quarters since it was set up in
April 2007.  Alcatel-Lucent intends to eliminate as many as 1,800
positions in  Europe  through firings and relocation, a union
official said in February. The company -- formed by the 2006
merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies -- last quarter
also reached an agreement to license its 29,000 patents through
syndicate  RPX Corp. (RPXC)   Alcatel-Lucent’s patents include voice-recognition and
videoconferencing technology and the license agreement is
similar to a strategy that Ericsson adopted to counter a
slowdown in spending by phone operators.  Alcatel-Lucent fell 12 percent to 1.29 euros at 10:34 a.m.
in Paris, paring the gain this year to 6.8 percent and giving
the company a market value of 3 billion euros.  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless networks,
yesterday reported gross profit margins that topped analysts’
estimates, while net income more than doubled after the Swedish
company sold a stake in its handset venture with Sony Corp.  Asset Sales  First-quarter net income at Alcatel-Lucent was 398 million
euros, boosted by gains from the sale of Genesys, which was
completed in February. Alcatel-Lucent today confirmed its
February forecast for a rising profit margin this year.  The gross profit margin, or the percentage of revenue left
after deducting costs of goods sold, fell 5 percentage points to
30.3 percent from a year earlier, Alcatel-Lucent said. The
company sold fewer products and faced weaker demand for its more
profitable services, while it spent about 1.2 billion euros on
administrative, selling and research expenses.  First-quarter margins would be “a low point of the year,”
Chief Financial Officer Paul Tufano said on the call. “We
expect margin improvement in the second quarter and the second
half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  