-- Allscripts Plunges After Chairman, Three Directors Leave
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-27T20:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/allscripts-plunges-after-chairman-three-directors-leave.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions
Inc. (MDRX) , an electronic-health records provider, plunged the most in
more than three years after its chairman was fired in a board
dispute and three directors resigned in protest.  Allscripts fell 36 percent to $10.29 at 4 p.m. New York
time, the most since Oct. 13, 2008. Chicago-based Allscripts
also lowered its full-year forecast, leading to at least seven
downgrades by analysts.  The chairman, Phil Pead, who joined Allscripts after it
acquired Eclipsys Corp. in August 2010, was dismissed April 25
after the board “engaged in extensive deliberations regarding
the leadership of the company,” Allscripts said yesterday in a
statement. Three directors who didn’t agree with the decision
resigned. Specifics of the debate haven’t been made public.  “You have two companies come together, two boards come
together, and clearly there’s a divisiveness going on,” said
Anthony Vendetti, an analyst with Maxim Group in  New York . “We
think there was an internal power struggle between the current
CEO, Glen Tullman, and the chairman, Phil Pead.”  Pead had been chief executive officer and president of
Eclipsys, which sold software to hospitals and health systems,
when the company was purchased by Allscripts for $1.3 billion in
stock. As Allscripts chairman, he was to work on client and
strategic relationships, the companies said then.  Take Advantage  The acquisition positioned the combined company to take
advantage of health-care consolidation and reimbursement systems
that reward providers for quality of care rather than the number
of procedures. Allscripts has a dominant share of an electronic
health-record market that’s benefiting from $27.4 billion in
U.S. government stimulus money.  Allscripts’ vision was to create “a fully connected
community,” Tullman, the combined company’s CEO, said in an
interview at the time. “Small physicians’ offices connected to
the largest, best hospital, connected to post-acute care
facilities.”  As of September 15, Allscripts had contracts with 180,000
physicians, 1,500 hospitals and 10,000 post-acute care
facilities such as rehabilitation centers, according to Tullman.  Ariana Nikitas, a spokeswoman for Allscripts, said she
couldn’t respond immediately to a request today for an interview
with Tullman.  Different Views  Yesterday, on a conference call with analysts, Tullman said
executives in mergers sometimes have different views of the
future and direction of the combined organization.  The board didn’t make its leadership decision hastily, he
said while declining to comment further. Departing along with
Pead were directors Catherine M. Burzik, Eugene V. Fife, a
former Eclipsys board chairman, and Edward A. Kangas, board
chairman of Tenet Healthcare Corp., a Dallas-based hospital
operator, and a former Eclipsys board member.  The departures weren’t spurred by a bid or approach from
another company and don’t indicate a change in strategy, Tullman
said on the call.  “There was a level of surprise among some of the analysts
that Glen Tullman was able to survive this because of the
magnitude of the miss in the first quarter and the revised
downward guidance,” Vendetti said in a phone interview. “When
this type of turmoil occurs, usually the CEO pays the price.”  Investor Surprise  Investors may be surprised “that there wasn’t a change
across the C-suite,” Constantine Davides, an analyst with JMP
Securities LLC in  San Francisco , said in a telephone interview.  Davides and Vendetti said they don’t own shares in
Allscripts.  The company yesterday said 2012 earnings excluding one-time
items may be 74 to 80 cents a share, compared with a February
forecast of $1.06 to $1.10. First-quarter  net income  declined to
$5.8 million, or 3 cents a share, on revenue of $364.7 million.
Revenue missed the $387.6 million  average  of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC) , Jefferies Group Inc., Cowen Group Inc.,
Oppenheimer Holdings Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG,  Barclays
Capital  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  all reduced their ratings on Allscripts.  Allscripts also announced yesterday that Bill Davis, the
chief financial officer, had resigned effective May 18. During
the conference call, Davis said he was leaving because he
received an opportunity outside the company that couldn’t be
passed up. He said his decision wasn’t related to the revised
earnings forecast.  “A number of our clients and prospects delayed commitments
as they wait for us to introduce new releases and demonstrate
more robust integration,” Tullman said in the company’s
statement. “This dynamic, combined with the recent
reorganization of our sales and service teams, were the primary
factors that caused sales to be lower than our expectations.”  Credibility ‘Damaged’  Allscripts probably will recover from the tumult, Vendetti
and Davides agreed.  “There’s going to have to be a lot of rebuilding of
management credibility, which obviously is significantly damaged
by this announcement,” Vendetti said.  The company offers a “strong” medical records product for
doctors’ offices and its hospital records software, acquired in
the Eclipsys deal, is competitive with “great products”
offered by companies including closely held Epic Systems Corp.
and  Cerner Corp. (CERN) , Vendetti said.  “It’s just a question of execution,” Davides said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  