-- Ally Doubles Profit as Results From Mortgage Unit Improve
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-04-26T12:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ally-doubles-profit-as-results-from-mortgage-unit-improve-1-.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto and
home lender bailed out by U.S. taxpayers, said first-quarter
profit more than doubled as mortgage results improved.  Net income climbed to $310 million from $146 million a year
earlier, Detroit-based Ally said in a statement today. Core
pretax income was $474 million, Ally said.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  is searching for
ways to repay U.S. bailouts exceeding $17 billion that left the
Treasury Department with a 74 percent stake in the company.
Carpenter, who once predicted that a pending initial public
offering could value Ally at $30 billion, later said the sale
won’t happen without progress on resolving the mortgage unit.  Net income in the company’s mortgage operations almost
quadrupled to $191 million from $43 million in the same period
last year as  market conditions  improved and the value of
mortgage servicing rights rose. While Ally’s auto finance
business “posted strong and steady results for the quarter,”
according to Carpenter, profit fell 10 percent to $611 million
from $680 million a year earlier.  Ally is considering  bankruptcy  for Residential Capital, its
money-losing mortgage business, according to people with
knowledge of the matter. The division lost $792 million in the
three previous quarters combined. Ally discussed potential
fallout from such a decision in a prospectus for its IPO, and
said today its “objective with respect to the business is
unchanged.”  Alternate Plans  Treasury officials have told Ally executives and directors
in recent weeks that an IPO is unlikely, and that they instead
are pushing for Ally to split into at least two pieces, people
familiar with the matter have said. One part would be Ally’s
auto-finance unit, which is among the largest in the U.S., and
the other would be its online bank, which had almost $28 billion
in retail deposits at year-end.  Ally had been shoring up funding for ResCap, once one of
the largest originators of so-called subprime and Alt-A
mortgages until record defaults led to billions of dollars in
losses. The unit failed to make a $20 million interest payment
earlier this month, feeding speculation about bankruptcy.  The company has sought to limit other mortgage-related
business. Ally said earlier this month it will cease
underwriting and trading mortgage-backed securities at its
broker-dealer and dismiss most of its 33 traders and analysts.  Ally ranked No. 1 in financing U.S. consumer auto sales for
2011 with more than $40 billion in contracts for new or used
cars and trucks, or about 1.5 million vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 