-- Altria Quarterly Profit Rises on Higher Marlboro Prices
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-04-26T20:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/altria-quarterly-profit-rises-on-higher-marlboro-prices.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) , the largest
seller of tobacco in the U.S., reported a 3.8 percent increase
in first-quarter profit, helped by Marlboro’s market share gain
and higher prices.  Net income rose to $973 million, or 48 cents a share, from
$937 million, or 45 cents, a year earlier, the Richmond,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. Profit
excluding some items totaled 49 cents a share, matching the
average of 13  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Marlboro, the top-selling U.S. cigarette, increased its
share of U.S. smokers after Altria’s  Philip Morris USA 
introduced a new variety, Marlboro Black, in December. Michael Szymanczyk, retiring as chairman and chief executive officer
next month, has used cost cuts and cigarette price increases,
including two last year, to spur profit growth amid slumping
cigarette demand.  “The launch of Marlboro Black was a key contributor to
market share gains in the quarter,” Vivien Azer, a Citigroup
Inc. analyst in  New York , wrote today in a note to clients.
“Bigger-than-expected cost savings” helped profit, said Azer,
who rates the shares neutral, the equivalent of hold.  Altria’s share of U.S. retail sales gained 0.4 percentage
points to 49.4 percent. Marlboro rose 0.1 percentage points to
42.3 percent. The company’s cigar and snuff businesses also
boosted market share while cigarette shipments declined 2.6
percent.  Marketing, administration and research costs declined 12
percent to $483 million after Altria said in October it planned
to cut 15 percent of its cigarette-related salaried jobs as
shipments declined. The company said today it is “on track” to
reduce annual costs by $400 million by the end of 2013.  Altria rose 0.8 percent to $31.93 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 7.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  