-- Amazon First-Quarter Revenue Tops Estimates on Kindle
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-27T20:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/amazon-s-first-quarter-revenue-tops-estimates-on-kindle-sales.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s
largest Internet retailer, rose after it beat analysts’ first-
quarter revenue and earnings estimates on buoyant demand for
Kindle devices and e-commerce services for outside vendors.  The shares climbed the most in more than two years. Net
income was $130 million, or 28 cents a share, compared with $201
million, or 44 cents, a year earlier, the company said in a
statement late yesterday. Sales rose 34 percent to $13.2
billion. Analysts on average estimated earnings of 7 cents on
sales of $12.9 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is looking to add
customers by pouring money into new versions of the Kindle and
warehouses that are equipped to send out products faster. In the
quarter when it was introduced last November, the Kindle Fire
tablet rocketed to No. 2 in the market behind Apple Inc.’s iPad,
according to IDC, and it remains the best-selling item on
Amazon’s website, the company said.  “It was above expectations, both top and bottom line,”
Kerry Rice, a San Francisco-based analyst at Needham & Co., said
in an interview.  Income from operations was $192 million in the first
quarter, Seattle-based Amazon said. Analysts on average had
projected $99.4 million in operating profit. Third-party unit
sales represented 39 percent of the total and grew 60 percent
from a year earlier, Amazon said.  Shares Climb  The shares surged 16 percent to $226.85 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since Oct. 23, 2009.  Amazon  trades  at about 188 times trailing 12-month
earnings, compared with an average of about 58 for similar
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This is the first quarter in three that Amazon reported
higher revenue than analysts were predicting,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “First solid top and bottom line beat in quite a while,
when some investors were expecting a miss on one or both,” said
 Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San
Francisco , who has an outperform rating on the company’s shares.
“If Amazon can ultimately drive higher margins this year on
continued strong revenue growth, then we could see further
upside in shares.”  Profit Margin  Amazon’s operating margin, a measure of profitability, was
1.46 percent in the first quarter, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Margin for all of 2011 was 1.79 percent, the lowest
for any year since 2001.  Amazon made more than half of its first-quarter net income
from so-called equity-method investments, which include a 29
percent stake in LivingSocial.com, the second-largest daily deal
site. The investments give Amazon “the ability to exercise
significant influence, but not control, over an investee,”
according to a regulatory filing.  The company made $89 million from those outside stakes in
the first quarter, the highest amount in at least three years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Quarterly results from equity-
method investments had ranged from a loss of $17 million to a
gain of $18 million since the beginning of 2009, the data show.  Second-quarter operating income will range from a loss of
$260 million to a gain of $40 million, the company said.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey were projecting operating income
of $184 million. Sales in the current period will be $11.9
billion to $13.3 billion, Amazon said, compared with an estimate
of $12.8 billion.  Distribution Centers  Bezos spent about $4.6 billion on Amazon’s warehouses last
year, part of a series of investments that sent operating
expenses up 44 percent in 2011 and sliced margins by 2.3
percentage points. The company will build 13 more distribution
centers in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Thomas Szkutak said on
a conference call yesterday.  To bolster profitability, the company has been adding more
third-party sellers, which generate higher margins, to its
website. Amazon collects a commission, usually about 10 percent,
on any item sold by an outside vendor. All of that money goes to
the bottom line. Amazon also collects fees if the partner elects
to fulfill through its chain of warehouses, according to Mercent
Corp., a consulting firm that helps retailers improve online
sales.  Amazon is focusing on building out the video offerings
available on its website and the Kindle Fire, Szkutak said.
Amazon announced the availability of the Amazon Instant Video
app for Sony Corp.’s PlayStation 3 earlier this year, the first
video-game console that offers the software.  Sales of digital media increased 19 percent to $4.7
billion, Amazon said.  “Underlying user growth trends remain strong,” Douglas Anmuth, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in New York, wrote in
a research note this week. “We project margin to improve in the
back half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  