-- American Pursued ‘Limp-Along’ Strategy Before Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-26T23:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/american-pursued-limp-along-strategy-before-bankruptcy.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines 
pursued a “limp-along” strategy before filing for bankruptcy
as it sought to cut costs and turn around the carrier, an
executive for the company said in court.  American’s earlier negotiations with unions were driven by
what the company thought would be accepted by labor and not what
“would get us all the way to being a successful enterprise,”
Jeffrey Brundage, senior vice president of human resources,
testified in court today.  “My goal pre-bankruptcy was to get whatever might be
possible to move forward,” he said. “Post-bankruptcy it was
what do we absolutely need to restructure?”  American, which filed for bankruptcy in November, is
seeking $1.25 billion in annual labor savings as part of its
restructuring. It’s in court this week seeking permission to
void labor contracts with unions for pilots, flight attendants
and the Transport Workers Union, which includes mechanics and
baggage handlers.  In union negotiations that began in 2006, American sought
$600 million to $800 million in annual labor savings,  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for Fort Wroth, Texas-based AMR, said after
today’s hearing. If the company had reached agreements then on
new contracts, American would have ended up in bankruptcy in
“short order,” he said.  “The saving would not have been nearly enough,” Hicks
said.  Of the $1.25 billion in labor cost reductions American is
seeking in its bankruptcy reorganization, $990 million would
come from workers represented by the three unions, according to
court papers.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  