-- Hedge Fund Dreams Fuel Man Group Deal Talk at Record Low
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-04-26T17:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/man-group-speculators-chase-hedge-funds-at-record-low-real-m-a.html
For asset managers seeking hedge
fund-like returns on the cheap,  Man Group Plc (EMG)  is now offering
the biggest discount on record.  The world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund manager was
valued at 0.65 times net assets this week before takeover
speculation lifted Man Group’s stock from its  lowest price  in
more than a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
London-based company also had about $1.7 billion in cash, more
than any investment management firm in the industrialized world
relative to its market value, the data show.  While Man Group fell more than  60 percent  in the past year
as the computers that run its $21 billion flagship strategy
 failed  to spot profitable trades and Europe’s debt crisis caused
clients to withdraw money, it may lure asset managers looking to
expand globally, Robeco said. Man Group, which has almost 40
percent of assets outside Europe and the Americas, could give
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  or  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  better access to the
$1 trillion mutual fund markets of  Asia  and Japan, and a larger
slice of hedge-fund pools that command higher fees, UBS AG said.  “It could easily be taken over at this moment in time,”
Mark Glazener, head of equities at Robeco in Rotterdam, which
oversees about $200 billion and owns Man Group shares, said in a
telephone interview. “The products are reasonably attractive.
There is an attractive distribution network, which also has an
emphasis on Japan and Asia, two of the most difficult markets”
for asset managers to build out on their own, he said.  Barrels to Algorithms  Laura Humble, a spokeswoman at Man Group, declined to
comment on whether the company is open to a sale or has been
approached about a takeover. Man Group was valued at 1.73
billion pounds ($2.8 billion) yesterday.  Lauren Trengrove, a spokeswoman at New York-based
BlackRock, declined to comment on whether the world’s largest
asset manager is considering an acquisition of Man Group. Matt Walsh of  San Mateo , California-based Franklin Resources said the
manager of the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds doesn’t
comment on takeover speculation.  Founded in 1783 as a  barrel maker  by the Thames River in
London, Man Group now oversees more than $58 billion in assets
across three divisions: the AHL managed-futures business, the
Multi-Manager unit, and GLG, the U.K. hedge-fund manager that it
acquired in October 2010.  AHL, which relies on computer algorithms to bet on the
direction of everything from equity futures to commodities, is
Man Group’s biggest fund. After rising  every year  since at least
1999 and posting a 27 percent gain in 2008 as stock markets
collapsed, the strategy has  declined  in two of the past three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Correlations  The fund, designed to have little correlation to equities,
tumbled 17 percent in 2009 and dropped 6 percent last year, more
than the Newedge CTA Index of managed-futures strategies in each
of those years.  “Trading conditions have been tough,”  Peter Clarke , Man
Group’s chief executive officer, said in a statement in January.
“ Investment performance  varied significantly across styles,
with market volatility and reduced market liquidity impacting
trading opportunities.”  Concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis would make it more
difficult for managers to find profitable investments also
caused clients to pull money out of Man Group’s funds. The firm
said  assets under management  fell 15 percent in the nine months
ended December as redemptions exceeded sales.  Investment losses and client withdrawals have constrained
fee income, and Man Group is mired in the longest earnings slump
on record as  operating profit  declined in the past three fiscal
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coming Unstuck  Analysts have also been cutting their  profit estimates  for
2012, the data show. This month, Moody’s Investors Service put
Man Group’s credit rating on review for a possible downgrade,
citing “continued under-performance from key funds.”  Man Group’s stock slumped to an 11-year low this week,
leaving the firm trading at a 35 percent discount to the value
of its assets minus liabilities. That was less than any time
since at least 1998 and lower than the historical average of
about 4 times book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Man Group’s 1.06 billion pounds in  cash  is now equal to
about 61 percent of its market value, the data show, or about
six times higher than the median for developed-market investment
managers globally with more than $1 billion in value.  “The market price very much undervalues the business,”
said Ben Kelly, a special-situations analyst at Louis Capital
Markets in London. “Valuation has always seemed a potential
sticking point, but not anymore.”  Courting Mrs. Watanabe  Man Group gained as takeover speculation emerged. Arnaud Giblat, a London-based analyst at UBS, said in a report on April
23 that Man Group could be attractive because of its sales and
distribution relationships in  Japan  and the rest of Asia, as
well as alternative strategies that have higher fees than
traditional mutual funds.  Today, shares of Man Group fell 1.5 percent to 93.75 pence.  Potential acquirers could profit from Man Group as
investors look for higher returns in Japan, where almost 60
percent of the nation’s  1,483 trillion yen  ($18.2 trillion) in
household assets was held in currency and deposits, the nation’s
stocks have lost more than 70 percent of their value since 1989
and 10-year  government bonds  yield less than 1 percent.  Man Group oversees more than $10 billion in assets in Japan
and has relationships with three of the nation’s five biggest
brokerages and four of its five largest banks, UBS said.  The company also charges AHL clients  3 percent a year  to
oversee their assets and takes 20 percent of investment gains,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fee Structure  That’s higher than many other  hedge funds , which usually
charge investors a management fee of 2 percent and 20 percent of
profits. U.S. mutual funds invest in stocks charged an average
of 0.8 percent in fees last year on an asset-weighted basis,
according to the  Investment Company Institute .  “We see significant scope for a U.S. or Canadian asset
manager to seek to capitalize on the opportunity to access a
top-tier distribution network,” Giblat said in a telephone
interview. “From a corporate buyer’s perspective, if they think
AHL is a great product and working, it is not difficult to see
that it is undervalued.”  Man Group’s underperforming AHL strategy and client
redemptions could still dissuade potential buyers as it faces
competition from rivals including BlueCrest Capital Management
and Winton Capital Management.  Peter Lenardos of  RBC Capital Markets  said the number of
buyers may also be limited as increased financial regulation
prompts banks to sell asset management units to raise capital.  Relative Value  “Cheap assets are cheap for a reason,” said Lenardos, an
analyst at RBC in  London . “They also can get cheaper.”  By closing AHL to new investors and running the fund to
generate cash, Man Group could still be worth about 150 pence a
share, a more than 50 percent premium to yesterday’s price, UBS
said. The company’s cash could also lure buyers willing to take
on the risk, according to George Godber, who helps oversee $22
billion at Charles Stanley & Co.’s Matterley division in London.  “They have a lot of cash, so if they don’t do the
restructuring themselves, someone else will do it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net .
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 