-- Manufacturing Contributed Less to U.S. Growth Last Year
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-26T17:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/manufacturing-contributed-less-to-u-s-growth-last-year.html
Manufacturing added less to U.S.
economic growth last year than in 2010, indicating a pickup in
the expansion depends more on bigger gains in the services
industry.  Factory production accounted for 0.5 percentage point of
the 1.7 percent increase in  gross domestic product  in 2011, the
Commerce Department  said  today in Washington. A year earlier,
manufacturing added 1.2 percentage points to economic growth of
3 percent.  “We definitely need the recovery to broaden,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “There are signs that manufacturing is
starting to slow. We’re going to see manufacturing contribute
less to growth this quarter.”  Makers of durable goods, such as automobiles, were still
one of the biggest contributors to the expansion last year,
adding 0.49 percentage point after 0.96 percentage point in
2010. Durable-goods manufacturing increased 7.9 percent in 2011
after a 17 percent jump the previous year. Fifteen of 22
industry groups added to growth, including professional,
scientific and information services.  GDP, the value of all goods and services the nation
produced, rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter
after advancing 3 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department’s quarterly
figures tomorrow.  Factories may give way to  service industries  as a pillar of
the expansion as a slowdown in global growth curbs exports.  Service Industries  Service industries outperformed factories during the first
quarter, according to data from the Institute for Supply
Management, based in Tempe,  Arizona . The group’s manufacturing
 index  averaged 53.3 in the first three months of the year,
compared with 56.7 for the non-manufacturing  gauge . Readings
above 50 signal expansion.  Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday at the
conclusion of their two-day meeting that they expect the economy
to expand gradually. The central bank “expects economic growth
to remain moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
statement.  The U.S. will expand 2.3 percent this year, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists April 6
to April 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  