-- Apple Profit Surge Fueled by China Teachers to Furniture Makers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-26T01:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/apple-profit-surge-fueled-by-china-teachers-to-furniture-makers.html
Li Wenhua, a 35-year-old school
teacher in Beijing, left work early last week to buy an iPhone 
-- even though she didn’t need it for work and wasn’t planning to
use many of its features.  “A lot of people in my office use it and said I should get
one, so I did,” Li said as she exited  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s Joy City
Mall store. “I chose it just because it’s beautiful. I like the
style.”  The must-have sentiment helps explain why  China  made up 20
percent of Apple’s sales and fueled a 94 percent profit surge
last quarter. Hundreds of miles from Foxconn Technology Group
plants where iPhones are built, shoppers in Beijing,  Shanghai 
and other cities are flocking to the devices and making their
country a centerpiece of the company’s growth strategy. Like
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Yum! Brands Inc., Apple is benefiting from
rising wages that give Chinese citizens more disposable income.  “China has an enormous number of people moving into higher
income groups,” Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said
this week on a conference call with analysts. “There’s a
tremendous opportunity for companies that understand China, and
we’re doing everything that we can to understand it and serve
the market as good as we can.”  Apple sold 35.1 million iPhones in the fiscal second
quarter, an 88 percent increase from a year earlier, and higher
than the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
That came after the January release of the most recent version
of the iPhone in China and 21 other countries.  ‘Zero to $13 Billion’  China accounted for $7.9 billion of Apple’s $39.2 billion
in sales in the period that ended March 31. In the first six
months of this fiscal year, Apple’s sales reached $12.4 billion
in China, almost matching $13.3 billion, the total for all of
last year. Before the iPhone’s debut there in 2009, the company
had less than $1 billion in annual sales in China.  “I don’t know of any other company that has driven its
sales from virtually zero to $13 billion in a few years,” said
 Donald Straszheim , a  senior managing director  who heads China
research at ISI Group LLC in  Los Angeles . “There’s a growing
appetite for Apple products.”  Once considered a niche computer maker with a smaller
international footprint than competitors such as Hewlett-Packard
Co., Apple has used products including the iPhone and iPad to
become one of the world’s biggest electronics makers. The
Americas made up only 35 percent of sales last year, down from
48 percent in 2007. In the same period, sales in the Asia-
Pacific region, which includes China, grew to 21 percent from 7
percent. Last quarter, international sales made up 64 percent of
the total.  Offsetting U.S. Declines  Sales in China and other countries last quarter helped make
up for a drop in iPhone sales in the U.S., where the new model
went on sale in October.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless , the
largest U.S. carriers, said iPhone sales fell last quarter
compared with the previous three-month period.  In China, Apple sells its products from six company-run
retail outlets and its online store, as well as a network of
thousands of authorized resellers. Wireless carriers such as
 China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and China Telecom Corp. also sell
the iPhone. Lines of unauthorized sellers sell the company’s
gadgets a short walk from its flagship stores in Beijing.  The appeal extends beyond the iPhone.  At the same store where teacher Li bought her device, Chu
Fuzhan, a 42-year-old manager in a furniture-manufacturing
business, said he was buying a new MacBook to go along the
iPhone and two iPads he already owns.  ‘Quality and Style’  “Everywhere around the world, people love the quality and
style of Apple products, and now people want that in China
too,” Chu said. “I wanted to be part of that.”  Mac sales rose more than 60 percent in China last quarter,
compared with 7 percent globally, Cook said this week.  Apple’s growth probably won’t slow any time soon. According
to a report published last year by Credit Suisse Group AG, China
may generate almost $30 billion in sales for Apple by 2015.  “They are just scratching the surface with China, with the
iPhone being the highlight,” said  Chris Jones , an  analyst  at
Canalys in  Palo Alto ,  California . “There’s still a tremendous
amount of upside as they get more carriers and more points of
sale in the market.”  Apple will get another boost if the iPhone becomes
available on  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest mobile-phone
carrier, with more than 660 million users. China Mobile said
last month that it and Apple are “working very hard together”
on an agreement to have China Mobile carry the iPhone.  Siri in Mandarin  Even without a formal deal to provide an iPhone with a
service contract, more than 15 million China Mobile customers
are using an iPhone on the company’s 2G network.  To extend its appeal in China, Apple may need to add
features tailored to Chinese users, said Nathan Washburn, an
assistant  professor  at the Thunderbird School of Global
Management, who studies business management in China.  Many Chinese iPhone owners use separate phones for texting
because the Apple’s device isn’t well equipped for Chinese
characters. Siri, the voice-recognition software in the new
iPhone 4S, doesn’t work with Mandarin, though Apple says the
tool is coming this year.  “They need to be sure the product is tailored to the needs
of the Chinese market,” said Washburn. Failing that, many
customers may regard it as a status symbol with limited appeal
beyond that, he said.  Pelted With Eggs  Apple will also need to manage the expectations of the
Chinese public eager to own its gadgets. Police were called in
to break up a crowd that pelted an Apple store with eggs in
January after growing frustrated that iPhone sales were delayed.  The company is hardly alone in attempting to benefit from
the spending power of Chinese consumers. Samsung Electronics Co.
and other phone makers using Google Inc.’s Android operating
system are outselling Apple, said  Shaun Rein , managing director
of the China Market Research Group. The company ought to release
its products sooner in the Chinese market, he said.  “Apple is a good story in China, but they are succeeding
in spite of themselves,” Rein said. “They are winning because
they have a great product, but they are underperforming when it
comes to localizing and understanding the China market. They
should be releasing products in China first.”  In a sign of China’s growing importance to Apple, Cook
visited the country last month, meeting with government
officials and touring factories where its devices are made.  ‘Exclusive Few’  The visit came after the company had faced criticism about
its labor practices in the country, including excessive overtime
and unsafe working conditions.  Foxconn is putting in place changes, such as higher wages
and reduced overtime of assembly plant workers. Investors and
analysts will be watching to see whether the new policies will
reduce Apple’s profit margins.  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos., said the impact could be minimal, with costs
bringing margins down by 1 percentage point over time.  In another example of the challenges of operating in China,
Apple also has been entangled in a legal fight there over the
trademark for the iPad.  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) , a
Hong Kong-listed company, has claimed ownership of the name in
China, an assertion Apple says isn’t true.  If Apple faces obstacles in China, there was no sign of
them at the bustling Apple store at the Joy City Mall.  Chu, the furniture worker, summed up his desire for Apple
products by saying, “I wanted to have the experience of being
one of the exclusive few.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  