-- Apple, Nokia, Nippon Steel, AIG: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-26T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/apple-nokia-hitler-nippon-steel-aig-intellectual-property.html
As  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  keep trying to prove who
violated each other’s patents, the companies may be motivated to
prevent a possible ban on imports of Xboxes and iPhones.  Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook, in the wake of a
preliminary finding April 24 that it infringed one of four
Motorola Mobility smartphone patents, said the company would
“highly prefer to settle versus battle” over patents.  Cook’s comments follow remarks by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  CEO Larry
Page, who called the spate of litigation over smartphones a
“sad thing” in a Bloomberg Businessweek interview published
April 4.  “It’s getting to the point where it is now seriously in
the way of business,” Victor Siber, former chief intellectual
property counsel for  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  who’s
now with Baker & Hostetler LLP, said yesterday.  Lawsuits have spread across four continents as companies
vie for a greater share of a market for smartphones that
researcher Gartner Inc. said rose 47 percent in the fourth
quarter.  A U.S. International Trade Commission judge said Apple
products including the iPad and iPhone infringe a Motorola
Mobility patent, while another said the Xbox infringed four
patents. Both determinations announced this week are subject to
review by the six-member commission, which can block the Asia-
made products from entering the U.S.  Apple filed the first large-scale patent case over
smartphone technology in March 2010 with a case against  HTC
Corp. (2498)  Apple’s first strike reflected a pledge by the late Steve Jobs, as told in his authorized biography last year, that he
would “spend every penny” of the company’s cash to prove that
Android’s features were copied from the iPhone and iPad.  In the interview with Google’s Page published this month,
he said the legal wrangling was taking its toll, with “a lot of
money going to lawyers and things, instead of building great
products for users.”  After this week’s rulings, the next step in both cases is
for Microsoft and Apple to petition the commission with
arguments they said will undermine Motorola Mobility’s case.
Microsoft and Apple have said they will challenge Motorola
Mobility’s right to seek import bans on the patents, as well as
whether there was infringement and if the patents are valid.  The case against Apple is In the Matter of Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, Computers and Components Thereof, 337-745, and the case
against Microsoft is In the Matter of Gaming and Entertainment
Consoles, 337-752, both U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  Nokia, HTC Win Ruling Revoking IPCom 3G Technology Patent  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and HTC Corp. won a ruling revoking a patent that
IPCom GmbH relied on to get injunctions in Germany against the
sales of some third-generation wireless phones.  The European Patent Office revoked the intellectual
property protection yesterday, the agency’s spokesman Rainer
Osterwalder said by telephone. IPCom said it will appeal.  A Dusseldorf court on April 24 banned  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  from selling HTC and Nokia devices using
the technology in a case brought by IPCom. The phone companies
and manufacturers can appeal the ruling.  The patent, called “100A” by its owner, is a central
piece of the portfolio IPCom used in its effort to make Nokia
and HTC pay royalties for mobile technology it acquired from
Robert Bosch GmbH in 2007. The companies are entangled in patent
litigation across  Europe . The patent was filed for methods used
to connect devices to 3G wireless networks and prioritize them.  Thomas Empt, a spokesman for Pullach, Germany-based IPCom,
said in an e-mail the patent remains valid during these
proceedings and thus yesterday’s ruling won’t influence cases
the company won in Germany and the U.K..  Nokia and HTC took the opposing view. The EPO’s decision
means that the Dusseldorf court’s April 24 ruling isn’t expected
to stop the sales of their products in Germany, the two
companies said in separate e-mailed statements.  “IPCom needs to recognize its position and end its
unrealistic demands for what remains of this significantly
diminished portfolio,” said Paul Melin, vice president for
intellectual property at Nokia.  HTC called the EPO decision a “grave setback” for IPCom
and said it is hoping that the “cost driving” patent
litigation will now end.  Imax Tests Laser Projector Prototype Built With Kodak Patents  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the pioneer of large-screen cinema, has begun
testing a prototype laser-projection system, based on patents
licensed from  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  that improves picture quality
with brighter light.  The system, which uses two projectors and incorporates
Mississauga, Ontario-based Imax’s image-enhancing technology,
will allow movies to be shown on screens 120 feet wide or more.
It will be available in the fourth quarter of 2013, said Greg
Foster, chairman and president of filmed entertainment. The
company demonstrated the prototype to studios last week, using
clips including Warner Bros.’ “The Dark Knight Rises,” the
final Batman movie from director Christopher Nolan.  The new system gives Hollywood studios and cinema chains
another potential tool to keep moviegoers in theaters as
competition mounts from large-screen televisions and Web-based
options. With the additional “horsepower” provided by laser’s
focused light, theaters can improve the picture quality,
including in newer formats such as 3-D.  “We’re very pleased with where we are at this point, and
pleased with the reaction from our key partners,” Foster said
in an interview.  Nolan showed clips from “The Dark Knight Rises,” at the
exhibitors’ trade show, Cinemacon, April 24 in Las Vegas. One-
third of the movie was shot using Imax cameras, he said.  Warner Bros., owned by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , also showed early
clips of Peter Jackson’s “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,”
filmed at the faster rate of 48 frames per second, which makes
the image clearer and easier on the eyes. The movie will be
released in December with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.  For more patent news, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Bavaria to Publish German ‘Mein Kampf’ Before Copyright Expires  In efforts to demystify Adolf Hitler’s “Mein Kampf”
manifesto, the German state of Bavaria plans to publish a
German-language edition of the book before the copyright expires
in 2015, 70 years after Hitler’s death, the  BBC   reported .  While publication of the book has never been specifically
banned in Germany, because of its ownership of the copyright,
Bavaria has managed to prevent others from publishing it, the
BBC reported.  Markus Soeder, Bavaria’s finance minister, told the BBC
that by publishing the book “we want to make clear what
nonsense is in there.”  In March a court in Munich barred a British publisher from
putting out without authorization a book containing German-
language extracts from “Mein Kampf,” according to the BBC.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Nippon Steel Sues Posco for $1.2 Billion for Using Secrets  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s largest steelmaker, said it
sued Posco in Tokyo’s District Court seeking 100 billion yen
(1.2 billion) in damages from the South Korean company for
allegedly using trade secrets acquired illegally by a former
employee.  Nippon Steel also sued its former employee, the Tokyo-based
steelmaker said yesterday in a statement. It also sued Posco and
a subsidiary in the U.S. for infringements of certain patents,
it said, without providing further details of that lawsuit.  “Nippon Steel has given warnings and requests to Posco
alleging misappropriation of Nippon Steel’s property rights,”
the company said. It’s asking the Tokyo Court for an injunction
against Posco’s manufacturing of certain high-end electrical
steel products, according to the statement.  Japanese steel mills are battling a strong currency which
is reducing their competitiveness against rivals in South Korea
and  China . Some customers, such as shipbuilders, are paying 30
percent less for steel from South Korean yards, one person
familiar with the matter said in October.  Nippon Steel is taking every measure possible to boost
earnings as it battles higher costs, Credit Suisse Securities
Japan Ltd.’s Shinya Yamada said yesterday. Nippon Steel and
Posco began a partnership in 2000 to collaborate on some
research, technology and buying raw materials.  “Nippon Steel was aware that the move might worsen
relations with Posco, its long-term alliance partner, but they
made a decision,” said Yamada.  Posco hasn’t infringed Nippon Steel’s steel sheet
technology, and will respond to the suit, spokeswoman Kim Ji
Young said yesterday. Nippon Steel said in the statement that
its strategic alliance with Posco will continue, and won’t harm
its relationship with the Korean producer.  Nippon Steel last year won regulatory approval to buy
 Sumitomo Metal , Japan’s third-largest steelmaker, to compete
with international rivals, including Posco, China’s Baoshan Iron
& Steel Co. and  ArcelorMittal. (MT)   AIG Claims Ex-International Lease Executives Stole Trade Secrets  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  sued the former chief
executive officer of its International Lease Finance Corp.
aircraft lending business, saying he misappropriated
confidential information when he left the company and started
 Air Lease Corp. (AL)   AIG filed a complaint April 24 in  Los Angeles  Superior
Court accusing Steven Udvar-Hazy and 10 other former
International Lease Finance executives of breach of fiduciary
duty and stealing trade secrets, among other claims, when they
left the company in 2010.  “We regret having to file this suit, but the defendants’
misconduct left us no choice but to go to court to protect our
rights and the rights of our shareholders, including our largest
shareholder, the American taxpayer,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for
New York-based AIG, said in an e-mailed statement.  AIG said Udvar-Hazy tried to buy all or part of
International Lease Finance, the Los Angeles-based company he
started in 1973 and sold to AIG in 1990 for $1.3 billion. AIG
was soliciting bids for International Lease Finance in 2008 when
the insurer needed to raise capital to repay an $85 billion U.S.
government loan, according to the complaint.  Udvar-Hazy couldn’t reach an agreement in January 2010 to
buy a fleet of planes from International Lease Finance to start
his business because he wouldn’t be allowed to solicit other
executives or use confidential data, according to AIG’s
complaint. He “resigned from ILFC, and then stole what ILFC
refused to sell,” according to the complaint.  Air Lease said in a statement that International Lease
Finance resorted to filing a lawsuit because it hasn’t been able
to compete and perceives Air Lease as a growing threat.
International Lease Finance has “struggled with an aging fleet,
heavy debt load, and loss of talent,” Air Lease said.  Herr said in a follow-up statement that Air Lease’s
allegations were “spurious” and a “smoke screen to distract
attention from it illegal conduct.”  The case is AIG v. Air Lease, BC483370, Superior Court of
California (Los Angeles).  Penney Sued for Trade Secret Theft by Store-Fixture Manufacturer  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the retail chain with roots that go back
to 1902, was sued for trade-secret misappropriation by a New
York-based maker of store fixtures.  The suit, filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan,
comes in the wake of Plano, Texas-based Penney’s new “Fair and
Square” ad campaign.  Hudson & Broad Inc.  alleged that it was retained to design
and manufacture a three-dimensional symbol that would give
Penney brand identification akin to the star used by  Macy’s Inc. (M) 
and  Target Corp. (TGT) ’s target logo.  The store-fixture company said in court papers that it
repeatedly told Penney officials that it wasn’t a design firm,
and didn’t want a “design fee” for its work. Instead it
planned to manufacture the LED-illuminated square device it
designed.  Penney promised that if it accepted the design, it would
order the product only from Hudson & Broad, according to the
complaint.  The office-fixture company said it sent a quote to
Penney to deliver almost 2,000 devices to Penney for a total of
$25.6 million.  Instead, it learned at a trade show that the sole U.S.
supplier of a matte acrylic to be used to make the device had
been approached by other vendors to fill a large order from
Penney. When the office-fixture company approached Penney, it
learned that another vendor had submitted a lower bid to make
the devices and would receive the contract.  Hudson & Broad said Penney is making unauthorized use of
its intellectual property, and is owed at least $19 million in
damages.     It also asked the court for extra damages to punish
Penney for its actions and for awards of litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Penney didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Hudson & Broad Inc., v. J.C. Penny Corp., 1:12-
cv-03239, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 