-- Hartford to Sell Annuity Distribution as Paulson Presses CEO
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-04-26T17:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/hartford-to-sell-annuity-distribution-as-paulson-presses-ceo-2-.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer scaling back under pressure from investor John Paulson, agreed to sell its individual annuities-distribution
business to Forethought Financial Group Inc.  The deal excludes assets and liabilities tied to annuities
previously sold by the insurer, according to a statement today
from Hartford, which is based in the Connecticut city of the
same name.  Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  is shrinking the firm as
he fends off calls from Paulson, the billionaire hedge-fund
manager and Hartford’s biggest shareholder, to break the insurer
in two. The individual annuities business, which sells equity-
linked products with minimum-return guarantees, generated losses
for Hartford during the financial crisis of 2008. The firm said
last month it would halt sales of the products.  “Over time, our goal is to reduce The Hartford’s overall
 sensitivity  to  capital markets  and decrease the volatility of
our results,” McGee said yesterday in a letter to shareholders.
“The proceeds from divestitures will provide The Hartford with
greater financial flexibility that could be used to reduce the
risks associated with the legacy annuity block.”  The majority of employees supporting the Hartford business
will be offered jobs with Forethought, according to the
statement, which didn’t disclose terms. Houston-based
Forethought provides insurance and retirement products and has
about $5.1 billion in assets, according to the statement.  Cutting Risk  Hartford fell 16 cents to $20.59 at 12:52 p.m. in  New York .
The firm has advanced 27 percent this year, the  biggest gain  in
the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   McGee, who was hired as CEO in 2009, is seeking to cut risk
by dismantling the annuities business built by his predecessor,
 Ramani Ayer . The retirement products, which are often tied to
stock market performance, require Hartford to shoulder a portion
of the losses when equities decline.  McGee is also seeking buyers for Hartford’s individual
life, Woodbury Financial Services and retirement-plan
operations, the company said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  