-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Home Sales Increase; Treasuries Gain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-26T21:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/asian-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-won-euro-strengthen.html
U.S. stocks rose for a third day as
pending home sales increased more than forecast and technology
companies rallied on better-than-estimated earnings. Metals led
commodities higher, while 10-year Treasury yields approached a
two-month low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (MXEF)  closed up 0.7 percent to
1,399.98, capping its best three-day rally since  February. (SPX) 
Futures on the benchmark index slid 0.4 percent at 5:32 p.m. in
 New York  after S&P cut Spain’s sovereign credit rating. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.1 percent, reversing a drop of 0.7
percent. Ten-year note yields lost four basis points to 1.94
percent, gold futures increased 1.1 percent and the dollar
weakened versus 11 of 16 major peers amid bets the  Federal
Reserve  won’t hesitate in providing more stimulus if the economy
weakens. Oil closed at a three-week high.  The  S&P 500  reversed early  losses  as the National
Association of Realtors reported that pending home purchases
rose 4.1 percent to the highest level since April 2010,
tempering concern about the economy after an earlier government
report showed  jobless claims  topped estimates last week. Citrix
Systems Inc. and  Xilinx Inc. (XLNX)  led technology shares higher after
posting earnings that topped estimates by at least 16 percent.  “We’re more confident,”  Andrew Milligan , who helps
oversee about $240.7 billion as the Edinburgh-based head of
global strategy at Standard Life Investments Ltd., said in a
telephone interview. “The market got into this earnings season
a little too pessimistic. The economy has surprised a little
more positively. The underlying concept of an economy moving
forward is pretty much accepted by people.”  Early Losses Reversed  Benchmark indexes started the session lower after Labor
Department data showed 388,000 Americans filed jobless claims
last week, 13,000 more than the median economist estimate.
Earlier losses in stocks also came as euro-region economic
confidence declined and Italy’s borrowing costs rose at a sale
of six-month bills.  Stock futures declined after the regular market close as
Spain’s sovereign credit rating was cut to BBB+ from A by S&P on
concern the nation will have to provide further fiscal support
to the banking sector as the economy contracts. Spain’s short-
term rating was lowered to A-2 from A-1, while the outlook on
the long-term rating is negative, S&P said.  The S&P 500 rallied about 2.4 percent in three days, led by
yesterday’s 1.4 percent advance as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s earnings almost
doubled and Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he’s prepared to
do more to stimulate growth if needed. Today’s gain extended
this year’s advance in the S&P 500 to 11 percent and trimmed its
monthly decline to 0.6 percent. If the S&P 500 erases its April
drop, it will cap the fifth straight month of gains, the longest
streak since 2009.  Earnings Season  Earnings have beaten analysts’ estimates at about 75
percent of the 239 companies in the S&P 500 that released
results since April 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Per-share profits grew 8.1 percent for the group, led by a 22
percent increase in technology company earnings. Earnings were
forecast to rise 0.8 percent before the start of the reporting
season, according to a survey of analysts on April 5.  “The most recent concern of the bears was that earnings
this quarter were going to disappoint and take the market
lower,” Birinyi Associates Inc., the Westport, Connecticut-
based firm founded by  Laszlo Birinyi , said in a note to clients.
“That this was a concern last quarter, as well, was
conveniently forgotten.” The S&P 500 rose 12 percent in the
first quarter, its best start to a year since 1998, as per-share
earnings topped estimates by 3.4 percent during the reporting
season.  PulteGroup Rallies  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  rallied 10 percent, the most this year,
following the housing report and after the  homebuilder ’s loss
narrowed as it reduced costs and sold houses at higher prices.
Xilinx surged 6.8 percent, the most in three years, after its
sales forecast also  beat  estimates as the company sells more
chips to makers of mobile-phone equipment amid a surge in data
demand from smartphone users. Citrix rallied 12 percent after
the software company’s full-year earnings forecast also topped
estimates.  Exxon Mobil Corp. slipped 0.9 percent and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  retreated 1.8 percent after  earnings  missed
estimates.  Treasuries gained for the first time in three days, with
30-year yields losing three basis points to 3.12 percent, as the
Fed’s pledge to keep borrowing rates low through 2014 pushed the
yield to a record low of 1.347 percent at today’s auction of $29
billion in seven-year notes.  Monetary Stimulus  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said that
while more monetary stimulus isn’t likely at the moment,
additional quantitative easing remains an option for the Fed if
employment growth is sluggish. The current U.S. jobless rate is
8.2 percent.  “There’s little doubt in my mind that a target for
unemployment of at least 7 percent, perhaps lower, is what
they’re shooting for,” Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart” with  Trish Regan . “Maybe not on June 30th, but it will
require additional quantitative easing.”  Automobile and oil companies led European stocks higher,
while banks tumbled as Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest
lender, and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the largest in Spain, posted
worse declines in profits than analysts estimated. AstraZeneca
Plc dropped 6.1 percent, the most since 2010, after the U.K.
drugmaker cut its earnings forecast.  Alcatel, Mobistar  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , France’s largest telecommunications
equipment supplier, plunged 17 percent after reporting a first-
quarter loss. Mobistar SA sank 14 percent to the lowest in
almost nine years as Belgium’s second-biggest mobile-phone
company reported profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The yield on Spanish 10-year  government bonds  increased
three basis points to 5.83 percent. The Italian yield was little
changed at 5.64 percent after climbing as much as seven basis
points earlier. Italy sold 8.5 billion euros ($11.3 billion) of
six-month bills at a rate of 1.772 percent, up from 1.119
percent at the previous auction on March 28.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
area fell to 92.8 this month from a revised 94.5 in March, the
 European (SXXP)  Commission said.  ‘Continue to Be Difficult’  “Economic statistics will continue to be difficult
considering countries’ deficits and the fact that they aren’t
attacking the problem,” said Matthieu Giuliani, who helps
manage $4 billion at Paris-based Banque Palatine SA. “Growth in
the macroeconomy won’t be found soon.”  The S&P GSCI  index  of 24 commodities climbed for a third
day as nickel, zinc, lead and copper rallied at least 1.4
percent. Oil climbed to a three-week high, rising 0.4 percent to
$104.55 a barrel, after the home-sales report and as a weakening
dollar lifted prices of commodities. The Dollar Index, a gauge
of the currency against six major peers, slipped 0.1 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks advanced 0.7
percent as the Hang Seng gauge in  Hong Kong  jumped 0.8 percent
and  Kospi (KOSPI)  in  South Korea  added 0.1 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa
added 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  