-- Asian Local-Currency Bonds May Extend Gains This Year, ADB Says
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/asian-local-currency-bonds-may-extend-gains-this-year-adb-says.html
East Asian local-currency bonds
will probably extend gains this year as near-zero  interest rates 
in developed nations prompt investors to seek higher yields, the
Asian Development Bank said.  Emerging-market Asian securities have returned 3.1 percent
this year, according to domestic debt indexes tracked by HSBC
Holdings Plc. Growth in developing East Asia’s local-currency
bond market accelerated in the fourth quarter, led by corporate
notes, the Manila-based lender said in its Asia Bond Monitor
 report  today. It classifies emerging-market East Asia as  China ,
 Hong Kong , Indonesia, South Korea,  Malaysia , the  Philippines ,
Singapore,  Thailand  and  Vietnam .  The  yield premium  for Indonesia’s 10-year rupiah bonds over
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries is 394 basis points, while that
for  Philippine notes  is 384 basis points. China’s  spread  is at
157 basis points. Most Asian currencies are expected to advance
by year-end, with South Korea’s won,  Indonesia ’s rupiah and
China’s yuan forecast to be 4.7 percent, 3.4 percent and 2.5
percent stronger, according to the median estimates of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Inflows to emerging East Asia’s local-currency bond
markets, spurred by interest-rate differentials and easy money
conditions in mature markets, are expected to exert downward
pressure on domestic yields,” the ADB said in a report led by
Iwan J. Azis, head of its regional economic integration office.
“This trend could even accelerate in 2012 in anticipation of
appreciation in domestic currencies.”  Corporate Issuance Increases  Outstanding debt in East Asia’s emerging markets increased
7 percent last year to $5.7 trillion in local-currency terms,
compared with a gain of 5.7 percent in the third quarter, the
ADB said. The corporate segment of the region’s bond market
expanded 17.1 percent, while government notes increased 2.5
percent.  Economic growth in  Asia  excluding  Japan  is expected to
increase 6.9 percent this year from 7.2 percent in 2011, the ADB
said on April 11. Expansion will accelerate to 7.3 percent in
2013, the fastest pace in three years, it forecast.  “Corporate bonds should continue to grow over the next few
years, with banks preparing for higher  capital requirements ,
companies seeking funding for expansion as the region’s robust
growth continues and with strong domestic demand from domestic
investors,” Azis said.  Volatile capital inflows and the threat of accelerating
inflation are the main risks to the region’s bond markets in
2012, the ADB said. China’s consumer prices rose more than
forecast in March, gaining 3.6 percent from a year earlier,
official data show. Thai inflation quickened for the first time
in five months, while Indonesian consumer price-gains
accelerated for the first time since August, according to
government reports.  Sales Jump  Total sales of local-currency debt in emerging-market East
Asia in the fourth quarter rose 4.6 percent from a year earlier
to $783 billion. Issuance from companies jumped 43.6 percent to
$211 billion, while government debt offerings fell 5 percent to
$573 billion. The total value of outstanding sovereign debt was
$3.8 trillion, compared with $1.9 trillion of corporate debt.  The region’s bonds accounted for 8.1 percent of global
securities at the end of September from 8 percent at end-June
2011 and 2.1 percent at the end of 1996, when ADB started to
compile the data. China and  South Korea  are the largest debt
markets in the region, with global shares of 4.8 percent and 1.7
percent, respectively, the ADB said.  Indonesia’s local-currency bonds led gains among Asia’s 10
biggest sovereign debt issuers this year, returning 3.8 percent.
Among East Asian nations, Malaysia and Hong Kong were next at
1.4 percent, according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.
Thailand’s securities were the only losers with a decline of 0.7
percent.  Funds focused on emerging-market bonds attracted $14.4
billion in the first quarter of this year, compared with $1.9
billion in the year-earlier period, according to data from U.S.
research company EPFR Global.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 