-- AstraZeneca Strategy Change Sought After Brennan Steps Down
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/astrazeneca-strategy-change-sought-after-brennan-steps-down.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s board is under
pressure to find a dealmaker.  The London-based company yesterday named Chief
Financial Officer Simon Lowth as interim chief executive officer
after  David Brennan  resigned following criticism from investors.
Lowth said yesterday he will stick to smaller acquisitions until
the board reviews strategy in the second half.  Brennan’s resignation after six years in the job gives the
board a chance to do something “aggressive,” said Navid Malik,
an analyst at Cenkos Securities Plc in  London . With sales
slumping on competition from generic medicines and the company
struggling to develop new products, AstraZeneca should find a
CEO who won’t be content with smaller purchases and drug-
licensing deals, he said.  “If you don’t have a strong pipeline and you have
declining revenue, why would you continue to do small bolt-
ons?” said Malik. “If someone comes in and is tasked with
continuing the same strategy, it would be disappointing.”  AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, will
review its strategy in the second half, as it does every year,
Lowth said on a conference call yesterday. In the meantime the
company will stick to purchases in the low-single-digit billion-
dollar range and invest in existing products, he said.  AstraZeneca should be talking to  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  about
merging with its Abbvie Pharma division, or Amgen Inc., whose
bone drug Xgeva could benefit from AstraZeneca’s regulatory and
marketing expertise, said Peter McDougall, CEO of London
research firm Druganalyst Ltd., who has followed the drug
industry for 27 years. Other analysts have speculated that the
company could buy  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , Amarin Corp. and
 Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)   New Chairman  Brennan, 58, leaves his post June 1, and the company is
beginning a search for a permanent successor. Chairman Leif Johansson will join the company on the same date, three months
earlier than planned, to oversee the search. New board members
will “bring fresh perspective to stimulate our thinking” about
the future, Lowth said.  Shareholders approved Johansson’s appointment yesterday.
Brennan made the decision to leave and wasn’t ousted, outgoing
Chairman Louis Schweitzer told shareholders yesterday.  For now, optimism that a new CEO will find a way to boost
growth in the future is being outweighed by disappointing
results in the present. AstraZeneca shares slumped the most in
more than two years yesterday after the company reported an 11
percent drop in  first-quarter sales  and cut its profit forecast
for the year because of generic competition.  Patent Cliff  While AstraZeneca has the lowest valuation among the
world’s 10 largest drugmakers, selling the company probably
isn’t an option, said McDougall in a phone interview.  AstraZeneca’s sales and profits are projected to fall as
two of its best-selling drugs, Seroquel for schizophrenia and
ulcer medication Nexium, lose patent protection by 2014.
Seroquel and Nexium alone generated about $10.3 billion of sales
last year, or about 30 percent of the company’s total, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Crestor, its top seller with $6.6
billion in 2011 sales, faces competition from a generic version
of Pfizer Inc.’s Lipitor, which entered the market last year.  AstraZeneca agreed this week to buy  Ardea Biosciences Inc. (RDEA) ,
a San Diego-based company that has a gout treatment in the final
stages of clinical trials, for $1.26 billion. The acquisition is
the company’s first of more than $1 billion since the $14.7
billion takeover of MedImmune Inc. in 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Brennan told reporters in February he wasn’t
looking for “transformational” deals, and acquisitions would
be smaller than the MedImmune purchase.  Delaying Tactic  Lowth said the company will continue to look for
acquisitions of drugs that are well along in their development.
“Our first priority is to strengthen our late-stage pipeline,”
he said.  “Making small acquisitions isn’t a strategy, it’s a tactic
to buy time until the pipeline delivers,” said McDougall, who
recommends buying AstraZeneca shares on optimism that the
company will do what needs to be done to revive earnings. “What
I need is clarity on the strategy. I’m not sure if they ever
really had one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 