-- AstraZeneca’s Brennan to Retire; Lowth Named Interim CEO
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-04-26T16:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/astrazeneca-s-brennan-to-retire-lowth-named-interim-ceo.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  Chief Executive
Officer  David Brennan  will retire from his post, ending a six-
year tenure after repeated failures in drug development left
investors skeptical of the company’s earnings prospects.  Simon Lowth, the chief financial officer, will serve as
interim CEO until a replacement is chosen, the London-based
company said today in a statement. AstraZeneca today cut its
profit forecast for the year after first-quarter revenue sank on
“challenging market conditions” and the loss of patent
protection on several medicines. The stock fell the most in more
than two years.  “This will be received positively,” Mark Belsey, an
analyst at WestLB in London, said of Brennan’s departure in a
telephone interview. “Brennan has done a good job but it’s time
for someone to reinvigorate the pipeline. I still think
licensing and small acquisitions are the way to go. They need
someone to bring that strategy into play.” He recommends
selling the shares.  Speculation mounted in March that Brennan, 58, would leave
the job after the company nominated a new chairman. He steps
down after AstraZeneca cut thousands of jobs, boosted  dividends 
and bought back billions of dollars in shares. Sales growth
slowed after patent protection was lost on medicines including
Arimidex and Casodex for cancer, and the company didn’t bring
enough new products to market.  Stock Slump  AstraZeneca fell 6.1 percent to close at 2,666.50 pence in
 London , giving the company a market value of 33.9 billion pounds
($54.9 billion). The drop was the biggest since Dec. 17, 2010.  Before today, the stock had returned 38 percent including
reinvested dividends during Brennan’s tenure through the end of
last week,  outpacing  the 26 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Most of those returns came from dividend payments. The
stock sells for 6.9 times estimated 2012 profit, the lowest
among the world’s 10 biggest drugmakers, reflecting investor
skepticism about growth prospects.  Core earnings per share this year will be $5.85 to $6.15,
the company said in a separate statement. AstraZeneca, the
U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker after GlaxoSmithKline Plc, in
February forecast $6 to $6.30 a share. Revenue in the first
quarter dropped 11 percent to $7.35 billion. Analysts predicted
sales of $7.95 billion, the average of 21  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  New Chairman  Andrew Baum , an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in March
that the appointment of Leif Johansson as chairman “would
create the kind of board stability needed for management
changes.” The Financial Times reported April 9 that some
shareholders wanted to see Brennan ousted.  Johansson will take over the non-executive post from Louis Schweitzer on June 1, three months earlier than planned, to
oversee the selection of a new CEO, AstraZeneca said. The
company said it will consider internal and external candidates.
Shareholders approved Johansson’s appointment at the annual
meeting today. Julie Brown, a finance executive at the company,
will become interim chief financial officer.  “The decision to retire was entirely my decision,”
Brennan told journalists on a conference call today. “I had
been thinking about it for a while. It was time for someone else
to take the company to the next level.”  Brennan, an American, began his career as a pharmaceutical
salesman for  Merck & Co. (MRK) , and later ran Merck’s collaboration
with Swedish drugmaker Astra AB. Zeneca Group Plc bought Astra
in 1999 to form AstraZeneca.  Research Focus  He took over as CEO at the start of 2006, replacing Tom
McKillop. Brennan resisted the industry trends of expanding
beyond patented pharmaceuticals or engaging in mega-mergers to
offset the looming loss of sales to generic competitors.
Instead, he focused on developing new medicines, either through
in-house research or licensing agreements. “We’re going to
figure out how to get through this,” he said in a 2010
interview.  While waiting for new products to emerge and boost
earnings, AstraZeneca rewarded investors with cash. The company
raised its dividend every year he was CEO, and Brennan oversaw
AstraZeneca’s biggest share buyback last year, at $5 billion.  The  drug development  effort struggled. AstraZeneca in
December terminated development of olaparib for ovarian cancer
and ended a late-stage study of TC-5214 for severe depression.
The  Food and Drug Administration  asked for more information on
the diabetes treatment dapagliflozin, and may require new
clinical trials, AstraZeneca and partner Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. said in January. The European Union’s drug regulator last
week recommended approval of dapagliflozin.  Generic Competition  In 2010, AstraZeneca dropped development of motavizumab for
infant respiratory disease, after a U.S. advisory panel
recommended against approval of the drug. A study in May 2010
showed the experimental drug Recentin didn’t help colon cancer
patients. In June of that year, the FDA failed to approve Axanum
for ulcers. Four potential blockbusters failed in late-stage
trials between 2006 and 2008.  Drugs that account for more than 40 percent of sales will
lose patent protection by the end of 2014. AstraZeneca’s second-
best-selling drug, Seroquel for schizophrenia, lost U.S. patent
protection in March, while the patent on Nexium for ulcers, the
third-biggest seller, expires in the U.S. in 2014. The two
generated $5.3 billion and $5 billion in sales last year,
respectively.  Seroquel Sales  Sales of Seroquel slumped 15 percent at constant exchange
rates in the first quarter to $1.14 billion. Nexium, which
already faces generic competition in Europe and  Canada , slid 18
percent to $953 million and cancer treatment Arimidex fell 39
percent to $144 million. Sales of its blockbuster cholesterol
drug Crestor were nearly unchanged from a year ago at $1.5
billion.  Crestor, its top seller with $5.7 billion in 2011 sales,
faced increased competition from a copy of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor
in November.  AstraZeneca agreed on April 23 to buy  Ardea Biosciences
Inc. (RDEA)  for $1.26 billion, gaining a drug called lesinurad, which
is in most advanced phase of clinical tests for patients who
have too much urea in their blood. The acquisition was the
company’s first of more than $1 billion since buying MedImmune
Inc. in 2007 for about $15.2 billion, and Brennan said in
February he wasn’t looking for another deal of that size.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  