-- Athletic Bilbao, Atletico Madrid Reach Europa Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-27T12:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/athletic-bilbao-atletico-madrid-advance-to-europa-league-final.html
(Corrects day of final in fourth paragraph.)  Fernando Llorente ’s goal in the
88th minute sent  Athletic Bilbao  into the Europa League soccer
final against Spanish rival  Atletico Madrid .  Llorente’s late score gave Athletic Bilbao a 3-1 win over
Sporting Lisbon last night and a 4-3 victory in their two-game
semifinal. Atletico Madrid finished off a 5-2 victory over
Valencia with a 1-0 win on a goal from Adrian Lopez.  “We have been struggling in this competition since July
but the prize is here, a great final,” Atletico midfielder Gabi
said on UEFA website. “Athletic is one of the biggest teams in
Europe and it will be a very nice final.”  The title match of Europe’s second-tier club competition
will be played May 9 in Bucharest. It’s the second straight
final between teams from the same country after Porto beat Braga
in an all-Portuguese matchup last year.  Trailing 2-1 after last week’s opening game in  Portugal ,
Athletic opened the scoring with a 17th-minute goal from Markel
Susaeta. Sporting’s Ricky van Wolfswinkel tied the game in the
44th minute and Ibai Gomez gave Athletic the lead with a goal in
injury time.  The teams appeared to be headed to extra time tied 3-3 on
aggregate when Llorente put a shot between goalkeeper Rui
Patricio and the left post.  Of the four semifinalists, only Athletic has never won a
European competition. It lost the 1977 final of the UEFA Cup,
the predecessor of the Europa League, to Juventus.  Lopez’s 60th-minute score in Valencia completed 2010
champion Atletico’s rout in the all-Spanish semifinal.  Atletico, which has won 11 straight Europa League games,
will be without Tiago in the final. The team captain received a
red card in the 79th minute after appearing to slap  Roberto
Soldado  during a mass confrontation between the teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 