-- Law Targeting Mubarak Officials Goes to Egyptian Court
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-26T07:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/law-targeting-mubarak-officials-goes-to-egyptian-court.html
Egypt ’s election commission
referred to the constitutional court a law stripping officials
in former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s government of many of their
political rights, as it reversed its decision barring the ousted
leader’s last premier from running for office.  The panel was to announce today a final list of candidates
for the May 23-24 presidential race. Based on its decision late
yesterday, the list would include Ahmed Shafiq, which may inject
tension into the vote after the commission earlier disqualified
Khairat el-Shater, the Muslim Brotherhood’s chief candidate, and
Salafi lawyer-turned-cleric Hazem Abou Ismail for other legal
technicalities. Their disqualification prompted Islamists to say
the ruling military council was trying to engineer the return of
the ousted regime.  The decision to allow Shafiq back into the race “reaffirms
that we live in country where the rule of law is sovereign,”
his attorney, Shawki el-Sayed, told the state-run Middle East
News Agency late yesterday. Shafiq had appealed his ejection
from the race on grounds that the law was unconstitutional and
was passed after he announced his candidacy.  Shafiq was appointed prime minister in Mubarak’s final days
in office. He left the job about a month later amid mounting
criticism of anyone who had links to Mubarak.  The court previously declined to deal with the matter when
it was raised by the country’s military rulers, saying it
couldn’t rule on something that had yet to become law. The
military council subsequently signed it into law.  The measure was drafted by the Islamist-dominated
parliament after Mubarak’s longtime intelligence chief,  Omar Suleiman , entered the race, stoking fears that he and the
military were seeking to recreate the old regime. Suleiman, who
served as vice president in the Mubarak administration’s final
days, was also booted from the race by the commission on
electoral technicalities. Both he and the military denied the
Islamists’ allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  