-- Bagel Boutique Rises in Bay Area Using Tech Playbook
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bagel-boutique-rises-in-bay-area-using-tech-playbook.html
Venture capitalists like to say
they invest in entrepreneurs who are solving big problems. For
foodies in  San Francisco , there are few greater challenges than
finding a good bagel.  Dan Scholnick, a partner at Trinity Ventures, is putting
his money where his mouth is. After spending years complaining
about the poor quality of local bagels, he joined his wife and
another couple in starting  Schmendricks  to bring the taste of
 New York  to the Bay Area.  The quartet is trying to build Schmendricks more like an
Internet startup than a food company, keeping upfront costs to a
minimum, reaching customers through services like Twitter Inc.
and collecting data on consumer preferences. They don’t have a
physical store and are subleasing kitchen space at Asana, the
startup led by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder Dustin Moskovitz. Bagels
are sold through preordered pickups, deliveries and at weekend
pop-ups, where the team sets up outside a local cafe or shop.  “We’re using a lot of the tools and tricks of tech
companies across our business,” said Scholnick, who worked at
two startups before becoming a venture capitalist in 2007.
“It’s all about getting to market as quickly as possible, being
really efficient with capital and using all the latest
technology that’s available.”  East Coast Transplants  More important than the Silicon Valley startup savvy is
making bagels that East Coast transplants crave. In particular,
Scholnick says there’s demand from local Jewish residents who
grew up in New York and  Boston  eating traditional bagels, which
are boiled before they’re baked. That process gives them a dense
interior and crusty surface.  So Scholnick and company, who attended  Dartmouth College  in
 New Hampshire  together in the late 1990s, spent two years
working on an alternative recipe to the doughy bagels they found
around town.  The most prominent of those Bay Area shops is Noah’s New
York Bagels, which has nine locations in San Francisco and
another five in Oakland and Berkeley. Noah’s is owned by
 Einstein Noah Restaurant Group Inc. (BAGL) , a publicly traded company
(ticker symbol: BAGL) based in Lakewood,  Colorado .  Noah’s  bagels are steamed -- not boiled -- before they’re
baked. The company has been using that recipe since the late
1980s, and it’s proven to work on the West Coast, said Richard
Burjaw, chief marketing officer for Einstein Noah. The fluffy
texture is also good for the sandwich menu, Burjaw said.  “Given its history in the Bay Area and the number of units
we have, you have to conclude that it’s quite popular,” he
said.  No Fruit Flavors  In addition to the softness of San Francisco bagels, they
also come in a variety of untraditional flavors that include
fruits, vegetables and cheeses baked in. Schmendricks is
sticking with the classic New York toppings of Sesame Seed,
Poppy Seed, Salt and Everything as well as plain.  “Blueberries belong in muffins, they don’t belong in
bagels,” said co-founder David Kover, a school psychologist who
grew up in  Brooklyn , New York, and has gained the title of chief
authenticity officer.  Blueberries do provide good fodder, though. On April 1, the
company sent a Twitter post with a picture of a chalkboard
promoting their flavors of the day as Blueberry, Chocolate Chip,
Bacon-Asiago and Orange-Maple. It was an April Fool’s Day joke.  It’s no joke that finding any traditional Jewish food in
the Bay Area is a challenge, providing the inspiration for Wise
Sons Jewish Delicatessen to open last year in San Francisco,
offering classics including matzo ball soup and chopped liver.  Pop-Up Sales  To promote weekend pop-ups and keep in touch with
customers, Schmendricks uses Twitter, Facebook and its e-mail
list. For arranging pickups, it utilizes software from startup
 Good Eggs Inc.  For accepting credit cards on site, the company
has experimented with technology from Square Inc. and EBay
Inc.’s PayPal unit. Those products let them track preferences of
specific customers.  “Even at a very early stage, we’re able to drive a lot of
foot traffic and customer traffic to wherever we’re popping
up,” Scholnick said.  That’s how Schmendricks, named after the Yiddish word for a
stupid person, sold out its launch party, scheduled for May 10,
at Four Barrel Coffee in San Francisco.  While it has a growing fan base, the bagels aren’t cheap.
The company charges $3 apiece, compared with $1 to $1.50 at most
of the local stores. Cream cheese, which they buy in stores and
then flavor themselves, is an extra dollar.  Ethan Kurzweil, a Boston-area native and vice president at
Bessemer Venture Partners in  Menlo Park ,  California , is willing
to pay the premium. He compares it to buying an artisan
chocolate versus a supermarket candy bar.  The One and Only  “They have to brand themselves as a different category --
they are a bagel and nothing else is a bagel,” said Kurzweil,
who became an early Schmendricks customer through his venture
connection to Scholnick. “If I’m going to eat the carbs, it’s
not really about the money. It’s about the food experience.”  Schmendricks’ bagels are modeled after  The Bagel Hole  in
Brooklyn, Kover’s childhood store. The baking is left to
Scholnick’s wife, Deepa Subramanian, who quit her job as a
corporate lawyer last year to become the single full-time
employee. A native of  India , Subramanian had never tasted a
bagel until coming to the U.S. for college. She jumped at the
opportunity for a career change.  “Once we nailed down the product, I was really excited
about a shot at being an entrepreneur,” said Subramanian, who
was a  software developer  at  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  before going to
law school. “I’ve never produced anything in my life that is
this tangible.”  She now wakes at 4 a.m. to have bagels ready for breakfast
delivery at nearby startups and law firms. She’s making
thousands of bagels a week, with evening help from the rest of
the team. That includes the fourth founder, Dagny Dingman, who’s
married to Kover. They expect to hire someone soon to help meet
rising demand and give Subramanian more time to work on social
marketing, meeting cafe owners and trying to build the business.  “It’s not the best use of my time spending eight or nine
hours a day baking,” she said. “I’m really intrigued to see
how I’m going to manage people. I’ve never done that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 