-- Bank Santander Profit Drops 24% on Provisions, U.K. Slump
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-26T16:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/banco-santander-profit-drops-24-on-provisions-slump-in-u-k-.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest
lender, said first-quarter profit dropped 24 percent as souring
loans crimped income from its home market,  Brazil  and the U.K.  Net income fell to 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion) from
2.11 billion euros a year earlier, the bank said in a filing
today. That missed the 1.65 billion-euro average  estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts. The  shares  fell as much as 3.6
percent.  The lender predicted reduced U.K. profit this year and said
it increased provisions for asset impairments to reflect the
weak economies in Spain and  Portugal  as well as bad loans in
Brazil, the nation that contributes the most to the bank’s
earnings. The Spanish government has ordered banks including
Santander to book more losses on their real estate holdings as
the recession threatens to force more loans to homeowners and
companies into default.  “I value Santander’s diversification, but then again their
home market is a real worry,” Peter Braendle, who helps manage
about $60 billion, including Santander shares, at Zurich-based
Swisscanto Asset Management, said in a phone interview. “Each
of their local markets has different problems and challenges,
but it’s good that they’re in them and not just in Spain.”  Santander  shares  fell 3.4 percent to close at 4.75 euros in
 Madrid . The stock has tumbled 16 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 44.9 billion euros.  Bad Loans  The results follow figures yesterday from Santander’s
closest Spanish rival, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, which
is more dependent on the Spanish market. Shares in  BBVA (BBVA) , which
yesterday posted 13 percent decline in first-quarter profit,
fell 2.1 percent today.  Bad loans as a proportion of total loans rose to 3.98
percent from 3.89 percent in December and 3.61 percent a year
ago. The bank booked 3.64 billion euros in loans newly
classified as in default from 4.05 billion euros in the fourth
quarter and 3.11 billion euros a year ago.  Provisions for asset impairments surged in the quarter to
3.13 billion euros from 2.07 billion euros a year earlier
because of Spain and Portugal and growth in its Latin American
loan book, Santander said. The bank didn’t make any provisions
related to the government’s real estate cleanup order in the
quarter and still has about 1 billion euros to do after tax,
Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said at a news conference
today.  Dividend Unchanged  Santander will maintain its dividend at 60 cents a share,
Chairman  Emilio Botin  said in a statement. The bank said it
posted a core capital ratio under European Banking Authority
criteria of 9.11 percent. The bank plans to sell 25 percent of
the bank’s Mexican unit in an initial public offering planned
for this year, Saenz said.  The bank has also exhausted an extra provisioning buffer
built up in previous years, and replenished it in the quarter
with 99 million euros. Profit before provisions rose 9 percent
to 6.28 billion euros, a quarterly record, Santander said.  Profit from Santander’s Spanish retail network plunged 73
percent to 75 million euros as its loan book shrank 8.7 percent
from a year ago, the bank said. The bad-loans ratio at the unit
rose to 8.90 percent from 8.47 percent in December and 5.99
percent a year ago.  Profit from the U.K. fell 40 percent to 306 million euros
as provisions surged 40 percent in the first quarter, amid
increased charges across the growing company loan book and real
estate risks predating 2008, the U.K. unit said in a filing.  ‘Good Proxy’  First-quarter profit trends for the division, led by
Botin’s daughter Ana Patricia Botin, will remain similar all
year, Saenz said.  “The profit we’ve posted for the first quarter is, I
think, also going to be quite typical of the profit levels for
the U.K. in the coming quarters,” he said. “That is, if you
multiply that by four, you will have a good proxy for the year-
end profit for the U.K.”  Earnings from Brazil, where the economy slowed last year
from a boom as the central bank raised  interest rates , dropped
12 percent to 647 million euros. Provisions jumped to 1.49
billion euros from 1.05 billion euros, while the bad-loans ratio
in the country climbed to 5.76 percent from 5.38 percent in
December and 4.85 percent a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  