-- Bank of China Profit Growth Slows After Loan Demand Eases
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-04-27T02:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bank-of-china-profit-growth-slows-after-loan-demand-eases.html
Bank of China Ltd. , the country’s
third-biggest lender by assets, said profit growth decelerated
to 10 percent in the first quarter as the world’s second-largest
economy slowed, curtailing loan expansion and margins.  Net income  climbed to 36.8 billion yuan ($5.8 billion) from
33.4 billion yuan a year earlier, according to stock exchange
filings by the Beijing-based lender yesterday. Profit compared
with the 37.5 billion-yuan average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  China’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in almost
three years last quarter, increasing pressure on Premier  Wen
Jiabao  to ease monetary policy. The central bank in February
reduced lenders’ reserve requirements for the second time in
three months to spur credit expansion and bolster economic
growth without triggering gains in consumer and property prices.  “Profit growth at Bank of China slowed because of the
country’s macroeconomic environment,” said Lewis Wan, who
oversees $250 million in assets as chief investment officer at
Pride Investments Group Ltd. “If China loosens its monetary
policy, loan growth may pick up in the second half and bolster
Chinese banks’ revenues.”  Shares (3988)  in the lender have gained 47 percent in Hong Kong
trading since a 2 1/2-year low on Oct. 4, on speculation that
economic growth may accelerate as officials begin easing
monetary policy. Bank of  China  fell 0.6 percent to HK$3.22 as of
10 a.m., compared with a 0.5 percent increase in the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Slower Loan Growth  Bank of China advanced 247 billion yuan of new loans in the
first quarter, 17 percent less than a year earlier, according to
yesterday’s statement. Profit growth declined from 10.8 percent
in the previous quarter and 28 percent a year earlier.  Net interest income  rose 13.2 percent to 60.6 billion yuan
during the quarter while the loan margin stayed unchanged at
2.11 percent. Net fee and commission income, from businesses
such as trade finance and custodial services, gained 13.8
percent to 21.2 billion yuan.  Premier Wen is trying to spur lending to smaller companies
while restricting home loans that may inflate a property bubble.
The risk of lending to real estate developers is growing as
residential prices fall,  Liu Mingkang , former chairman of the
banking regulator, said last week.  Bank of China’s non-performing loans, or those overdue for
at least three months, rose by 665 million yuan to 63.9 billion
yuan at the end of March, and amounted to 0.97 percent of total
loans.  ‘Soft Landing’  Moody’s Investors Service on April 12 kept its “stable”
outlook on Chinese banks, saying a “soft landing” of the
economy will allow them to maintain profitability and manage
what may be a gradual rise in non-performing loans. Economists
at Nomura Holdings Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley
last month increased their economic-growth forecasts for 2012.  Bank of China’s capital adequacy ratio narrowed in the
quarter to 12.8 percent as of March 31 from 12.97 percent at the
beginning of the year. The banking regulator said in August it
will require the nation’s most important lenders to have a
minimum ratio of 11.5 percent by the end of 2013. The core
capital adequacy ratio stood at 9.97 percent.  ‘Fundraising Pressure’  The bank “is likely to face higher fundraising pressure as
its capital adequacy ratio declined,” Wan of Pride Investments
said.  Bank of China  was the only lender from the nation to be
included on a provisional list of 29 systemically important
financial institutions published by the Financial Stability
Board, a body set up by the Group of 20 nations, in November.
The global banks must hold additional capital buffers ranging
from 1 to 2.5 percentage points under those plans.  Smaller rival China Minsheng Banking Corp., the nation’s
first non-state lender, yesterday said its first-quarter net
income rose 48 percent to 9.2 billion yuan. That beat the 8.5
billion-yuan average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of nine
analysts. Non-performing loans stood at 0.67 percent of total
credit as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  