-- Banks Likely to Cut Pay, Staff, Boston Consulting Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-26T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/banks-likely-to-cut-pay-staff-boston-consulting-says.html
Investment banks, faced with a weak
industry outlook, probably will reduce the amount of revenue set
aside for pay and should cut 20 percent to 30 percent of
managers, according to Boston Consulting Group Inc.  Investment banks also will bring down compensation costs by
dismissing flow traders as electronic trading becomes more
prevalent, BCG said in a report today. The industry will see
little to no growth in the total revenue pool over the next few
years, the firm said.  Many of the largest investment banks including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  cut pay last year amid a slowdown in trading and mergers.
Firms must eliminate more levels of management and some should
reduce the proportion of employees with managing director
titles, according to the report.  “Given that 50 percent of revenues were historically
allocated to compensation, clearly people costs will have to be
attacked,” Chandy Chandrashekhar, a partner at BCG, told
journalists in New York today. Savings “will come from
management as well as from the displacement of manual activity
through automation.”  Firms must choose a more explicit model within their
trading businesses, focusing on one of three options, according
to the report. Some will build out large electronic flow-trading
platforms, which will account for 70 percent of  activity , while
others will have traders cater to individual client needs with a
broad range of products, constituting 20 percent of volume.  Other banks will focus on principal trading, which will
bring higher margins and demand more capital and risk
management. Principal trading will contribute 10 percent of
trading and probably will be captured primarily by non-banks as
the largest firms face stiff regulations, BCG said.  “Not all the banks are making the right choices,” said
Philippe Morel, leader of BCG’s capital markets segment. “Lots
of them are hesitating across models.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  