-- Bankers’ Bonuses Put Boris on Back Foot in London Vote
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-04-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bankers-bonuses-put-boris-on-back-foot-in-london-vote.html
Boris Johnson ’s quest to win a
second term as London mayor on May 3 is complicated by his need
to court voters battered by the government’s  austerity measures 
and his desire to champion the city’s unloved bankers.  Johnson’s pledge to stick up for financiers makes him a
rarity among U.K. politicians. His main election challenger,  Ken Livingstone , sparked controversy in a February speech calling to
“hang a banker a week.” Since ousting Livingstone in 2008,
Johnson has argued for lower taxes for the rich and an end to
“banker-bashing,” often criticizing the policies of
Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron , his own party leader.  “Any Tory candidate in London has got to work doubly hard
and Boris has got to be very careful,” said  Andrew Hawkins ,
chairman of ComRes Ltd., which has conducted polls during the
campaign. “He needs to be appease the public appetite for
bankers’ blood, and recognize he’s going to be shooting a lot of
his own voters if he comes down too heavily on them.”  Public criticism of the banks has been stoked by the
biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II,  inflation  that’s
outpacing wage growth and the cost to the taxpayer of rescuing
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
Northern Rock Plc. Johnson’s refusal to join the chorus reflects
a recognition that the capital’s prosperity is intimately linked
with the success of the  financial industry .  “There is a danger that banker-bashing will metastasize
into an all-round scorn for all varieties of money-making
instinct,” Johnson wrote in an  article  for the  Daily Telegraph 
earlier this month. “I can’t believe that is in the economic
interests of the country.”  Narrowing Lead  Johnson’s lead over Livingstone narrowed to 51 percent from
49 percent, according to an April 23  YouGov Plc (YOU)  opinion poll for
the Evening Standard newspaper. That reflects an increase in
Labour support as Londoners grapple with rising living costs and
the second-highest unemployment rate of any U.K. region, in a
city where Labour has led in every election since 1997. A ComRes
poll published yesterday put Johnson at 54 percent and
Livingstone at 46 percent.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  waived his
963,000-pound ($1.55 million) bonus this year after Labour said
it would ask Parliament to vote on the award.  Jobless Londoners  Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  criticized the U.K.
last week for cultivating a “fetish” for banks at the expense
of Britain’s economic recovery and future generations.  London 
unemployment rose to 10.1 percent in the three months through
February, the highest of any region after northeast  England . The
U.K. average was 8.3 percent.  While the London mayor sets the strategic direction for
police, transportation and economic development, without having
much day-to-day power over any of them, the size of the
capital’s voter base ensures candidates will speak on a much
broader platform. The mayor’s personal constituency of 5.8
million voters is the largest of any British politician.  Johnson does “recognize the need for a financial sector
and it’s obviously a shame that the financial sector has given
ammunition to those who are opposed to it,” said  Jon Moulton ,
the British financier and founder of Better Capital LLP. “Boris 
is definitely more supportive of the financial community
than Ken.”  The financial services industry contributes more than 25
percent of London’s gross domestic product and is a key source
of government income. As the financial crisis shrinks those
businesses, Britain’s tax revenue is dropping, according to
TheCityUK, a lobby group representing the industry.  Shrinking Taxes  Financial companies paid 63 billion pounds in taxes in
fiscal 2011, or 12 percent of total revenue, the lobby group
said, citing data from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the City
of London Corporation. That’s down from 2007, when the industry
contributed 14 percent of tax receipts.  Johnson, 47, has been able to reach across the party divide
and attract Labour voters away from the 66-year-old Livingstone,
according to YouGov President Peter Kellner.  The defectors “think Boris has done well as mayor and
regard him as charismatic, even though they feel he is on the
side of the rich,” Kellner said in an e-mailed statement.
“Compared with Ken-supporting Labour loyalists, they think Ken
is less than honest, out of touch with the concerns of ordinary
people, and unlikely to make them better off.”  Whatever the outcome of the vote, the banking industry is
unlikely to be affected, said Tony Travers, director of LSE
London, a research centre at the  London School of Economics .  “People who are mayors of big cities want bankers in
them,” said Travers in a telephone interview. “The mood music
of what politicians say in opposition is less strident and less
tempered than in government. If Ken won, it would be very
unlikely that he would want to chase the bankers out of London.
Banking is such an important industry in London. No mayor is
going to want to undermine what is in their city a key
industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  