-- Barclays Profit Beats Estimates as Investment Bank Rebounds
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-04-26T15:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/barclays-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-ppi-cost-increases-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
biggest bank by assets, posted first-quarter profit that beat
analyst estimates as revenue at its investment banking unit
rebounded from the fourth quarter.  Pretax profit excluding losses on the valuation of the
lender’s debt rose 22 percent to 2.45 billion pounds ($3.96
billion) from 2 billion pounds in the year-earlier period, the
bank said in a statement today. That beat the 1.96 billion-pound
median estimate of eight  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue at the investment banking unit, which generates
about half of London-based Barclays’s pretax profit, jumped 91
percent from the fourth quarter as income from trading fixed-
income, currencies and commodities surged. Impairments for bad
loans fell to 778 million pounds, surpassing analyst estimates.  “It was not a robust first quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond , 60, told reporters on a conference call.
“It was only robust compared with the third or fourth. I think
most people would say April was a bit sluggish compared to the
first three months.”  The stock  climbed  0.7 percent in  London  trading today to
212.45 pence. Barclays has declined almost 30 percent in the
past year, compared with a 21 percent drop in the five-member
FTSE 350 Banks Index.  “We expected a relatively cautious outlook statement,”
 Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Securities in London, who
rates Barclays a buy, wrote in a note to clients today.
“Anecdotal evidence of softening elsewhere was already clear.”  PPI Charge  The bank set aside 300 million pounds in the quarter to
compensate clients it improperly sold payment protection
insurance after a 1 billion-pound charge last year. Customers
who bought the insurance rarely compared prices and terms or
switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they could have
bought it elsewhere, according to the  Competition Commission , a
U.K. antitrust agency.  The lender also recorded a 2.62 billion-pound loss as the
value of its own debt increased. Including PPI claims and the
debt-valuation adjustment, the lender posted a pretax loss of
475 million pounds, compared with a 1.66 billion-pound profit in
the year-earlier period. It didn’t disclose net income.  Income at the investment bank, formerly known as  Barclays
Capital , rose 3 percent from the year-earlier period to 3.46
billion pounds, helped by a 9 percent increase in revenue from
fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading. FICC revenue
was up 147 percent from the fourth quarter.  ‘Rebounded Strongly’  Pretax profit at the unit fell to 1.27 billion pounds from
1.33 billion pounds in the year-earlier period as expenses rose
and it took an impairment charge.  “FICC sales and trading performance rebounded strongly,”
 Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London,
wrote in a report to clients today. Impairments were better than
his estimate of 995 million pounds, he said.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest lender, said today
pretax profit at its investment banking unit fell 25 percent to
1.72 billion euros ($2.3 billion) from the year-earlier period.
The unit had a 422 million-euro loss in the fourth quarter.  Among the U.S. banks, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this month
reported a 20 percent decline in fixed-income trading revenue to
$3.46 billion.  JPMorgan Group Inc. (JPM) ’s revenue from that division
dropped 11 percent to $4.66 billion and Citigroup Inc., the
third-biggest by assets, reported a 4 percent drop in fixed-
income trading to $3.65 billion.  Corporate Bank  Profit at Barclays’s corporate banking division jumped to
219 million pounds in the quarter from 21 million pounds in the
year-earlier period as impairments in  Spain  declined.  The lender cut its so-called sovereign debt exposure to
Spain, Italy, Portugal, Ireland and  Greece  by 16 percent to 6
billion pounds in the first quarter. Barclays cut its Spanish
holdings by 15 percent to 2.2 billion pounds and its Italian
holdings by 14 percent to 3 billion pounds.  The debt, which was “held for the purpose of  interest rate 
hedging and liquidity,”  has been replaced by “interest rate
swaps with alternative counterparties,” Barclays said in the
statement.  Tomorrow, investors vote on Diamond’s 12 million-pound
compensation package as part of a wider vote on executive pay at
the company’s annual general meeting in London. Diamond got as
much as 6.3 million pounds in salary, bonuses and stock awards
for 2011 as well as a 5.75 million-pound contribution toward his
personal tax bill.  He offered to forgo 11 percent of his total compensation
for 2011 if the bank doesn’t hit its profitability targets after
 investors  including  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  criticized his pay.  Barclays said in February it may fail to hit its 13 percent
target for ROE by 2013 after it fell to 6.6 percent in 2011. ROE
rose to 12 percent in the first quarter, excluding the effect of
the PPI charge and debt-valuation adjustments, Barclays said.  Diamond today declined to answer questions on the vote
before the meeting. “Today is about the results,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  