-- Bayer Yasmin Lawsuit Settlements Climb to $142 Million
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-26T21:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bayer-yasmin-lawsuit-settlements-climb-to-142-million.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  said settlements of U.S.
lawsuits claiming that its Yasmin line of birth-control pills
caused blood clots in women have increased to $142 million.  Bayer, based in Leverkusen, Germany, has resolved 651 cases
alleging its  Yasmin  and  Yaz  contraceptives caused sometimes-
fatal clots that can lead to heart attacks and strokes, the
company said today in its Stockholders’ Newsletter for the first
quarter. The company said it paid $142 million in the
settlements, for an average of about $218,000 a case.  “This company wants to avoid the possibility of a large
jury award in these clot cases,”  Carl Tobias , who teaches
product-liability law at the  University of Richmond  in  Virginia ,
said in a phone interview. “Settlements provide predictability
when it comes to the cost of resolving these cases.”  Bayer’s update comes less than two weeks after Richard Vosser, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, said the drugmaker may
have to pay more than 2 billion euros ($2.65 billion) to resolve
all the cases over the contraceptives.  Bloomberg News reported April 13 that Bayer agreed to pay
about $110 million to settle the first 500 U.S. suits over
Yasmin, according to people familiar with the accords.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration April 10 ordered
Bayer and other contraceptive makers to strengthen blood-clot
warnings on their products.  Triple Risk  Pills like Bayer’s Yasmin, which contain a synthetic
hormone called drospirenone, will have warning labels saying
researchers have found they may triple the risk for clots.  The FDA examined data on more than 835,000 women who took
pills containing  drospirenone , including Bayer’s Yasmin line,
according to the FDA report. Yasmin was the No. 4 oral
contraceptive in the U.S. in 2011, with 4.6 percent of the
market as of September, according to data from  IMS Health .  Bayer’s contraceptives generated $1.58 billion in sales in
2010, making them the drugmaker’s biggest-selling drugs after
 Betaseron,  a multiple sclerosis medication.  “Bayer is only settling claims in the U.S. for venous clot
injuries (deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism) after a
case specific analysis of medical records,” the company said in
the report.  11,900 Suits  Fewer than half of the cases brought over the
contraceptives so far include those injuries, Bayer said. As of
April 18, Bayer faced 11,900 lawsuits over Yaz and Yasmin in the
U.S. involving about 14,000 plaintiffs, the company said.  Bayer’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, rose 2.2 percent to $69.78 in over-the counter
trading today. Shares in  Germany  climbed 2.6 percent to 54.44
euros.  Bayer officials said they were “increasingly confident”
about the drugmaker’s outlook for the year after reporting sales
and profits in the first quarter that beat analysts’ estimates.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and special items rose 9.4 percent to 2.44 billion euros, the
company said in a statement. That beat the average analyst
estimate of 2.24 billion euros compiled by Bloomberg.  In the newsletter, Bayer officials said they weren’t
admitting wrongdoing in any of the settlements. Bayer’s
available insurance for product-liability claims may not be
enough to “cover all expenses and potential liability” from
the litigation, according to the newsletter.  Gallbladder Cases  Michael Burg, one of the leaders of a group of plaintiffs’
lawyers that is overseeing the progress of Yasmin cases
consolidated before a federal judge in Illinois, said Bayer is
pressing ahead with settlement talks about clot cases.  The drugmaker is rejecting women’s claims that the
contraceptives damaged their gallbladders or caused them to
suffer from gallstones, Burg, who is based in  Colorado , said in
a telephone interview.  “At this point, they’ve said they don’t anticipate
settling any of the gallbladder cases,” he said.  Since 2009, the German drugmaker has faced a wave of
litigation over the birth-control pills. Lawyers suing the
drugmaker cited FDA reports of at least 50 deaths tied to the
pills from 2004 to 2008. Plaintiffs’ lawyers contend in court
filings that Bayer officials marketed the contraceptives for
unapproved uses and misled women about the drugs’ risks.  Trials on Hold  The cases filed in federal courts were consolidated before
U.S. District Judge David Herndon in  East St. Louis, Illinois ,
for pretrial proceedings.  Herndon scheduled a series of trials for early this year so
juries could begin weighing claims that Bayer and its units
marketed Yaz and other contraceptives as safer than rivals’
products while knowing they posed a higher clot risk.  At Bayer’s suggestion, Herndon called in Stephen Saltzburg,
a George Washington University law professor, to serve as a
mediator. Saltzburg’s job was to explore the possibility of
“settlements in this litigation,” Herndon said in a December
order.  The judge put the trial schedule on hold while Saltzburg
met with lawyers for the drugmakers and former Yaz users. “I
don’t anticipate seeing any trials this year,” Burg said today.  The case is In re Yasmin and Yaz (Drospirenone) Marketing,
Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation, 09-md-02100,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Illinois  (East St.
Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ; Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at +1-
   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  