-- Bayer ‘Increasingly Confident’ as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-26T16:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bayer-confirms-forecast-increasingly-confident-for-2012-2-.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  said it’s “increasingly
confident” about its outlook for the year after reporting sales
and profit that beat analysts’ estimates, helped by a strong
first quarter at the crop chemicals unit.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and special items rose 9.4 percent to 2.44 billion euros ($3.23
billion) in the quarter, the Leverkusen, Germany-based drug and
chemical company said in a  statement . That beat the average
analyst  estimate  of 2.24 billion euros compiled by Bloomberg.  Like  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  and  Monsanto Co. (MON) , Bayer benefited as warm
weather in the U.S. prompted farmers to place orders earlier
than usual. The company is counting on the crop chemicals and
health units to drive growth after saying sales and profit at
its plastics division will be unchanged this year. Bayer
repeated its forecast for sales to rise about 3 percent this
year, excluding currency and portfolio changes.  “Management shied away from upgrading its full-year
guidance, although is likely to do so at the half-year stage,”
Karl Heinz Koch, an analyst at Helvea SA in Zurich, wrote in a
note to clients.  Bayer rose 1.5 percent to 54 euros in Frankfurt trading.
The stock has gained 9.3 percent this year including reinvested
dividends,  compared  with a 3.7 percent rise in the Bloomberg
 Europe  Pharmaceutical Index of 18 companies.  Growth in China  Sales last quarter rose 6.8 percent to 10.1 billion euros,
beating the average analyst estimate of 9.7 billion euros
compiled by Bloomberg. Core earnings reached 1.68 euros a share,
compared with an average forecast of 1.48 euros.  “We are increasingly confident for the rest of the year,”
Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said in the statement.  Revenue will climb roughly 3 percent this year to about 37
billion euros and core earnings per share will “slightly
improve,” the company said. Sales from health care, the largest
of the company’s three main divisions, will rise in the low- to
mid-single-digit percentage range. That unit increased first-
quarter sales by 4.2 percent to 4.3 billion euros as growth in
 China  more than offset declining revenue in Europe.  Bayer and partner  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  began selling the blood
thinner Xarelto to irregular heartbeat patients in the fourth
quarter. Bayer estimates the medicine’s sales will eventually
exceed 2 billion euros a year.  Crop science sales jumped 16 percent to 2.6 billion euros.
Bayer is improving its competitiveness on seed bundling, or
package deals for farmers, said Fabian Wenner, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  Revenue at the agricultural chemicals unit will likely rise
faster than the market this year, Bayer repeated. Sales and
earnings will rise in mid-single-digit percentages, the company
said, adding that the forecast may be adjusted at the next
quarterly results after the strong start to the year.  Bayer’s plastics division had the slowest sales growth,
showing an increase of 3.8 percent to 2.8 billion euros as high
raw material costs crimped growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  