-- Berkshire’s Montross Says Insurers Hurt by Central Bank Policy
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-26T13:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/berkshire-s-montross-says-insurers-hurt-by-central-bank-policy.html
Tad Montross, chief executive
officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s General Re unit, said
monetary policy around the world hurts insurance companies and
contributes to the need to raise prices for coverage.  “Central bankers suppressed  interest rates  on government
bonds in an effort to avoid recession and to recapitalize the
banking industry,” Montross wrote in a letter posted on Gen
Re’s website, as part of the company’s 2011  annual review .
“These policies rewarded debtors at the expense of savers, and
of course the insurance industry is a saving industry.”  The  Federal Reserve  is among central banks that have kept
interest rates low to stimulate economic growth and boost
employment. Insurers including Travelers Cos.,  Chubb Corp. (CB)  and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  have been charging customers
more after the industry faced lower income from bond portfolios
and record catastrophe losses last year.  In past periods of lower returns, “the industry has waited
until it needed 15 percent to 25 percent rate increases -- a
very disruptive approach that is inconsistent with the stability
our clients expect,” Montross wrote.  Gen Re’s net investment income declined to $1.09 billion in
2011 from $1.14 billion a year earlier, according to the annual
report. The company’s property business incurred $861 million in
losses from natural disasters including earthquakes in Japan and
 New Zealand . That compares with $339 million a year earlier. Net
income fell to $898 million from $937 million.  Gen Re sells reinsurance, or coverage for primary carriers
to protect against the costliest claims. Warren Buffett,
chairman and CEO of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, praised
Montross in a February  letter  for avoiding unprofitable business
and helping turn Gen Re from a “headache” into a “treasure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  