-- Bernanke Signals Further Easing Unlikely
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bernanke-signals-further-easing-unlikely-as-outlook-improves.html
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
signaling that further Federal Reserve stimulus is unlikely
unless the economy unexpectedly deteriorates.  The labor and housing markets have shown signs of
improvement, and growth will “pick up gradually” after
remaining “moderate,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
yesterday in  Washington , repeating a plan to keep borrowing
costs low until at least late 2014. Fed officials also upgraded
their projections for economic growth, inflation and the
unemployment rate for this year.  With inflation close to the Fed’s goal of 2 percent, it
would be “reckless” to pursue policies that would drive up
prices faster while offering “perhaps doubtful gains” to the
economy, Bernanke said at a press conference. Still, central
bankers “remain prepared to do more” if conditions worsen, he
said. Stocks extended gains and Treasuries pared losses after
Bernanke’s remarks kept stimulus speculation alive.  “This is as close as they get to being on hold for a long
time,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital
Inc. in  New York . “They’re in no hurry to raise rates or to
signal that, but what we’re seeing is more conviction in the
view that growth will hold up relatively well.”  The jobless rate isn’t declining as quickly as desired, and
the economy is still vulnerable to potential shocks from the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe , the FOMC said in a statement
after a two-day meeting. Fiscal tightening may also weigh on
growth, Bernanke said.  Growth Estimates  While the FOMC said growth is likely to “remain moderate
over coming quarters,” Fed officials increased their estimates
for 2012. The economy will expand at a 2.4 percent to 2.9
percent pace this year, up from a January projection of 2.2
percent to 2.7 percent, central bankers said.  At the same time, Fed officials lowered their growth
estimates for next year and 2014. Bernanke said the lower
expectations may reflect the impact from fiscal tightening, and
he urged Congress to reduce budget deficits without endangering
the expansion. Bush-era income tax cuts will expire at the end
of the year, and automatic spending cuts will be poised to take
effect in January.  “The economy would need to nearly stall for there to be
more” bond buying, said  Jay Bryson , a senior global economist
at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina. “It
would need to be significantly stronger for them to change the
guidance from late 2014. So, we are firmly on hold.”  Stocks rose for a second day yesterday after Bernanke’s
comments and as earnings beat estimates at companies from Apple
Inc. to Boeing Co. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  climbed 1.4
percent to 1,390.69. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note rose 0.01 percentage point to 1.98 percent at 5 p.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after rising as
high as 2.04 percent.  Operation Twist  The Fed didn’t alter its plan to swap $400 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with long-term debt to lengthen
the average maturity of its holdings, dubbed Operation Twist.
Bernanke said the program’s scheduled completion in June won’t
amount to a tightening of policy.  The Fed’s balance  sheet  has swelled to a record of almost
$3 trillion after two rounds of bond purchases, or so-called
quantitative easing, totaling $2.3 trillion. The purchases were
intended to spur the economy by pushing down long-term borrowing
costs on everything from  car loans  to mortgages.  When the Fed embarked on its second round of asset
purchases in November 2010, the U.S. faced “at least a modest
risk” of deflation, which isn’t currently a threat, Bernanke
said. He rejected suggestions that the Fed should allow
inflation to rise above its 2 percent goal in order to stimulate
growth, saying such a move would undercut the Fed’s credibility.  ‘Doubtful Gains’  “To risk that asset for what I think would be quite
tentative and perhaps doubtful gains on the real side would be
unwise to do,” Bernanke said. It would be “very reckless” to
“actively seek a higher inflation rate in order to achieve a
slightly” faster reduction in unemployment.  Paul Krugman , a Princeton University economist and Nobel
laureate, said in an April 24 New York Times Magazine article
that the Fed should raise its 2 percent inflation target to
reduce unemployment.  Krugman said Bernanke isn’t following his own advice to the
 Bank of Japan  more than a decade ago on how to avert economic
stagnation. Bernanke also disputed that argument, saying the U.S.
isn’t currently in deflation, unlike  Japan  15 years ago.  “Looking at the current situation in the  United States , we
are not in deflation,” he said. “When deflation became a
significant risk in late 2010, or at least a modest risk in late
2010, we used additional balance sheet tools to help return
inflation close to the 2 percent target.”  ‘Temporary Bulge’  He said a rise in gasoline  prices  “has created a temporary
bulge” in inflation that’s likely to “pass through the
system.”  Fed officials also raised their projections for the
inflation rate this year, as measured by the personal
consumption expenditures index, to 1.9 percent to 2 percent,
from 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent.  Bernanke “made it clear he is not willing to toy with the
inflation target to try to achieve a little more growth and
employment,” said Paul Edelstein, director of financial
economics at IHS Inc. in Lexington, Massachusetts. “The message
seems to be they are clearly moving away from quantitative
easing.”  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented for the
third meeting in a row. Lacker has said he believes the first
increase in  interest rates  will likely be necessary in 2013.  Labor Market View  Fed officials also upgraded their view of the labor market,
estimating that the  unemployment rate  will fall to 7.8 percent
to 8 percent by year-end, compared with a January forecast of
8.2 percent to 8.5 percent. That’s still well above their
estimate of a longer-run jobless rate of 5.2 percent to 6
percent. The unemployment rate was 8.2 percent in March.  The forecasts reflect the so-called central tendency, which
excludes the three highest and three lowest projections of 17
policy makers.  An April 27 government report may show that gross domestic
product rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, driven
by the biggest increase in household demand in a year.  “Despite its struggle with the sustained period of
relative high unemployment, we’re pleased to see some early
signs of a slowly improving macroeconomic environment” in the
U.S.,  Muhtar Kent , president and chief executive of  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink maker, said in an April 17
earnings call.  Borrowing Costs  The Fed also released a chart showing that seven of 17 Fed
officials expect borrowing costs to remain below 1 percent at
the end of 2014, compared with nine in January, while 10
expected rates to be 1 percent or higher, versus eight in
January.  Only 10 of the 17 officials are voting members of the rate-
setting FOMC, and Fed doesn’t identify the individuals making
the forecasts. Bernanke said the central bank is considering
revealing who made each forecast as it reviews ways to improve
its communications.  Bernanke is “still clearly concerned about the outlook,
but at this point, he doesn’t think the economy needs additional
accommodation,” said  Michelle Meyer , senior U.S. economist at
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in New York. “He remains cautious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 salas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  