-- Mittal Aids India-Pakistan Detente With Refinery: Energy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-04-27T08:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/billionaire-mittal-pushes-pakistan-detente-with-refinery.html
Billionaire Lakshmi N. Mittal and
an  Indian oil (IOCL)  company are formally opening a $4 billion refinery
on the northern border with Pakistan as the countries that have
fought three wars seek to stimulate trade.  Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is slated to
inaugurate the plant tomorrow, a project of Mittal Energy
Investments Pte and  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL) , the venture said
in an e-mail. The unit, which can process 9 million metric tons
a year of crude oil at Bathinda in the northern Punjab state,
will help boost  India ’s exports and may open fuel sales to
Pakistan, said Nisha Taneja, professor at the Indian Council for
Research on International Economic Relations in New Delhi.  The project marks a thaw in relations between the nuclear-
armed neighbors. India, which bars investment from  Pakistan , is
preparing to lift the ban and broaden their reconciliation. The
two nations, which waged two of their wars over conflicting
claims to the territory of Kashmir, have agreed in recent months
to increase trade, expand travel across their frontier and grant
more business visas.  “The refinery is the tangible asset that shows India is
serious about trading with Pakistan and can help meet its demand
for energy,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , a strategist at SMC
 Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  in New Delhi. “Robust trade is the basic
building block of a healthier relationship between the two.”  India is ready to allow investment from Pakistan, India’s
commerce minister,  Anand Sharma , said April 13. This followed
Pakistan’s cabinet approving a plan to dismantle tariffs on
about 8,000 items for imports from India by Dec. 31, with all
restrictions being lifted by 2013, according to a Feb. 29
statement from Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani .  Mittal’s First Refinery  The Bathinda project will be the first investment in crude
processing by Mittal, chairman of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s
biggest steelmaker. Mittal Energy has a venture with India’s  Oil
& Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , which has offshore oil exploration blocks
in  Nigeria , according to ONGC’s overseas unit.  The plant used crude from  Saudi Arabia  and Kuwait for its
trial production and will also import from  Abu Dhabi , Iran and
the spot market for regular operations, K. Murali, director of
refineries at Hindustan Petroleum, said by telephone today. The
refinery started processing oil in August and the entire project
was commissioned “recently,” the venture said in a March 29
 statement .  Pakistan Fuel Imports  Hindustan Petroleum, majority owned by India’s government,
 operates  a refinery in Mumbai that processes 6.5 million tons a
year of crude, and an 8.5 million-ton facility in Visakhapatnam
in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, according to its
website.  Pakistan allows imports of fuels including gasoline and
diesel from India, after removing non-tariff barriers on Nov. 2,
Taneja said by phone on April 26. The distance between Bathinda
and the Pakistani city of Lahore is about 100 miles (161
kilometers).  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s refining complex, the
world’s biggest, is located in Gujarat state, near the border
with Karachi, Pakistan’s most populous city.  “This refinery will bring a quantum jump in trade and
economic relations and help the peace process,” Taneja said.
“The pace at which economic relations between the two nations
is increasing is great. Diplomatic and political relations will
now determine how far business can go.”  Capacity Expansion  Hindustan Petroleum climbed 0.7 percent to 296.15 rupees as
of 1 p.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock is the second-best
performer on the  BSE Oil & Gas index  this year, rising 17
percent, compared with the 10-member Indian benchmark’s 4
percent gain.  The refinery in Bathinda, operated by  HPCL-Mittal Energy
Ltd. , in which Hindustan Petroleum and Mittal Energy own 49
percent each, comes as other Asian refiners are expanding
capacity, resulting in lower profit from processing crude as
economies from  China  to  Europe  slow.  PetroChina Co. (857)  is adding
capacity at its Hohhot plant and plans to start a new plant in
Pengzhou this year, the International Energy Agency said.  The  average benchmark profit  in  Singapore  that complex
refiners, capable of processing inexpensive and heavy grades of
crude, are making from turning Dubai crude into fuels this year
is $4.50 a barrel, compared with $5.17 a barrel last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reliance Industries reported $7.60 a barrel profit from
refining in the three months ended March 31, 17 percent lower
than a year earlier, the company said April 20.  Sugar, Cotton  Total trade between India and Pakistan was $2.7 billion in
the year ended March 2011, according to data on the Indian trade
ministry’s website. Sugar was the biggest export from India to
Pakistan, followed by cotton, according to the data.  Pakistan’s fuel imports rose 24 percent to 9.8 million tons
in the nine months ended March 31 from a year earlier, according
to government data. The nation spent $7.4 billion for the
purchases, 58 percent higher than a year earlier.  Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari and India’s Singh
pledged to find “practical and pragmatic solutions” to
differences following their “constructive” talks when Zardari
came to India on April 8 in the first visit by a Pakistani head
of state in seven years.  India’s crude oil refining capacity exceeds demand as
companies including Indian Oil and  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL)  plan further
expansions. Indian Oil is building a 15 million ton plant in the
eastern state of Odisha and Essar Oil, the second-biggest non-
state processor, will expand its 18 million ton plant to 20
million tons by September. Hindustan Petroleum also plans to add
a 15 million ton plant in Maharashtra, according to Murali, the
director in charge of refinery operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  