-- Blackstone’s Wien Sees S&P 500 Rising to 1,500: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-26T18:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/blackstone-s-wien-sees-s-p-500-rising-to-1-500-tom-keene.html
Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien 
said the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is likely to rally on
corporate earnings in 2012 after the  Federal Reserve  raised its
economic growth forecast.  Wien, chairman of the advisory services unit of the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, said he expects S&P 500 companies
to report  earnings  this year of $100 a share, with the measure
trading for 15 times that. That would push the index to 1,500,
or 7.9 percent above yesterday’s closing level of 1,390.69, Wien
said today in an television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  “I think the  U.S. economy  is going to grow faster than
people think, so I think we’re going to not have a recession,”
Wien said. “The Fed notes yesterday suggested that growth is
going to be better than expected. Earnings are going to be
good.”  Fed policy makers said yesterday that the economy is
forecast to expand at a 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent rate this
year, compared with a previous forecast for 2.2 percent to 2.7
percent. They also repeated the view that borrowing costs are
likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least through 2014.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, the nuclear disaster in
Japan and overbuilding in China have prompted investors to view
the U.S. as a “safe haven,” and  interest rates  are staying low
as money flows into the world’s biggest economy, Wien said.  Wien said the combination of the European Central Bank
loans and other facilities probably will hold the European Union
together “at least for the next two or three years,” even as
the crisis worsens.  Oil Price  Wien, 79, predicted  oil prices  will decline in 2012, the
first time in his career that he has forecast a single-year drop
in the commodity. Production will be greater than investors
expect and the premium caused by tensions with Iran “is going
to come out of the price,” Wien said.  Oil rose to a one-week high today after the dollar
decreased against most major currencies. Futures have climbed
5.4 percent in 2012, through yesterday.  Wien said investors should put “at least a significant
portion” of their money into large-capitalization, multi-
national growth stocks.  “You get reasonable yields, multiples in the teens, well-
known brand names, markets all over the word,” Wien said. “You
get an awful lot for your money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  