-- Blackstone Seeks ‘Early-Stage’ Energy Assets, Foley Says
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-04-26T22:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/blackstone-seeks-early-stage-energy-assets-foley-says-1-.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is seeking to
take advantage of low natural gas prices, said the head of its
energy investing business, after KKR & Co. and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  announced multibillion-dollar deals for such
assets.  “It’s not just the spot price but the forward curve for
natural gas having fallen so much,” David Foley, chief
executive officer of Blackstone’s energy fund, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Cristina Alesci. “We’re
seeing much better pricing on assets that are available, lower
than what you would pay for a natural gas-focused company even
just last summer.”  Blackstone, based in  New York , is targeting smaller energy
deals while competitors buy large operations as the price of oil
climbs and energy companies unload mature oil and gas fields to
finance new exploration. Apollo in February agreed to acquire  El
Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil- and gas-exploration business for $7.15
billion, and KKR in November agreed to buy most of Samson
Investment Co. for $7.2 billion.  Foley said Blackstone is hunting for companies it can use
as a platform to acquire more assets and expand into a business
big enough to absorb commitments of hundreds of millions of
dollars. Eventually, Blackstone would seek to exit its
investments through an initial public offering or auction, he
said.  Building ‘From Scratch’  “We’re not trying to look for the largest gas company to
buy in a preexisting set of assets,” said Foley. “We’re
looking at early-stage things, we’re backing management teams
and building assets from scratch and buying smaller types of
assets.”  The value of private-equity deals in the  energy industry 
almost doubled last year to $32.8 billion from $16.6 billion in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the firms seek
to build track records in order to attract capital from clients
focused on the industry. Blackstone has raised $1.5 billion for
a new energy-specific fund and is seeking $500 million more by
the summer, Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  said on a conference
call last week.  “Investors like more targeted strategies these days,”
President  Tony James  said on the same call. “Specialist funds
are taking more and more of the assets that investors have to
put out, so we’ll go along with the industry trend.”  Blackstone in February committed $2 billion toward  Cheniere
Energy Partners LP (CQP) ’s construction of a $10 billion plant to
export natural gas. Cheniere operates the largest U.S. natural
gas import terminal and, if built, its export plant would be the
first in the country to ship super-cooled gas to markets too
remote for pipeline delivery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  