-- BlackRock Said Hiring UBS’s Cook for Capital Markets Team
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-04-26T14:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/blackrock-said-hiring-ubs-s-cook-for-capital-markets-team.html
Edward Cook, the banker who ran
European equity syndication at  UBS AG (UBSN) , is joining BlackRock
Inc., the largest  money manager , at its new capital markets team
in London, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Cook will report to Rob Leach, former partner and portfolio
manager at SAC Global Investors LLP, said two of the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans are private.  Leach will serve as head of the EMEA capital markets, which
includes debt and equities, while Cook will head syndication,
focusing on equities, one of the people said. Michael Dennis,
formerly of the hedge fund Marshall Wace LLP, will also be part
of the three-man team and focus on debt, the person said. The
team is set to start working next week, the person said.  New York-based  BlackRock (BLK) ’s entry into the capital markets
business in Europe could provide its money-management clients
with direct access to bond and equity sales. The firm, which had
$3.7 trillion in assets under management as of March 31, may use
its size and connections to compete with Wall Street banks.  Criticizing Banks  BlackRock’s U.K.-based portfolio managers Luke Chappell and
James Macpherson last year criticized investment banks handling
of initial public offerings for their “unrealistic” valuation
indications and fee structure.  “We are concerned that companies have been appointing
advisers based on unrealistic indications of valuation,” they
wrote in the  letter . They also expressed concerns about “the
structure of incentive fees which maximize returns for the price
achieved on the first day of trading rather than at a more
distant date.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is the biggest equity underwriter
in the EMEA region this year, followed by Deutsche Bank AG and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
UBS ranks fifth, the data show.  Companies raised $46 billion from share sales in the region
this year, compared with $62 billion during the same period last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The departure of Cook, whose official title at UBS was head
of equity capital markets group syndicate, comes amid a series
of high-level exits and hires at UBS’s investment bank in recent
weeks.  Exits and Hires  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  hired Alex Wilmot-Sitwell, chairman
of UBS’s investment bank, as president of  Europe , rebuilding a
team depleted by the departure of two of its most senior
executives in the region.  Andrea Orcel , former chairman of
global banking and markets at Bank of America, left to co-head
UBS’s investment bank.  Three senior UBS bankers left last week, including the head
of  consumer banking , Roland Phillips, the co-head of U.S.
mergers and acquisitions, Ehren Stenzler, and the head of
 investment banking  in the Americas, Aryeh Bourkoff. The bank has
also hired about 40 managing directors in the last 12 months.  Cook joined UBS in 2005 after more than two years at  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , according to his LinkedIn profile. He holds a degree
from the  London  School of Economics and Political Science.  A spokeswoman at UBS declined to comment on personnel
changes. A representative of BlackRock was not immediately
available for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  