-- BOE’s Weale Says Case to Extend QE Stronger After GDP Data
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-26T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/boe-s-weale-says-case-to-extend-qe-stronger-after-gdp-data-1-.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Martin Weale  said the argument for extending stimulus again has
increased after the economy slipped into its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s.  “I’m certainly feeling that the argument is stronger than
it would have been if the economy had shown economic growth,”
Weale said in an interview broadcast on BBC Radio Newcastle
today. “I don’t want to come to a decision now. It’s a decision
I’ll come to” at the policy meeting in May, he said.  Data yesterday showed U.K.  gross domestic product  fell 0.2
percent in the first quarter after a 0.3 percent decline in the
previous three months. The Bank of England is in the final month
of a 325 billion-pound ($526 billion) bond-buying program and
policy makers will decide on May 10 whether to extend so-called
quantitative easing.  While the economic recovery has struggled to gather
momentum, policy makers have also said that  inflation  may turn
out faster than they previously forecast as rising energy costs
stoke price pressures. Weale said that while the GDP figures
were “something of a disappointment” and “worse than I had
expected,” recent news on inflation also “hasn’t been good.”  Bank of England officials will have new quarterly economic
forecasts at their policy meeting in May. Their current 50
billion-pound round of bond purchases started in February.  “I, and I’m sure the other members of the MPC, will take
into account when we come to the decision in May both these GDP
figures and also the recent news on inflation,” Weale said. “I
couldn’t imagine that an increase in  interest rates  would
provide support to the economy” and quantitative easing “is
the policy option open to us.”  Data this month showed  inflation  accelerated for the first
time in six months in March, with the rate rising to an annual
3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  