-- BOJ Failure to Ease Tomorrow Would Be Disaster, Mizuno Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-04-26T00:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/boj-failure-to-ease-tomorrow-would-be-disaster-mizuno-says.html
Any failure by the  Bank of Japan  to
expand its asset-purchase program at tomorrow’s board meeting
would sow confusion over its policy, a former policy maker said.  Inaction “would be a disaster for communication,” Atsushi Mizuno, who served on the Bank of  Japan  board from 2004 to 2009,
said in an interview yesterday in Tokyo. All 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before tomorrow’s gathering predict
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his colleagues will boost asset
purchases amid forecasts for growth to slow through the year.  Mizuno, now a managing director at Credit Suisse, said more
important than the size of added stimulus tomorrow will be
greater clarity on its policy objectives. Even as the BOJ has
pledged to keep monetary stimulus until  price stability  is
achieved, Shirakawa has warned in speeches in recent weeks that
keeping excess stimulus in place too long raises the danger of
financial imbalances.  The former central banker also said that credit extended to
large Japanese companies poses a greater danger to the nation’s
banks than a sell-off in  government bonds .  “For the Japanese private banks, the biggest difficulty is
exposure to Japanese companies,” with industries including
electronics facing a slump in competitiveness, he said.  Merger Need  Mizuno’s assessment contrasts with a focus among policy
makers on risks tied to the  world’s largest public debt load ,
with Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  aiming to double the national
 sales tax . Along with fiscal discipline and monetary stimulus,
the nation needs a strategy for growth and would benefit from
mergers that produce more competitive companies, Mizuno said.  Sony Corp., Panasonic Corp. and Sharp Corp. have blamed a
strong yen for undermining their businesses as South Korean
competitors such as Samsung Electronics Co. benefit from a
relatively cheaper currency. The yen has climbed 47 percent
against the dollar in the past five years, compared with the
Korean won’s 18 percent slide.  Shirakawa’s ability to sway the yen is limited, because the
impact of U.S. economic developments is a greater determinant of
the  exchange rate  against the dollar, according to Mizuno, 52.  “In the very short term, the BOJ can have an impact,” he
said. “It’s very difficult for the BOJ to choose not to do
anything. If they don’t act at all, they will leave massive
confusion in the future.”  Shirakawa and his colleagues in February set a goal of
achieving sustained 1 percent increases in consumer prices,
which would bring an end to deflation that became entrenched in
the late 1990s. The so-called core gauge of consumer prices,
which excludes fresh food, rose 0.1 percent in February from a
year before.  Economists are divided on whether the BOJ will add 5
trillion yen ($61 billion) or 10 trillion in asset purchases
this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  