-- Bosch Says Profit Targets Are More Difficult on Material Costs
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-04-26T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bosch-says-profit-targets-are-more-difficult-on-material-costs.html
Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s
biggest car-parts supplier, said it will be harder to meet its
profit targets this year as high raw material costs and spending
on new business areas hurt margins.  While revenue will increase in a range of 3 percent to 5
percent, it has become harder to meet the growth target of 7
percent to 8 percent, the Stuttgart, Germany-based company said
in a statement today. Sales rose 5 percent in the first quarter.  “Economic uncertainties remain high, even if the euro-zone
debt crisis has relaxed slightly,” Chief Executive Officer
 Franz Fehrenbach  said in the statement. “With raw material
prices remaining high and further investment needed in new
business areas, it will be more difficult to reach our target
corridor of 7 percent to 8 percent in 2012.”  The industrial technology division had a loss before
interest and taxes of 364 million euros ($482 million) last year
because of price competition, according to today’s statement.
Bosch, which employs 302,500 people worldwide, is pursuing a 1.5
billion-euro push into solar energy. Last year, it bought
Voltwerk Electronics GmbH from Conergy AG for technology to link
solar panels to electricity grids.  Total earnings before interest and taxes declined 15
percent in 2011 to 2.7 billion euros. Sales grew 9 percent to
51.5 billion euros.  Speaking to journalists in Stuttgart yesterday, Fehrenbach
urged the rest of the  euro zone  to follow  Germany ’s lead in
improving competitiveness and said that if Germany reduced its
 trade surplus  the region would have a “big trade deficit.”  “These other countries should not really blame Germany,
they should work on their competitive edge,” he said. “Most of
us have forgotten that between 1995 and 2005 we were ‘the sick
man of  Europe ’ and Germany turned it around.”  Of Germany’s 170 billion-euro trade surplus, only 45
billion euros to 50 billion euros is inside the euro region, and
the region itself has a trade surplus of some 15 billion euros,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  