-- Bosnia Gets 150 Million-Euro EBRD Loan for Road Upgrade
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-04-26T13:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bosnia-gets-150-million-euro-ebrd-loan-road-upgrade.html
Bosnia-Herzegovina obtained a 150
million-euro ($198 million) loan from the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development to build a highway that will
boost the Balkan nation’s economy.  The 15-year loan will help finance part of the construction
of the Banja Luka-Doboj highway in western Bosnia. The  European
Investment Bank , the financing arm of the European Union, will
also take part in funding the project, the London-based EBRD
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Modern infrastructure is imperative for the economic
growth and regional integration of Bosnia,” EBRD Transport
Director Sue Barrett said in the statement. “Today’s signing in
Banja Luka is an important milestone for the development of
transport infrastructure in Republika Srpska.”  Bosnia-Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav nation most hurt by
the ethnic wars in the 1990s, wants to rebuild its
infrastructure to improve transport links with neighboring
Croatia, Serbia and  Montenegro , and boost its economic output.  The nation is divided into two entities, the Serb-dominated
Republika Srpska and Croat-Muslim Federation, with many roads
between the two still awaiting repairs and upgrades.  The borrower is  JP Autoputevi Republike Srpske , the public
company in the Serb-dominated part, while the funding is
guaranteed by Bosnia-Herzegovina, Ina Coretchi, the spokeswoman
for the lender said in an e-mail today.  The EBRD, established to help former communist nations’
transition to a market economy, has committed 1.3 billion euros
to Bosnia-Herzegovina since it began operations in the country.  Moody’s Investors Service, which on April 3 lowered the
country’s government bond ratings one level to B3, expects the
Bosnian economy to slide into a recession again this year on
faltering investments from abroad, the debt crisis in  Europe  and
political tensions between the nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  