-- Brazil Futures Yields Fall to Record as Bank Open to More Cuts
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-04-26T21:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/brazil-futures-yields-fall-to-record-as-bank-open-to-more-cuts.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts dropped to a record low after the central bank
signaled in minutes released today that it may make further
reductions in borrowing costs.  “The bank minutes talk about moderate adjustments, so
apparently they’re going to continue cutting,”  Jankiel Santos ,
chief economist at Espirito Santo, said in a phone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “They took out any possibility of stopping
cuts. The next cut will be small.”  The yield on the futures contract due in January 2014 slid
for a third day, dropping two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 8.81 percent. It earlier touched a record low of 8.74
percent. The real depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.8856 per dollar.  Brazil’s economy is recovering more slowly than expected,
and any additional interest-rate cuts should be carried out with
“parsimony,” the central bank said in the minutes of its April
17-18 meeting.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously last week to cut the target lending rate by 75 basis
points to 9 percent, bringing it close to a 2009 record low of
8.75 percent. The bank has reduced the benchmark by 350 basis
points since August to bolster economic growth and shield the
second-largest emerging market from the European debt crisis.  Santos said the minutes mark a shift from the bank’s prior
position that  interest rates  were likely to stabilize at a level
“slightly above” the historical low of 8.75 percent. Traders
are betting policy makers will cut the benchmark to about that
level in May, trading in futures contracts shows.  Meaning of ‘Parsimony’  “Now the market wants to know if ‘parsimony’ means that
the next cut will be by 0.25 or 0.50 percentage point,” said
 Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul America Investimentos, in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. The bank’s statement counts out
the possibility of more aggressive cuts, he said.  Since policy makers began lowering rates, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has shifted its focus to spurring the
economy from containing inflation.  It has cut taxes on consumer and industrial goods and
boosted low-cost loans to the state development bank even as the
pace of inflation has remained above target for a year and a
half.  Brazil ’s growth dropped to 2.7 percent last year from 7.5
percent in 2010, its second-weakest performance since 2003.  Tombini’s Surprises  No central banker in the world’s top 10 economies has
surprised analysts as frequently as Tombini. Since taking office
15 months ago, he set interest rates lower than economists
expected in three out of 10 policy meetings, including an August
reduction that all 62 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey failed
to anticipate.  Russia ’s central bank, the second most
unpredictable, defied economists in three out of 14 rate
decisions in the same period.  While the Brazilian government has pledged growth of 4
percent to 4.5 percent this year, economists in the latest
weekly central bank survey predicted expansion of 3.21 percent
this year and 4.25 percent in 2013.  Economists cut their forecast for 2012 inflation to 5.08
percent in the central bank survey, from 5.32 percent at the
start of the year. Policy makers have an inflation target of 4.5
percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Lower inflation is allowing the central bank to be more
aggressive in its purchase of dollars to help the real to
depreciate, which benefits Brazilian industries, O Estado de S.
Paulo reported, citing unidentified people from the government.  The government will probably act to achieve an  exchange
rate  weaker than 1.80 reais per dollar, according to the
newspaper. The government doesn’t expect the dollar’s
appreciation to create a problem for inflation, O Estado said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  