-- Bristol-Myers Meets Estimates as Pipeline Remains Focus
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-26T20:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/bristol-myers-meets-estimates-as-pipeline-remains-focus.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , losing
its top-seller Plavix to generic competition next month, matched
analyst estimates on sales of newer drugs as investors remain
focused on the company’s pipeline.  Net income rose 12 percent to $1.1 billion, or 64 cents a
share, from $986 million, or 57 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding certain
items, profit was also 64 cents a share, matching an average of
17 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue increased
4.8 percent to $5.25 billion.  The drugmaker has used mid-size acquisitions to replenish
its supply of experimental medicines and prepare for the loss of
Plavix, a blood thinner that made up 33 percent of 2011  revenue .
In March,  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , the maker of the diabetes
drug Bydureon, rejected Bristol-Myers’s $3.5 billion purchase
offer. Last week, Bristol-Myers agreed to collaborate with
 Medivir AB (MVIRB)  and Johnson & Johnson to test hepatitis C treatments.  “It’s pretty clear after last week that Bristol’s going to
be a player in the segment, but what time frame and in what way
can we expect?” Les Funtleyder, an analyst and portfolio
manager with Miller Tabak & Co.  Shares of Bristol-Myers fell 1.6 percent to $33.76 at the
close in New York. The company rose 20 percent in the 12 months.  He said investors are interested in how Bristol-Myers will
build a business strategy for medicines that are near to
reaching the market, led by the drugmaker’s new hepatitis C
treatment and experimental blood thinner Eliquis.  Experimental Drug  Bristol-Myers’s experimental diabetes product,
dapagliflozin, also called Forxiga, failed to win approval from
U.S. regulators in January. The  Food and Drug Administration 
asked the company for more data on the treatment being developed
with London-based  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)  It’s awaiting approval in
Europe and may be approved later in the U.S.  Bristol-Myers confirmed its previous 2012 earnings  forecast 
of $1.90 a share to $2.00 a share. “This first quarter
performance continues to demonstrate our ability to balance
delivering strong financial results in the short term with
positioning the company for long-term success,” Chief Executive
Officer Lamberto Andreotti said in the statement.  Bristol-Myers’s strategy of mid-size partnerships and
acquisitions is known as the “string of pearls.”  Melanoma Treatment Sales  Yervoy, used to treat melanoma, is the first drug from that
strategy to come to market. It was acquired in Bristol-Myers’s
purchase of Medarex Inc. in 2009 for $2.4 billion. The
treatment, which gained U.S. approval last year, generated $154
million in first-quarter sales, the company reported.  In January, Bristol-Myers bought Inhibitex Inc. and its
hepatitis C drug for $2.5 billion.  “We want to understand how that’s going to fit into
things,” Funtleyder said. “There’s going to be some
combination therapy, and it almost certainly requires some
partnering, because not everybody’s going to have all that’s
required,” he said.  While revenue from Plavix declined 4 percent to $1.69
billion, sales of the company’s newer drugs increased. In
addition to Yervoy, Baraclude, a hepatitis B drug, gained 18
percent to $325 million, and Sprycel, a drug for chronic myeloid
leukemia, increased sales 34 percent to $231 million.  Bristol-Myers is waiting for U.S. regulators to approve
Eliquis, a blood-thinner developed with New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  A decision is scheduled to come by June 28.  Hepatitis C Drugs  The company also is vying to develop the first of a new
line of hepatitis C therapies that don’t rely on interferon, an
immune-boosting shot given weekly for as long as a year that has
flu-like side-effects. The new therapies are combinations of
pills, not injections, and attack the virus directly to keep it
from replicating.  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  are competing with Bristol-Myers to be
first to market. Gilead’s drug, called 7977, was tested in
combination with Bristol-Myers’s daclatasvir and cured 93
percent of patients, according to a study released this month.
Gilead hasn’t committed to taking the combination further in
trials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  