-- Buy, Sell or Hold: How Can Governments Decide?
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/buy-sell-or-hold-how-can-governments-decide-.html
One of the best sentences I have
read in the last year is by the economist Tyler Cowen.  “We thought we were richer than we were,” he writes in his
book “The Great Stagnation.” The elegant simplicity of this
statement explains our economic crisis, sweeping in everybody who
went overboard -- governments and bankers, homeowners and
investors. The world is rich, but not as rich as we all thought
it was.  Cowen’s bon mot popped into my mind after the recent
announcement by Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, president of
 Argentina , that her government will nationalize YPF, the
nation’s largest oil company, controlled until now by the
Spanish energy conglomerate  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   Repsol has promised to fight by every legal means.
Fernandez’s critics argue that she is playing to the masses while
 enriching her inner circle .  Other Latin American countries are
worrying about how outsiders will henceforth view  the region’s
investment climate .  Fair points. But more interesting, and more significant, is
the way Fernandez’s populist posturing runs against the tide of
recent history. Around the world, governments are behaving as
though Cowen is right -- we don’t have as much money as we
thought we did -- and, as a result, are not buying assets but
selling them.  Rush to Invest  The question to ask is which of the many assets that private
investors might want should remain in public hands. In the U.S.,
alas, we seem to be getting the answer exactly wrong.  The rush to invest in infrastructure is hardly news. Buoyed
by predictions that the world will need tens of billions of
private dollars over the next few decades to build and maintain
roads, railroads, airports and so on, banks and  hedge funds  have
been rolling out suitable investment products. By  some estimates ,
the amount of private money available for infrastructure
investment is in excess of $180 billion.  In response, the world is selling, selling, selling. From
 Great Britain  to  South Africa , governments have aroused
controversy with plans to sell or lease everything from highways
to power stations.  In the U.S. this revolution has set off howls of protest,
in blue and red states alike. In 2008, public opposition forced
Governor  Ed Rendell  to  abandon  a plan to lease the Pennsylvania
Turnpike to a private consortium for $12.8 billion for 75 years.
About the same time, Missouri  gave up  on negotiations to lease
to private investors some 800 bridges in return for commitments
to rebuild and maintain them for 30 years.  Here, the U.S. is an oddity. In much of the world, people
take nationalistic pride in public ownership of such vital
services as energy and telecommunications. In the U.S., we are
perfectly happy to leave these key sectors in private hands
(though both are more heavily regulated than most other
industries). Instead, we fight to keep government in charge of
our decrepit roads and bridges.  It isn’t clear quite why. Roads are expensive to maintain.
As a  2011 report  prepared for the U.S. PIRG Education Fund points
out, the frequent claim that the highways pay for themselves is a
myth. The various “user fees” (such as gasoline taxes and tolls)
pay only half the cost of building and maintaining our
thoroughfares. Over the past 60 years, the amount spent on roads
has exceeded the user fees by more than $600 billion (in 2005
dollars). In other words, maintaining the highways has required
public money that could have been spent elsewhere.  Privately controlled highways would have to pay for
themselves -- in most cases with higher tolls. This would be most
inconvenient for drivers, but at least the costs would be borne
principally by those who actually use the roads -- including
trucking companies, who would pass the costs on to consumers --
instead of invisibly, through taxes and borrowing.  Terrible Roads  Libertarians have long favored private highways on
ideological grounds. But now there are practical arguments for
selling them off.  Our roads are in terrible condition. According to  a report 
from Transportation for America, a coalition of groups lobbying
for better investment in infrastructure, nearly 70,000 highway
bridges -- about one in nine -- are classified as “structurally
deficient.” (That was the rating, remember, of the Interstate 35W
bridge that collapsed in  Minneapolis  in 2007.) The cost of
repairs may run as high as $70 billion. The money has to come
from somewhere -- and remember Cowen’s astute observation.  Yet we continue to fight for our roads. Progressive critics
of President Barack Obama’s cherished  national infrastructure
bank  have charged that it is a  transparent device  aimed at
accelerating the “privatization” of infrastructure. Another
critique  warned that  leasing highways to private investors “will
severely limit transportation innovation and public choice.”  In truth, one of the arguments the Obama administration has
presented  in support  of the infrastructure bank is that assets
such as roads and transit do not generally attract much private
investment because of a lack of “effective mechanisms” to
generate a return. This is a polite way of saying that many
entrepreneurs consider highways and bridges a poor investment. If
so, pushing them into private hands will probably yield no better
results than keeping them public.  But that is a matter the market can decide, without
government subsidy. Although the results of private investment in
the roads have occasionally been uneven, there are grand success
stories, such as the $1.8 billion, 99-year lease of the  Chicago
Skyway .  It is difficult to understand, in an era when nearly all the
traditional state monopolies have collapsed, our affection for
publicly operated highways. When competition is permitted, the
state tends to have trouble turning sharp corners. FedEx and UPS
were eating the  Postal Service ’s lunch long before the Internet
made most of the rest of the mail obsolete. Private primary and
secondary education is heavily preferred by those who can afford
it.  Private Armies  Not even the fabled monopoly on the legitimate use of force
has survived. Governments around the world routinely purchase
military services from private companies. In the U.S., police are
greatly outnumbered by private guards. Some corporations and most
large colleges and universities maintain security forces that are
authorized not only to carry weapons but also to make arrests.  In short, the border between the public and the private,
what the state alone must provide and where the market can
function, has grown increasingly fuzzy. Markets can be
wonderfully efficient. But not everything should be traded in a
market.  My own list of assets that should never be sold off would
begin with  prisons . Why? Because when the state acts to take away
our liberty, even when we have done terrible things to earn
punishment, every moment of our confinement should be overseen by
constitutionally accountable actors. Others might begin the list
elsewhere. Nobody, I suspect, would begin with the roads.  No doubt there would be advantages to continuing the
tradition of public ownership of infrastructure. But Cowen’s
point holds: We don’t have the money. Railing against
“privatization” won’t make the cash appear.  As for Fernandez’s decision to nationalize YPF, yes, she is
going against the grain of history, and one hopes that the
government will run the  oil company  efficiently: the growth penalty
that countries pay for inefficient use of infrastructure has been  
long understood  and  repeatedly   confirmed .  But whatever happens in Argentina, the occasional
nationalization is not likely to dull the appetite of
infrastructure investors. A  2004 study  of 1,000 Latin American
infrastructure concessions showed that in nearly a third of the
cases the contracts were renegotiated, and often to the benefit
of the private contractor.  In short, the YPF contretemps will not scare away investors
who search the world for lucrative infrastructure investments.
And because a large chunk of that $180 billion is likely to be
invested in the U.S., it’s an opportune moment for a serious
conversation about which resources must, and which need not, stay
in public hands.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln ,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  easing student debt  and
 Europe’s growth pact ;  Michael Kinsley  on  toll roads and income
inequality ;  Jonathan Alter  on  community-college shortcomings ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  ratings firms ; Elizabeth Samet on  ambition in
the military .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 