-- Buyout Firms Seen Sparking Next Heath-Care Deal After Rhoen
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/buyout-firms-seen-sparking-next-heath-care-deal-after-rhoen.html
Fresenius SE’s 3.1 billion-euro
($4.1 billion) bid for  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  was the biggest in
European health-care services in more than five years. Buyout
firms may spark the next transactions.  Acquisitions of European private equity-owned facilities
such as hospitals and lab operators in the region last year more
than doubled from 2010 to 6.2 billion euros, and more than 20
such assets may come to market by 2013, according to  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Sweden ’s Attendo Group AB may be among the first targets as
owner IK Investment Partners AB weighs a sale for about 1
billion euros, according to people familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified as a decision hasn’t been made.
Dealmaking is emerging from a five-year lull, while private-
equity companies, which typically own assets for three to five
years, are seeking to return cash to investors.  “They’re feeling pressure to show a return,” said Martin
Henrichs, managing director of  investment banking  at Credit
Suisse in London. “Private-equity firms are quite predictable
when it comes to exiting their investments. They don’t want
their investors’ money to sleep for 10 years.”  Bad-Homburg, Germany-based Fresenius yesterday offered
22.50 euros a share for Rhoen Klinikum to cement its position as
 Germany ’s largest operator of private hospitals.  Last year, more than 80 percent of all deals in  Europe ’s
health-services industry involved private equity, and the firms
were involved in at least 60 percent of all transactions in the
past decade. That trend will continue this year, Henrichs said.  Aging Populations  Hospital assets may attract both other buyout firms and
industrial buyers such as  Australia ’s  Ramsay Health Care Ltd. (RHC) ,
which is likely to add to its 37 U.K. facilities, Nomura
Holdings Inc. wrote in a report last month. Ramsay doesn’t
comment on specific potential acquisitions, though it has
previously indicated it was interested in European purchases,
spokeswoman Carmel Monaghan said by email.  Buyout firms were drawn to hospitals for their steady  cash
flow , usable to pay down debt, as well as the outlook for growth
in private elderly care as populations age and cash-strapped
governments scale back spending. During the boom, buyout firms
also sought to extract value from selling companies’ property.  Assets for sale include medical-testing company Biomnis,
owned by London-based Duke Street Capital Ltd., people with 
knowledge of the plans said last month. Potential bidders 
include London private equity firm  3i Group Plc (III)  and PAI Partners.  Biomnis, Four Seasons  Biomnis, based in Lyon,  France , may be valued at between
300 million euros and 400 million euros, according to people
with knowledge of the matter. Officials for Duke Street, 3i and
PAI Partners declined to comment.  Four Seasons Health Care Group Ltd., a U.K. nursing-home
company bought in 2006 by Qatari-backed Three Delta LLP and then
taken over by lenders including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) , is considering bids as part of its talks with debtholders.
Final offers are due this week and have so far included Terra
Firma  Capital Partners , the firm founded by British financier
 Guy Hands , two people familiar with the process said, declining
to be named because the process isn’t public.  Four Seasons is in discussions with potential investors,
the company said in a statement. A spokesman declined to comment
further. A spokesman for Terra Firma declined to comment.  Attendo Sale  Four Seasons’ sale six years ago kicked off a spate of
hospital-services deals that peaked at 11.8 billion euros in
2007 before withering.  IK Investment, the former venture unit of Swedish bank SEB
AB, bought Attendo in 2006. IK hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
SEB Enskilda to advise on options for the Danderyd, Sweden-based
company, which would likely attract buyout firms in a sale,
people familiar with the plans said, who couldn’t speak publicly
as the plan is private. An official for IK declined to comment.  IK has yet to decide whether to pursue a disposal amid the
public outcry prompted last year by allegations of patient
mistreatment at a facility run by Stockholm-based Ambea AB. New
York-based  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Triton Partners bought Ambea in 2010
from London-based 3i. The controversy in turn raised questions
in Sweden regarding private-equity practices in care homes.  Private-equity firms Apax Partners LLP and Nordic Capital
Svenska AB jointly took Swedish hospital operator Capio AB
private in 2006.  Plans Revived  Buyout firms may also revive mothballed sale plans. In
August 2010, LBO France, one of the country’s oldest private-
equity firms, stopped a process to dispose of its stake in
clinic operator Medi-Partenaires SA because the bids it received
weren’t sufficientt, people with knowledge of the decision said
then. Two years earlier, Blackstone shelved the sale of French
clinic chain Vitalia SA for the same reason.  A spokeswoman for Blackstone in  London  declined to comment.
A spokeswoman for LBO France wasn’t available for comment
immediately.  To be sure, private-equity firms may also decide to hold
onto their assets and refinance the debt, as they have done in
the past years, rather than selling them at unsatisfying returns
or a loss, Henrichs said.  Private-equity firms have led $80 billion of deals across
all industries globally so far this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. That’s 35 percent below the figure for the same
period in 2011. The firms announced $390 billion of takeovers in
2011, less than half of the $831 billion announced at the
market’s peak in 2007.  Renewed confidence in the U.S. and Europe will help spur an
increase in deals across all industries this year,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  predicted last month.  “We’re on a very good track” for hospital deals, given
 capital markets  have rallied, Heinrich said. “If we sustain
that momentum, we will be at better volumes than last year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  