-- Canada Sets New Rules on Covered Bond Market
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-04-26T20:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/canada-says-insured-mortgages-can-t-be-covered-bond-colla.html
Canada  will prohibit banks from
using insured mortgages to back their covered bonds while
increasing oversight of the federal housing agency to cool off
the country’s real-estate market.  Under rules in a budget bill that Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  introduced in Parliament today, banks will only be able
to use uninsured mortgages as collateral on covered bonds, which
are notes usually backed by mortgages. The government will also
strengthen oversight of Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. through
Canada’s banking regulator.  By barring banks from securing covered bonds with
government-insured loans, Flaherty is discouraging mortgage
lending by limiting  cheap funding  for home loans. The moves may
raise borrowing costs for banks, leading to higher  mortgage
rates  that would curb a housing market that has seen prices in
some cities almost triple over the last decade.  “The government wants to be a little bit more restrictive
in terms of slowing down the issues in the housing market and
with consumer leverage more generally,” said  David Tulk , chief
Canada macroeconomic strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities unit.  Canadian lenders have been issuing covered bonds, which are
backed by pools of residential mortgages, to fund their home-
lending business. In most cases, the loans used to secure the
bonds are insured by Canada Mortgage & Housing. The government
currently guarantees the full value of home loans insured by
CMHC and 90 percent of mortgages insured by private companies.
The government will also set up a registry for companies that
sell covered bonds.  Taxpayer Guarantees  “This is a superb long-term move for the development of
the housing finance framework,” said  Finn Poschmann , vice
president of research at the Toronto-based research group C.D.
Howe Institute. “As the market matures, we should find that the
housing finance system can function perfectly well, out from
under the umbrella of taxpayer guarantees.”  Under the legislation, lenders won’t be permitted to use
mortgages insured by CMHC or private insurers such as  Genworth
MI Canada Inc. (MIC)  as collateral for the covered bonds.  Existing covered bonds will not be affected by the
measures, according to the legislation. That means existing
securities should benefit from greater investor demand than new
ones because of the extra protection, said Francis Kestler, who
trades covered bonds at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in  Chicago .  ‘Better Bid’  The price of Toronto-Dominion Bank’s 1.5 percent covered
bond due 2017 rose, narrowing the spread to government debt four
basis points to 68 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The outstanding issues will be better bid,” Kestler said
in a telephone interview. “I don’t think it kills the market”
for new bonds, he said, adding “it will be more expensive for
Canadian banks to fund themselves going forward using covered
bonds.”  Banks that use insured mortgages as collateral “will
launch new programs with uninsured mortgage pools,” said Andre-
Philippe Hardy, a bank analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto. The rule “would increase the funding cost on future
new originations by an estimated 10-15 basis points,” Hardy
said in a note to clients.  Of the C$1.2 trillion ($1.2 trillion) of  mortgage loans 
made to Canadians, C$67 billion are insured mortgages that are
pledged to covered bond pools, or about 5.6 percent of the
total, according to data provided by Kevin Chiang of credit-
rating company DBRS Ltd. Of the C$63 billion of outstanding
covered bonds, C$54 billion or 85 percent are backed by insured
mortgages.  Lisa Azzuolo, a spokeswoman for Genworth, declined to
comment on the Canadian government’s plans on covered bonds.  Excessive Risk-Taking  The legislation also proposes that CMHC’s finances be
checked at least once a year by the federal  banking regulator  to
guard against excessive risk-taking.  “CMHC fully supports the measures,” spokesman Peter De
Barros said by e-mail. “Enhancements to the governance and
oversight framework for CMHC support the government’s continuous
efforts to strengthen the housing finance system and Canada’s
housing market.”  The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions
will study if CMHC is acting “with due regard to its exposure
to loss,” according to the budget implementation bill. CMHC’s
board of directors would also add two government deputy
ministers under the legislation.  ‘Important Financial Institution’  “I have been concerned about CMHC for some time in this
sense: that it’s become an important financial institution in
Canada and it wasn’t subject to the same supervision,” Flaherty
told reporters in Ottawa. “This is an important step forward.”  The tightening of oversight over CMHC and changes to
covered-bond rules will probably make it more difficult for
borrowers “at the margins” of the market to qualify for
mortgages, said Louis Gagnon, a professor of finance at Queen’s
University in Kingston, Ontario.  “It will have the beneficial effect of preventing the most
vulnerable borrowers from getting access to mortgages,” said
Gagnon, a former senior risk-management official at Royal Bank
of Canada. “So these people will have to wait longer to get
into the game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  