-- Canada February Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-04-26T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/canada-february-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment, earnings, and hours report for February
released by  Statistics Canada .  In February, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees were $886.45, up 0.2% from the previous month. On a
year-over-year basis, earnings rose 1.8%.  The 1.8% increase in earnings during the 12 months to
February reflects a number of factors, such as wage growth and
changes in the composition of employment by industry, occupation
and level of job experience.  Average hours worked per week can also contribute to
changes in earnings. In February, the year-over-year growth in
weekly earnings was slowed by a decline in hours worked.  February was the fourth consecutive month of year-over-year
declines in hours worked. Non-farm payroll employees worked 32.8
hours per week on average in February, down from 33.0 hours 12
months earlier and 32.9 hours in January.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average of 1.8% in two of  Canada ’s largest
industrial sectors: construction and wholesale trade.  Average weekly earnings in construction increased 5.4% to
$1,120.03, with notable growth in all industries within this
sector (see the “Sector profile” section of this release).  In wholesale trade, earnings increased 3.3% to $1,096.98 in
the 12 months to February, with notable gains during the month.
The highest growth rates were in wholesaler-distributors of
personal and household goods; food, beverage and tobacco; and
miscellaneous items such as recyclables, metals and agricultural
supplies.  Among the smaller sectors, mining, quarrying and oil and
gas extraction had the highest growth in earnings, with an 8.7%
increase to $1,850.20 in the 12 months to February.  Earnings declined in two of the larger sectors. In
administrative and support services, earnings were down 1.0% to
$730.34. The decrease was mainly in investigation and security
services, employment services, and services to buildings and
dwellings.  In professional, scientific and technical services, average
weekly earnings fell 0.6% to $1,211.77. The decline occurred
mainly in accounting, tax preparation and bookkeeping services
and in legal services.  Average weekly earnings up in every province  Average weekly earnings increased in every province in the
12 months to February, and growth was above the national average
in six provinces. Growth was highest in Saskatchewan and in
Newfoundland and Labrador.  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings were $905.98, up
5.0% in the 12 months to February. Earnings in the province have
exceeded the national average since August 2011.  In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings
amounted to $919.08 in February, up 3.9% from 12 months earlier.
Earnings in this province have been higher than the national
average since September 2011.  In Prince  Edward Island , average weekly earnings rose 2.8%
to $729.00, and in  Alberta , earnings were up 2.7% to $1,057.57,
the highest earnings of all provinces.  The lowest year-over-year growth occurred in Ontario, where
average weekly earnings were $899.90, up 0.7%. Earnings growth
in the province has been lower than the national average since
October 2010.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  From January to February, total non-farm payroll employment
declined by 19,200. There were decreases in administrative and
support services, finance and insurance, and accommodation and
food services. These declines were partially offset by gains in
construction and in health care and social assistance.  On a year-over-year basis, the number of non-farm payroll
employees rose 1.2% (+182,300), with most of the gains in the
first half of the period. The highest growth occurred in
construction (+3.3%); professional, scientific and technical
services (+3.0%); mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction
(+2.9%); and accommodation and food services (+2.5%).  Sector profile: Construction  From time to time, this release profiles an industrial
sector or province with a notable trend. The profile for
February 2012 examines the construction sector because of its
faster-than-average growth in earnings, employment and hours. In
recent years, growth in this sector coincided with increased
investments in non-residential and residential construction
activities.  In February, the number of payroll employees in
construction was 870,200, making it the seventh largest sector.
The largest share of construction employees were working in
building equipment contracting (27%). This industry’s main
activities include installation or servicing of equipment that
is a part of a building’s mechanical systems (e.g., electricity,
water, heating and cooling).  The next largest shares of employees were in residential
building construction (14%) and foundation, structure and
building exterior contracting (13%). Other construction
industries by order of share of employees include other
specialty trades (e.g., site preparation, crane rental and fence
installation); non-residential building; building finishing;
utility systems; highway, street and bridges; land subdivision;
and other heavy and civil engineering construction.  Like many sectors, construction experienced a notable
decline in the number of payroll employees during the economic
slowdown in 2008 and 2009, although this decline was sharper
than for most other sectors.  After peaking in October 2008, payroll employment in
construction declined for six consecutive months to April 2009,
falling 7.0%. This was nearly three times the all-sector decline
of 2.3% during the same period.  Most of the industries within the construction sector had
notable job declines during this six-month period, except for
other heavy and civil engineering construction and highway,
street and bridge construction.  From April 2009 to February 2012, payroll employment in
construction increased 12.0%, nearly four times the all-sector
growth rate over the same period. This growth in construction
brought the employment level within the sector higher than the
previous peak in October 2008 by 34,700.  In the 12 months to February, construction payroll
employment was up 3.3%, and the most notable job gains within
this sector were in utility systems construction (+11.0%); non-
residential building construction (+6.5%); foundation, structure,
and building exterior contracting (+4.9%); and building
equipment contracting (+3.4%).  Average weekly earnings in the construction sector have
been increasing steadily since August 2009, and the pace of
growth has been faster since April 2011. In the 12 months to
February, average weekly earnings increased 5.4% to $1,120.03,
the third-highest earnings level among the 10 largest industrial
sectors. The growth in earnings was notable within most
construction industries.  Average weekly hours worked by payroll employees in
construction increased to 37.3 hours in February 2012 from 36.6
hours in February 2011. The average workweek in this sector was
notably above the all-sector average of 32.8 hours in February.  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey whose main objective is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the  unemployment
rate  and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross taxable payroll before source
deductions.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  