-- Canadian Dollar Rises to Highest Since September on Rates
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-26T21:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/canadian-dollar-rises-to-highest-since-september-on-rates.html
Canada ’s dollar traded at almost a
seven-month high versus its U.S. counterpart on speculation the
Bank of Canada raising borrowing costs in the world’s 10th-
largest economy will add to the currency’s allure.  The Canadian currency fluctuated after erasing a gain as a
report showed more Americans than forecast filed jobless claims.
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated yesterday while
answering questions at the Senate’s banking committee in Ottawa
that rate increases “may become necessary” as the economy
recovers.  Futures markets are “starting to price in the probability
of a Bank of Canada rate hike by the fall, and that’s really
driving the Canadian dollar’s strength,” said  Shane Enright ,
 executive director  at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC
World Markets unit in Toronto, in a telephone interview.  Canada’s currency touched 98.07 cents per  U.S. dollar , the
strongest since Sept. 19, before trading at 98.43 cents at 5
p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0160.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.7 percent, while
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials  was up
0.4 percent. Raw materials account for about half of Canada’s
export revenue.  Weekly Gain  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, was 0.8 percent
higher during the past week for the best performance among 10
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollars of commodity exporters  Australia  and  New Zealand 
were little changed and down 0.5 percent on the week.  “You have better commodities, better equities, that’ll get
you a stronger Canada anyway,” said CIBC’s Enright. “The fact
that we’re outperforming the other commodity currencies is a
function of the rate story.”  Canadian two-year government  bonds  rose, pushing the yield
down three basis points to 1.38 percent after rising in five
straight sessions. The 0.75 percent securities maturing in May
2014 added seven cents to C$98.75.  Federal  government bonds  have lost 0.7 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Canadian
Governments index.  Two-year yields rose 16 basis points last week, the most
since September, and the  spread  between two-year Canadian and
U.S. two-year government debt widened to 116 basis points two
days ago, the biggest gap since May 2011 on speculation Carney
is preparing to raise borrowing costs this year to counter
 inflation  that’s rising faster than the  Bank of Canada 
previously predicted.  Borrowing Odds  The probability of higher borrowing costs by the central
bank’s October meeting rose to about 75 percent today, according
to Bloomberg calculations based on index swaps. Odds were 19
percent on April 16, the day before policy makers suggested
rates would rise sooner than economists expected as slack in the
economy evaporates.  “We’ve put a bit of water between us and parity,” said
Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research at Societe
Generale SA, by phone from  London . “The pressure for the Bank
of Canada to eventually raise rates can only grow,” as the  U.S.
economy  recovers and its central bank is on “permanent hold.”  U.S. jobless claims fell by 1,000 to 388,000 in the week
ended April 21 from a revised 389,000 the prior period that was
the highest since early January, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 48 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a drop to 375,000.  Level Struggle  Canada’s dollar may struggle to move much stronger than 98
cents because there are “lots of U.S. dollar buyers” at that
level, said Firas Askari, head currency trader at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO)  in Toronto, in an e-mail. “The trade for today is
probably higher for the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian,” he
said. The fact that the Canadian dollar pared gains on second-
tier data such as jobless claims demonstrates the “lack of
conviction in the market.”  Until two days ago, the currency had oscillated in a 2-cent
range between 98.42 cents and C$1.0054 since the end of January.
It will appreciate to 98 cents by the end of 2012, according to
the median of 40 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News.  “The Canadian dollar broke out of its range and Carney’s
been maintaining his hawkish stance,” said Eric Viloria, senior
currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York .
“When all the other central banks are keeping their options
open or even pursuing further easing, the Bank of Canada stands
out as the only hawkish of the major central banks. Because of
those diverging policy expectations, that’s likely to have a
positive impact on the Canadian dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  