-- Cattle Extend Rally as Mad Cow Fails to Slow Demand
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-26T19:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/cattle-extend-rally-as-mad-cow-fails-to-slow-demand-hogs-drop.html
Cattle futures rose for a second
day on signs that the biggest buyers of U.S. beef will keep
purchasing the meat, even after the country reported its first
case of mad cow disease in six years. Hogs fell.  Importers reviewed meat-buying procedures after the U.S.
said April 24 that a dairy cow in  California  was found with the
brain-wasting disease. Canada,  Mexico ,  Japan  and  South Korea ,
the four biggest buyers, said that they won’t halt purchases.
Indonesia, which accounted for 0.6 percent of U.S. imports last
year, said today it suspended acquisitions of U.S. beef shipped
after April 24.  The response from top importers “certainly gives us some
support for the short term,”  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst at
Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re not out of the woods.”  Cattle futures for June delivery climbed 0.1 percent to
settle at $1.12375 a pound at 1:00 p.m. on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. Prices advanced as much as 1 percent
earlier. The price has dropped 7.5 percent this year.  After the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  disclosed that a
cow was infected with mad cow disease, the nation’s fourth case
and first since 2006, cattle futures slumped 2.6 percent on
April 24 to a nine-month low. Prices rebounded 0.6 percent
yesterday.  Risk of Bans  Indonesia’s decision “is a reminder that there’s a risk of
more import bans to come if the situation in the U.S. worsens,”
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG, said by telephone
from Frankfurt. “Prices seem to have stabilized, but if more
cases of BSE emerge, then it’s possible other countries may
follow.”  Indonesia doesn’t have a time frame for how long purchases
will be banned, Agriculture Minister Suswono told reporters in
Jakarta today. “We will continue to monitor the situation and
seek information from the U.S. authorities,” said the minister,
who uses only a single name.  Canada , the biggest buyer in 2011,
imported 32 times more beef from the U.S. than Indonesia did
last year.  South Korea didn’t impose a ban because it saw “no
problem” with the safety of the imported beef as the disease
was found in a dairy cow more than 30-months old, Agricultural
Minister Suh Kyu Yong told reporters today. The country will
strengthen quarantine inspections of U.S. shipments, Suh said.  Hog futures for June settlement fell 0.2 percent to settle
at 87.425 cents a pound on the CME. The price has gained 3.7
percent this year.  Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement dropped 0.4
percent to $1.5155 a pound in Chicago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  