-- Moonves Making $69 Million Shows How Boards Manipulate Data
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-26T01:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ceos-earn-more-than-they-would-without-u-s-boards-showing-bias.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  directors decided to give
Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  a $69.9 million pay
package last year after assessing the competitive market for
senior executive talent.  The  board  defined that market as pay for CEOs at companies
that are on average more than twice as large as CBS, and many in
businesses far afield from media.  Such lopsided comparisons aren’t unusual at U.S.
corporations. To justify how much they offer CEOs, board
compensation committees measure against the pay of CEOs at other
companies, often picking larger firms from different industries
that pay more and don’t consider themselves rivals for
management prospects.  “There is pretty straightforward evidence of cherry-
picking, and it’s pervasive,” said Thomas DiPrete, a
sociologist at  Columbia University  who has studied the use of
self-selected peers to set CEO pay.  The size gap between CBS and its peers, for instance, is
one of the widest in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and more than 10,000 peer
relationships supplied by Equilar, a company that sells
compensation data. The data reveal companies with traits that
researchers say are associated with bias: those that set pay
against peers that are much larger, in different industries, or
that rarely cite the subject company in return.  Peer Groups  In the 1980s and 1990s, when increasing executive
compensation created controversy -- it is once again a
contentious issue in this election year -- pay consultants sold
many companies on the practice of benchmarking against peers.
The idea was to compare compensation with similar-size companies
in similar industries as a way of setting a fair compensation
package.  The choice of peers can itself be arbitrary. Four teams of
academic researchers have found evidence of bias in the peer
groups that  U.S. companies  use to set pay. None identified
specific companies. A fifth study concluded the process wasn’t
biased.  Intentionally picking better-paid peers “has been a big
part of the ratcheting up of executive pay,” said Bill George,
a Harvard Business School governance professor who’s a director
at Exxon Mobil Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and former CEO
of Medtronic Inc.  The adjusted average compensation of CEOs in the  S&P 500 (SPX) 
rose to $12.9 million in 2011, or 380 times the average worker’s
pay, up from $625,000, or 42 times the average worker’s pay, in
1980, the AFL-CIO said in a report released this month.  Incentives  Many directors “have incentives to make compensation
decisions that are more favorable to executives” than to
shareholders, said Lucian Bebchuk, a Harvard Law School
professor who has researched CEO pay. Directors may not want to
risk upsetting their board position or their relationship with a
CEO, he said.  “There’s a significant body of research indicating that
boards don’t deal with executives completely at arm’s length,”
he said.  Most companies vary pay based on performance yet still use
competitive data to determine the size of target compensation,
set at the beginning of a company’s fiscal year. This includes
salary, a bonus whose final amount varies based on annual
performance, and an award of stock or options.  New York-based CBS said in a statement that benchmarking is
“just one data point” it uses when setting CEO pay and it
emphasizes pay that varies based on performance.  CBS Comparisons  Directors at CBS measure pay for Moonves against CEOs at
five other media companies, all of them larger by market value
and all but one larger by sales. Directors also look at bigger
non-media companies, such as  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  and General Electric Co.  GE had 11 times CBS’s sales, based on the latest figures
available, while IBM had 14 times CBS’s market value. Neither
company sets its pay by reference to CBS. GE’s CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  had total compensation of $21.6 million last year and
IBM’s  Sam Palmisano , who stepped down as CEO at the end of 2011,
had compensation of $31.8 million that year.  CBS stock has returned 68 percent including dividends since
Moonves took charge in 2006. That compares with 16 percent for
Time Warner Inc., 23 percent at  News Corp . and Walt Disney Co.’s
93 percent gain over the same period.  Redstone’s Compensation  CBS’s corporate sibling  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , separated in 2005,
uses almost the same groups of outsize peers. The median company
on Viacom’s media-industry peer group is 56 percent bigger by
market capitalization and more than twice as big by  sales ; the
median company in its broader peer group also has more than
twice Viacom’s sales and value.  Viacom, which is based in  New York , said in a statement
that it doesn’t set pay directly based on its chosen peers, and
“uses this information to get a broader perspective of overall
compensation practices.”  Sumner Redstone , who is executive chairman of both
companies and controls them through a special class of stock,
made a combined $41 million in pay last year. Viacom CEO
Philippe Dauman collected $43 million, and the company’s stock
has returned 33 percent since he took over in September 2006.  Cherry-picking larger peers often skews results because
CEOs at big firms typically get higher pay. Companies with more
than $10 billion in market value had average total CEO pay of
$13.6 million compared with pay of $3.4 million at companies
below that threshold, according to a Bloomberg analysis of data
provided by Institutional Shareholder Services.  Different Peer Group  Some companies measure CEO pay against executives in
different industries even as they gauge their financial
performance by looking within their own sector.  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest seed company and the
maker of Roundup herbicide, looks at other chemical and seed-
producing companies, including DuPont Co. and Dow Chemical Co.,
to measure revenue and profit, according to a regulatory filing.
That’s also how it used to help set executive compensation.  Since at least 2006, Monsanto CEO Hugh Grant’s pay is
stacked up against mostly health-care companies, such as Abbott
Laboratories and Eli Lilly & Co. They’re among the best-paid on
Monsanto’s list, including $24 million for Abbott’s Miles White
and $16.4 million for Lilly’s John Lechleiter in 2011.  Grant’s pay has risen from about $2.7 million in 2004, his
first year as CEO, to $11.6 million in 2011. None of the 14
health-care companies Monsanto cites compares its pay to the
seed company.  Monsanto’s Take  St. Louis-based Monsanto said in a statement that it’s at
least as big or bigger than its median peer and the group is
“diversified” and from “nine industries.” It said most “are
science-based and research-focused like Monsanto.”  Pay increases for CEOs sometimes follow adjustments to peer
groups.  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  CEO Frederick Waddell got a 42 percent
raise in 2009 after the board added six companies to the list of
businesses it deemed CEO-talent rivals. There weren’t enough
asset managers on the old list, the Chicago bank and wealth
manager said in explaining the decision in a regulatory filing.  Left unstated was the effect that government-imposed pay
restrictions had on banks that accepted bailout funds during the
financial crisis: Median pay among Northern Trust’s old peer
group dropped to $6.8 million in 2008 from $9.2 million the year
before.  Shareholders’ Say  None of the six companies added to the peer list -- five
asset managers and a brokerage firm -- was subject to pay
restrictions. Among them:  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest  money
manager  in the world, which had just had the second-most
profitable year in its 21-year history.  Waddell’s pay rose to $11.9 million in 2009 from $8 million
the year before. The bank didn’t say whether peer comparisons
played a role in that increase.  At Northern Trust’s April 2011 annual meeting, 31 percent
of  shareholders  voted against Northern Trust’s compensation
program. The bank responded by increasing Waddell’s salary to
$956,250 from $900,000 and cutting his cash bonus to $1.6
million from $2 million and long-term awards to $7 million from
$8 million. Directors dropped the six newcomers and returned to
the old peer list, calling it a “more targeted” group.  Appropriate List  That’s not necessarily bad news for Waddell. By 2011, most
banks had repaid their bailout, and the most recent data
available from Northern Trust’s peer companies showed median CEO
pay at the old list of banks had risen to $12.9 million,
compared with median CEO pay of $8.6 million at the new
additions.  Northern Trust said in a statement that the current list is
appropriate. It declined to comment on the pay difference
between the two lists.  Since Waddell became CEO in 2008, the bank’s shares lost 33
percent after dividends through yesterday, compared with a 40
percent deficit for the  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Scholars have only been able to research how companies
choose peers since 2006, when a Securities & Exchange Commission
rule forced U.S. public companies that use them to start
disclosing their lists. They’re disclosed in the same annual SEC
filing companies use to show how much they paid their senior
executives.  The five groups of academic researchers who have studied
the matter don’t all agree that boards cherry-pick better paid
CEOs. Brian Cadman, a professor at the University of Utah David
Eccles School of Business, and Mary Ellen Carter at  Boston
College  looked at 608 companies and found they sought to pick
the most appropriate groups.  Only One A-Rod  “A scarce commodity is going to be rewarded with higher
wages,” Cadman said. “It’s like sports. There’s only one A-Rod
and everyone wants him.”  Four other research groups, including Columbia’s DiPrete
whose study looked at 1,183 companies, found that the firms were
selecting better-paid peers intentionally.  One group, led by John Bizjak at  Texas Christian University 
that looked at 707 companies, found that the amount of cherry-
picking tapered off since the firms had to disclose their
choices in 2006.  Another group, including Michael Faulkender at the
University of Maryland and Jun Yang of  Indiana University , found
the opposite: that cherry-picking had gotten more pronounced
since the SEC demanded disclosure.  “Observing opportunistic peer benchmarking at other firms,
those firms that did not engage in such practices may have begun
to do so,” wrote the researchers, who looked at 763 firms.  Harman’s Assessment  Harman International Industries Inc. (HAR)  is also a firm that
measures CEO pay against much larger companies. The maker of
high-end audio equipment uses two groups of peers: a broad group
of 103 companies, most of which are bigger by sales, and a more
focused list of 16 firms, which has only two companies with
lower revenue.  This second list, which Harman began using in 2011,
included metal components maker  Precision Castparts Corp. (PCP) , with
62 percent more sales and four times Harman’s market
capitalization, and auto-parts maker BorgWarner Inc., with 68
percent higher sales and 84 percent more market value. Only one
of Harman’s 119 named peers sets pay against it.  Total compensation for Harman Chairman, President and CEO
Dinesh Paliwal rose to $16 million in 2011 from $7.58 million in
2009, regulatory filings show.  Stock Performance  Stamford, Connecticut-based Harman said in its 2011  proxy 
that it compares CEO pay with a variety of companies because
“there is no well-defined group of comparable publicly traded
companies” in the U.S. Harman spokesman Jean Lepine said the
company had no additional comment beyond what it said in its
proxy.  Harman’s shares have  lost  59 percent after dividends since
Paliwal became CEO in July 2007.  Peer benchmarking, while intended to help make CEO
compensation fair, can become “a game” that causes unwarranted
swings in pay, said Harvard’s George.  “Compensation committees today are taking their decisions
much more seriously, but not all,” said George, who doesn’t
comment about companies where he’s a director. “No board likes
to admit they didn’t hire an above-average CEO.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carol Hymowitz at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net  