-- Chesapeake Board Backtracks on What it Knew on CEO Loans
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-26T20:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/chesapeake-board-backtracks-on-what-it-knew-about-ceo-loans-2-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s board
backed away from a week-old endorsement of Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s practice of using personal
stakes in company wells to secure loans, pledging now to
investigate the transactions.  While directors were “generally aware” that McClendon had
used his interests in company-operated wells as collateral for
personal loans, it didn’t review or approve any of the
individual transactions, Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake said in
a statement today.  The disavowal appears to contradict an April 18 statement
by Chesapeake General Counsel Henry J. Hood that directors were
“fully aware of the existence of Mr. McClendon’s financing
transactions.” The U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission has
opened an informal inquiry into the practice, Reuters reported
today, citing an unidentified source familiar with the matter. A
spokesman for the commission declined to comment.  “This is the board responding to the uproar,”  Mark Hanson , a Chicago-based analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a
phone interview today. McClendon’s “vision has been an asset
for the company but he’s got a penchant for overreach. If they
could figure out a way to pair his vision with a shorter leash,
that would be ideal.”  The next step for the board should be to separate the
chairman and CEO positions to minimize McClendon’s influence
over a panel that is supposed to watch over him, Hanson said.  McClendon’s Finances  Chesapeake  fell  3.1 percent to $17.56 at the close in  New
York . The shares have dropped 24 percent this month, heading for
the worst monthly loss since 2008, the last time McClendon’s
finances affected company business.  McClendon was forced to sell almost all his Chesapeake
stock in late 2008 when the global financial collapse triggered
margin calls, accelerating a decline that wiped out more than
half the company’s market value.  Standard & Poor’s  reduced its  rating  on Chesapeake to BB
from BB+ with a negative outlook. “Turmoil resulting from these
developments could hamper Chesapeake’s ability to meet the
massive external funding requirements stemming from its
currently weak operating cash flow and continuing aggressive
capital spending,” S&P said.  For most of the past 23 years, McClendon has purchased
stakes of as much as 2.5 percent in every well the company has
drilled. The Founders Well Participation Program, established to
tie the CEO’s fortunes to company performance, requires
McClendon to cover drilling costs and operating expenses
proportionate to the size of his stake in each well.  His share of such costs was $973 million for the 2009 to
2011 period, the company said in an April 20  filing .  Outstanding Loans  Directors plan to review any loans McClendon obtained from
entities that do business with Chesapeake, according to the
statement today.  McClendon got a $1 billion line of credit with EIG
Management Co. LLC, according to a Nov. 18 deed filed in Brooke
County,  West Virginia .  EIG Management is a unit of EIG Global Energy Partners LLC,
which participated in a $1.2 billion preferred-shares purchase
in a Chesapeake subsidiary on April 9.  McClendon has borrowed money to cover his share of drilling
costs on company wells. He personally had $846 million in
outstanding loans related to the well-participation program,
according to a separate statement today.  Gas Reserves  Three McClendon-controlled companies -- Arcadia Resources
LP, Larchmont Resources LLC and Jamestown Resources LLC --
control the equivalent of 810 billion cubic feet of gas in
company-operated wells, according to the statement.  The board said today that it and McClendon have agreed to
negotiate an early termination of the well-investment program
that was scheduled to expire at the end of 2015.  “The borrowings and the lack of prior disclosure has
focused a spotlight on the company’s board of directors and its
oversight of the company,” Sean Sexton, managing director at
Fitch Inc., the Chicago-based credit-rating company, said in a
note today. “Given this recent news, Fitch believes
stakeholders will have a higher level of expectations for
disclosure and transparency going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  