-- China’s Stocks Drop as Earnings Concerns Overshadow Fed Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-26T08:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-fed-s-pledge-to-boost-u-s-economy.html
China’s stocks  fell for the first
time in three days as slumping earnings from BYD Co. to  China
Shipping Container Lines Co. (601866)  overshadowed optimism the  Federal
Reserve  is ready to do more to boost U.S. economic growth.  China Shipping Container, the country’s second-largest
carrier of sea-cargo boxes, slid to the lowest in 10 days after
it posted a loss in the first quarter. BYD, the automaker part-
owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., fell 3.7
percent after it forecast a plunge in first-half profit.  Jiangxi
Copper Co. (600362)  and coal producer China Shenhua Energy Co. led gains
for commodity companies after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
he’s prepared to add to monetary stimulus if necessary.  “The major concern is whether earnings for the next
reporting period will be as poor as the first quarter,” said
Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “Further monetary stimulus such as a third round of
quantitative easing is still likely and the Fed is waiting for a
good time to do that.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 2.1 points, or 0.1
percent, to 2,404.70 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.2
percent to 2,631.49. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added
1.1 percent in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai index has climbed 9.3 percent this year amid
speculation the government will take measures to boost the
economy. Stocks in the gauge are valued at 10.2 times estimated
earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. About 13.1
billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai Composite
yesterday, or 46 percent higher than the daily average this
year. Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 18.6, the lowest
in a week.  Earnings Slump  China  Shipping Container slid 1.3 percent to 3.08 yuan. The
company posted a loss of 1.45 billion yuan ($230.1 million) in
the first quarter, the shipping line said in a statement
yesterday. China Cosco Holdings Co. dropped 1.3 percent to 5.39
yuan. Cosco Shipping Co. declined 1.7 percent to 5.11 yuan.  BYD slumped 3.7 percent to 26.39 yuan. First-half profit
may fall as much as 95 percent from a year earlier because of
reduced earnings from solar energy and mobile handsets, the
automaker said in a statement yesterday. SAIC Motor Co., the
biggest Chinese automaker, declined 1 percent to 15.20 yuan.  Eight hundred and fifty-five companies in the Shanghai
Composite have released annual earnings. They posted profit
growth of 14 percent on average, trailing analyst estimates by
2.2 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That
compared with an increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  QE3 Speculation  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 0.4 percent today on
speculation the Fed might embark on a third round of bond
purchases, a tactic known as quantitative easing.  U.S. policy makers said they expect growth to gradually
accelerate, while refraining from new action to lower borrowing
costs. Central bankers upgraded their forecasts for economic
growth and unemployment while repeating their view that
borrowing costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at
least through late 2014.  The U.S. is China’s second-largest export market, making up
about 17 percent of the nation’s exports, according to Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, rose
1.6 percent to 26.01 yuan after the company reported a 14
percent jump in first-half revenue even as profit dropped 9.6
percent. UOB-Kay Hian said the company’s revenue growth was
“strong” and its valuations are attractive.  Wen Pledge  Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, added 0.8
percent to 26.81 yuan.  China Coal Energy Co. (601898) , the second
largest, gained 0.9 percent to 9.41 yuan.  Chinese equities in the U.S. rose for the first time in
four days, led by consumer stocks, on prospects the world’s
second-largest economy will maintain growth as domestic demand
climbs.  The world’s biggest exporter will sustain “steady and
robust” economic growth, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told reporters in
 Stockholm  on April 24, more than a month after releasing the
lowest annual target for expansion since 2004.  “A lot of consumer stocks are on a rebound as there’s been
a lot of data recently supporting the views of the soft landing
crowd,” Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach
Grayson & Co. in New York, said by a phone yesterday. “Growth
is already coming from domestic demand, and as a result, stocks
viewed as benefiting from increased consumption, Internet,
airlines, casino, are getting a boost.”  The IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.9 percent to $37.53
in its second day of gains.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  