-- Palladium, Nickel Seen Gaining From China Consumption Shift
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-04-26T08:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/china-s-demand-growth-rate-for-gasoline-palladium-will-increase.html
Aluminum, nickel, palladium and
gold may benefit from China’s shift toward consumption-driven
growth from an economy fueled by investment, while agricultural
products are set to lag behind, according to Barclays Capital.  Commodities with so-called strong links to rising living
standards and changing tastes such as coffee stand to gain from
the transformation, analysts led by  Kevin Norrish  wrote in a
report dated yesterday. The growth in demand for steel, copper
and zinc may slow as their intensity of use drops, they said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  wants to tilt the world’s largest user
of base metals toward increased consumption and away from
exports and  capital spending .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said last month that the growth in
China’s  steel production  is slowing as the economy shifts to
focus more on consumers than large building projects.  “China’s government is targeting both a reduction in
 average GDP growth  and a change in its composition, moving
towards a less investment-intensive, more consumption-orientated
growth model,” Norrish wrote, referring to gross domestic
product by its initials. The planned shift “has major
implications for future commodity demand.”  Demand from China helped the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 commodities gain every year since 2002, apart from 2008 as
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. presaged the worst
global recession since World War II. Copper in  London , which
rallied from less than $1,500 a metric ton in 2002 to a record
$10,190 last year, traded at $8,254 at 4:13 p.m. in  Shanghai .  Slower Growth  China grew at the slowest pace in 11 quarters in the first
three months of the year, expanding 8.1 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on April 13. The
government will aim for growth of 7.5 percent this year, down
from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005, Wen said last month.  Higher demand from the automotive, renewable-energy and
power industries will help related commodities including
palladium and gasoline as urbanization continues and the country
reduces emissions,  Barclays Capital  said.  Aluminum may benefit from China’s construction of new power
grids, while increased use of stainless steel in  consumer goods 
may aid nickel, the analysts said. Palladium would be used in
more pollution-control devices as  car ownership  expands and
emissions standards are toughened, they said.  Auto Market  China, the world’s worst polluter, overtook the U.S. as the
 largest auto market  in 2009, ending more than a century of
American dominance. Automakers account for almost two-third of
global palladium consumption.  As incomes rise and China loosens regulations on gold
trading, bullion investment and jewelry demand should increase,
the report said. China’s gold demand has been pent-up for a long
time, it said.  China , the largest gold producer, overtook  India  in the
second half of 2011 as the biggest gold-jewelry market,
according to the World Gold Council. While overall Indian demand
last year was the largest on an annual basis, it may be
surpassed by China this year, the council said.  “Agricultural commodities are amongst the biggest losers,
reflecting the fact that China’s food consumption is already on
a par with more-developed Asian nations,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  