-- China Says Payments More Balanced as Inflows, Reserves Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-26T13:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/china-says-payments-more-balanced-as-inflows-reserves-fall.html
China ’s capital inflows fell in the
first quarter, leading to a smaller increase in foreign reserves
as the government allows greater currency flexibility to seek
more balanced international payments.  Net inflows under the capital account dropped by 56 percent
from a year earlier to $49.9 billion, the State Administration
of Foreign Exchange said in a statement on its website today.
The  trade surplus  also narrowed 14 percent to $24.7 billion,
showing that cross-border fund flows are “more balanced,” the
agency said.  China this month widened the yuan’s trading band against
the dollar for the first time since 2007, a move that may let
market forces play a bigger role in fixing the currency’s value
and will help balance payments and slow the accumulation of
foreign-exchange reserves, SAFE  said  today. The nation’s
 holdings , the world’s largest, fell in March from February in
the first monthly decline since the end of last year, central
bank data released April 24 showed.  A $123.8 billion increase in the reserves for the first
quarter doesn’t indicate the nation is again facing large
capital inflows, because the figure included asset-price and
exchange-rate changes, SAFE said. Reserves, excluding those
influences but including investment gains, grew by $74.8 billion
quarter, 46 percent less than the increase a year earlier,
according to the statement.  Inflows under the capital account, which includes mostly
foreign direct investment and securities holdings, reversed from
a $48.1 billion outflow in the previous quarter, after money
returned to emerging markets as investors sought higher returns
amid an improved global environment, SAFE said. The risk of
large cross-border fund flows has increased with the European
debt crisis continuing, the agency added.  Fluctuations in the yuan’s exchange rate have been
“steady” and expectations for future movements are “stable”
since the trading band was widened this month, the agency said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  