-- China Seeks Boost From Low-Income Housing as Real Estate Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/china-seeks-boost-from-low-income-housing-as-real-estate-slows.html
The Beijing Star Brand Building
Materials West Factory has been demolished, and in its place is
a construction pit crawling with  dump trucks  as cranes tower
above.  This is the future home of the Taiheyuan Affordable Housing
Project, which will have grocery stores, restaurants, and 2,400
apartments for factory hands and other low-income residents.  As growth  slows  and real estate values slump, Chinese
officials are counting on cheap housing to help prop up the
economy, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 30 edition.
The Taiheyuan project is just a tiny piece of a vast national
effort to build subsidized housing for the urban poor. Five
million affordable apartments are to be built this year, with a
goal of reaching 36 million units by the end of 2015.  “We will work speedily to improve the system for
constructing, allocating” and managing low-income housing,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a speech on March 5. Leaders in
Beijing, though, may encounter stiff opposition at the local
level as cities and towns balk at footing the bill and seek more
profitable investments for their money.  Social housing, as it is known in China, is not just meant
to give the growing numbers of low-income workers and pensioners
affordable places to live. It is also intended to boost the
steel, cement, copper, and aluminum industries as prices sag and
construction slows in the real estate market.  With growth in private housing likely to be little changed,
total floor space for social housing should grow 30 percent to
40 percent this year, predicted  Wang Tao , an economist at UBS
Securities in  Hong Kong .  Avoiding ‘Hard Landing’  “While the government is trying to manage housing prices
down, it does not want the economy to have a  hard landing ,”
Wang said. “Social housing can support overall growth.”  Low-income housing construction will act as a “sedative”
for the broader housing market, Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said
last year.  The combination of artificially low  interest rates , a
lackluster stock market, and restrictions on investing abroad
drove huge sums into the real estate market. Fixed asset
investment, much of it in real estate, has grown more than
40 percent annually for the past eight years, said  Nicholas Lardy , senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in  Washington .  In 2011 real estate made up 9 percent of gross domestic
product, estimates Lardy, far higher than the 6 percent reached
in the U.S. at its peak. “The whole growth trajectory of China
has been driven by housing investment,” Lardy said. “If you
wanted to create a bubble, you would have done exactly what
China did.”  Market Slowdown  Starting in September, the market began to slow. Home sales
dropped 18 percent in the first quarter, while housing prices in
more than half of the top 70 cities fell in March, the sixth
straight month of declines for Beijing,  Shanghai , Guangzhou, and
Shenzhen.  “The property sector is where most concerns lie,”  Mark Williams , London-based chief Asia economist at  Capital Economics ,
said in an April 13 note. “The biggest near-term threat to
growth is that construction activity does stall.”  Social housing may not prove to be a savior. The most
ambitious program was pushed by disgraced former leader  Bo Xilai .
The city of Chongqing, which he led, was planning 800,000
apartments at a cost of 100 billion yuan ($16 billion), with
construction handled by state-owned developers such as Chongqing
City Construction, according to Standard Chartered plc.  Now the central government has started sifting through the
financing of many of Chongqing’s projects, the  China  Business
Journal reported on April 14.  ‘Question Mark’  “A lot of the new social housing is built in remote
areas” of Chongqing on the assumption that the city will keep
up its growth rate, with GDP up 16.4 percent last year, said
Rosealea Yao, research manager at Beijing-based GK Dragonomics.
“There is a big question mark on all of this now.”  The financing for social housing is also a concern, with a
total bill that may reach 5 trillion yuan by 2015. In March, the
government announced it would increase central funding for low-
income housing by 23 percent to 212 billion yuan this year.  The vast majority of costs are likely to be borne by local
governments, which depend on land sales for much of their
revenue. With China’s real estate sector booming until September,
the money rolled in.  “Local governments earned 3 trillion yuan last year from
land sales,” UBS’s Wang said. Yet the funds allocated to social
housing were much smaller, she said. “It’s not that they don’t
have the money, it is they rather would spend it somewhere else
rather than on social housing, given its small margins.”  Connected Officials  Concerns about corruption in social housing have grown in
the wake of Chinese media reports showing officials improperly
benefiting from programs. Some 80 percent of units are going to
well-connected officials and state enterprise managers rather
than low-income people, GK Dragonomics estimates.  Some question whether China’s urban areas are really
meeting their social housing targets. Officials have used a very
loose definition of what constitutes social housing, allowing
cities to include slum redevelopments and sometimes even factory
dormitories and hospital beds in the tally. China’s housing
ministry itself conceded that 30 percent of social housing
starts last year were not actually new projects.  “They may send a bulldozer out and scrape off a little
earth and say we have just started 10,000 units,” Lardy said.
“Then they can say to Beijing, look, we have met our quota.”  Attempts to circumvent official targets are likely to grow
as the real estate industry slows and local land sales drop,
Lardy said. In social housing, “it would require a ramp-up of
major proportions to offset a downturn in China’s real estate
market,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Dexter Roberts in Beijing at 
 droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at   cpower3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  