-- China Repo Touches Two-Week High as Tax-Linked Demand Increases
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-26T02:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/china-repo-touches-two-week-high-as-tax-linked-demand-increases.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
climbed to its highest level in more than two weeks as banks
increased cash holdings to meet month-end  capital requirements 
and companies prepared for tax payments.  The People’s Bank of China sold 60 billion yuan ($9.5
billion) of six-month treasury deposits at commercial banks on
behalf of the Ministry of Finance at a yield of 5.6 percent,
according to a trader required to bid at the sales. The central
bank will skip sales of bills and  repurchase agreements  today,
another trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions said.  “We expect interbank liquidity could remain relatively
tight this week,” Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank
of America Corp., wrote in a research note released today.
“Money conditions usually tighten toward month-end. April is a
peak season for corporates’ tax payments, which would lower
funds available at banks.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, climbed four basis points
to 3.97 percent as of 10:01 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It touched 4 percent, the highest level since April 9.  The PBOC pledged last week to ensure adequate availability
of cash in the financial system by using tools including
reductions in reserve-requirement ratios. Options include adding
cash through reverse-repurchase operations and cutting  required
reserves  at banks, Xinhua News Agency reported on April 19,
citing an unidentified staff member from the central bank.  ‘Liquidity Less Tight’  The finance ministry’s deposit yield was at the lowest
level since May 2011 for a six-month security and compared with
the 6.8 percent yield at the last sale of similar-maturity
treasury deposits on March 22.  “The much lower yield suggests that liquidity is less
tight then before,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “This reduces the chance of
a near-term reserve-requirement cut.”  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.26 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  