-- Chrysler Profit Quadruples on 200, 300 Sedan Sales
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-26T17:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/chrysler-more-than-quadruples-first-quarter-profit-on-car-gains.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , said first-quarter net income more than
quadrupled as car models such as the 200 and 300 sedans helped
capture the industry’s biggest U.S. market-share gain.  Profit climbed to $473 million for the three months ended
March 31, from $116 million a year earlier, the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based company said today in a statement. Sales
increased 25 percent to $16.4 billion as the company tapped into
 Detroit ’s comeback with a Super Bowl television ad featuring
actor and director  Clint Eastwood .  Chrysler has forecast that net income will rise to about
$1.5 billion this year, buoying results for its Turin, Italy-
based majority owner as  Europe ’s debt crisis depresses sales in
its home region. Chrysler’s U.S. deliveries of passenger cars
surged 89 percent this year through March from a year earlier,
with the 200 and 300 sedans providing the biggest gains,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  “They’ve not only done a good job on the car side, but
they’re getting their financial house in order as well,” Warren Browne, a vice president at consultant AutomotiveCompass LLC,
said today in a phone interview. Chrysler exceeded
AutomotiveCompass’s estimate for net income of $265 million.  Chrysler reported it had $11.3 billion in cash at the end
of the quarter, up from $9.6 billion as of Dec. 31. Net
industrial debt fell to $1.34 billion from $2.93 billion at the
end of 2011.  Worker Bonuses  Chrysler will pay its 26,000 hourly employees represented
by the  United Auto Workers  the second half of their $3,500
ratification bonuses, Jodi Tinson, a company spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The contract, ratified Oct. 26, stipulated that the company
would pay workers a second lump sum of $1,750 when the ratio of
modified earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization to net interest expense was equal to or greater
than 5-to-1 for four straight quarters.  Chrysler said the most recent quarter was the most
profitable since 1998’s third quarter. The company didn’t report
results from late 1998 to 2007, when  Daimler AG (DAI)  owned Chrysler,
or when Cerberus Capital Management LP controlled it through
mid-2009.  No IPO Plan  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both Chrysler
and Fiat, plans to merge the two companies and boost sales to
more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion) by 2014. Fiat boosted
its ownership stake of Chrysler to 58.5 percent in January. He
reiterated that the company is unlikely to do an initial public
offering this year.  “We have made no decisions on the IPO,” he said on a
conference call with analysts and reporters. “It’s unlikely
that it’s a 2012 event if it’s an event at all.”  Chrysler also is unlikely to repay this year an unsecured
note that it issued to the UAW’s retiree health-care trust when
the automaker emerged from bankruptcy in June 2009, Marchionne
said. The note was issued with a face value of $4.59 billion,
has an implied annual interest rate of 9 percent and matures in
July 2023, according to regulatory filings.  “Before we go out there and extinguish notes of that
caliber, we would want to have a level of certainty about our
financial capabilities, and that issue is not resolved today,”
Marchionne said. “I wouldn’t count on a check going out” in
2012.  Preferred Lender  Chrysler said yesterday it will let its operating agreement
with  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  expire in April 2013 as the company
negotiates with the lender as well as other banks on options for
vehicle financing.  Marchionne said the structure of any potential future deal
with lenders has not been decided. Chrysler has negotiated with
banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
Santander Holdings USA Inc., General Electric Capital Corp.,
U.S. Bancorp and Ally, people familiar with the matter said in
February.  Chrysler has told banks they can submit two bids: one to
form a joint venture that covers “captive” finance business
such as dealer financing, and the second for Chrysler-branded
auto loans, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks were private. Marchionne said today he doesn’t
see a need for Chrysler to have a wholly owned, in-house lender.  Surging Sales  Chrysler Group’s first-quarter U.S. sales rose 39 percent
from a year earlier to 398,051 cars and light trucks, according
to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata. The company topped
the industry’s 13 percent increase, boosted by demand for
redesigned or refreshed models such as the Jeep Grand Cherokee
sport-utility vehicle. Chrysler’s U.S. market share rose
2.1 percentage points to 11.5 percent, Autodata said.  Sales of the Chrysler brand’s 200 and 300 sedans more than
tripled in the quarter compared with a year earlier. The 200 was
featured in the previous year’s  Super Bowl  commercial with
rapper Eminem set in Detroit. The 300 was later promoted with a
Los Angeles-themed ad with rapper Dr. Dre.  Fiat reported that earnings before interest, taxes and one-
time items, which it calls trading profit, surged to 866 million
euros ($1.14 billion) from 251 million euros a year earlier.
That beat the 828 million-euro average estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales more than doubled to
20.2 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  