-- McKesson to Pay $190 Million in Overbilling Settlement
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/mckesson-to-pay-190-million-in-overbilling-settlement.html
McKesson Corp. (MCK) , the largest U.S.
drug distributor, will pay more than $190 million to resolve
claims that it caused the U.S. to overpay for  prescription
drugs .  The settlement, unsealed today in federal court in  New
Jersey , came in a  False Claims Act  lawsuit filed by a whistle-
blower and joined by the U.S. Justice Department. They claimed
McKesson defrauded the Medicaid program by falsely reporting
inflated prices of drugs, causing the government to set higher
reimbursement rates.  The case is part of the so-called average wholesale price
litigation, which has led the federal and state governments to
recover more than $2 billion from drugmakers, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement. Under the settlement, state
governments can separately negotiate with McKesson, he said.  “This is the latest example of a corporation’s
intentionally manipulating the complicated system by which drug
purchases are reimbursed,” Fishman said. “We have no tolerance
for those who take advantage of that system to bring in more
business by falsely increasing reimbursements to retailers.”  Whistle-Blower Case  The whistle-blower in the case was  David Morgan , who sued
in March 2005, according to the settlement agreement. The
settlement requires McKesson to pay $187 million, plus interest.
The False Claims Act lets whistle-blowers sue on behalf of the
government and share in any recovery.  “We continue to believe that the AWP claims against
McKesson are without merit,” spokesman Kris Fortner said in a
statement. “McKesson adhered to all applicable laws and
regulations, and we do not set AWPs. We did not manipulate drug
prices, and did not violate any laws.”  Fortner said: “However, when we weighed our conviction
that we did not violate any laws against the inherent
uncertainty of litigation, we determined that this settlement
was in the best interest of our employees, customers, suppliers
and shareholders.”  The case is U.S. ex rel. Morgan v.  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ,
05-cv-1714, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 