-- CME Group Net Income Drops, Says CEO Switch Accelerates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-26T20:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/cme-group-net-income-drops-says-ceo-switch-accelerates-1-.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures market, reported a 42 percent drop in profit from a year
earlier and said its new chief executive officer could take over
formal duties next month.  Net income fell to $266.6 million, or $4.02 a share, from
$456.6 million, or $6.81 a share, a year earlier, Chicago-based
CME said today in a statement. The year-ago earnings included a
$164.4 million tax adjustment. The first-quarter per-share
profit beat the average estimate of $4 per share in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts. Daily futures and options volume in the
quarter dropped 11 percent to average 12.3 million contracts,
the company said earlier this month.  Trading slowed in the first quarter across all financial
asset classes as European banks sought less risk,  hedge funds 
scaled back their investments, and  interest rates  held near
zero, Jillian Miller, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets Corp.,
wrote in an April 12 note to clients. Futures contracts at CME
Group tied to equity indexes and interest rates, two of its
largest product groups, fell 18 percent and 13 percent,
respectively, during the quarter, CME said April 3.  ‘We See Risk’  “We believe the stock could under-perform today as we see
risk to near-term and forward estimates,”  Niamh Alexander , an
analyst at KBW Inc., wrote in a report after the earnings were
released. The exchange’s average daily volume in the current
quarter of 10.6 million contracts is down 15 percent from the
same period a year ago, she said. “Though April is typically
the weakest month of the quarter with potential for higher
volume as the quarter progresses, we still see downside risk”
to earnings estimates of $4.41 a share, she said.  CME Group  shares  rose 0.3 percent to $274 in New York. The
company has fallen 11.8 percent over the past year.  Chief Executive Officer  Craig Donohue , 50, said today that
the transition to promote President Phupinder Gill to chief
executive is going faster than planned, with a formal hand-off
possible by the May 23 annual shareholder meeting. Donohue, CEO
for the past eight years, announced last month his plan to
retire in December when his contract expires.  “This is my last earnings call,” Donohue said on a
conference call with analysts and investors today to discuss the
company’s performance.  Revenue Declines  Revenue dropped 6.9 percent to $775 million last quarter,
from $832 million a year ago, the company said.  “CME’s core trading markets have been struggling for the
past few months given its exposure to financial products,
particularly rates,” Miller said in the April 12 note. She said
she expected CME Group to earn $4.03 per share on an adjusted
basis.  The company’s ClearPort service, which guarantees swap
contracts with its clearinghouse, reported an 11 percent
increase in volumes in the quarter. ClearPort generates the
highest fees per contract at CME Group.  The exchange earned about $2 million in revenue in the
first quarter from guaranteeing interest-rate and credit-default
swaps with its clearinghouse, said Jamie Parisi, CME Group’s
chief financial officer. The exchange charges $5 to $6 per
million of notional value to clear rate swaps and between $7 to
$8 per million for credit swaps, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  