-- College Football Commissioners Say 4 Teams Would Be in Playoffs
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/college-football-commissioners-say-playoff-would-have-four-teams.html
Commissioners of the 11 Football
Bowl Subdivision conferences say they will focus exclusively on
a four-team format for a proposed  college football playoff .  They had considered an eight-team and 16-team playoff to
crown a national champion before deciding it would undermine the
importance of the regular season and postseason bowl games, the
group said in a statement after meeting this week in Hollywood,
 Florida .  “From the start, we set out to protect college football’s
unique regular season, which we see as the best regular season
in sports,” the commissioners said in the statement. “We are
also mindful of the bowl tradition and seek to create a
structure that continues to reward student-athletes with
meaningful bowl appearances.  ‘‘We are making substantial progress. We will present to
our conferences a very small number of four-team options, each
of which could be carried out in a number of ways.’’  The commissioners are debating whether the playoff games
should be incorporated into the current bowl system or created
in addition to the bowls.  The commission also has discussed whether the games should
be held at campus sites or neutral venues, and how that would be
determined. At the core of the discussion is which playoff
system will generate the greatest media revenue.  FBS conference commissioners, Notre Dame Athletic Director
Jack Swarbrick, network TV executives and college football
executives concluded their meetings yesterday.  Commissioners now will take the proposals back to their
university presidents, athletic directors and coaches for
discussion and debate. The commissioners plan to meet again in
 Chicago  on June 20 to discuss the playoff plan.  ‘‘If this happens, it will be a seismic change for college
football,’’ Bill Hancock, executive director of the Bowl
Championship Series, told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  