-- Colombia Uribe Says Venezuela Is Paradise for Terrorist
-- B y   L a u r a   Z e l e n k o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-04-26T16:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/colombia-uribe-says-venezuela-is-paradise-for-terrorist.html
Venezuela  is a haven for drug
traffickers and terrorists and needs a new government to restore
democratic values, former Colombian President Alvaro Uribe said.  “Venezuela is a paradise for terrorists from Colombia, for
narco-trafficking,” Uribe said today at the Bloomberg  Latin
America  Investing Conference in New York. “It needs a new
government, a new orientation in Venezuela, for this country to
get rid of narco-trafficking, to get rid of terrorism and to get
rid of dictators.”  Uribe clashed often with Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
during his time in office, accusing his neighbor of harboring
drug-funded guerrilla groups. Chavez, who is undergoing cancer
treatment before he seeks another term in October elections,
ordered tanks to the countries’ border in 2008 after a bombing
raid by  Colombia ’s air force on a rebel camp inside Ecuador,
which he called a threat to regional sovereignty.  Uribe said his successor as president,  Juan Manuel Santos ,
needs to keep focusing on security to preserve the military’s
successful advance against insurgents during the past decade.  Santos has been less vocal than Uribe in his criticism of
Venezuelan policies since taking office, representing one of his
most significant breaks with the prior administration, said  Adam
Isacson , an analyst at the Washington Office on Latin America.  Uribe “left Colombia’s foreign relations in a shambles,”
Isacson said in a phone interview yesterday. “Santos reversed a
lot of that immediately.”  Entitled to Criticize  Uribe said he is entitled to criticize Venezuela, since the
principles of democratic values take precedence over the right
to national autonomy. Markets have a clear understanding of the
differences among Latin American nations, and can distinguish
between countries like Venezuela and Argentina on the one side,
and Colombia, Brazil and Chile on the other, Uribe said.  The former president said that investors are punishing
Argentina for its seizure of oil producer  YPF SA (YPFD)  by demanding
higher compensation to hold its dollar debt.  “The markets know how to read every country, not the
region as a whole,” Uribe said. “The spreads are a clear
indication that the markets know how to establish the difference
between Colombia and Venezuela, between Chile and Argentina.”  Colombia and Brazil have developed successful models for
their oil industries by avoiding the extremes of nationalization
and total privatization, Uribe said, referring to state
controlled companies  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,
which have publicly traded shares. The Colombian Finance
Ministry forecasts  foreign direct investment  may rise to $16
billion this year, more than five times the levels of a decade
ago, led by the oil and mining industries.  Bond Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has soared 140 basis points, or
1.40 percentage point, to 980 since the end of January, when
speculation first emerged that YPF would be nationalized.
Argentine dollar bonds have posted a loss of 5.6 percent this
month, the worst performer among major  emerging markets ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  Uribe said that decades of rebel violence has left only 13
percent of the national territory explored for oil. During
Uribe’s 2002-2010 presidency, attacks on oil infrastructure fell
as the army gained the upper hand in a 50-year war with Marxist
guerrillas. Improved security for oil and mining companies
helped lure a record $13.2 billion last year from investors
including billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Eike Batista  with
companies such as Tabasco Oil Co. and MPX Energia SA.  Senate Approval  Argentina’s Senate today approved President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner’s proposal to seize YPF, the country’s
biggest energy company, as the government seeks to boost oil
production and reduce imports.  Fernandez announced the takeover plan April 16, saying a
lack of investment and a decline in oil output was threatening
South America’s second-biggest economy.  Colombia last year garnered an investment-grade  credit
rating  from  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings, 11 years after it was cut to junk when guerrilla
and mafia violence and a banking crisis helped trigger six
straight quarters of contraction beginning in 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Zelenko in  New York  at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  