-- Commercial Paper Market Falls Most in Two Months, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-04-26T14:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/commercial-paper-market-falls-most-in-two-months-fed-says-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through U.S.  commercial paper  contracted the most in about two
months as demand decreased from  money market funds , among the
biggest investors.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
declined $6.7 billion to $925.9 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the third fall in four weeks, according to
Federal Reserve data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the largest
decline since the market shrank $10.4 billion in the period
ended Feb. 29 and the lowest level since reaching $925.6 billion
outstanding on March 7, the data show.  Appetite from money-market funds has been curbed by concern
that  Europe ’s sovereign debt strains will infect bank balance
sheets. Italy’s borrowing costs rose at a sale of six-month
bills today, while an index of euro-area economic confidence
declined more than analysts forecast.  “We cannot separate the CP outstanding numbers from the
continued erosion in money-market mutual fund demand,”  Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago , wrote in
an e-mail.  Commercial paper sold by U.S.-based banks  contracted to the
least in more than a year. That category dropped $9.7 billion to
$258.8 billion outstanding, the biggest decrease this year and
the lowest level since January 2011, according to the Fed.
 Commercial paper issued by non-U.S. financial institutions  rose
$1 billion to $162.5 billion outstanding, partially reversing
the prior week’s $2 billion drop.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as paying
rent and salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shannon D. Harrington at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net  