-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Falls by the Most in More Than a Year
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-26T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-falls-by-the-most-in-more-than-a-year.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
dropped last week by the most in more than a year as perceptions
of personal finances and the buying climate dimmed.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 35.8 in
the period to April 22 from minus 31.4 the previous week, the
biggest decline since March 2011. A gauge of the  buying climate 
decreased to a two-month low, and a measure of household
financial wherewithal fell by the most since September.  Payrolls grew in March by the least in five months, raising
concern that growth is short of the pace needed to trim an
 unemployment rate  hovering above 8 percent. Bigger advances in
jobs and incomes would provide a cushion against elevated fuel
costs and allow households to accelerate spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “It is going to be difficult to generate large
improvements in sentiment unless the economy begins to pick
up,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP
in  New York . “Jobs are growing, but not fast enough. There’s a
risk the pace of consumption will slow this quarter.”  Even with the latest decline, the comfort index is now in
its 11th consecutive week above the minus 40 level, its most
sustained breakout since sentiment soured in early 2008. The
index has averaged minus 15.3 since its inception in December
1985.  Another report from the Labor Department today showed
improvement in the labor market may be fading as more Americans
than projected filed applications for  unemployment benefits .
First-time jobless claims decreased to 388,000 last week from a
revised 389,000 the prior period, which was the highest since
early January. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for claims to fall to 375,000.  Stocks Fall  Stocks declined after the jobs figures and as earnings from
United Parcel Service Inc. and Exxon Mobil Corp. missed
estimates. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,388.42 at 9:35 a.m. in New York.  An index of the buying climate decreased to minus 41.5 last
week from minus 36.8 the prior week, today’s comfort report
showed. A measure of Americans’ views of the  state of the
economy  dropped to minus 66.4 from minus 64.3, and a gauge of
 personal finances  slid to 0.4 from 6.8 the prior week.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 2.5 percent annual rate
in the first quarter, after a 3 percent advance in the final
three months of 2011, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of a Commerce
Department report tomorrow.  Consumer spending  may have posted
the biggest gain in a year, they predicted.  Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday said they expect
growth to gradually accelerate, and refrained from new actions
to lower borrowing costs. The central bankers repeated their
view that  interest rates  will probably remain “exceptionally
low” at least through late 2014.  Other Measures  The consumer comfort data signal that other measures will
fail to rebound after easing this month. The Conference Board’s
confidence index was at 69.2 in April, little changed from a
revised 69.5 the prior month. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary gauge of consumer sentiment cooled this
month from a one-year high.  Uneven progress in the labor market may be weighing on
moods. Employers added 120,000 jobs in March, the fewest in five
months and half the 240,000 gain in February. Nonetheless,
payrolls have risen by 1.13 million workers over the past six
months, and the jobless rate dropped in March to 8.2 percent,
the lowest since January 2009.  Men and young Americans, those from 18 to 34 years old,
showed the biggest declines in sentiment during the latest week.
The gauge for men declined after reaching a four-year high the
prior week. Sentiment among the young fell last week to the
lowest level since January.  Democrats, Independents  Among  independents , a key swing group during this year’s
presidential election, the comfort gauge fell to a two-month low
of minus 37.7 from 29 the prior week, today’s report showed. The
measure also worsened for Democrats while holding at the prior
week’s level for Republicans.  Confidence dwindled for seven of the eight income groups in
the comfort survey, the report showed.  By contrast, Americans working part time were the most
optimistic in four years, a sign of rising expectations that
more full-time work will become available.  Harley-Davidson  Companies citing rising demand include  Harley-Davidson
Inc. (HOG) , the biggest U.S. motorcycle maker. The company raised its
production forecast as marketing efforts pay off among young
adults and women customers. Harley expects to ship 245,000 to
250,000 motorcycles this year, up from a January forecast of as
many as 245,000, as bikes like the $7,999 Super Low and the
Forty-Eight, starting at $10,499, are winning new riders.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  