-- Cuomo to Invest $800 Million for New York Energy Efficiency
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-04-26T18:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/cuomo-to-invest-800-million-for-new-york-energy-efficiency.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is
investing $800 million to enhance the energy efficiency of state
and local government buildings, with a goal of reducing
consumption by 20 percent over the next four years.  The investment will be funded through debt issued by the
New York Power Authority, which coordinates the distribution of
renewable energy to businesses, nonprofit organizations and
government entities, Gil Quiniones, its president, said today at
a press conference in  Albany .  “Accelerated and increased investment in energy-saving
technologies will result in significant benefits for the
environment,” Quiniones said. “These measures will also create
jobs, keep energy dollars in New York state and free up
resources for the essential services of tax-supported public
facilities.”  About $450 million will be spent on updating state
buildings, and $350 million on projects for local government,
school district and public hospital facilities, he said. The
power authority will issue as much as $800 million in debt to
finance the projects, and repay the bonds from the resulting
electric-bill savings, Quiniones said. The tax-exempt bonds will
be sold as needed, he said.  The upgrades include automated energy-management systems,
electric motors and new lighting fixtures. They are expected to
cut greenhouse-gas emissions from public buildings by 8 metric
tons and create thousands of jobs, Quiniones said.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  announced a similar plan last
month for the Windy City to fund as much as $225 million in
energy-efficiency upgrades using a mix of public and private
investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  