-- Cybersecurity Bill Passed in U.S. House on 248-168 Vote
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-04-26T23:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/cybersecurity-bill-passes-in-u-s-house-after-obama-veto-threat.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
approved a Republican-backed cybersecurity bill, a day after
President Barack Obama’s administration called the measure
flawed and threatened a veto.  The bill, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection
Act, passed the House today by a vote of 248 to 168. The
measure, introduced by Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan
Republican who heads the House Intelligence Committee, would
encourage the government and companies to share data on cyber
threats and give businesses legal immunity for such exchanges.  House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters before the vote
the bill is the first of “common-sense steps to allow people to
communicate with each other” to “build the walls that are
necessary in order to prevent cyberterrorism.”  Lawmakers are debating cybersecurity legislation following
computer assaults on companies last year including  New York- 
based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, and
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company. The attacks intensified concerns over
theft of U.S. intellectual property by cyber spies and potential
disruption of essential networks by hackers.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, brushed aside the Obama
administration’s veto threat, saying “the White House believes
the government ought to control the Internet” by letting
government alone set security standards.  ‘Horrible Bill’  The Obama administration said in a statement yesterday it
“strongly opposes” the House bill in its current form, adding
that the measure falls short in protecting the nation’s critical
systems from cyber attacks and would erode consumer-privacy
safeguards. Civil liberties groups have protested the
legislation, saying it would let too much personal data flow to
the government without limits on use.  “As we’ve seen repeatedly, once the government gets
expansive national security authorities, there’s no going
back,” Michelle Richardson, legislative counsel for the
 American Civil Liberties Union , said in an e-mailed statement.
“We encourage the Senate to let this horrible bill fade into
obscurity,” Richardson said.  The White House supports a bill from Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut Independent, that would put the
Department of  Homeland Security  in charge of regulating
cybersecurity of the nation’s vital systems such as power grids
and water-treatment plants. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, has pledged to bring the Lieberman bill to the
Senate floor without giving a date.  The Rogers bill is H.R. 3523. The Lieberman bill is S.
2105.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  