-- Danish Bail-In Trauma Consigned to History in Merger Wave
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-04-27T09:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/danish-bail-in-trauma-consigned-to-history-in-merger-wave.html
Fourteen months after pushing
losses on to senior creditors with the failure of Amagerbanken
A/S,  Denmark  is freeing itself of the bail-in stigma that shut
most of its banks out of international funding markets.  Legislation passed in October 2010 requiring burden sharing
has since been superseded by two bills subsidizing mergers for
troubled lenders. Three insolvent banks resorted to the merger
package in the last six months, and Denmark hasn’t had a bail-in
since the June failure of Fjordbank Mors A/S.  “The fact that we have for the last three times found a
solution to avoid losses to senior creditors is a sign that
there is a substantial probability that we can do it again,”
Henrik Bjerre-Nielsen, chief executive officer of the state
resolution agency known as Financial Stability Co., said in a
phone interview. Bail-ins are an “inferior solution,” he said.  Denmark’s efforts to avoid more bail-ins coincide with
European Union discussions on the merits of introducing burden
sharing across the region. While bail-ins can help align funding
costs with risks and break “negative feedback loops” between
sovereigns and banks, the model may inflict financial system
shocks if deployed clumsily, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in an April 24 discussion paper.  ‘Creates Contagion’  “The process we’ve been through in Denmark shows it’s
dangerous to push legislation like this in the middle of a
crisis,” Jesper Berg, a senior vice president at Copenhagen-
based Nykredit A/S who helped write Denmark’s bail-in model
while working at the central bank, said in a phone interview.  The authors had envisaged the rules taking effect only
after calm was restored to financial markets, he said.  Enforcing bail-ins mid-crisis “creates contagion,” Berg
said. “The Danish authorities have wisely taken a step back and
gone for a more cooperative approach that avoids losses to
senior creditors.”  The three-month Copenhagen interbank offered rate was
quoted  at its lowest since  at least 1988 today, declining to
0.9475 percent. Denmark’s 10-year bond yielded two basis points
less than similar-maturity German bunds today, versus one basis
point yesterday.  Denmark’s parliament has introduced two bank rescue
packages since September to help the industry sidestep its bail-
in legislation. Under deals orchestrated by the state resolution
agency, Den Jyske Sparekasse agreed to take over all of Spar
Salling Sparekasse and Sparekassen Kronjylland A/S will buy the
healthy parts of Sparekassen Oestjylland A/S, the banks said on
April 22. Max Bank A/S was bought by Sparekassen Sjaelland A/S
in October.  G20 Meeting  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
last month he’ll aim to present a draft law on winding down
failed banks, including plans for creditor writedowns, by a
meeting of Group of 20 leaders in June.  “It’s wise of the European Commission to be tip-toeing
around this subject as long as the crisis persists in  Europe ,”
Berg said.  Denmark’s banks are still struggling to emerge from a burst
real estate bubble that has eroded farming, building and housing
portfolios. The economy slipped into a recession in the third
quarter while foreclosures soared 32 percent in March to the
highest level in 17 years.  The Financial Supervisory Authority and the Financial
Stability Co. are urging Denmark’s troubled lenders to make use
of the consolidation packages or risk shutting themselves out of
funding markets again. The bail-in legislation is a powerful
tool in impelling lenders to team up in mergers, Bjerre-Nielsen
said.  ‘No Other Solution’  “I think the whole banking industry knows that if there is
no other solution, it will have to go down that route,” he
said.  Vestjysk Bank A/S and Aarhus Lokalbank A/S this week won
temporary EU approval to tap Denmark’s consolidation package for
their January merger. The regional lenders used the facility
even though they were deemed solvent in an FSA audit.  Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a lack of government
support when it downgraded five Danish banks the same month
Amagerbanken failed in 2011, said this week the takeovers of
Spar Salling Sparekasse and Sparekassen Oestjylland A/S were
“credit positive” for Denmark’s financial industry.  ‘Well Prepared’  “We were well prepared and the banks were too, in the
sense that they had already been in contact with several
interested bidders,” Bjerre-Nielsen said. “We were able to
organize a process where we could maximize the price and that’s
what it’s all about in order to avoid a situation where the
senior creditors are losing money.”  The consolidation package that paved the way for the deals
is good for the bank industry, though not a “cure all,”
Moody’s spokeswoman Jessica Sibado said.  Lawmakers passed measures last year to allow the Financial
Stability Co. to sell the healthy parts of struggling banks and
enable the Guarantee Fund for Depositors and Investors to
provide a so-called dowry as an incentive to potential buyers.
The fund was established by parliament and is financed by the
financial industry.  The state wind-up agency and troubled banks have trawled
the country to identify potential buyers, Bjerre-Nielsen said.
The government has also made it easier for the FSA and the wind-
up unit to exchange information, he said.  ‘Tipped Off’  “We were tipped off by the FSA” about Spar Salling
Sparekasse’s and Sparekassen Oestjylland’s plight, Bjerre-
Nielsen said. “We are trying to move along the learning curve
so that we are able to be more specific about what kind of
information we want.”  Danish lenders are returning to funding markets.  Sydbank
A/S (SYDB) , Denmark’s third-largest listed bank, in February sold its
first senior bonds since 2010, paying 200 basis points more than
the euro region’s interbank offered rate on 500 million euros
($658 million) of two-year notes. That followed a  sale by Danske 
Bank A/S in the same week of 1 billion euros in five-year notes
at 230 basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate.  “The best thing that could happen is if there would be
more interest in acquiring banks in the future,” Bjerre-Nielsen
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  