-- DBS Surprises With Record Profit on Interest, Trading Income
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-04-27T10:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/dbs-quarterly-profit-unexpectedly-climbs-16-on-interest-income.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , the lender
that offered to buy PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia  for $7.2 billion,
posted first-quarter profit that unexpectedly climbed 16 percent
to a record on higher income from interest and trading.  Net income advanced to S$933 million ($751 million) in the
three months ended March 31 from S$807 million a year earlier,
the Singapore-based lender said in a statement to the stock
exchange today. That exceeded the S$755.2 million  average  of six
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The earnings beat expectations as the bank set aside less
money for bad loans and as revenue from trading climbed, said
 Matthew Smith , a Singapore-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
DBS is seeking to seal the  Danamon (BDMN)  acquisition amid concerns
raised by Indonesian regulators on the deal’s merits for local
financial institutions.  “The operational outlook for the business looks fine,”
Smith said. “But there are headwinds in getting approvals for
the Danamon deal and integrating the business. That’s a big
project.”  Bank Indonesia  will process the bid after reaching an
agreement with the Monetary Authority of Singapore, Governor
Darmin Nasution said in Jakarta today. The new rules on
ownership of financial institutions in Indonesia will be
finished by June, he said.  Shares Rise  Shares of  Southeast Asia ’s largest lender rose 2 percent to
S$14 at the close in Singapore, their biggest gain in a month.
The stock is also the second-best performer on the benchmark
 Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)  Danamon lost 6.4 percent to 5,900, the most
since Oct. 4.  Trading income climbed 13 percent in the quarter to S$292
million, DBS said in today’s report, driven by the sale of
treasury products. Financial markets rallied worldwide in the
period as  Europe ’s debt crisis eased and U.S. unemployment fell,
helping to boost trading revenue at lenders including  Bank of
America Corp .  Allowances for credit and other losses declined 37 percent
from the fourth quarter to S$144 million, which analysts
including Smith said helped beat estimates.  Net interest income, the difference between what a bank
makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, grew 19 percent
last quarter from a year earlier to S$1.3 billion.  Interest Margin  Profitability on loans, or net interest margin, narrowed to
1.77 percent for the bank, which derived more than 80 percent of
its 2011 revenue from  Singapore  and Hong Kong, where this
measure is the lowest. DBS is buying Danamon as part of efforts
to expand in markets with higher margins.  The Singapore lender, which state-owned Temasek Holdings
Pte has the biggest stake in, offered to pay its parent company
45.2 trillion rupiah ($4.9 billion) in new shares for its 67
percent stake in Jakarta-based Bank Danamon. It also made a cash
offer for the remaining stock for 21.2 trillion rupiah at a 52
percent premium from the previous closing price. Temasek will
increase its stake in DBS to 40.4 percent from 29.5 percent.  Earnings growth may lose momentum on costs relating to the
purchase of Danamon as well as slowing credit expansion and
higher provisions for bad loans, analyst Wee Siang Ng said
before today’s numbers were published.  ‘Drag on Earnings’  “The Danamon deal will be a drag on earnings this year,
though this drag will be more visible in 2013 and 2014,” said
Ng, an analyst at BNP Paribas Securities Singapore Ltd.  DBS is paying more for Danamon than the median book value
for banking deals over $1 billion as it seeks to diversify away
from Singapore and  Hong Kong . DBS Chief Executive Officer Piyush Gupta said this week that earnings per share may be lower for
two years after the takeover, while adding that his bank is
paying fair value given Indonesia’s “high-growth, high-return
market.”  These are “clearly a good set of numbers, but the results
may not be enough to dispel the current market concerns
surrounding the offer price for the proposed acquisition of PT
Bank Danamon,” Kar Weng Loo, a Singapore-based analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc, wrote in a note to clients.  Indonesian officials have expressed reservations about
DBS’s bid, the largest by a Southeast Asian lender, since it was
announced on April 2. Deputy Finance Minister Mahendra Siregar
voiced concern last week that Danamon as a national institution
would be lost.  New Regulation  “We talked with the Monetary Authority of Singapore about
this in  Washington  and we told them that we can’t process it now
as we have to wait until the new regulation comes out,”
Nasution said. “We also talked about reciprocity. The
regulation isn’t meant to hamper foreign investors but it’s
meant for us to be more prudent.”  Karen Ngui, a DBS spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Nasution’s remarks. Singapore’s central bank said April 9 that
all foreign banks are free to expand in the city-state based on
the guidelines specified by their licenses, adding today that
the views remain the same. It also said discussions with other
regulators are confidential.  Acquiring the Indonesian bank will help DBS add 3,000
Danamon branches to its network in an economy that grew last
year at 6.46 percent, the fastest pace since before the 1997
Asian financial crisis. By contrast Singapore grew 4.98 percent,
and the expansion will slow to 2.8 percent this year, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  DBS’s loan book grew 25 percent from a year earlier to
$200.7 billion. That compares with an average 22 percent for the
previous four quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net fees and commissions declined 2 percent to S$406
million as earnings from stock broking, investment banking and
fund management dropped.  The earnings were “underpinned by sustained loan growth,
broad-based non-interest income, as well as higher contributions
from all our markets,” Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta 
said in the statement, adding that it’s “well-placed to seize
opportunities in the months ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  