-- Deutsche Bank Sees April Slowdown as Profit Falls 33%
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-04-26T13:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/deutsche-bank-profit-drops-as-debt-crisis-curbs-trading.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said business
conditions worsened this month after first-quarter profit at
Germany’s biggest bank dropped more than analysts expected
following a charge from the sale of drugmaker Actavis Group hf.  Deutsche Bank declined the most in almost four months in
Frankfurt trading after net income fell 33 percent to 1.38
billion euros ($1.82 billion) from a year earlier. That missed
the 1.56 billion-euro average estimate of nine analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  is reporting
earnings for the last time before handing over to investment
bank chief Anshu Jain and Germany head  Juergen Fitschen  next
month. While investment-banking earnings rebounded from the
preceding quarter with higher revenue from fixed-income trading,
Ackermann echoed comments made yesterday by  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  CEO Brady Dougan that conditions have since deteriorated.  “Financial markets remain cautious -- as we have seen in
April, with investor risk appetite markedly lower,” Ackermann
said in a letter to shareholders published on the bank’s
website. “Investors, particularly private investors, remained
wary after the market turmoil of last year.”  Deutsche Bank fell as much as 6 percent and was down 4.2
percent to 32.71 euros as of 3:11 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock
is the fourth-worst performer on the 43-company Bloomberg  Europe 
Banks and Financial Services Index, which declined 2.2 percent,
led by Societe Generale SA  April Cool-Off  “I’m a little disappointed as they missed expectations,
even if they were a little on the high side because of one-time
items,” said  Christian Hamann , an analyst with  Hamburger
Sparkasse  who recommends investors hold the stock. “The cool-
off in April isn’t such a great outlook.”  The slowdown in April hasn’t been “significant” and
Deutsche Bank needs to assess the effect of the Easter holidays
on revenue, according to Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause .
The “positive momentum” the  European Central Bank  provided for
financial markets with three-year loans in December and February
slowed in April, he said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “Most people would say April was a bit sluggish compared
to the first three months,” Barclays Plc CEO  Robert Diamond 
said today after Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets posted
first-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates as revenue at
its investment banking unit rebounded.  Debt Trading  Pretax profit at Deutsche Bank’s investment banking unit
fell to 1.72 billion euros in the first quarter from 2.29
billion euros a year earlier and compares with a 422 million
loss in the fourth quarter. That beat the 1.64 billion-euro
average estimate of eight analysts.  Revenue from debt trading dropped 8.1 percent to 3.39
billion euros from a year earlier and compares with 1.04 billion
euros in the preceding three months. That beat the 3.12 billion-
euro estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While equity trading revenue also rebounded from the fourth
quarter, it was down 23 percent to 726 million euros from a year
ago. That missed the 750 million-euro estimate of analysts.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank , reported a 3.1
percent earnings decline for the first quarter on April 13.
Citigroup Inc. said April 16 that profit fell 2.3 percent while
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  posted a 23 percent slump in earnings
the next day.  Goldman Sachs reported a 20 percent decline in fixed-income
trading revenue while JPMorgan’s revenue from that business fell
11 percent and Citigroup’s slid 4 percent.  ‘Saving Grace’  “While credit spreads have widened, there’s still been a
degree of uncertainty around the market which has clearly
affected most banks’ fixed-income numbers,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst with  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)  “The second quarter
started badly. What’s going to be the saving grace of these
banks is that the third and fourth quarter shouldn’t be as
dreadful as they were last year.”  Deutsche Bank posted a 26 percent pretax return on equity
in the first quarter while reducing trading risk at its
investment banking unit, Krause said.  “We did not have any valuation-driven profitability this
quarter, so it was pure client flow profitability in our
investment bank at very much reduced levels of risk,” he said.
“I wouldn’t see any reason why this couldn’t be maintained.”  Consumer Banking  Deutsche Bank announced 500 job cuts in October after
scrapping its operating pretax profit forecast of 10 billion
euros for 2011 amid a “significant and unabated slowdown in
client activity.” That program has been completed, Krause said
today.  Pretax earnings at the consumer banking unit fell to 413
million euros from 788 million euros, missing the 466 million
euros analyst estimate. Deutsche Bank booked a gain of 263
million euros related to its stake in  China ’s Huaxia Bank Co. in
the first three months of 2011.  Brokerage revenues were lower at the private and business
clients division “reflecting the more risk-averse mood among
private customers in  Germany ,” Ackermann said in the letter.  Profit from the asset and wealth management business fell
25 percent to 142 million euros from a year earlier. Analysts
had expected 198 million euros, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  The ECB awarded lenders more than 1 trillion euros in
December and February to keep credit flowing to the economy as
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Deutsche Bank
tapped the ECB for a “small amount” for some businesses in
continental Europe, Krause said today.  Meeting Goal  Global banks are gearing up for tighter rules on capital
from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , known as Basel
III, to make lenders more resistant to shocks in financial
markets. Deutsche Bank reiterated last week that the firm
doesn’t need to sell shares to meet its  capital requirements .  Deutsche Bank said late yesterday that it took a 257
million-euro writedown tied to the sale of Actavis to Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. in the first quarter. It also took 213
million euros of litigation charges at its investment banking
unit. The company didn’t detail the charges.  The divestment of Actavis will raise Deutsche Bank’s core
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, by 6
basis points this year via a 290 million-euro capital boost, the
company said.  “They’ll be very pleased about the Actavis deal because
the investment carries a high capital weighting and hence the
sale will see a large decline in risk-weighted assets,” said
Wheeler, who recommends investors sell the stock.  Significant Decisions  In February, the German bank chose Guggenheim Partners as
the potential buyer for its DWS mutual funds in the Americas,
the advisory units for institutional investors and insurance
firms, and its RREEF real estate and infrastructure division.  The bank hasn’t finalized details of a potential sale of
asset management units to Guggenheim, Krause said.  “There are significant decisions still to be made and
significant positions still to negotiate,” said Krause, citing
the conditions and components of the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  