-- Deutsche Boerse Profit Falls as Trading Volume Declines
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-04-26T18:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/deutsche-boerse-profit-falls-as-trading-volume-declines.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the German
exchange blocked from buying NYSE Euronext by European
regulators in February, reported first-quarter profit dropped 31
percent as trading volumes faltered.  Net income slipped to 146.2 million euros ($193 million)
from 214.1 million euros in the first quarter of 2011, the
Frankfurt-based exchange said in an e-mailed statement. Earnings
before interest and taxes at Europe’s largest exchange by market
value fell to 260 million euros from 319.1 million euros a year
earlier. First-quarter sales revenue dropped 1.1 percent to
552.4 million euros.  NYSE Euronext, which reports earnings next week, and
 Deutsche Boerse  are shifting back to expanding current
operations after the European Commission blocked their deal.
Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy its New York-based rival in a deal
valued at $9.53 billion when it was announced in February 2011.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the second-largest U.S. equity
exchange operator, posted first-quarter earnings that missed
analyst estimates yesterday amid lower trading revenue. CME
Group Inc., the world’s biggest futures market, reported a 42
percent drop in profit from a year earlier today. Daily futures
and options volume in the quarter declined 11 percent to average
12.3 million contracts.  Deutsche Boerse’s operating costs rose to 248.6 million
euros, up from 211.8 million euros a year earlier, and included
16.6 million euros of exceptional costs related to the failed
merger. The exchange also reported 6.3 million euros of one-off
costs related to its “efficiency program” and job cuts.  ‘Black Day’  On Feb. 1, European Union regulators vetoed a plan to
create the world’s biggest exchange, after concluding that the
merger would hurt competition. Deutsche Boerse called it “a
black day for  Europe  and for its future competitiveness.”  After the NYSE Euronext deal was terminated, Deutsche
Boerse said its Eurex futures exchange will move to a new
trading system in the fourth quarter this year, the first step
in its strategy for operating without NYSE Euronext. The
platform is being developed internally and will be based on one
already in use at the  International Securities Exchange , the
U.S.-based options market owned by Deutsche Boerse and Eurex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  