-- DIFC Investments May Be Cut at S&P on Sukuk Refinance Risk
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2012-04-26T08:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/difc-investments-may-be-cut-at-s-p-on-sukuk-refinance-risk-1-.html
DIFC Investments LLC, which owns
properties in Dubai’s tax-free financial center, may have its
 credit rating  cut at  Standard & Poor’s  due to “heightened
refinancing risk” on its $1.25 billion Islamic bond due in
June.  DIFC Investments “has little room for delays in its
efforts to secure a bank loan and government support to
refinance the sukuk,” the rating agency said in a statement.
The B+ long-term and B short-term ratings were placed on
creditwatch with negative outlook.  DIFC Investments started talks with banks for a loan to
help pay the bond, two bankers with knowledge of the plan said
in March. The company plans to raise $900 million to $1 billion
from a five-year syndicated loan and will make up the rest with
its own cash, said the bankers, who declined to be identified
because the information is private.  Dubai government-controlled DIFC Investments owns and
operates office buildings in the Dubai International Financial
Centre, which is home to the regional offices of banks including
Standard Chartered Plc. The company reported a loss of $274.7
million in 2010 as it wrote down the value of its properties
after prices slumped in Dubai.  Yields Decline  DIFC Investments sold the floating rate sukuk in 2007. The
company had planned to raise $1 billion from asset sales by the
end of last year to help pay debt. S&P estimated the company’s
total debt at about $2.4 billion at the end of last year.  “It is likely that the government will support the company
to ensure it meets its debt obligations on time and in full,”
S&P said. “This support, in our opinion, will be necessary for
DIFCI to be able to meet its debt maturities due in 2012.”  The yield on the floating rate sukuk due June 13 was down
49 basis points at 12.66 percent at 11:55 a.m. in Dubai. It has
dropped 314 basis points, or 3.14 percentage points, so far this
year, compared with a 102 basis point decline in the HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai Corporate US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Dubai’s government won’t use proceeds from the sale of an
Islamic bond to refinance the debt of DIFC Investments and Jebel
Ali Free Zone, Mohammed Al Shaibani, director general of the
Dubai ruler’s court, said yesterday. “DIFC and Jafza are
separate entities and they will handle that.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  