-- DNB Expects $100 Billion Ship-Funding Gap as Banks Curb Lending
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-04-26T13:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/dnb-expects-100-billion-ship-funding-gap-as-banks-curb-lending.html
DNB ASA (DNB) , the world’s largest
arranger of shipping loans, expects the shipping industry to
have a funding gap of $100 billion by 2015 as European banks
scale back lending amid a slump in maritime transport.  “The money exiting the shipping and offshore space is a
mind-blowing number,” said Dag Thomas Michalsen, senior vice
president at DNB Markets, at the  Scandinavian Shipping and Ship
Finance Conference  in Copenhagen today. “Clients will have to
look elsewhere for ship financing, such as the bond markets.”  Shipping companies are struggling to make a profit because
of an oversupply of vessels, slumping freight rates and soaring
fuel costs. That, combined with stricter capital rules for
lenders and conditions for bailouts some banks received during
the financial crisis, has led many lenders to scale back their
shipping operations or exit the market altogether.  With $42 billion in shipping loans, Hamburg-based  HSH
Nordbank  is the largest, followed by  Norway ’s DNB,  Germany ’s
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)  Both HSH
Nordbank and Commerzbank are reducing loans to the industry.  While U.S. lenders have increased their focus on ship
financing, it’s not enough to cover the shortfall left by
European banks, Michalsen said. Asian firms that lend to the
industry, which normally have lower borrowing costs than
European peers, “stand a good chance of playing a more
important role,” he said.  Still, they typically lend more to Asian shipping
companies, with Chinese banks often seeking a Chinese angle to
finance a European client, he said.  European banks account for almost 90 percent of global ship
lending, while Chinese banks represent 9 percent, according to
Athens-based vessel-finance consultant Petrofin SA. Of the
world’s 10 biggest shipping banks, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. is the only non-European lender, in ninth place, Petrofin
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Copenhagen at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  