-- Euro Weakens After S&P Cuts Spain’s Ratings on Debt Woes
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-04-27T11:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/dollar-stays-lower-on-fed-easing-speculation-before-gdp.html
The euro dropped to a one-week low
against the yen after Standard & Poor’s cut Spain’s credit
rating and the nation’s unemployment rate jumped, adding to
concern the region’s debt crisis is worsening.  The yen strengthened against all of its major counterparts
as investors sought safer assets even after the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
expanded its asset-purchase program. The euro erased losses
against the dollar after  Italy  raised 5.95 billion euros ($7.87
billion) through a debt. The  dollar  weakened before a U.S.
report forecast to show growth in the world’s largest economy
slowed last quarter.  “There is definitely an impact from the downgrade on the
euro,” said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European currency strategy
at Nomura International Plc in London. “Spain is the main story
in  Europe  now.”  The euro fell 0.4 percent to 106.70 yen at 6:58 a.m. New
York time after dropping to 106.16, the lowest level since April
18. The shared currency was little changed at $1.3227 after
weakening as much as 0.5 percent. The euro has declined 3.5
percent versus the yen this month, and 0.9 percent against the
dollar. The yen gained 0.4 percent to 80.69 per dollar.  S&P cut  Spain ’s long-term credit rating by two steps to
BBB+ from A late yesterday, saying the outlook is negative as
the recession undermines efforts to trim the  budget deficit .  “Spain’s budget trajectory will likely deteriorate against
a background of economic contraction,” S&P said. “We see an
increasing likelihood that Spain’s government will need to
provide further fiscal support to the banking sector.”  Jobless Rate  The jobless rate increased to an 18-year high of 24.4
percent in the first quarter from 22.9 percent in the previous
three months, the National Statistics Institute said in  Madrid .  Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed to as high as 6 percent
today, from this year’s low of 4.83 percent on March 1, as Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggled to convince investors he can
control public finances amid soaring unemployment and a
shrinking economy.  The yen strengthened the most against higher-yielding
currencies such as the South African rand and Swedish krona as
investors sought safer assets.  Japan ’s currency weakened earlier versus the dollar after
the central bank expanded its plan for government-bond purchases
by 10 trillion yen to help support the economy.  The BOJ said it will boost its asset-purchase fund to 40
trillion yen by June 2013, compared with the previous target of
30 trillion yen by year-end. A separate central-bank program
providing funds to banks was pared by 5 trillion yen amid
lackluster demand for loans.  ‘Disappointing’ Expectations  “This was as expected, disappointing market expectations
and causing” the yen to weaken against the dollar, Callum Henderson, global head of currency research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  Singapore , wrote in a note to clients.  The dollar dropped against 12 of its 16 major counterparts
before the Commerce Department releases its gross-domestic-
product report for the first quarter.  GDP growth slowed to a 2.5 percent annual rate from 3
percent in the previous three months, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The market got a little sucked in early on in terms of
euro-dollar lower on the downgrade” of Spain, said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in  London . “But people are likely to be reluctant of
going short into the GDP data.” A short position is a bet an
asset will decline.  Losing Momentum  The dollar is losing momentum against the yen after it
repeatedly failed to overcome the resistance offered by the
81.78 level, UBS AG said, citing trading patterns.  The level is the 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement of the
dollar’s decline from a high of 84.18 yen on March 15 to a low
of 80.30 yen on April 16.  The failure of the dollar to break through the level “is
now turning momentum lower within what is still a bearish
trending condition,”  Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income
technical strategy in London, wrote in a report yesterday.  Resistance refers an area where order to sell may be
clustered. Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a new high or low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  