-- Dominion Resources Rises on Cove Point Contracts: Dallas Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-04-26T20:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/dominion-resources-rises-on-cove-point-contracts-dallas-mover.html
Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  rose the
most in almost three months after announcing it will move
forward with plans to export natural gas from its Cove Point
facility, after signing agreements with  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and an
unidentified company to use all of the project’s capacity to
liquefy fuel.  The shares increased 1.3 percent to $51.89 at the close in
 New York , the most since Jan. 31.  Dominion, based in Richmond, Virginia, still needs federal
approval for the export facility, which it plans to begin
building in 2014 and place in service by 2017, Thomas Farrell,
Dominion’s chairman and chief executive officer, said during a
conference call today.  The export terminal would have a capacity of 750 million
cubic feet a day, about 75 percent of daily conventional gas
production in the Appalachian region, Farrell said. Dominion
hasn’t announced the project’s cost yet.  The Sumitomo announcement silenced widespread skepticism
that the utility owner would build the first export terminal
near the Marcellus Shale basin, said  Angie Storozynski , a
utility analyst with Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in New York who
has an outperform, or buy, rating on the shares.  Farrell dismissed  Sierra Club  claims that a 2005 agreement
gave the environmental group veto rights over any expansion of
Dominion’s import terminal in Lusby, Maryland. Sierra Club
directors in a letter today demanded Dominion cancel the
project, which would “further industrialize” the site and
increase hydraulic fracturing in the Marcellus.  Cove Point  “We have reviewed the regulations and agreements governing
the site and are confident we can locate, construct and operate
a liquefaction plant at Cove Point,” Farrell said in a
statement today.  Dominion is negotiating binding terminal-service agreements
with the two shippers and expects to finalize them “later this
summer,” the company said in a statement today. Dominion will
provide liquefaction, storage and loading services, and won’t
own or export the liquefied natural gas.  The U.S. Energy Department approved Dominion’s application
on Oct. 7 to export LNG from Cove Point to free-trade countries.
It hasn’t approved a request to export to countries not included
in the trade pacts. Dominion plans to file for Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission approval this year, a process expected to
take two years, Farrell said.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  received federal approval on April 16
to build a $10 billion export terminal in  Cameron Parish ,
 Louisiana .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  