-- Dow Profit Beats Estimates as Agriculture Sales Advance
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-04-26T20:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/dow-profit-beats-estimates-as-agriculture-sales-advance.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical company by revenue, fell the most in seven weeks after
rising costs for oil-based raw materials in  Europe  and Asia cut
earnings in plastics.  Dow declined 3.4 percent to close at $34.85 in  New York ,
the biggest decline since March 6.  The shares  have advanced 21
percent this year.  Net income fell to 35 cents a share from 54 cents a year
earlier, Midland, Michigan-based Dow said today in a statement.
Profit excluding the cost of plant closures and job cuts was 61
cents a share, topping the 59-cent average of 15  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales dropped to $14.72 billion from
$14.73 billion, trailing the $15.2 billion average of nine
estimates.  Dow wasn’t able to fully recoup $120 million in higher raw-
material and energy costs with product prices that rose an
average of 1 percent. Profit from performance plastics, the
biggest unit by sales, fell 27 percent as higher costs for
naphtha, an oil-derived ethylene ingredient used in  Asia  and
Europe, outweighed the benefit of cheaper U.S. gas, Dow said.  “Performance plastics results disappointed, particularly
in light of the strong U.S. ethylene margins,”  Robert Koort , a
Houston-based analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said today in
a report. “The weaker plastics results appear due to weak
margins at Dow’s Europe/Asia naphtha-based assets.”  ‘Heightened Expectations’  “Despite the EPS beat, we expect Dow to underperform today
based on heightened expectations going into the quarter,”
Koort, who rates the shares “neutral,” said in the note.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said
global demand for Dow’s products improved through the quarter as
the U.S.,  Germany  and other developed economies more than made
up for lower-than-expected sales in  China . Dow is seeing
“positive signs” in transportation, construction, electronics
and manufacturing, he said today in an interview.  “March showed quite a lot of strength compared with
February,” Liveris said. “The momentum continues” into the
second quarter, he said.  Global growth will gain momentum through the year while
Western Europe outside Germany will remain in “recessionary
conditions,” Liveris said on a conference call with analysts
and investors.  Increasing Capacity Use  Dow’s factories ran at 84 percent of capacity in the first
quarter, up 1 percentage point from a year earlier and 12 points
from the fourth quarter. The rate reached 86 percent in March,
Liveris said on the call.  “This period last year was quite strong, so to be able to
up your operating rates isn’t bad,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-
based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors, said today in an
interview.  First-quarter sales volumes rose 3 percent, excluding
divestitures, led by a 12 percent gain in the agriculture unit.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed 11 percent to a record $451 million in the
agriculture unit after warm weather allowed farmers in the
northern hemisphere to plant seeds earlier than normal. About 1
cent of per-share earnings that would normally be expected in
the second quarter was booked in the first because of the early
start to planting, Liveris said.  New Plants  Dow plans to build a $1.7 billion ethylene plant and a $1
billion propylene plant at its site in Freeport,  Texas , to take
advantage of the lowest gas costs in a decade. Dow also is
spending $300 million at the site to produce the weed killer
2,4-D. Dow has engineered crops to tolerate the herbicide.  Dow and Saudi Arabian Oil Co. said in July they will
proceed with a $20 billion plan to build factories that make
petrochemicals from low-cost oil and gas derivatives at the
Saudi port of Jubail.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of ethylene, chlorine, epoxy resins and linear
low-density polyethylene plastic. It’s the second-biggest
chemical maker by revenue behind Germany’s  BASF SE. (BAS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  