-- DPJ’s Ozawa Acquitted of Japan Campaign Finance Violations
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2012-04-26T03:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/dpj-s-ozawa-acquitted-in-japan-campaign-finance-trial-nhk-says.html
Japanese ruling party powerbroker
 Ichiro Ozawa  was found not guilty of violating campaign finance
laws, strengthening his hand in opposing Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s plan to raise the  consumption tax .  Ozawa, 69, was cleared of charges that he helped falsify
reports from his political fundraising organization over a 400
million-yen ($4.9 million) land purchase, Tokyo District Court
spokeswoman Aya Hatakeyama said. While three former aides were
convicted on similar charges in September, the court ruled in
February that “illegal” interrogation made testimony from one
of them inadmissible.  The acquittal further endangers Noda’s bill to double the 5
percent sales tax by 2015 to rein in the world’s largest debt
over the objections of opposition lawmakers. Ozawa heads the
largest faction within the  Democratic Party  of Japan and has
criticized the tax proposal as burdening the public at a time
when the economy is struggling.  “Ozawa is now free to be more vigorous in confronting the
Noda government on things like the consumption tax,” said
 Koichi Nakano , a political science professor at  Sophia
University  in Tokyo. “It means more headaches for Noda. Ozawa
has substantial influence over a third or at least a quarter of
the party.”  The verdict may send Japanese bond  yields  up from near an
18-month low on concern the tax plan will fail. Ozawa’s failed
DPJ leadership bid in 2010, on a platform of increasing public
spending, spurred an increase in yields of almost 30 basis
points in a week.  Japan ’s 10-year note yields were at 0.91
percent today, the least since October 2010 in the weeks after
Ozawa’s defeat in the party election.  Noda’s Misfires  Noda’s bid to raise the consumption levy is already
hampered by falling popularity and Cabinet misfires. The
opposition-controlled upper house censured his defense and
transport ministers last week, the second such parliamentary
maneuver since the prime minister took office in September.  The move delayed legislation to sell shares of the national
postal network to help pay for reconstruction from last year’s
earthquake and nuclear disasters.  Just over 50 percent of voters oppose the tax plan,
compared with 40 percent who support it, according to an Asahi
newspaper poll published April 16. Noda’s approval rating fell
two percentage points from March to 25 percent, the survey
showed.  Ozawa was the engineer of the DPJ’s 2009 landslide victory
that ousted the  Liberal Democratic Party  after more than a half-
century of governance. Since then he has denounced the DPJ’s
cutbacks on child-rearing subsidies and supported a no-
confidence motion against  Naoto Kan , Noda’s predecessor as
premier, for his handling of last year’s crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  