-- DRB Said to Hire KPMG to Assess Future of Carmaker Lotus
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-04-26T12:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/drb-said-to-hire-kpmg-to-assess-future-of-carmaker-lotus.html
DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , the Malaysian
 investment company  buying the owner of British sports-car maker
Lotus Group International Ltd., hired consultant  KPMG  regarding
the business, a person familiar with the matter said.  KPMG is being asked to evaluate Hethel, England-based Lotus
as DRB proceeds with the purchase of the manufacturer’s parent
company, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the issue is private.  DRB, controlled by billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary,
agreed in January to acquire a majority stake in Malaysian
state-owned carmaker  Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH) , Lotus’s owner. DRB
Managing Director Mohd Khamil Jamil said on March 14 that the
U.K. manufacturer of the Elise and Exige sports cars may be sold
if it fails to meet unspecified performance targets.  Richard Bacon , the Conservative Party lawmaker who
represents the English constituency of South Norfolk where Lotus
is based, said in a parliamentary debate April 24 that he’s
concerned that the sports-car maker will be sold to a Chinese
company, leading to a loss of jobs in his region.  Lotus’s chief has been “incentivized in his contract” for
a sale, and “recently” visited  China , and any assurance by a
suitor from that country that jobs will be preserved “is
unlikely to be worth much,” Bacon said in the debate.  Unprofitable  Proton hasn’t made a profit from Lotus since buying the
sports-car maker in 1996, as the British brand has struggled to
compete against Porsche AG and  Ferrari SpA (F)  in Europe. Deliveries
by Lotus in the U.K. dropped 43 percent last year to 329 cars,
according to the country’s auto-industry association.  Lotus is “a little bit disappointed” that much of Bacon’s
debate statement was “inaccurate,” said Alastair Florance, a
spokesman for the sports-car manufacturer. “We will deal with
that directly” with the parliamentarian.  Florance declined to comment on whether KPMG had been
hired, which was reported earlier today by the London-based
Daily Telegraph newspaper. Sorelle Cooper, a spokeswoman for the
consulting company, also declined to comment. Spokesmen at DRB
and for Al-Bukhary couldn’t be reached for comment after
business hours in Malaysia.  Proton’s shares will be suspended from trading in  Kuala
Lumpur  as of May 4 after DRB  won acceptance  for its offer from
investors holding 90.8 percent of the carmaker’s stock,
according to a filing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  