-- Drone by Northrop Shouldn't Be Retired, Lawmakers Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-26T14:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/drone-by-northrop-shouldn-t-be-retired-lawmakers-says.html
The Pentagon’s plan to retire one
version of  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Global Hawk drone would be
blocked under a U.S. House panel’s defense legislation.  The House Armed Services subcommittee on air and land
forces would require that the secretary of the  Air Force  take
“all actions necessary” to keep the so-called Global Hawk
Block 30 operating through 2014, according to a document the
panel  released today.   The Pentagon in February proposed truncating purchases of
the Global Hawk variant and putting the drones it had already
bought into storage. Air Force officials said those drones are
more expensive to operate and have less sensing capacity than
Lockheed Martin Corp.’s older U-2 spy planes. The Defense
Department has projected savings of $2.5 billion over five years
from truncating the Block 30 version of the Global Hawk.  The panel’s recommendations will be considered by the full
committee next week as it becomes the first to act on the budget
blueprint President  Barack Obama  and the Pentagon proposed in
February. The drone proposal is an indication the Republican-led
committee won’t hesitate to refashion a spending plan that
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has said should be passed without
modifications if it’s to meet deficit-reduction requirements.  “We were presented a budget from the administration that
takes a knife to the  defense budget , while growing the size and
scope of the federal government,” Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the full committee’s chairman, said in prepared
remarks last night. “As defense continues to be crowded out of
the picture, we have to be extraordinarily careful in choosing
where we allocate the military’s funding.”  F-35 Plan Backed  The panel did endorse the Pentagon’s request to buy 29
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 stealth jets. The Pentagon requested
$9.1 billion for its most expensive program, including $6.1
billion for procurement.  As of February, when Panetta presented the plan to cut $487
billion from previously planned defense spending over 10 years,
the Air Force had 18 Global Hawk Block 30s on contract. The
House panel’s proposal would keep those drones flying until the
end of 2014.  The Air Force spent $3.4 billion on the development and
procurement of the 18 aircraft, according to information
provided by Air Force spokeswoman Jennifer Cassidy.  Lawmakers have questioned the proposal to retire the Block
30 drone, pointing out that in June 2011 the Pentagon certified
it as “essential to national security” after assessing cost
overruns.  “None of the funds authorized” for the budget “may be
expended to retire, prepare to retire or place in storage” the
aircraft, the panel said in the document today.  Abrams, Bradley Vehicles  McKeon, a California Republican, said in the speech to the
Hamilton Society in  Washington  that he also will seek to
increase funding for  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Abrams tank and
 BAE Systems Plc (BAESY) ’s Bradley Fighting Vehicle to avoid a proposed
temporary shutdown of production lines.  McKeon vowed to slow troop reductions, which he said would
mean an increase in deployments. Obama is planning to cut the
number of U.S. military forces by about 120,000 by 2017. McKeon
also said he would eliminate user fees proposed by the
administration for the military’s health-care system.  McKeon’s panel also will try to scale back a Navy plan to
retire nine guided missile cruisers and authorize the purchase
of 10 additional destroyers, instead of nine.  Virginia-Class Submarines  The Armed Services Committee’s seapower subcommittee
indicated that it plans to restore funding for a second
Virginia-class submarine that the Navy struck from fiscal 2014
plans. The panel recommended adding a down payment, or “advance
procurement,” in the fiscal 2013 budget, according to documents
released yesterday.  The Navy originally planned to buy two Virginia-class
submarines a year, with the work split between  Huntington
Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  of  Newport News ,  Virginia , and General
Dynamics’s Groton, Connecticut-based Electric Boat unit.
Instead, the Pentagon now proposes buying one boat in fiscal
2014 and delaying another until fiscal 2018.  Israel ’s Iron Dome missile-defense system also stands to
gain as much as $680 million in U.S. aid under a proposal in the
armed services panel. A subcommittee is seeking the funding from
2012 to 2015 for the system built by Rafael Advanced Defense
Systems Ltd., according to documents released yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  