-- Drug-Resistant Malaria Emerging in Africa: Researchers
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/drug-resistant-malaria-emerging-in-africa-researchers.html
Drug-resistant malaria may be
emerging in  Africa , according to a study that suggests the most
powerful drugs against the disease are losing potency on the
continent most affected by it.  Genetic mutations in the parasite that causes malaria are
starting to make the bug resistant to artemether, the key
ingredient in  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Coartem, researchers at the
University of London wrote in the Malaria Journal today.  Studies in Cambodia and  Thailand  have shown that drugs
based on artemisinin, the class of remedies to which artemether
belongs, are becoming less effective there. The  World Health
Organization  has been leading efforts to contain the resistant
strain amid concerns it may spread to Africa, rendering the best
treatments useless and endangering millions of people.  “This study confirms our fears,”  Sanjeev Krishna , who led
the research, said in a statement. “Drug resistance could
eventually become a devastating problem in Africa, and not just
in southeast  Asia  where most of the world is watching for
resistance.”  Malaria kills a child in Africa  every minute , according to
the Geneva-based WHO. It strikes about 216 million people each
year and kills about 655,000.  Krishna and colleagues studied blood samples taken from 28
people who contracted malaria while traveling in sub-Saharan
Africa, discovering resistance in 11 of them. In those cases,
artemether’s effectiveness was reduced by about half, they
found.  Ancient Chinese Remedy  Artemether is based on artemisinin, an ancient Chinese
remedy derived from the leaves of the sweet wormwood tree.
Artemisinin-based drugs such as Coartem are the most powerful
treatments against malaria after the parasite developed
resistance to several previous generations of medicines. The
increased use of artemisinin-based drugs may have contributed to
resistance, the researchers wrote.  The effectiveness of other artemisinin-based drugs, such as
artesunate, wasn’t significantly affected by the mutations, they
wrote.  “At the moment, we do not know if the other artemisinins
will follow suit, but given the shared chemistry they have with
artemether, it is tempting to think that they would,” Krishna
said in the statement.  Novartis of  Basel ,  Switzerland , is among the companies
working on new malaria treatments, though they’re not expected
to be available for years.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is developing a
product that would be the first malaria vaccine if approved. The
shot, known as RTS,S, safely reduced illness in African infants
by more than half in a study, the London-based company said in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  