-- Dunkin' Brands to Test Pods for Green Mountain's Vue
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-04-26T21:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/dunkin-brands-to-test-pods-for-green-mountain-s-vue.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) , which
started selling Dunkin’ Donuts single-serve K-Cup pods last
year, will test capsules for  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters
Inc. (GMCR) ’s new coffee maker.  Dunkin’ will do “some sort of test over the balance of
this year,” Chief Financial Officer Neil Moses said in an
interview today. While the Canton, Massachusetts-based chain has
seen and likes the new Vue brewer, a decision on whether to sell
V-Cups won’t be made until the end of the year, he said.  Dunkin’ Brands is working to boost sales and attract at-
home coffee drinkers by selling K-Cups for the Keurig brewer in
its stores.  Green Mountain  introduced the Vue machine earlier
this year to help combat competition when the main patents for
its K-Cups expire in September.  Private-label capsules that fit the Keurig aren’t hurting
Dunkin’s K-Cup sales, Moses said. The company’s contract with
Green Mountain is “short enough that we have flexibility” to
get out of it if too many competitors come on the market and
crimp Dunkin’s sales, he said, declining to say the length of
the contract. Seattle-based  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  also sells K-Cups.  First-quarter net income at Dunkin’ was $26 million
compared with a loss of $1.7 million a year earlier. Excluding
some items, profit totaled 25 cents a share, beating the 23-cent
average of 12 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Dunkin’  rose  2.7 percent to $32.57 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 30 percent this year.  The company, which has about 7,000 Dunkin’ Donuts locations
in the U.S., also owns the Baskin-Robbins ice cream brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  