-- Netherland Reaches Austerity Deal, Ending Budget Impasse
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-04-27T16:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/dutch-budget-cuts-get-go-ahead-as-government-strikes-deal.html
The Dutch government struck an
emergency austerity deal with the opposition to meet European
Union budget rules, ending the impasse that raised the prospect
the  Netherlands  could lose its top  credit rating .  “This is an unbelievable achievement,” Prime Minister
 Mark Rutte  said in parliament late yesterday. “Sticking to the
3 percent rule is not because that has been decided in Brussels
but because we think it’s important as we can’t pass the bill on
to future generations.”  The Netherlands needs to report to the European Commission
by April 30 on how it plans to meet the EU’s budget-deficit
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product next year. Without
additional austerity measures, the shortfall would have remained
at 4.6 percent in 2013, breaching the ceiling for a fifth year.  The new package may help remove concerns among credit-
rating companies including  Standard & Poor’s , which on Jan. 13
changed its outlook on the Netherlands to negative. It said it
sees at least a one-in-three chance that the country will lose
its top grade in 2012 or 2013 should the economy deteriorate
further.  Rutte submitted his Cabinet’s resignation on April 23 after
Geert Wilders’s  Freedom Party  withdrew support for spending cuts
and tax increases totaling about 14 billion euros ($18.5
billion). After that, investors demanded as much as 79 basis
points of extra yield to lend to the Netherlands for 10 years
rather than  Germany , the highest premium in three years.  Budget Agreement  The spread between Dutch and German yields was at 54 basis
points, or 0.54 percentage point, as of 5:16 p.m. in Amsterdam,
compared with 56.5 basis points yesterday.  The deal, brokered in just two days, includes raising the
highest value-added  tax rate  to 21 percent from 19 percent in
October and doubling the bank tax to 600 million euros, Finance
Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  wrote in a letter to parliament.
Freezing civil servant pay will help reduce next year’s deficit
to at least 3 percent of GDP, while a cut in development aid is
annulled.  The parties also agreed to reform mortgage rules to reduce
risks to households and lenders and cut spending by 5.4 billion
euros. As of next year, the interest payments on new mortgages
can only be deducted from taxable income if the loan is fully
paid back within 30 years. The house-transaction tax, cut to 2
percent from 6 percent last year to help revive house sales,
will remain at the reduced rate.  ‘Bad Package’  De Jager’s  Christian Democrats  and Rutte’s Liberals were
supported by the opposition Green Left, Christian Union and D66
democrats, which together hold 77 seats out of 150 in the lower
house. The five parties would get 76 seats if elections were
held today, according to a  poll  of about 4,500 people by
researcher Maurice de Hond and No Ties BV published today.
Wilders’s party would lose seven seats, leaving it with 17.  The  Labor Party , Socialist Party as well as the Freedom
Party didn’t back the agreement. “This is a bad package and the
people with a state pension will pay the bill,” Wilders told
parliament.  The austerity measures add up to more than 12 billion
euros, De Volkskrant reported today. The  finance ministry 
couldn’t give a total figure as details of the measures have yet
to be finalized.  The Dutch economy, the fifth largest in the euro area,
entered its second recession in three years during the latter
half of last year. Unemployment has jumped to almost 6 percent
from 5 percent in 12 months and  house prices  have fallen more
than 10 percent since 2008, partly on speculation the government
may cut tax breaks for homeowners.  “The measures will strengthen the economy because it deals
with issues that have been on the table for decades,”  De Jager 
said in parliament. “This is crucial for future generations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  