-- HeartWare Shares Rise on Panel Backing of Implantable Pump
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-26T20:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/heartware-shares-rise-on-fda-panel-backing-of-implantable-pump.html
HeartWare International Inc. (HIN)  rose
the most in more than a year after its implantable pump for
heart-transplant candidates gained support from U.S. regulatory
advisers who said the device provides dying patients a lifeline.  HeartWare jumped 12 percent to $77.52 at the close of
trading, the most since Nov. 15, 2010. A Food and Drug
Administration panel of academics and physicians voted 9-2 that
the benefits outweigh the product’s risks at a meeting yesterday
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The U.S. market for left ventricular pumps may pass $750
million in 2015, said  Jason Mills , an analyst with Canaccord
Adams Inc. in  San Francisco . If HeartWare’s system also is
approved for patients who aren’t eligible for a transplant, the
Framingham, Massachusetts-based company may split the U.S.
market with Thoratec Corp.’s HeartMate II by 2015, Mills said by
telephone before yesterday’s vote.  “We believe the FDA is likely to approve the device
because the agency usually follows the panel’s advice and we
believe FDA is interested in there being an alternative” to the
Thoratec product, analyst  Larry Biegelsen  with Wells Fargo
Securities in  New York  wrote in a note to clients.  Take Over Heart  The HeartWare and Thoratec devices are intended to take
over for a failing heart, extending patients’ lives or gaining
time to find a transplant donor. FDA staff said in an April 23
 report  they were concerned about stroke rates and missing data
for 80 percent of patients that tested the HeartWare system.  “Lack of data really means nothing to a patient that is
dying, and this pump is a good alternative,” said Joseph Amato,
a panel member and a doctor at Rush University Medical Center in
 Chicago .  The panel also voted 8-3 that the pump is safe and 11-0
that it’s effective. The FDA isn’t required to follow the
group’s recommendations.  Heart failure  is a progressive disease that strikes 1 in 5
Americans older than 40. It occurs when a damaged organ can’t
supply enough oxygen-rich blood to keep other organs, such as
the lungs, working. There are few treatments and no cure.  Fifteen patients on the HeartWare device experienced
strokes about six months into testing, according to the staff
report. This data “suggest a trend toward higher stroke rates”
with the pump compared to other devices, the staff wrote.  Stroke Rate ‘Acceptable’  “The stroke rate given the alternative these patients are
facing, which is certain or imminent death, I think it’s
acceptable,” David Slotwiner, with the Long Island Jewish
Medical Center and a panel member, said during the meeting.  Thoratec dominates the worldwide ventricular assist device
market with about 68 percent of the market share, according to
data compiled by a Bloomberg analyst, Michael Manns. The
Pleasanton, California-based company’s HeartMate had  $366
million (THOR)  in revenue last year.  HeartWare’s device is sold in  Europe . It’s implanted next
to the heart, avoiding the abdominal surgery required by
competing devices, the company said. Thoratec’s HeartMate II is
placed below the diaphragm in the abdomen. HeartMate II is
approved for heart-failure patients whether they are eligible
for transplantation.  HeartWare is recruiting patients for a  study  on the
device’s use in patients who aren’t eligible for heart
transplant, according to the National Institutes of Health
website clinicaltrials.gov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  