-- Heathrow Tends to Olympic Farewell as Athletes Plan Arrival
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-04-27T09:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/heathrow-tends-to-olympic-farewell-as-athletes-prepare-to-arrive.html
As athletes, spectators and the
 London  citizenry await the arrival of the 2012 Olympics,
 Heathrow airport  is fixated on the finish line.  “Sixty-five percent of the Olympic family -- sponsors,
media and athletes -- will leave the day after the closing
ceremonies,” Nick Cole, head of London 2012 planning for
airport operator BAA Ltd., said in an interview. “It’s simply
a problem of volume. If we mess up that last day, it hurts
Heathrow’s reputation.”  The Olympic and Paralympic Games will attract about 500,000
extra fliers to the U.K. from July 27 to Sept. 9, according to
NATS, Britain’s airspace controller. Heathrow will bear the
brunt, handling about 80 percent of the spectators, athletes,
officials and media. The day after the closing ceremonies is
expected to be the busiest day in the airport’s history.  Over the period, 12,850 Olympic athletes and 7,000
Paralympians will pass through Heathrow, according to BAA.
Traffic will peak on Aug. 13, when 138,000 people will depart
from the airport, a 45 percent increase from normal operations.
More than 200,000 luggage items will be handled that day,
including sports equipment like javelins, canoes and bicycles.  “It’s all about bags,” Cole said, speaking at  Heathrow’s (FER) 
dedicated  Olympic Games  Terminal, 20 miles west of central
London. “The average passenger coming into Heathrow has
1.7 bags. The athletes will average four. That’s a massive
strain on our baggage system.”  Guns and Duffels  Firearms for shooting events will be among the most
difficult items, said Cole, a triathlete who served as an
officer in the British Army. Oversize bags that don’t fit
through regular X-ray machines will account for about 15 percent
of luggage, compared with 3 percent on a normal day, he added.  To streamline the process, BAA has spent “well over” 20
million pounds ($32 million) on preparations, he said. That has
covered training volunteers, setting up check-in facilities at
the Olympic Village and building an athlete-only temporary
departure terminal for the three days after the closing
ceremonies.  “We won’t get anywhere near a 10th of that money back,”
Cole said. “We’re keen to makes sure the Olympics goes well,
but you could argue it’s more about reputation than money.”  The reputations of both Heathrow and London Gatwick, owned
by BAA until 2009, were tarnished in the past decade as
investment in facilities failed to keep pace with traffic. The
operator, owned by  Spain ’s Ferrovial SA, misplaced tens of
thousands of bags when Heathrow’s Terminal 5 opened in 2008, and
the airport is at 99 percent of capacity.  ‘Tightrope’  “Success depends on a smooth-as-possible operation,”  John Strickland , a London-based aviation analyst at JLS Consulting
Ltd., said in an interview. “Any air traffic control
difficulties, border control issues or weather that leads to
backlogs can result in queues back to the gate, so really they
are on a bit of a tightrope.”  The U.K.’s largest airlines, including British Airways and
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., raised concerns in March about
potential delays at London airports during the 2012 Olympic
Games. In a March 15 letter to U.K. Transport Secretary Justine Greening, the carriers said there was a “significant risk of
severe delay and disruption” at all of London’s airports.  Extra immigration staff will be deployed at Heathrow to
prevent delays to athletes and fans, U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May said on April 24. No private aircraft will be allowed to fly
into Heathrow between July 14 and Sept. 14, Cole said.  Sweating Details  Any problem could “rapidly escalate” if the volume isn’t
handled correctly, Stickland said. “There is extreme
sensitivity to the smallest issue.”  British Airways (IAG) , owned by International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, is doing baggage trials to ensure systems can
cope with the increased volume of equipment and luggage,
spokeswoman Nicola Pearson said by e-mail.  The number of passengers using the four largest airports
serving London -- Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and Luton -- rose
84 percent in two decades to 124.4 million in 2010, according to
the  Civil Aviation Authority . Some 42 airports in southeastern
 England  will be linked into an allocation plan to coordinate
landings of commercial flights, charters and  business jets .  Special Lanes  An estimated 70,000 people will depart from Gatwick in
south London on Aug. 13, a 15 percent increase from a normal
summer day, spokeswoman Sarah Baranowski said. Lanes for people
with disabilities, families and premier-class passengers are in
place to streamline security and immigration lines, and the
airport has added wheelchairs and done “scenario tests.”  Because the Olympics takes place during the summer vacation
season, discount airlines such as  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  that tend to fill their planes won’t see a
significant boost, said  Douglas McNeill , an  analyst  at Charles
Stanley Securities in London.  “The Olympics will be neutral for the airlines because
it’s already an incredibly busy time,” McNeill said. “The
Olympics is a national event, and British Airways and Heathrow
benefit from being identified with national enterprise.”  EasyJet expects to fly more passengers in and out of London
during the Olympic period than any other airline, spokesman  Paul Moore  said by telephone. The carrier started flying out of a
fourth London hub at Southend Airport, about 30 minutes east of
the Olympic Park by train, this year.  Other Airports  Stansted airport, also owned by BAA, has 50,000 people pass
through its terminals on an average summer day. About 11,000
people travel through London’s City airport on average, while
Luton Airport north of the city is expecting 31,000 additional
passengers for the Olympics, 26,000 passengers on scheduled
services and 5,000 on chartered aircraft.  McNeill is optimistic that airports will handle the inflow
-- and perhaps the outflow.  “On the inbound tack, they’ll be okay, because not
everyone will arrive at the same time,” he said. “There will
be more of a pinch on the way out.” Heathrow, for one, “is
used to coping with intense pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  