-- Eating More Berries May Delay Memory Decline, Research Shows
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/eating-more-berries-may-delay-memory-decline-research-shows.html
Berries are good for the brain,
according to a study that suggests the fruits can help fend off
the mental decline of aging.  Women who ate one or more servings of blueberries or two or
more servings of strawberries a week over two decades had minds
that, based on memory tests, were 2.5 years younger than those
who ate little to no berries, research today in the  Annals of
Neurology  showed.  Blueberries and strawberries are rich in a type of
 flavonoid  called anthocyanidins, which are known to cross from
the blood into the brain and locate in the parts involved in
learning and memory, said lead study author Elizabeth Devore.
Flavonoids also may help mitigate the effects of stress and
inflammation that could contribute to cognitive decline, she
said. More studies are needed to confirm the findings, she said.  “There is very little known about flavonoids and memory,
and virtually nothing known about long-term consumption of
berries and flavonoids in relation to memory,” said  Devore , an
instructor in medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and
 Harvard Medical School  in  Boston , in an April 24 e-mail. “This
is really the first, large epidemiologic study of its kind. This
is an exciting finding given that increasing berry intake is
such a simple dietary modification.”  Researchers in the study included women from the  Nurses’
Health Study  who answered food questionnaires every four years
beginning in 1980. Between 1995 and 2001, cognitive function was
measured every two years in 16,010 participants who were 70
years and older.  In the study, one serving was equal to half a cup (118
milliliters).  They found that while berries appeared to help memory the
most, other foods rich in flavonoids such as tea, onions and red
wine, may also be helpful for memory, Devore said.  The authors said that the improved memory may also be the
result of lifestyle choices like exercising more. Women in the
study who consumed the most berries also had higher physical
activity levels and annual household incomes, the study said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  