-- ECB Says European Financial Integration Dealt Setback by Crisis
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-26T08:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ecb-says-european-financial-integration-dealt-setback-by-crisis.html
The  European Central Bank  said the
sovereign debt crisis has caused a “marked deterioration” in
financial integration in the euro area and urged governments to
strengthen policy frameworks.  “During 2011, the intensification of the sovereign bond
crisis strongly affected the euro-area financial system” and
“the integration of markets has deteriorated further,” the ECB
said in its annual report on financial integration in  Europe 
published in Frankfurt today. “The indicators of money-market
integration presented in this report suggest that, at shorter
maturities, the integration gains achieved in early 2011 were
reversed.”  More than two years after the debt crisis erupted in  Greece 
and spread to Ireland and  Portugal , investors are questioning
whether  Spain  can rein in its deficit, driving up the country’s
borrowing costs. The ECB pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into the euro-area banking system this year in an
effort to get credit flowing again.  “After the turn of the year, and especially after the
allotment of the second ECB three-year refinancing operation,
the indicators of financial integration have shown signs of
improvement,” the ECB said in today’s report. Still, “to
preserve the sizeable benefits for the European citizen that
have been made in the past 25 years, the enhancements of the
Single Market Program and the strengthening of the euro-area
policy frameworks should be brought forward,” it said.  Money Markets  The ECB said secured and unsecured money markets have
become increasingly impaired, especially across borders.
Corporate bond markets have also experienced “significant
tensions in both the financial and non-financial sector,” it
said.  “The impact of the sovereign crisis on cross-border
integration seems to have been limited in equity markets,
relative to bond markets,” the ECB said. “Cross-border
holdings are not displaying significant discrimination with
regard to the country of origin. Also national stock price
indices seem to be reacting without an overwhelming country-
specific influence.”  Indicators of euro-area banking market integration
generally signalled a slower pace of deterioration during the
financial crisis relative to other markets, it said. “However,
more recently in both the retail and wholesale euro-area banking
markets there is evidence suggesting a slow erosion of the
earlier -- equally slow -- progress towards financial
integration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  