-- Qatar’s QInvest May Own Majority of New Bank With EFG-Hermes
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-04-26T12:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/efg-hermes-says-qinvest-may-hold-majority-of-new-bank-correct-.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said  Qatar ’s
QInvest LLC may hold a majority stake in a planned investment
bank that would take over the Egyptian bank’s brokerage,
investment banking and asset management businesses.  The investment bank would be the largest in “the Arab
World, Africa,  Turkey , South and South East Asia, with the
possibility of QInvest holding majority stake,” Cairo-based
EFG-Hermes said in a statement today. QInvest, a unit of  Qatar
Islamic Bank (QIBK) , concluded talks to buy a 60 percent stake in EFG-
Hermes,  Egypt ’s Al Shorouk newspaper reported yesterday, citing
an unidentified person familiar with the talks.  The investment may help EFG-Hermes ride Egypt’s worst
political and economic crisis in at least 30 years after last
year’s popular uprising. Profit of the largest publicly traded
Arab investment bank slumped 81 percent slump in 2011 and its
shares plunged 63 percent, under-performing the  benchmark index .
The shares gained 9 percent, the most since Nov. 29, to 14.01
pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, valuing the company at
6.7 billion pounds ($1.1 billion).  “The anticipated valuation and possible cash dividend
payment are the main drivers of the shares,” said Mohamed Radwan, head of equities at Pharos Holding for Financial
Investment in Cairo.  Qatar’s Role  Founded in 1984, EFG-Hermes has operations in countries
including the  United Arab Emirates ,  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and
Oman, according to its website. It employs more than 1,000
people, it said.  QInvest, which got a license to operate in 2007, is based
in Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas,
whose economy expanded at the fastest pace in the world for the
past two years, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. Qatar’s economy is picking up as the Persian Gulf
nation prepares to host the 2022 soccer  World Cup .  EFG-Hermes said its private equity business and Lebanese
commercial bank Credit Libanais SAL, in which it bought a 65
percent stake in 2010, are excluded from the discussions.  “It is not yet clear to us how the structure will be out
in place,” said  Jaap Meijer , director of equity research at
Arqaam Capital Ltd. in Dubai. “QInvest may do an offer for 60
percent of the shares, with EFG selling Credit Libanais, or
alternatively buy 60 percent of the investment banking platform,
leaving EFG with a 40 percent minority.”  Credit Libanais dismissed a report that EFG-Hermes may sell
its stake, Al-Akhbar newspaper reported April 21. The
appointment of EFG-Hermes co-chief executive officers Hassan Heikal and Yasser Al Mallawany to the board of Credit Libanais
indicates EFG-Hermes’s intention to retain the stake, Al-Akhbar
said, citing the information office of the Lebanese bank’s
chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  