-- EFG-Hermes Climbs to Month High on QInvest Talks: Cairo Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-26T11:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/efg-hermes-climbs-to-highest-in-a-month-on-qinvest-talks-1-.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE jumped to
the highest in a month after it said QInvest LLC may hold a
majority stake in an investment bank that the two are 
negotiating.  The shares surged 8.7 percent to 13.97 Egyptian pounds, the
highest intraday level since March 29, at 12:47 p.m. in Cairo.
The stock was the biggest gainer and the second-most traded by
value on  Egypt ’s  EGX30 Index (EGX30) , which rose 0.1 percent.  The investment bank would be the largest in “the Arab
World, Africa,  Turkey , South and South East Asia, with the
possibility of QInvest holding majority stake,” Cairo-based
EFG-Hermes said in a statement today. The investment may help
EFG-Hermes ride Egypt’s worst political and economic crisis in
at least 30 years after last year’s popular uprising.  “The name is jogging higher on the back of the QInvest
news,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at
Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities. “The market is
currently speculating on a super dividend payout.”  Profit of the largest publicly traded Arab investment bank
slumped 81 percent in 2011 and its shares plunged 63 percent,
under-performing the benchmark index. EFG-Hermes said its
private equity business and Lebanese commercial bank Credit
Libanais SAL, in which it bought a 65 percent stake in 2010, are
excluded from the discussions.  QInvest, a unit of  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , concluded talks to
acquire 60 percent of EFG-Hermes, Egypt’s Al Shorouk newspaper
reported yesterday, citing an unidentified person familiar with
the talks.  One analyst recommends investors  buy EFG-Hermes  shares,
while four have a hold rating on the stock and one says sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  