-- Egypt Announces Final List for Presidential Election Vote
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-04-26T17:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/egypt-announces-final-list-for-presidential-election-vote-2-.html
Egypt’s elections commission
announced a final list of 13 candidates for the May presidential
race, where the fight between Islamists, secularists and
supporters of former President  Hosni Mubarak  has obscured
prospects of a smooth transition to democracy.  Ahmed Shafik, who was appointed prime minister in Mubarak’s
final days, was among the 13, according to the list read to
reporters in Cairo by presidential elections commission head
Farouk Soultan. Shafik had previously been told he couldn’t run.
It also includes the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
party head, Mohamed Morsi, former Brotherhood member Abdel
Moneim Aboul-Fotouh and former Arab League Secretary-General
Amre Moussa.  The first presidential ballot since Mubarak’s departure is
scheduled for May 23 and May 24. If required, runoffs will be
held on June 16 and June 17 and the final result announced on
June 21. Islamists say the commission’s decision to block two of
their most prominent candidates indicates an attempt to restore
 Egypt ’s old regime.  The Brotherhood, whose political arm controls nearly half
the seats in parliament’s lower house, has been critical of the
disqualification of its chief candidate, Khairat el-Shater,
while the commission reversed its earlier ruling and allowed
Shafik to run. The group is calling for rallies “to defend the
revolution” in squares across the country tomorrow.  Defending the Revolution  “We want to stress the importance of a power handover on
the scheduled time and holding elections on time,” Brotherhood
spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan said by phone. “We also want to make
sure that the military council stays away from the assembly
tasked with writing a constitution and from the constitution
itself.”  Ghozlan criticized the elections commission’s reinstatement
of Shafik after a law was passed by parliament and approved by
the military rulers barring some former Mubarak officials from
running for office for a decade. The commission yesterday
reinstated Shafik after having disqualified him earlier in the
week. It also referred the law to the constitutional court for
its review. In all, 10 candidates were knocked out of the race
for various technicalities.  “The goal is to keep Islamists, and especially Khairat el-
Shater, away from this position and to support Ahmed Shafik,”
Ghozlan said.  Clouded Prospects  The tensions surrounding the race, along with an ongoing
fight between the government and the Islamist-dominated
parliament over the country’s proposed short-term plan, have
further clouded the prospects for an economic recovery.  Moody’s Investors Service today said it was extending the
time frame of its review of Egypt’s B2 rating for a possible
downgrade to incorporate the credit implications of the upcoming
elections and talks with the  International Monetary Fund  on a
$3.2 billion loan.  “The repeated changes in government leadership have
resulted in ineffective and unpredictable economic policies,
which have in turn undermined government finances and investor
confidence,” Moody’s said in a statement.  Soultan defended the commission’s decision to disqualify 10
candidates and said the body rejects attempts to cast doubt on
its integrity.  Islamist-Dominated Parliament  Asked about concerns the vote may be delayed, Soultan said:
“We are proceeding according to the schedule. The commission
will continue its procedures until the elections process
concludes unless state authorities decide to halt elections.”  The decision to bar Shafik followed the passage of a law
drafted by the Islamist-dominated parliament. It appeared to be
aimed at preventing Mubarak’s longtime intelligence chief,  Omar Suleiman , from running for the head of state’s post. Suleiman,
who served as vice president in the Mubarak administration’s
final days, was ultimately removed from the race by the
commission on electoral technicalities. Both he and the military
denied the Islamists’ allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  