-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise as U.S. Outlook Boosts Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-26T22:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/emerging-stocks-rise-on-fed-comments-south-korea-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks had their
biggest advance in two weeks as  Brazil  gained on increased
optimism about  Vale SA (VALE5) ’s performance.  Vale SA, the world’s second-largest mining company, jumped
1.7 percent in  Sao Paulo  after saying it will meet its sales
target for this year. Brazil’s Bovespa added 0.7 percent. The
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.4 percent to 1,015.94 in
 New York .  Fenerbahce Sportif Hizmetler Sanayi & Ticaret (FENER)  AS rose
to its highest since August, lifting  Turkey ’s stock gauge by 1.2
percent.  U.S. data showed pending home sales increased more than
forecast in March as low  interest rates  drew more buyers into
the market. The index of pending home purchases rose 4.1
percent, compared with the 1 percent median forecast of 43
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Vale’s production and sales “rebounded in March and should
continue strong in the second quarter,” Bruno Piagentini, an
equity analyst at Coinvalores Corretora de Valores, said. “The
market realized the drop in sales and the rise in costs in the
first quarter was temporary. Vale is returning to the company
that we’re familiar with.”  MSCI’s developing-nations gauge has climbed 11 percent this
year and trades at 10.6 times estimated profit. That compares
with a multiple of 12.5 times for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
advanced countries, which has added 9.4 percent in 2012.  Gains in Brazil  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 0.6 percent to $42.25 in New York.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, tumbled 5.5 percent to 24.18.  Cielo SA, Brazil’s biggest card-payment processor by market
value, added 7.1 percent to 55.62 reais. The company said its
net  income  increased 33 percent to 566.6 million reais in the
first quarter, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. That
beat the median estimate of 514.5 million reais for adjusted net
income in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.  Brazil’s  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11) , led by billionaire  Andre
Esteves , climbed 0.6 percent to 31.45 reais after raising as
much as 3.66 billion reais in the biggest initial public
offering in the country since 2009.  Company shares traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange gained
0.4 percent in Mexico City after  Grupo Financiero Banorte S.A.B.
de C.V. (GFNORTEO) , a financial institution, rose 4.2 percent.  Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) ,
that largest cement maker in the Americas, slipped 0.2 percent
after reporting first-quarter losses narrowed.  MICEX drops  Russia ’s MICEX Index slipped 1 percent as shares of IDGC
Holding JBC, a managing company for electricity distributors in
Russia, declined 5.8 percent, the most in a month.  The Moscow-based company will announce  earnings  for the
year ended Dec. 31 tomorrow and will probably report that sales
grew 14.1 percent to $636.5 billion, according to the median
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest gold
producer, rose 3.7 percent, the most in three months, lifting
South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  for a third day.
The gauge added 0.7 percent while  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the
country’s second largest producer of the metal, climbed 3.4
percent.  Gold rose the most in two week on speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  may increase stimulus measures to bolster the
 U.S. economy  after more Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week.  Futures for June delivery rose 1.1 percent to settle at
$1,660.50 an ounce on the Comex in New York, the biggest gain
for a most-active contract since April 12.  Turkey Advances  In Turkey, the benchmark  National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 1.2
percent. Fenerbahce climbed as much as 13 percent after Vatan
newspaper reported that an ethics commission found no evidence
that jailed Fenerbahce soccer club president  Aziz Yildirim  was
involved in a bribery scandal.  Hungarian  equities  slipped 0.2 percent to their first
decline in three days. Prague’s  PX Index (PX)  dropped 0.5 percent,
its first loss in three days.  South Korea’s  gross domestic product  rose 0.9 percent in
the first quarter from the previous three months, the  Bank of
Korea  said today. The growth is at the fastest pace in a year,
boosted by  government spending  and investments by semiconductor
chipmakers as European nations stepped up efforts to ease a debt
crisis that has crimped Asian exports.  The Kospi Index gained 0.1 percent and Indonesia’s  Jakarta
Composite index  added 0.4 percent after dropping 0.2 percent
yesterday.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of  China  stocks
increased 0.9 percent, while the  Taiex Index (TWSE)  lost 0.6 percent
after Taiwan’s Cabinet approved a plan to tax  capital gains  on
securities trading from next year.  The Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
was little changed with 344 companies advancing and 536 falling.  China Railway  CSR Corp., a Chinese train maker, surged 7.1 percent in
 Hong Kong  for its highest close since July after Citigroup Inc.
recommended buying the shares. Citigroup raised the stock to buy
from sell and upgraded the Chinese railway industry to neutral
from negative. Rail builder  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  climbed 4
percent.  China may finally reform its rail industry, which is
controlled by the Ministry of Railways, Citigroup said in a
report dated yesterday. Reforms may allow large regional
operators to be responsible for their own profitability, it
said.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose one basis points, or 0.01
percentage point, to 353, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 