-- Emerging Local Funds Trail Dollar Debt First Time Since 2007
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-04-26T04:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/emerging-local-funds-trail-dollar-debt-first-time-since-2007-1-.html
For the first time since at least
2007 investors are favoring emerging-market dollar bonds over
 local debt  from the same nations as economic slowdowns weigh on
the real, Indian rupee and Mexican peso.  Funds investing in developing nations’ domestic securities
took in a net $2.9 billion this year through April 18, less than
half the $7.3 billion placed in their dollar bonds, according to
data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm
EPFR Global. Over the last five years, inflows to the domestic
funds were $6 billion higher on average and the local securities
delivered an average annual return of 9.8 percent in dollar
terms, 1 percentage point more than  the global bonds .  The shift is a warning sign to Amundi Group and Gramercy
that investors are turning bearish on  emerging markets , where
currencies in Colombia and Hungary gained more than 10 percent
against the dollar this year. Weaker demand for local debt may
raise financing costs from Turkey to  Indonesia  just when  China ’s
economy, the world’s second-largest, grows at the slowest pace
since 2009 and  Europe ’s debt crisis shows signs of worsening.  “There’ll be more pressure on local markets and currencies
in the near term,” said Jeff Grills, who helps oversee more
than $2.9 billion of assets at Greenwich, Connecticut-based fund
Gramercy. “The risk from external shocks is still very high
given what’s happening in Europe and China. We are still
cautious on local markets.”  Weaker Currencies  Local-currency bonds in emerging markets climbed 0.4
percent this month through yesterday in dollar terms, after an
8.3 percent gain in the first quarter that marked their best
start to a year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s GBI-EM
Global Diversified Index.  India ’s rupee, Brazil’s real and
 Mexico ’s peso lost at least 2.8 percent in April. Developing
nations’ dollar-denominated bonds gained 1.1 percent since March,
after advancing 4.9 percent in the last three months.  Economic growth  in China, the world’s biggest buyer of
Brazilian  iron ore  and Chilean copper, slowed to 8.1 percent in
the first quarter as Europe’s debt crisis hurt exports and
lending curbs cooled the housing market. Expansion averaged 10
percent in the last five years, official figures show.  Europe’s debt crisis is escalating after a three-month
respite as Spanish 10-year bond yields rose above 6 percent this
month, approaching the 7 percent level that led to bailouts for
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . In the U.S., economic indicators
are falling short of economists’ expectations for the first time
since October, according to a  Citigroup Inc. index .  ‘Quite Shaky’  “We are in a market that is quite shaky,” said Phillip Blackwood, who oversees $2.9 billion in emerging-market debt as
a managing partner at EM Quest Capital LLP in  London . “On the
currency side, we are not at levels that we would say are cheap
yet. There’s further to go.”  In the options market, traders are expecting swings in
emerging-market currencies to pick up. The three-month implied
volatility on options for the real, which reflects investors’
expectations for future price swings, was 5.3 percentage points
higher than realized volatility, which tracks historical
fluctuations, on April 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest gap since September. A measure of
rupee volatility reached the highest level since October.  “Investors are not comfortable with the  currency risk ,”
said Thomas Delabre, who helps oversee about $1 billion in
emerging-market debt at Amundi in London. “The market is very
cautious and investors want to protect the downside.”  Still Attractive  Local-currency bonds are still attractive because the
global slowdown will prompt  Brazil  and Mexico to cut  interest
rates , while deterring  Poland  from raising borrowing costs,
according to Jaime Valdivia, the head of global emerging-market
research at Bluecrest Capital Management in New York.  Brazil’s central bank signaled last week it may cut its
benchmark interest-rate to a record low after reducing it 3.5
percentage points since August to 9 percent. Mexico’s policy
makers may “adjust downward” borrowing costs for the first
time since July 2009 should inflation stabilize, according to
the minutes published March 30.  “Conditions in Europe will help central banks take a less
aggressive stance in terms of policy adjustments,” Valdivia
said. “Those central banks that want to raise rates will think
twice.”  Growth Advantage  The slowdown in inflows into developing nations’ local-
currency bonds is unlikely to last, according to Kjetil Birkeland, a senior analyst in  Boston  at Standish Mellon Asset
Management, which oversees $12 billion of emerging-market debt.  “There is room for emerging-market currency appreciation
as economic fundamentals continue to support the asset class,
including positive growth differentials versus advanced
countries,” he wrote in an emailed response to questions. “In
an environment where developed market global rates remain
depressed and debt dynamics are worrisome, we expect to see a
structural demand for higher-yielding local-currency debt.”  The average yield on  local-currency bonds  declined 24 basis
points, or 0.24 percentage point, this year to 6.33 percent on
April 24, while that for dollar-denominated  securities  fell 57
basis points to 5.51 percent, JPMorgan indexes show. The 82-
basis-point yield difference compares with an average gap of 61
over the past year.  Rising Yields  Investors pulled $3.9 billion from local-currency bond
funds in the final four months of last year amid concern that
Greece would default on its debt. The withdrawals helped push up
borrowing costs in  Turkey  and  South Africa , which rely on
investment inflows to offset current-account deficits. Ten-year
bond yields for Turkey rose 97 basis points to 9.91 percent
during the period, while those for South Africa increased 11
basis points to 7.95 percent.  “It might become difficult for countries like Turkey” as
investors withdraw money from local debt funds, said  Kieran Curtis , who prefers dollar bonds in the emerging-market funds he
helps oversee at Aviva Investors Ltd. in London.  Emerging-market local bond funds attracted $32 billion in
the 11 quarters through September, according to EPFR, as
currencies such as the real,  Chile ’s peso and Indonesia’s rupiah
rallied at least 23 percent.  Since mid-October, net inflows have declined 75 percent to
$1.4 billion from the previous six-month period. Local debt lost
9.4 percent in dollar terms in the final four months of last
year, compared with a gain of 0.7 percent for dollar-denominated
securities, according to JPMorgan indexes.  “The performance in the last few months has caused people
to temper their enthusiasm for local markets,” said Gramercy’s
Grills. Interest in the local bonds will pick up, “but we are
not there yet,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  