-- ‘Crucify’ Comment Prompts Probe, EPA Chief's Criticism
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-27T21:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/epa-aide-apologizes-for-crucify-comment-amid-republican-outcry.html
The head of the Environmental
Protection Agency said an EPA official was wrong to compare the
regulator to Roman conquerers, a comment that triggered a probe
from Republican lawmakers after a two-year-old video recording
surfaced this week.  Al Armendariz, the Dallas-based head of EPA’s Region 6,
yesterday apologized for what he said was a “poor choice of
words” in saying the agency tried to make an example of
polluters, the same way Romans crucified residents to quell
rebellions. EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  said she has spoken
to Armendariz, and that his comments “don’t comport with our
record.”  The  videotaped  remarks from a 2010 meeting in Dish, Texas,
led Senator  James Inhofe , an  Oklahoma  Republican, to say the
comment showed President  Barack Obama  intended to shut down U.S.
energy exploration. The Republican members of the House Energy
and Commerce Committee today wrote Armendariz to seek memos, e-
mails, notes and other information about his enforcement
policies, and said they would have a hearing soon at which they
want him to testify.  ‘Significant Concerns’  “You described an enforcement philosophy that raises
significant concerns about environmental enforcement both in
your region and across the agency, including with respect to
energy production,” said the letter, which was signed by
chairman  Fred Upton  of  Michigan  and other Republicans on the
committee.  Tension between Obama and U.S. energy producers has grown
in the past year, as he delayed an oil pipeline from  Canada  to
the U.S. Gulf Coast and pushed to end tax breaks for the
industry. The  American Petroleum Institute  has paid for
commercials to oppose Obama’s tax proposals.  Armendariz’s comments don’t reflect Obama’s “policy or the
approach that the EPA has taken,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday at a briefing. “They are entirely
inaccurate as a characterization of the work that EPA does.”  Jackson, speaking to reporters today after a speech in
Washington, said she will continue to review the comments and
hold additional conversations with Armendariz. She was
responding to a question about whether Armendariz faces
disciplinary action.  Inhofe Criticism  Inhofe criticized Armendariz’s comment on the Senate floor
this week then posted the video on his website. The
administrator, whose region includes  Texas  and Oklahoma, is
shown answering a question about enforcing environmental laws,
and talks about his “philosophy of enforcement.”  “It was kind of like how the Romans used to conquer little
villages in the Mediterranean,” Armendariz said on the video.
“They’d go into a little Turkish town somewhere, they’d find
the first five guys they saw and they would crucify them. And
then you know that town was really easy to manage for the next
few years.”  Armendariz  said he tried to use the same approach to get
companies to obey environmental laws: “You make examples out of
people who are not complying with the law,” he said.  In his statement yesterday, Armendariz said his comment was
an “offensive and inaccurate way to portray our efforts to
address potential violations of our nation’s environmental
laws.”  Inhofe, a frequent critic of the EPA and environmental
regulations he says damage the economy, said Armendariz’s
comments typify a “rogue agency” intent on increasing the
price of electricity and gasoline.  “This is not just an attack on a few American energy
companies -- this is an all-out war on affordable energy, an
effort to stop domestic development of coal, oil and natural
gas,” Inhofe said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  