-- Eric Schmidt, David Bradley, Dog Uggie Help Roast Obama
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n   a n d   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/eric-schmidt-david-bradley-dog-uggie-help-roast-obama.html
“Fifty-one weeks a year,
Washington is all about contention,” said David Bradley,
chairman of Atlantic Media Co., owner of National Journal and
the Atlantic. “But, for a blink of an eye each April, we seem
to get along.”  That’s one effect of  the White House Correspondents’
Association  Dinner and the parties around it. And with most of
the festivities funded by media companies, an event that puts
the president on the journalists’ turf also turns into a
branding and relationship-building exercise.  Bradley is having a dinner at his home Friday where invited
guests include  Siemens Corp. (SIE)  Chief Executive Eric Spiegel and
Tanzanian Ambassador Mwanaidi Sinare.  Google (GOOG)  Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and the Hollywood
Reporter, in which Guggenheim Partners has a stake, will co-host
a fete on Friday at the  W Hotel , while New Yorker editor David Remnick greets a literary crowd on the hotel’s rooftop.  People magazine will host a Friday night party where
actress Goldie Hawn and fashion designer Tory Burch are likely
to make appearances.  Reese Witherspoon , Daniel Day-Lewis and Uggie, the dog in
the film “The Artist,” are expected to mingle with David Axelrod, President Barack Obama’s chief adviser, CIA Director
David Petraeus, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, Attorney General
Eric Holder and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano.  Main Event  The main event is the Correspondents’ Association Dinner,
April 28, drawing 2,700 guests to the  Washington  Hilton’s
ballroom. Late-night talk-show host Jimmy Kimmel will roast the
president, whose own speech, by tradition, pokes fun at the
people in the room.  ABC’s Jake Tapper and Politico’s Glenn Thrush, Carrie
Budoff Brown, Manu Raju and John Bresnahan will receive the
Merriman Smith award for excellence in presidential coverage
under deadline. Tables at the dinner are $2,500 a piece, with
proceeds supporting scholarships for aspiring journalists.  Earlier that day, Mark Ein, the founder and CEO of
Venturehouse Group, will open his Georgetown mansion, the former
home of Washington doyenne Katharine Graham, for brunch. Co-
hosts include media maven Tammy Haddad and Kevin Sheekey,
chairman of BGOV, a division of Bloomberg LP.  On Friday night, actress Rosario Dawson will have a party
celebrating diversity in media atop the Hay Adams hotel.  Later in the evening the Impact Arts + Film Fund will host
its First Amendment Party with  Funny or Die , the maker of
satirical videos, at a pop-up venue with food by chef Jose
Andres -- just named one of Time magazine’s 100 most influential
people of 2012.  Vanity Fair  On Sunday,  John McLaughlin  will hold his annual brunch,
also at the  Hay Adams .  Stretching into the small hours will be the Bloomberg-
 Vanity Fair  post-dinner reception Saturday at the residence of
French Ambassador Francois Delattre, who said he “gave up” at
two in the morning last year and went to bed.  Capitol File magazine will be at the Newseum with Claire Danes, star of the Showtime drama “Homeland” where the theme
will be “mid-century modern” with vintage martinis, according
to Capitol File’s editor in chief and president, Sarah Schaffer.  Lyndon Boozer, an assistant vice president at  AT&T
Inc. (T) , said he’ll be dining with friends at 701 Restaurant and
watching the dinner on C-SPAN before heading to the Capitol File
bash.  He said the dinner is “a press, politician and celebrity
affair,” he explained. “Some lobbyists fall into that
category, but I’m not one of them.”  ( Stephanie Green  and Amanda Gordon are writers and
photographers for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are their own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway
and  Jason Harper  on autos.  To contact the reporters on this story: Stephanie Green in
Washington at   sgreen57@bloomberg.net  and Amanda
Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  