-- Merkel Steps Up Defense of Budget Agenda, Targets Excessive Debt
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-04-26T16:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/merkel-steps-up-defense-of-budget-agenda-targets-excessive-debt.html
Chancellor Angel Merkel stepped up
her budget-cutting message in the face of rising criticism of
 Germany ’s focus on austerity, saying that excessive debt robs
states of their ability to make independent decisions.  Referring to euro-area countries shouldered with too much
debt, Merkel told supporters in the northern German state of
Schleswig-Holstein that certain nations had themselves brought
on austerity by spending more than they raised in revenue.  Too much debt “harms countries’ ability to make their own
decisions, so that they’re more and more dependent on the
markets, and have to step up savings and make harsher cuts,”
Merkel told a campaign rally today in Flensburg on the Danish
border. Schleswig-Holstein holds an election on May 6.  Merkel stressed her defense of consolidating budgets as the
best way to resolve the two-year-old debt crisis even as the
focus in  Europe  shifts away from austerity to promoting economic
growth.  Francois Hollande , the French Socialist presidential
election front-runner, is leading a chorus of politicians and
economists to take issue with Germany’s debt focus.  Merkel meanwhile backed a call made yesterday by European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  for a “growth compact” to
follow the fiscal pact.  “Many people are saying that if we save, then we’re going
to have a lot of difficulties,” Merkel said at the rally. “If
you save at the right time, if you save logically, if you
undertake structural reforms,” disciplined budgets “will lead
you to economic strength, growth, good conditions for
businesses, less bureaucracy and more jobs.”  Merkel came to back her Christian Democratic Union party’s
candidate to lead the state, Jost de Jager, as polls suggest
that her CDU may lose power in Schleswig-Holstein.  The chancellor compared a government’s fiscal policy with
spending in a family household.  “That’s actually something that all of you do at home,”
Merkel told voters in a central square in Flensburg. “Every one
of you knows that you have to live off of what you earn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Flensburg, Germany via 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  