-- Merkel Must Pitch In to Make Europe’s Growth Pact Work
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/merkel-must-pitch-in-to-make-europe-s-growth-pact-work.html
Stung by a backlash against
austerity policies, Europe’s leaders are planning to draw up a
new agreement aimed at boosting economic growth in the euro
area.  If they want the pact to have any effect, all the region’s
politicians -- and particularly German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
-- will have to step out of their comfort zones.  Vague battle lines have already been drawn. Merkel and
European Central Bank head  Mario Draghi  want to encode the kinds
of labor-market, pension-system and other so-called structural
reforms that’ll make the likes of  France ,  Greece  and Spain more
competitive. French presidential front-runner  Francois Hollande 
wants infrastructure projects, funded by special-purpose
European bonds, to boost jobs and demand.  Whatever other ideas might arise before the agreement is
drawn up, possibly as soon as mid-June, it must include at least
three elements if it is to really help reverse Europe’s
recessionary trend.  First, Europe’s leaders must recognize that common deficit
rules alone will not guarantee the currency union’s survival.
When countries such as Italy and  Spain  fall into a spiral of
shrinking output and rising budget deficits, countries with
stronger economies must be willing to help, either by
transferring funds or by stimulating their own demand.  German Spending  Currently, that would mean more German spending. If
Europe’s largest economy were to increase its aggregate demand
by a percentage point, it would boost output in the rest of the
euro area by roughly half a percentage point, as Germans bought
more imports and spent more euros sunning themselves on Greek
and Portuguese beaches. The Bundesbank would also need to live
with a little more German  inflation  than the current 2.1
percent. Higher prices in Germany would help make other euro-
area economies and their exports more competitive, reducing both
their current account deficits and  Germany ’s surplus.  Second, the agreement should give Spain and Greece in
particular more time to bring down debts piled up over the past
30 years. Requiring them to slash education, research and
development, and other budgets will only stunt their future
growth potential. To calm markets concerned about Spain’s
 deficits , the rest of Europe -- Germany again -- and the
 International Monetary Fund  would have to provide more bailout
funds.  Finally, the pact should acknowledge one of the most
immediate requirements for a return to economic expansion:
Recapitalization of private sector banks so that they can start
providing businesses with more credit. Without that, Europe is
doomed to anemic growth and a persistent confidence crisis, no
matter what documents its politicians may sign.  Structural reforms, of course, are essential for stricken
parts of  Europe  to return to sustained growth. Unemployment in
the euro area is now 11 percent, with huge variations from
Andalusia in Spain (31 percent) to Bavaria in Germany (just over
3 percent). Given Europe’s aging population, future growth is
going to have to come from raising both employment levels and
productivity, which means more labor market flexibility.  A new commitment to structural reform -- assuming it
applied to everyone, including the Germans and Dutch -- could
help take some of the sting out of measures that Greeks and
Spaniards feel are being forced upon them by Merkel and
unelected Eurocrats.  Such reforms, though, take a lot of time to produce growth,
and it’s hard to imagine an agreement that could successfully
monitor and enforce them. Back in 2000, for example, European
leaders signed up to the so-called Lisbon Agenda, committing to
labor-market and other changes that would make Europe “the most
competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.”
Governments ignored the promises, and there’s no reason to
believe writing them down again will make them happen now.  More immediate measures are needed to pull Europe out of
its combined debt, banking and economic crisis.  Over to you, Frau Merkel.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  easing student debt ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  toll roads and income inequality ; Stephen L.
Carter on  toll roads and budget deficits ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 community-college shortcomings ;  Jonathan Weil  on  ratings firms ;
Elizabeth Samet on  ambition in the military .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 