-- Erste First-Quarter Profit May Drop on Higher Bad-Debt Charges
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   T h o m a s   M a t h e w s
-- 2012-04-26T09:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/erste-first-quarter-profit-may-drop-on-higher-bad-debt-charges.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s second-biggest lender, will probably report first-
quarter profit fell by 6 percent compared with a year earlier as
provisions for bad loans rose by more than a fifth.  Erste probably swung to net income of 302 million euros
($401 million) in the three months ended March 31, down from 321
million euros a year earlier, according to the average estimate
of 13  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank is  due to report 
results April 30 at 7:30 a.m.  Net interest income, Vienna-based Erste’s biggest revenue
source, may have risen by 4 percent from a year earlier to 1.36
billion euros, the average estimate showed. Provisions for bad
loans probably climbed to 562 million euros from 460 million
euros.  Erste has said it expects to have a profit in 2012 after
writedowns and loan-loss charges at its Hungarian and Romanian
units and losses on credit-default swaps contributed to a 718.9
million-euro loss last year. It has narrowed a capital shortfall
determined by the European Banking Authority to 166 million
euros and has pledged to exceed EBA’s requirements by the June
30 deadline.  The following is a table of analysts’ estimates and results
from the previous and year-earlier quarters. The figures are in
millions of euros.  The following banks participated in the survey:  Barclays
Capital , Berenberg Bank, Citigroup, Concorde Securities, ING,
J&T Banka, JPMorgan, Keefe Bruyette & Woods, Kepler  Capital
Markets , Mediobanca, Nomura, Raiffeisen Centrobank, UBS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Mathews in London at 
 tmathews5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  