-- MetLife Operating Profit Rises 11% on Asia Revenue Growth
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-26T21:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/metlife-operating-profit-rises-11-on-asia-revenue-growth.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said operating earnings climbed 11 percent in the first
quarter as revenue rose in Asia and the Americas.  Operating  profit , which excludes some investment results,
increased to $1.46 billion, or $1.37 per share, from $1.32
billion, or $1.23, a year earlier, the New York-based company
said today in a statement, matching preliminary results it
reported last week.  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  reorganized
leadership by giving top managers responsibility for  geographic
regions  as the company pursues expansion outside the U.S.
following its 2010 purchase of American Life Insurance Co.
Kandarian is selling banking and mortgage-related operations to
focus on insurance and retirement products.  “MetLife is our top pick in the life insurance sector
based on its diversified, international platform that was
enhanced by the Alico acquisition,” analysts led by  Jay Gelb  at
Barclays Plc wrote in an April 20 research note. “Operating
results exceeded expectations.”  The insurer released preliminary results on April 20 after
inadvertently disclosing some 2012 figures on its website. The
company made the data available last week as it posted
information to help investors understand changes in how it
presents results, it said in a statement.  ‘Fix or Exit’  MetLife has  gained  3.1 percent to $36.47 since the close
April 19, and is up 17 percent this year. The KBW Insurance
Index has gained 11 percent since Dec. 31.  Operating earnings grew 13 percent to $1.2 billion in the
Americas and 33 percent to $297 million in  Asia .  The insurer is working to exit banking to reduce oversight
from U.S. regulators who have prevented it from buying back
stock or raising its  dividend . MetLife agreed today to sell its
reverse-mortgage portfolio to Nationstar Mortgage LLC for an
undisclosed amount, after announcing in January it would stop
originating home loans.  MetLife has also retreated from businesses in  Taiwan  and
the U.K that weren’t meeting the company’s return thresholds,
Kandarian has said.  “We are committed to achieving returns in excess of our
long-term cost of capital,” Kandarian wrote in a March 16
 letter  to shareholders. “We will not achieve this goal
overnight. But over time, we will fix or exit businesses that
cannot consistently clear their hurdle rates.”  Loss on Derivatives  MetLife reported a first-quarter  net loss  of $144 million,
compared with net income of $877 million a year earlier, after
recording a derivative loss of almost $2 billion. The company
said last week the preliminary net loss was $64 million, with
$30 million of investment loses. That investment loss widened to
$110 million in today’s statement.  MetLife uses derivatives to guard against market risks,
such as interest-rate declines and currency fluctuations. The
derivative loss also reflects the insurer’s lower credit spreads
during the quarter. Book value rose 1.8 percent to $53.37 per
share from $52.43 at Dec. 31.  The insurer took a $52 million charge in the quarter as
part of a multistate settlement that came after regulators
reviewed whether companies were holding funds that should go to
beneficiaries. MetLife will pay out $188 million in 2012, the
firm said on April 23. The rest of an approximately $500 million
deal will be paid over the next 17 years.  MetLife board member Eduardo Castro-Wright resigned on
April 24 after the New York Times reported that the  Wal-Mart
Stores inc. (WMT)  unit he ran in  Mexico  paid bribes to government
officials. Castro-Wright was a member of MetLife’s Governance
and Corporate Responsibility Committee, which “oversees the
management and mitigation of risks related to failure to comply
with required or appropriate corporate governance standards,”
the insurer said last month.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  