-- MetLife Exits Reverse Mortgages in Retreat From Banking
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-04-26T20:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/metlife-exits-reverse-mortgages-as-ceo-retreats-from-banking.html
  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S.
life insurer, agreed to sell its reverse-mortgage portfolio to
Nationstar Mortgage LLC as Chief Executive Officer Steven Kandarian retreats from banking to limit U.S. regulation.  MetLife will cut about 500 jobs as part of the move, said
John Calagna, a spokesman for the insurer. The company will no
longer accept applications for reverse mortgages, New York-based
MetLife said today in a statement that didn’t disclose terms.  Kandarian has agreed to sell about $7.5 billion of deposits
to  General Electric Co. (GE)  and said in January he would stop
originating traditional home loans after the  Federal Reserve 
rejected MetLife’s plan for a dividend increase. Banking
operations generated less than 2 percent of 2011 operating
earnings and subjected the company to Fed oversight.  “Given MetLife’s strategic focus as a global insurance and
employee benefits leader, the company decided in 2011 that a
 bank holding company  structure was no longer appropriate,”
according to today’s statement.  Bank of America Corp.,  Wells Fargo & Co. and MetLife, once
among the top issuers of reverse mortgages, have been retreating
from the market after the housing slide eroded the  home equity 
that seniors draw on to qualify for the loans.  Reverse mortgages are loans that convert a homeowner’s
equity into a lump sum or line of credit and are generally
available for those 62 or older. The balances, including
interest and any fees, generally must be repaid at death by the
borrower’s heirs or through the sale of the home.  Capital Plan  MetLife said in March that another capital plan, which
included share buybacks, was rejected by the Fed after the
regulator found the company would fall short of a U.S. capital
standard in a severe economic downturn. The insurer will
probably stop being a bank holding company by the end of June,
MetLife said in March.  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) , a lender and servicer,
was taken public in March by  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG) 
Lewisville, Texas-based Nationstar expanded last year by
purchasing servicing rights from Bank of America and sub-
contracted with other institutions to handle their most
troubled loans.  Nationstar rose 1.9 percent to $15 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York. MetLife advanced 1.4 percent to $36.47.  The insurer was advised by K&L Gates LLP and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , according to the statement. MetLife said in January that
most of the 4,300 employees at the main mortgage-origination
business would lose their jobs with the unit’s closing.  A spokesman for Nationstar didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  