-- EU Bank Capital, Banks as ‘Utilities,’ Intel: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-26T12:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/eu-wide-bank-capital-banks-as-utilities-intel-compliance.html
Diplomats from the European Union’s
27 member countries failed to reach a deal yesterday in Brussels
on how much leeway national regulators should have to force
their banks to hold more capital than the region’s law requires,
said an EU official familiar with the matter.  That leaves it up to EU finance ministers to overcome
entrenched divisions on how to apply bank capital rules across
the region at their planned May 2 meeting.  Nations have clashed over proposals by Michel Barnier, the
region’s financial services chief, to fix banks’ core  capital
requirements  at 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, with
limited exceptions for national regulators to set higher
thresholds. The figure was proposed by Barnier in 2011 as part
of a draft law to apply rules agreed upon by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision.  The U.K., Spain and Sweden are among a group of countries
warning the plans would unacceptably restrain national powers.
Other governments, including  France , Italy and Austria, have
backed Barnier’s approach.  Denmark , which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, has sought to broker a compromise on the
rules, which must be agreed upon both by governments and
lawmakers in the European Parliament before they can take
effect.  At yesterday’s meeting, the U.K. and France clashed over
Danish proposals to allow nations to impose extra capital
requirements on their banks of as much as 5 percent of risk-
weighted assets, said the official, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  Denmark has called a meeting of finance ministers on May 2
to seek a deal among governments on the law.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Bonuses Under Threat in EU Vision of Banks as Utilities  Bankers (SX7P)  face a backlash from European Union lawmakers
determined to cut their bonuses as part of a quest to reshape
lenders as utilities like water and electricity providers rather
than money-making machines.  The European Parliament is proposing an array of amendments
to a draft law implementing capital rules by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision to attack the bonus culture legislators
partly blame for bringing the region’s economy to the brink of
collapse. A vote is set for May 8.  Public outrage and shareholder rebellions have already led
some banks to limit payouts.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer Robert Diamond said last week that he will forgo about
11 percent of his total compensation until the bank improves
profitability in a bid to placate investors opposed to his pay
package. His move follows a decision by  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
shareholders to reject that bank’s executive pay plan.  Lenders have struggled to find winning counter arguments to
the EU parliament’s plans, with lawmakers insisting that the
tougher requirements are a cornerstone of their position on the
draft Basel law.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial-services commissioner,
who is responsible for draft legislation, has promised to
consider proposing extra rules on bonuses.  The City of London Corporation, which represents the
capital’s biggest financial district, said this month that
 Europe  can’t afford to “drive away” the best and brightest
minds by giving the impression it doesn’t welcome high earners.  For more, click here.  Finra Increases Fees on Brokerages to Offset Loss at Agency  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is proposing to
raise fees on the brokerages it oversees to offset a
“significant loss” of revenue during fiscal 2011.  The changes would include a 25 percent increase in trading
fees, higher levies for Finra’s advertising compliance reviews,
and new fees for first-time members and membership applications.
The new assessments were described in a  letter  posted on the
regulator’s website from  Richard Ketchum , Finra’s chairman and
chief executive.  Lower trading volumes and revenues for the industry
resulted in less money being collected by the regulator, Ketchum
said in the letter, which didn’t say by how much Finra’s income
fell.  CFTC Said to Debate Small-Bank Clearing Exemption in Dodd-Frank  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  is poised to
consider a rule that could require smaller banks to clear swaps
and comply with higher collateral standards under the Dodd-Frank
Act, according to two people briefed on the measure.  The so-called end-user rule, which may come up for a final
vote next month, will determine when companies must use
clearinghouses to reduce risk in trades. Dodd-Frank, the 2010
regulatory overhaul, requires the CFTC to consider a small-bank
exemption that isn’t currently in the measure, according to the
people, who requested anonymity because the process isn’t
public. The agency is debating whether to include an exemption,
according to a third person.  Banks with as much as $50 billion in assets are urging the
CFTC to exempt them from the clearing requirement, arguing that
their trades don’t pose the financial-system risk the law is
meant to rein in. Lenders including Los Angeles-based  City
National Bank , San Antonio-based Frost National Bank and
 Susquehanna Bank  of Lititz, Pennsylvania, have told regulators
they should be considered end-users of swaps.  Dodd-Frank calls for most derivatives trades to be moved
into clearinghouses, though Congress asked regulators for some
exemptions, notably for end users. The law authorizes the CFTC
to consider exempting banks with assets of $10 billion or less.  For more, click here.  Market-Abuse Penalties Too Disparate Across EU, Regulator Says  European financial regulators should do more to harmonize
penalties for insider-traders and market manipulators, the
region’s top markets regulator said.  Fines for insider-trading have ranged from 64 euros ($84)
to 6 million euros across the European Union’s 27 member states,
according to a report by the Paris-based  European Securities and
Markets Authority . Meanwhile, the number of staff at national
supervisors dedicated to market enforcement ranged from two to
127, ESMA said in the study.  The European Commission is currently reviewing the region’s
Market Abuse Directive as part of an overhaul of financial
regulation following the 2008 financial crisis and national
supervisors are cracking down on abuse.  EU Parliament May Seek to Scrap Credit-Ratings Rotation Plan  European Union lawmakers may scrap plans by Michel Barnier,
the region’s financial services chief, to force companies to
rotate the credit ratings company they hire to assess their
debt.  The proposals are “excessively complex and very
difficult,” Leonardo Domenici, the legislator guiding adoption
of the rules in the European Parliament, told a debate in the
assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee in Brussels
today. It may be necessary to “work on an alternative system,”
he said.  One option may be to require businesses to carry out a
tender procedure to select a ratings company, he said. Domenici
reiterated calls for a ban on ratings of government debt that
haven’t been requested by national authorities.  Barnier proposed the rotation rule last year as part of
measures to toughen regulation of the industry amid concerns
that some ratings decisions were unjustified and exacerbated the
region’s fiscal crisis.  Compliance Action  Vestjysk Bank, Aarhus Lokalbank Win EU Approval for Rescue Aid  Vestjysk Bank A/S (VJBA)  and Aarhus Lokalbank A/S won temporary
European Union approval for rescue aid from the Danish
government.  The  European Commission  authorized the aid to the banks,
which agreed to merge in January, to address funding challenges
and help them meet new capital requirements. Denmark must submit
a restructuring plan within six months for the EU to grant final
approval for the financial help, regulators said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Vestjysk Bank, based in Lemvig, Denmark, will convert
state-held hybrid capital of about 297 million kroner ($52
million), giving the state a majority holding, it said in
January.  SEC Extends Compliance Date on Large Trader Rule  Broker-dealers’ time to comply with certain requirements of
the large trader reporter rule has been extended by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, BNA reported yesterday.  The SEC April 20 extended to May 1, 2013 the date by which
registered broker-dealers must comply with the recordkeeping,
reporting and monitoring requirements of the large trader
reporting rule the commission adopted last year.  Broker-dealers that are large traders, or have large trader
customers that are either broker-dealers or that trade through
sponsored access arrangements, are exempt from the rule’s
recordkeeping and reporting requirements until Nov. 30, 2012,
the SEC said, according to BNA’s report.  For more, click here.  Courts/Regulatory Hearings  GP Noble Boss Stole $84 Million From Pension Plans, SFO Says  Tony Morris, the co-founder of U.K. finance firm Money
Portal Plc, stole 52 million pounds ($84 million) from pension
plans to fund his lifestyle, the Serious Fraud Office said.  Morris, whose company owned pension fund operator GP Noble
Trustees Ltd., went on trial this week at a London criminal
court over the allegations. He is charged with stealing 30
million pounds from GP Noble and its pension funds between July
and August 2007, and 22 million pounds from GP Noble and BDC
Trustees Ltd. in April 2008.  The money was spent on luxuries including a 150,000-pound
Aston Martin, David Farrer, a lawyer for the SFO said at the
trial yesterday.  Morris has denied the allegations and his lawyer will
present his defense later in the trial.  Intel Fights $1.4 Billion EU Antitrust Fine at July Hearing  Intel Corp., (INTC)  the world’s largest maker of computer chips,
will fight a 1.06 billion-euro ($1.4 billion) antitrust fine by
European Union regulators at a July court hearing.  Intel’s challenge at the EU’s General Court will be heard
over four days from July 3 to July 6, according to a
spokesperson for the Luxembourg-based tribunal who couldn’t be
identified in line with official policy.  The Santa Clara,  California  based company is seeking to
overturn a 2009 decision from the European Commission that said
its use of rebates violated EU antitrust rules. The antitrust
fine was the biggest ever issued by the EU, more than double the
497 million-euro penalty against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in 2004.
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc., (AMD)  which initiated the EU antitrust
case, had struggled to overcome Intel’s hold on the market for
processors that run PCs.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the EU regulator,
declined to comment.  The case is T-286/09 Intel v. Commission.  SEC Reaches $33 Million Settlement in Insider Trading Case  A stock trader, a lawyer and a mortgage broker who all
pleaded guilty to an insider-trading scheme that spanned 17
years agreed to pay $33 million to resolve a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit.  Stock trader Garrett D. Bauer will pay $31.7 million,
mortgage broker Kenneth T. Robinson will pay $845,235 and
attorney Matthew H. Kluger will pay $516,510, according to a
statement by the SEC. The agency sued the men in federal court
in Newark,  New Jersey , where they pleaded guilty last year.  They admitted Kluger stole nonpublic data on about 30
corporate transactions while working at four law firms,
including Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Wilson,
Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati PC. Kluger passed tips to Robinson,
who gave them to Bauer, who made trades. The companies included
Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)   The men consented to final judgments that are subject to a
judge’s approval, according to the statement. Bauer has agreed
to a bar on working as a broker, while Kluger agreed that he
won’t appear before the SEC as an attorney. All three men are
scheduled to be sentenced on June 4 in Newark.  The cases are Securities and Exchange Commission v. Kluger,
Bauer, 11-cv-01936 and SEC v. Robinson, 12-cv-02438, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Barclays Accused Over Libor Fixing in U.K. Rate Swaps Lawsuit  Barclays Plc was accused of undermining the integrity of
the London interbank offered rate in a lawsuit filed by a care
home company which claims it was sold unfair interest rate swaps
linked to the measure.  Companies in the Guardian Care Homes Ltd. group sued
Barclays for repayment of about 12 million pounds ($19.3
million) and for termination of the swaps.  “Barclays knew of its own conduct in relation to the
fixing of Libor rates and therefore knew, or ought to have
known, that the Libor representations were untrue,” Guardian’s
lawyers said in legal papers, citing the regulatory
investigations and press reports.  Barclays considers the  action  “is completely without
merit” and “will contest it vigorously,” Jon Laycock, a
spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Ex-Morgan Stanley Executive Pleads Guilty in Real Estate Scheme  Garth R. Peterson, a former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  executive,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy for his role in the transfer of a
multimillion dollar ownership interest in a Shanghai building to
himself and a Chinese public official.  Peterson, 42, who was a managing director in Morgan
Stanley’s real estate investment business, pleaded guilty
yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn,  New York , to conspiring
to evade accounting controls, the  Justice Department  said in an
e-mailed statement.  “I decided from the beginning that that I would mislead
Morgan Stanley about who would be investing as a Chinese
partner,” Peterson told U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein.
“I know what I did was wrong and I apologize for my actions.”  Peterson is scheduled to be sentenced July 17. He faces as
long as five years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000,
prosecutors said.  Morgan Stanley is required, under the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, to maintain the internal accounting controls
Peterson violated, according to the Justice Department. The
controls ensure accountability for the bank’s assets and prevent
employees from paying or promising anything of value to foreign
government officials, the Justice Department said.  Frank Wohl, Peterson’s lawyer, declined to comment after
the hearing on the guilty plea.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Peterson, 12-cr-00224, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Peterson,
12-cv-02033, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  Interviews/Hearings  Delrahim on SEC Probe of Studios Over China Dealings  Makan Delrahim, a former deputy assistant attorney general
for the antitrust division of the Department of Justice, talks
with Bloomberg’s Jon Erlichman about a possible U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission investigation of movie studios over
their dealings in  China .  The SEC is investigating at least five studios in the U.S.,
Reuters reported April 24, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the matter. Emily Chang also spoke on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bloomberg West.”  For the video, click here.  Isenberg Says ‘Crowdfunding’ Rules May Hurt Investors  Daniel Isenberg, professor of Management Practice at  Babson
Global , talked about the practice of so-called crowdfunding and
how it relates to investor confidence.  Isenberg spoke with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television’s “Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  Schapiro Defends SEC Money-Market Rule to Congressional Critics  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  defended her pursuit of potential rules that would
toughen oversight of money-market funds from criticism on
Capitol Hill.  In an appearance yesterday before the  House Financial
Services   capital markets subcommittee , Schapiro rebutted
lawmakers who said they were concerned that new rules for money
market funds could damage the sector and disrupt the financial
system.  “What motivates this is the desire that the taxpayer never
be on the hook again as they were in 2008,” Schapiro said.
“These are important issues that we as a regulator with
responsibility for the economic system and systemic risk have to
be willing to talk about.”  Once considered the among the safest investments, money-
market funds have been a focus of regulators since the September
2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund
triggered a broader run that froze global financial markets.
Schapiro’s effort to impose rules on the funds is being hobbled
by internal division at the SEC along with opposition from the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce and congressional Republicans.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 