-- Basel Reprieve for EU Banks Weighed If Rivals Skirt Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-26T17:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/eu-weighs-basel-reprieve-for-banks-if-u-s-rivals-escape-rules.html
Banks (SX7P)  in the European Union may win
a partial reprieve from Basel capital and liquidity rules if
lenders in other regions such as the U.S. are allowed to escape
the full force of the measures.  EU lawmakers are weighing safeguards to prevent lenders in
the region from being left at a competitive disadvantage when a
global accord by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is
implemented, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The overhaul of capital and liquidity rules, known as Basel
III, was designed to prevent a rerun of the crisis that cascaded
across financial markets after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008. EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  has already promised to be “vigilant” about the way
the U.S. applies the Basel measures that were approved in 2010.  The European Banking Authority and the European Commission,
the 27-nation region’s executive arm, should be empowered to
“take appropriate measures in order to adjust to the level of
global competition,” according to the document by  Othmar Karas ,
the lawmaker guiding the adoption of the law through the
European Parliament.  The Basel committee said on April 3 that the U.S. and  China 
are among eight nations lagging behind in their implementation
of its rules. The U.S. still hasn’t fully put in place an
earlier round of changes agreed on by the Basel group in 2004.  ‘Regularly Assess’  The London-based EBA should “regularly assess” how well
other nations apply the requirements, Karas proposed in the
document.  The report “strongly indicates that there is a lack of
confidence that all regimes will ultimately commit to
internationally agreed rules if these are seen to conflict with
domestic priorities or individual national characteristics,”
 Richard Reid , research director for the International Centre for
Financial Regulation in  London , said in an e-mail.  The proposals are “yet another sign of how difficult it is
going to be in practice to get a uniform global implementation
of rules on banks’ capital and liquidity,” Reid said.  U.S.  Federal Reserve  Governor  Daniel Tarullo  has called for
the Basel III rules to be “implemented rigorously.” The
Federal Reserve declined to comment today on Karas’ proposals.  While the EU has raised concerns about U.S. implementation
on Basel rules, American banks and regulators have also pointed
to potential concerns over the way they are applied in  Europe .  Some U.S. bankers, including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., have questioned the way
European banks measure the risk of losses on their assets, and
so how much capital they need to hold.  Suggested Compromises  The draft EU law implementing Basel III must be approved by
national governments and lawmakers in the Parliament before it
can take effect.  Karas declined to immediately comment on the content of the
report, which sets out suggested compromises on the draft law
between parliament’s political groups. Karas, an Austrian
Christian Democrat lawmaker, said yesterday that he was hoping
to secure an agreement by the end of this week.  Denmark , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, has
organized a May 2 meeting of finance ministers to thrash out
their negotiation position on the measures. Parliament’s
economic and monetary affairs committee is scheduled to vote on
May 8.  Separately, the parliament document contains a call for the
EBA and the  European Central Bank  to recommend which assets
lenders should count toward meeting a minimum liquidity rule
drawn up by the Basel committee.  Liquidity Rule  The so-called liquidity coverage ratio or LCR, would
require lenders to hold sufficient easy-to-sell assets to
survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  The EBA, ECB and market regulators should consider whether
“gold or other highly liquid commodities including oil,”
should be allowed to count toward banks’ liquidity buffers,
according to the document. Equities as well as covered bonds and
other securities backed by retail mortgages, should also be
assessed.  The  report  on possible EU compromises, dated April 24,
also calls on lenders to disclose profits they have made from
the European Central Bank’s decision to pump more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of three-year loans into the
banking system since December.  Banks whose collapse could roil markets to prepare
“living wills” indicating how they could be safely wound down
if they fail, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  