-- Europe Needs Joint Bonds, Fiscal Integration, FSA’s Turner Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-04-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/europe-needs-joint-bonds-fiscal-integration-fsa-s-turner-says.html
Euro-area countries need to pool
their resources and issue joint bonds for the single European
currency to work, said  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.’s
 Financial Services Authority .  The national debt of euro-region countries “cannot be
considered risk-free,” Turner said, according to the text of a
speech to be delivered in Dublin today. “Fixing this problem is
almost certain to require the creation within the euro zone of a
true risk-free asset such as euro bonds, playing the same role
within the euro zone banking system that T Bonds play in the
U.S. and gilts within the U.K.”  Without integrating euro-area treasuries, it would be
impossible to “permanently cut the toxic link between euro-zone
bank and sovereign credit risks,” Turner said. The text of the
speech was distributed by the FSA.  Common bonds as a way to stem  Europe ’s debt crisis and
preserve the 17-nation monetary union have support from southern
nations including Greece and  Italy . German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposes the idea, saying the bonds would paper over
differences in competitiveness in the euro area and ease
pressure for budget cuts in the most-indebted nations.  Turner said the move toward greater fiscal integration and
common bonds will require “political choices” and “therefore
it is likely to be slow.”  In the meantime, Europe’s two main rescue funds -- the
temporary European Financial Stability Facility and the
permanent European Stability Mechanism -- should be allowed to
inject funds into the region’s banks directly, rather than via
national governments, Turner said.  Turner also called for a change to proposed European Union
banking legislation to allow national regulators full powers to
set capital levels for their own banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  