-- Euro-Area Economic Confidence Drops More Than Forecast
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-04-26T10:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/euro-area-april-economic-confidence-drops-more-than-forecast-1-.html
Economic confidence  in the euro
region declined more than economists had forecast in April, as
the region’s slump showed signs of deepening.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 92.8 from a revised 94.5 in March, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had
forecast a drop to 94.2 from a previously reported 94.4, the
median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Europe’s economy is faltering as spending cuts across the
region undermine hiring and  consumer confidence . Deutsche Bank
AG, Germany’s largest bank, today reported a 33 percent drop in
first-quarter profit, with Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  calling investors’ “risk appetite markedly lower.”  “With more austerity in the pipeline and the debt crisis
still unresolved, any significant pickup in economic confidence
in the remainder of this year might fail to occur,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. “This could
jeopardize a return to modest positive growth later this year.”  The euro pared gains after the report was released, trading
at $1.3226 at 11:40 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.1 percent.  The euro-area economy probably continued to shrink in the
first quarter after contracting 0.3 percent in the previous
three months. The region’s  manufacturing industry  contracted for
a ninth straight month in April and unemployment rose to 10.8
percent in February.  Monti’s Austerity Plan  In  Italy , business confidence dropped to the lowest since
October 2009, Rome-based national statistics institute Istat
said today. Prime Minister Mario Monti’s Cabinet, which is
implementing a 20 billion-euro austerity plan to reduce the
country’s budget deficit, said earlier this month the economy
may shrink 1.2 percent in 2012.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers dropped
to minus 9 from minus 7.1 in March, today’s report showed. An
indicator of services confidence slipped to minus 2.4 from minus
0.3, while a gauge of consumer sentiment slumped to minus 19.9
from minus 19.1. Sentiment in the  construction industry  also
declined this month.  It “is a thoroughly depressing survey all around,” said
 Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
London. “Indeed, April’s marked drop in euro-zone consumer and
business confidence means that the gains in sentiment made in
the first two months of the year have been wiped out.”  U.S. Forecasts  Reports of faltering economies across  Europe  contrast with
signs of recovery in other parts of the world. South Korea’s
economy expanded at the fastest pace in a year in the first
quarter, with gross domestic product rising 0.9 percent, the
 Bank of Korea  said today. In the U.S., fewer Americans probably
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, a
Bloomberg survey shows.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said yesterday in
Washington that growth will “pick up gradually” in the world’s
largest economy. Officials also upgraded their projections for
economic growth, inflation and the unemployment rate for this
year.  Pernod Ricard (RI)  SA, France’s largest distiller, today
reported third-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates,
partly on demand in emerging markets such as China.  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , the world’s second-biggest carmaker, also beat forecasts
with first-quarter profit figures today.  ‘Epicenter’  The International Monetary Fund raised its global growth
forecast for the first time in more than a year on April 17,
estimating a 3.5 percent expansion this year. Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said two days later that Europe remains the
“epicenter” of potential risks.  While governments from Ireland to Spain have toughened
austerity measures to contain the fiscal crisis, investors
remain unconvinced. Spanish 10-year yields breached 6 percent
last week and the cost of insuring the country’s bonds against
default advanced to a record.  The crisis is also hurting companies. Deutsche Bank said
first-quarter net income dropped to 1.38 billion euros, missing
the average estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
 Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) ,  France ’s largest telecommunications equipment
supplier, today reported a first-quarter operating loss on
declining European demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  