-- European Union Bailout Funds Sell 3.7 Billion Euros in Bonds
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-04-26T16:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/european-union-bailout-funds-sell-3-7-billion-euros-in-bonds-1-.html
The European Union’s bailout funds
sold 3.7 billion euros ($4.9 billion) of bonds as part of
efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The EU’s European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism raised
2.7 billion euros from 10-year notes, while the European
Financial Stability Facility added 1 billion euros to its 3.875
percent bonds due March 2032, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The EFSM, the top-rated bailout fund operated by the
European Commission and backed by the EU’s member states, tapped
the bond markets for the second time this month to help fund the
rescue of  Portugal . The EFSF, the EU’s temporary aid fund,
issued six bonds this month totaling 28 billion euros.  “The investor support for the EFSF and the EFSM in the
last two days has been very positive,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam.  Euro-area finance ministers capped fresh rescue lending at
500 billion euros last month after a German-led coalition
opposed further expansion of the anti-crisis firewall.  The EFSM saw “strong and widespread investor demand with
books almost three times oversubscribed,” Amadeu Altafaj, a
Brussels-based spokesman at the European Commission, the
executive arm of the EU, said in a statement.  Bond Pricing  “EFSF’s first tap of an existing bond comes in reaction to
strong reverse inquiries from key investors,” Christophe
Frankel, the facility’s chief financial officer, said in a
statement. “It also provides a complement at the long end of
the curve.”  The EFSM’s new bonds were priced to yield 56 basis points
more than the swap rate. That compares with a 50 basis-point
spread on its 5 million euros of 2.75 percent notes due Sept.
2022.  The fund issued 10.5 billion euros of bonds this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It plans to raise a further 2
billion euros in September for loans to Portugal and Ireland,
according to the commission’s  website .  The EFSF, rated Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service and one
step lower at AA+ by Standard & Poor’s, offered investors a
yield premium of 105 basis points more than the swap rate for
its new bond tap.  DZ Bank AG,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  managed the EFSM’s new
issue.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
managed the EFSF’s bond tap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  