-- Ex-Amaranth Trader Backed by CFTC in $30 Million FERC Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-26T20:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ex-amaranth-trader-backed-by-cftc-in-30-million-ferc-case-1-.html
A former natural gas trader at
Amaranth Advisors LLC is being backed by the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission in a court challenge to a
$30 million fine imposed by the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission .  The CFTC said in a filing yesterday in the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Washington that FERC lacks authority to punish  Brian Hunter  for allegedly manipulating the gas futures market in
2006.  “This court and others have repeatedly held that the
CFTC’s exclusive jurisdiction precludes other federal agencies
from asserting jurisdiction over futures trading on CFTC-
regulated markets,” the commission said.  Hunter sued FERC in December after the agency ordered him
to pay $30 million in penalties, ruling he manipulated the price
of contracts on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in 2006 while
boosting the value of financial derivatives.  Hunter, according to court documents, dumped large numbers
of contracts within the last 30 minutes of trading in an effort
to drive down the closing price of the futures. The move
benefitted Amaranth’s larger opposing positions in off-exchange
derivatives, according to regulators.  Billions in Losses  Amaranth lost $6.6 billion betting on the price of natural
gas. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund that once
controlled half of the gas market collapsed in 2006. In August
2009, the company agreed to pay $7.5 million to end U.S. cases
brought by FERC and the CFTC over price manipulation.  On April 11, a federal judge in  Manhattan  approved a
$77.1 million settlement by Amaranth to resolve a class-action
brought by traders.  FERC filed an administrative case against Hunter the day
after the CFTC brought a civil enforcement against him in
federal court in Manhattan over the same trading. FERC alleged
Hunter violated anti-manipulation provisions of the Natural Gas
Act, which the agency said it has the authority to enforce.  “FERC is just wasting taxpayer dollars by trying to take
over a case that belongs with the CFTC,” said Hunter’s lawyer
Andrew Lourie of Kobre & Kim LLP in Washington.  The CFTC’s civil case against Hunter was put on hold in
January due to the FERC court challenge in  Washington , according
to court records. Argument hasn’t been scheduled in the
Washington case.  Tamara Young-Allen, a FERC spokeswoman, said the agency
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The CFTC claims FERC’s assertion of jurisdiction clashes
with its own authority to oversee futures trading.  Congress gave the CFTC “exclusive jurisdiction among
federal regulatory agencies not only to set standards for on-
exchange futures trading, but also to determine the lawfulness
of such futures trading,” the commission said in court papers.  The case is Hunter v. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
11-1477, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 