-- Ex-Harrisburg Receiver Hires Lawyer for Possible Court Probe
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-26T22:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ex-harrisburg-receiver-hires-lawyer-for-possible-court-probe-2-.html
The former receiver of Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , hired a lawyer to represent him in case the state
judge overseeing the city’s insolvency asks him to explain why
he resigned last month.  David Unkovic quit on March 30, two days after he asked
state and federal authorities to investigate the bond deals that
some Harrisburg officials say helped drive the city into
financial distress. In a one-page, handwritten letter of
resignation, Unkovic said he was “in an untenable position in
the political and ethical crosswinds and am no longer in a
position to effectuate a solution.”  Unkovic has refused to publicly explain his decision. “If
David Unkovic is called to testify before a Commonwealth Court,
he is prepared to do so,”  Howard Bruce Klein , his attorney,
said in an interview. “Beyond that, we have no comment.”  Unkovic was appointed last year by Governor Tom Corbett, a
Republican, to develop Harrisburg’s plan. His appointment and
the plan were both approved state appeals court Judge Bonnie Leadbetter. Leadbetter hasn’t scheduled a hearing related to
Unkovic’s resignation.  Leadbetter ordered the state to file a status report on
what Unkovic’s temporary replacement has done and to say when a
new receiver will be named.  Unkovic filed an initial version of a plan that called for
the sale or lease of city assets, including a trash-to-energy
plant that doesn’t generate enough revenue to cover more than
$300 million in debt. That bond debt is guaranteed by the city.  Officials Divided  His plan divided Harrisburg officials, with the controller,
treasurer and some members of the city council opposing Unkovic.
Mayor  Linda Thompson  supported him.  The city council put Harrisburg into bankruptcy in October.
The case was thrown out of federal court by a judge who ruled
the filing wasn’t authorized by state law. Under the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code , states have the authority to prevent cities or
counties from filing.  Unkovic has a responsibility as a lawyer to explain why he
implied there were political or ethical pressures behind his
resignation, attorney  Mark Schwartz , who filed the bankruptcy
case, said in an interview.  “What he said means that the waters are poisoned,”
Schwartz said. “They are going to remain poisoned for the next
guy, until there is an explanation for what happened and a
remedy is put in place.”  Schwartz opposed Unkovic’s appointment on behalf of city
council members. He has asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Philadelphia to allow the city council to appeal the dismissal
of the bankruptcy.  Pennsylvania state officials and Harrisburg’s mayor oppose
the council’s effort to reinstate the bankruptcy. State
officials and the mayor have accused Schwartz of filing a
frivolous appeal and asked the court to sanction him.  The receiver case is TD Bank NA, v. Harrisburg Authority,
2010-CV-11737, Court of Common Pleas, Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  