-- Ex-Liberia Leader Taylor Guilty of Sierra Leone War Crimes
-- B y   S i l a s   G b a n d i a   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-04-26T14:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ex-liberia-leader-taylor-guilty-of-sierra-leone-war-crimes.html
Former Liberian President  Charles Taylor  was found guilty by an international tribunal for
supporting fighters to commit atrocities during an 11-year civil
war in neigboring  Sierra Leone .  Sentencing will take place on May 30, Justice Richard
Lussick said after a more than two hour-long reading of the
court’s verdict in  The Hague . Taylor can appeal the verdict.  Taylor, 64, is the first former head of state to be
convicted by an international court for  war crimes  since the
Nuremberg trials after World War Two. He was charged with 11
counts, including terrorizing civilians, murder, rape and
kidnapping children to use as soldiers, according to the Special
Court for Sierra Leone, which was set up by the West African
nation and the  United Nations  in 2002.  The verdict is a “stark warning to other heads of state
who are committing similar crimes, or contemplating doing so,”
 Navi Pillay , the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said in
an e-mailed statement from Geneva. “This is undoubtedly a
historic moment in the development of international justice.”  Taylor’s trial has been held at the  International Criminal
Court  in The Hague since 2007 because of security reasons.  Sierra Leone’s civil war between the government and
Revolutionary United Front guerrillas, backed by Taylor, left
50,000 dead and displaced 2 million before both sides agreed to
a cease-fire in 2000. The RUF rebels gained notoriety for
amputating the limbs of their victims.  ‘Healing Process’  “As a country, we see the verdict as a healing process and
a psychological victory for the many amputees in the country,”
Abdulai Bayraytay, an official at the Information and
Communication Ministry, told reporters in Freetown, Sierra
Leone’s capital.  Taylor came to prominence in Liberia by leading a group of
rebels into the country in 1989, starting a civil war that
lasted until 1996. He won an election in 1997, becoming
president until he resigned in 2003. He went into exile in
 Nigeria  amid international pressure after the Sierra Leone court
indictment and was arrested in 2006.  “The verdict can’t heal the pain of losing a loved one,
but I’m happy we have gotten justice,” said Mary Mbayo, a
registered nurse at Lungi Government Hospital whose husband was
killed during a rebel invasion of Freetown in January 1999. She
had fled the RUF from the eastern town of Kailahun in 1991.  Conspiracy  Liberia shares a 306-kilometer (190-mile) border with
Sierra Leone. Both nations remain among the least developed in
the world, with Sierra Leone ranking 180 and Liberia at 182 on
the United Nations Human Development Index of 187 countries.  UN Mission in Liberia troops were deployed around the
capital, Monrovia, before the verdict today as President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf called for calm in a statement. Supporters of
Taylor claimed the trial was orchestrated by the international
community.  “The American and British have succeeded in their
conspiracy against Liberia,” said Senator Sando Johnson, a
spokesman for Taylor’s family.  David Kortie, a former lawmaker and Taylor ally, said the
verdict should be accepted. “We are going to accept it because
we cannot go against the will of the international community,”
he said.  Scores of other crimes committed during the war have yet to
be investigated, according to Amnesty International Sierra Leone
Director Brima Abdulai Sheriff.  ‘Criminal Responsibility’  “Thousands of persons suspected of criminal responsibility
for incidences of unlawful killings, rape and sexual violence,
mutilations and the use of children in Sierra Leone’s armed
conflict have never been investigated, much less prosecuted,”
he said in an e-mailed statement.  Former Serbian leader  Slobodan Milosevic , who was the first
head of state to be tried by an international criminal tribunal,
died before a verdict was given, according to  Human Rights
Watch .  Laurent Gbagbo , former president of  Ivory Coast , is the
first former leader to appear at the ICC on war crimes.  In the years since the conflicts ended, the two countries
have held elections that were deemed to be free and fair by
international observers.  Johnson-Sirleaf, who in 2009 apologized for her past
support of Taylor, won a second term in office last year. In
Sierra Leone, Ernest Bai Koroma will face voters in his second-
term bid later this year.  “The Taylor prosecution at the Special Court delivers a
strong message to all perpetrators of atrocities, including
those in the highest positions of power, that they will be held
accountable, U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Silas Gbandia in Freetown at 
 sgbandia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  