-- Ex-N.Y. Senator Espada Didn’t Steal From Clinics, Lawyer Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-26T18:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ex-n-y-senator-espada-didn-t-steal-from-clinics-lawyer-says.html
Pedro Espada Jr., the former  New
York  state Senate Democratic majority leader, didn’t steal from
nonprofit health-care clinics he and his son run, his lawyer
told the jury at the end of their criminal trial.  “You can’t talk about a theft case unless you acknowledge
Mr. Espada gave hundreds of thousands of dollars to the entity
he supposedly stole from,” when he gave up money he was owed in
vacation and sick days, Susan R. Necheles said today in closing
arguments in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York. “It makes no
sense.”  Espada, 58, and Pedro Gautier Espada, 38, abused their
positions at Soundview Healthcare Center in the Bronx section of
 New York City , which gets more than $1 million a year in federal
funding, prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said.  They stole more than $500,000 from the company, the
government says. Pedro Espada started Soundview in 1978.  The Espadas, who continue to run Soundview, were charged in
December 2010 when the elder Espada was still in the Senate. He
had been defeated that September in the Democratic primary for
his Bronx seat. The Espadas engaged in illegal schemes from
January 2005 to February 2010, prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Frederic Block is presiding over the
trial, which began March 14.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Todd Kominsky finished his closing
argument for the government yesterday.  Provided Services  Much of the Espadas’ alleged illegal activity centered on
two for-profit janitorial-services companies Pedro Espada
founded: Community Expansion Development Corp., or CEDC, in
1980, and Soundview Management Enterprises, in 2007. Both
provided services to the clinics. In January 2005, Espada
transferred ownership of CEDC to Soundview Healthcare, the
government said.  Even after Soundview Healthcare owned CEDC, the Espadas
operated it as if it was still theirs, using it to pay personal
expenses, including for political campaigns, prosecutors allege.
That scheme totaled $175,000, they said.  Norma Ortiz, who was one of Espada’s executive assistants,
testified that Espada had Soundview Healthcare pay a $1,976 tab
for his wife’s birthday party in April 2008 at the  Harbor
Restaurant  on City Island, east of the Bronx mainland. He also
had the company pay for his wife’s birthday gifts, including
$523 for a spa treatment, $344 for balloons and $76 for 13
peach-colored roses, Kaminsky said.  Personal Meals  Pedro Espada charged more than $100,000 for personal meals
on Soundview Healthcare’s corporate American Express card,
including more than $20,000 at Toyo Sushi in Mamaroneck, New
York, prosecutors said. He also failed to identify more than
$115,000 in charges on Soundview Healthcare’s credit card as his
own, they said.  “No question that Mr. Espada was authorized by the board
to use the AmEx,” Necheles told jurors today. “This was
straight up. This was permitted by the company.”  “You cannot steal if you’re permitted to get it,” she
said.  Necheles said Espada was allowed to pay off the American
Express bill with unpaid vacation and sick time.  Rented Facilities  The Espadas took about $200,000 by renting Soundview
Healthcare conference rooms and other facilities to medical
professionals and religious groups and keeping the money for
themselves, according to the indictment.  The Espadas are being tried on eight counts. Five charge
them with stealing from Soundview, one count for each year from
2005 through 2009. They are also charged with conspiring to
steal from Soundview, to defraud the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service and to commit  wire fraud .  Each substantive count carries a maximum sentence of 10
years’ imprisonment. The conspiracy counts bring as many as five
years each.  The case is U.S. v. Espada, 10-cr-985, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Thomas in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at  ianthomas33@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 