-- Texas Governor Perry Endorses Romney as Party Nominee
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-26T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/texas-governor-perry-endorses-romney-as-party-nominee.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who
ended his bid for the Republican presidential nomination in
January, endorsed  Mitt Romney  as the party’s standard-bearer in
the November election against President Barack Obama.  “Mitt Romney has earned the Republican presidential
nomination through hard work, a strong organization and
disciplined message of restoring America after nearly four years
of failed job-killing policies from President Obama,” Perry,
62, said in a statement yesterday on his website.  Upon leaving the race on Jan. 19, Perry endorsed former
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich . After winning just two
Republican primaries, Gingrich will suspend his campaign and
throw his support to Romney, R.C. Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman,
said.  Romney, 65, called Gingrich yesterday after sweeping five
primaries on April 24 and invited him to join his campaign,
Hammond said. The former Massachusetts governor coasted to
victories in  New York ,  Connecticut , Pennsylvania, Delaware and
Rhode Island.  The sweep dispelled any remaining doubts within the party
about his becoming the nominee, said Gingrich adviser Bob Walker, a former U.S. representative from Pennsylvania. Gingrich
is talking to Romney and officials at the Republican National
Committee about his role in the general election.  South Carolina  Gingrich, 68, failed to build on his Jan. 21 victory in the
 South Carolina  primary. That momentum sputtered in Florida’s
Jan. 31 primary, the next contest, where Gingrich lost to Romney
by 14 percentage points.  As the Republican race proceeded, the anti-Romney vote
Gingrich sought moved to former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, who established himself as the main alternative to the
former Massachusetts governor when he swept Feb. 7 contests in
Minnesota, Colorado and Missouri. Santorum went on to win other
primaries while the only other one Gingrich captured was his
home state of Georgia on March 6.  Santorum suspended his bid April 10, all but assuring the
Republican nomination for Romney, who unsuccessfully sought the
party’s nod four years ago. Romney’s remaining opponent is
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , who has yet to win a primary
or caucus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  