-- Mexico Peso Drops on Rate-Cut Speculation Before Policy Decision
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-04-26T23:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/mexico-peso-drops-on-rate-cut-speculation-before-policy-decision.html
Mexico ’s peso fell before
tomorrow’s policy rate announcement in which traders are
wagering that Banco de Mexico will trim benchmark borrowing
costs for the first time since July 2009.  The peso depreciated 0.1 percent to 13.1731 per  U.S. dollar 
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, from 13.1639 yesterday. The decline
pared the currency’s rally in 2012 to 5.8 percent, the best
performance among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Interest-rate futures contracts due next month show traders
are betting that policy makers will cut the benchmark rate from
a record low 4.5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The peso’s decline is being fueled by speculation
that a cut to Mexico’s key rate may pare demand for the Latin
American country’s higher-yielding assets, Pepe Curiel, a
currency trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City,
said by phone.  The peso’s drop “has a lot to do with speculation on  Banco
de Mexico  moving rates tomorrow,” Curiel said. “The market is
very nervous about tomorrow’s decision.”  U.S. central bankers yesterday repeated that borrowing
costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least
through late 2014.  Mexico’s currency also declined after more people than
forecast filed applications for  unemployment benefits  in the
U.S., the nation’s biggest trading partner. While U.S. jobless
claims fell by 1,000 to 388,000 in the week ended April 21, the
median forecast of 48 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for 375,000.  ‘Remains Elevated’  Federal Reserve policy makers also said yesterday that
while labor-market conditions have improved in the economy
that’s the destination of 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, the
 unemployment rate  “remains elevated.”  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy expanded 6.24
percent in February from a year earlier, exceeding the 5.5
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 15
analysts. Growth may have “positive surprises” after recent
production and consumption data beat forecasts, Finance Minister
Jose Antonio Meade said in a March 8 interview.  The peso has fallen 2.8 percent this month as concern
mounts that  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb global growth and
damp Mexican exports.  The “relatively strong” Mexican economy and the
currency’s recent decline mean that central bank policy makers
won’t cut borrowing costs tomorrow, according to  Mike Moran , a
currency strategist at Standard Chartered Bank.  “It’s going to be range-bound going into the meeting,”
Moran said in a telephone interview from  New York . “Any dovish
expectations toward Banxico will be disappointed.”  The yield on government peso-denominated debt due in
December 2024 declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.26 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price rose 0.22 centavo to 132.59 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  