-- Exxon First-Quarter Profit Drops as Output, Gas Decline
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-04-26T20:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/exxon-first-quarter-profit-drops-as-output-gas-decline.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest energy company by market value, said net income fell 11
percent as its biggest first-quarter production decline since
2008 wiped out most of the benefit of record oil prices.  First-quarter profit was $9.45 billion, or $2 a share,
compared with $10.65 billion, or $2.14 a year earlier, the
Irving, Texas-based company said in a statement today. Exxon was
expected to report per-share net income of $2.08, based on the
average of 16 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  has been
looking for new projects to reverse production declines that
reached 5.5 percent during the first three months of this year,
the third straight quarter of shortfalls, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Lower output was driven by natural field
declines and the impact of higher prices on production-sharing
agreements.  The company’s oil output fell by 7.7 percent during the
quarter while production of U.S. natural gas that is fetching
the lowest prices in a decade rose 0.7 percent.  “The production growth slackening is a concern,” Allen Good, an analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago, said today in a
telephone interview. “But they should have some projects coming
online in the next couple of years that will add crude
production so hopefully they will reverse some of these
declines.”  New Production  Production from the Kearl oil-sands project in Canada and
Angolan and Nigerian developments, which are expected to begin
operations this year, are key to meeting the company’s 2012
volume outlook,  David Rosenthal , Exxon’s vice president of
investor relations, said on a conference call today.  Exxon expects full-year volume performance to be consistent
with its March outlook, he said. The company has estimated that
output would fall 3 percent this year.  Sales rose 8.8 percent to $124 billion. Exxon fell 0.9
percent to $86.07 at the close in New York. The  shares  have
risen 1.6 percent this year.  Exxon became the world’s biggest dividend payer yesterday
when it boosted its quarterly distribution by 21 percent to 57
cents a share.  The increase brings the company’s annual payout to
shareholders to $2.28 a share, or $10.7 billion, more than  AT&T
Inc. (T) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) , according to  Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst at  Standard & Poor’s .  Dividend Increase  “The 21 percent increase is obviously very large, but we
think there’s more to come,”  Jason Gammel , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Ltd., said today during an interview with
Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”
“Another 20 percent next year is certainly achievable.”  Exxon plans to purchase about $5 billion of its shares in
the second quarter, unchanged from the first quarter, Rosenthal
said during the call.  U.S. gas fell 40 percent during the quarter to an average
of $2.503 per million British thermal units as new wells in
shale formations glutted domestic markets and demand slumped
during a mild winter. The fuel reached a 10-year low of $1.902
on April 19 before rising to $2.068 yesterday.  The company is moving rigs to projects focused on petroleum
liquids, such as the Bakken Shale and Permian Basin, Rosenthal
said.  Exxon is “continuing to acquire liquids-rich acreage at
attractive prices and shift our rig fleet over to those areas,
while minimizing the incremental exposure to dry gas wells,” he
said.  Brent crude futures, the benchmark for two-thirds of the
world’s oil, averaged $118.45 a barrel, a record for the first
quarter and a 12 percent increase from a year earlier. Exxon’s
production was 51 percent oil and 49 percent gas last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  