-- Heywood Wasn’t a British Spy, U.K. Foreign Secretary Hague Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-04-26T21:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/heywood-wasn-t-a-british-spy-u-k-foreign-secretary-hague-says.html
Neil Heywood, the U.K. businessman
whose death in  China  is at the center of the scandal that
brought down Politburo member Bo Xilai, wasn’t a British spy,
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said.  “Given the intense interest in this case, it is,
exceptionally, appropriate for me to confirm that Mr. Heywood
was not an employee of the British government in any capacity,”
Hague wrote yesterday in a  letter  to Richard Ottaway, the
chairman of the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee in
 London  and published on the panel’s website. “Mr. Heywood was
only an occasional contact of the embassy, attending some
meetings in connection with his business. He was not known to
the consulate-general” in Chongqing, where he died.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government has been
pressing China to investigate the circumstances of the death,
over which Gu Kailai, the wife of Bo, the former Chongqing
Communist Party secretary, was arrested on suspicion of murder.
Britain was originally being told Heywood died from alcohol
poisoning.  The ouster of Bo and the arrest of his wife have heightened
scrutiny of the family’s business interests and sparked China’s
deepest political crisis since the 1989 Tiananmen uprising.  Ottaway had written to ask Hague April 19 if Heywood
supplied the British consulate or embassy with information on a
formal or informal basis and why ministers were not informed in
January of rumors surrounding Heywood’s death.  ‘Uncorroborated’ Reports  Hague said yesterday that those reports were
“uncorroborated,” pointing out that almost 6,000 British
nationals die abroad each year.  Speaking in Parliament last week, Hague called on China to
ensure that its probe into the death of uncovers the truth and
justice is done.  Heywood, 41, died in Chongqing on Nov. 14. Chinese
authorities said April 10 that Gu was suspected of murder. She
and her son, Bo Guagua, had a “conflict over economic
interests” with Heywood, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported the same day.  Bo Xilai  was suspended from his top
Communist Party positions on suspicion of committing “serious
discipline violations,” Xinhua said.  In his first public comments since those events, Bo Guagua
denied reports in newspapers including the Wall Street Journal
and  Daily Telegraph  that he led a lavish lifestyle, which
included driving a red Ferrari and expensive schooling beyond
the means of his father’s salary as a party official. The 24-
year-old Harvard Kennedy School student made the comments in a
statement published on April 24 in the Harvard Crimson, the
student newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Snyder in Washington at 
 asnyder5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  