-- Facebook Index Early Entry Said Talking Point With Nasdaq
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-04-26T02:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/facebook-early-entry-to-index-said-negotiating-point-with-nasdaq.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s waiting
period for entry into one of its best-known stock indexes was a
negotiating point with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  as the company weighed
where to list its shares, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The second-biggest U.S. stock exchange operator said on
April 13 that it was shortening the so-called seasoning period
before new companies are admitted to the Nasdaq-100 Index to
three months from at least one year. Facebook confirmed this
week it is listing on Nasdaq Stock Market. The social-networking
website based in  Menlo Park ,  California , filed to raise $5
billion in February.  Gaining entry to gauges tracked by investors is attractive
to public companies because it provides a guaranteed shareholder
base. Exchange-traded funds and other products linked to the
Nasdaq-100 managed about $49.4 billion at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by  Nasdaq .  “The more liquidity support that the stock has, the
better, in their view,” Perry Piazza, director of investment
strategy at Contango Capital Advisors in  San Francisco , who
helps oversee about $3.3 billion, said in a telephone interview.
Going into the Nasdaq-100 “would help the trading volume of
Facebook dramatically,” he said.  A person with direct knowledge of the decision said April 5
that Facebook decided to list on Nasdaq. Eight days later, the
New York-based exchange operator shortened the time a company
must be listed on a “recognized market” before becoming
eligible for the Nasdaq-100. It used to be at least two years,
or one if a stock would be among the top 25 shares in the index
by market value.  Picking Nasdaq  The rule change was implemented on April 23, the day
Facebook disclosed in a regulatory filing that it picked Nasdaq
over the New York Stock Exchange. The shift also applied to the
Nasdaq Financial-100 Index and Nasdaq Biotechnology Index.  Facebook’s Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman, declined to comment.
John Jacobs, executive vice president and head of the global
index group at Nasdaq OMX, declined to comment on Facebook or
any other company.  “It was very simply a housekeeping of index methodology,”
Jacobs said in a phone interview. The exchange studied the
benefits of shortening and lengthening the waiting time and
decided that reducing the period “makes the index more
relevant” by incorporating the biggest companies more rapidly,
he said.  Listing Requirements  Annual changes to the Nasdaq-100, a gauge of non-financial
companies, are announced in early December. Should a company
fail to meet listing requirements at any time during the year,
it is replaced by the Nasdaq-listed security with the highest
market value, according to the exchange’s website.  Nasdaq lured Dallas-based  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  from the
NYSE in January, the biggest company ever to make the switch.
Three months later, the world’s largest maker of analog
semiconductors entered the Nasdaq-100.  The exchange has been fending off increasing competition
from NYSE, which accounted for 57 percent of proceeds raised in
equity offerings for technology companies last year and
increased that to 67 percent this year through April 19,
according to Ipreo Holdings LLC, a New York-based provider of
markets data and analytics. The NYSE has claimed more than half
of all IPOs every year starting in 2008, the firm said.  Tracking the Index  ETFs and other products created to track the Nasdaq-100
must buy companies included in the measure to fulfill their
mandate. Texas Instruments makes up 1.2 percent of the gauge,
which serves as the basis for the  PowerShares QQQ (QQQ)  Trust, the
U.S. ETF with the fifth-highest average daily trading volume in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Membership in the index doesn’t guarantee a company will
stick with Nasdaq.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , which
makes up 1.06 percent of the measure, said in March that it’s
leaving for the NYSE at the end of May.  The prospect of getting into the Nasdaq-100 may have
prompted Facebook to choose Nasdaq over the NYSE, Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based Ipox Schuster LLP, said in a
telephone interview. His firm has about $2 billion tied to
indexes that track IPOs.  If Facebook gets an index weighting of 3 percent, the
PowerShares QQQ “could create $2 billion of systematic demand”
for the stock, he said. “It has to be bought, whether it’s high
or low, cheap or expensive, so it’s strategically important.”  IPO Size  Facebook may expand its IPO to as much as $10 billion,
seeking a market value of $75 billion to $100 billion, people
familiar with the plans have said. Only eight companies in the
Nasdaq-100 have a market capitalization exceeding $100 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Schuster said he’s not sure if his funds will own Facebook
because the number of publicly available shares as a percentage
of the total may be too low. The smaller IPO size, at the low
end of that valuation range, would make 6.7 percent of Facebook
shares publicly traded, while a larger sale would give it a
float of 10 percent.  At that level, Facebook would join Internet companies such
as Groupon Inc. and LinkedIn Corp. in boosting demand by
floating less than the usual amount. In a typical offering,
investors get shares representing closer to 20 percent of the
company, according to Paul Deninger, a senior managing director
at New York-based investment bank Evercore Partners Inc.  Technology Bets  Traders use the Nasdaq-100 to bet on the technology
industry, according to Leo Guzman, president of Guzman & Co.
Computer-related stocks make up 68 percent of its value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Nasdaq-100 is essentially a trading vehicle where a
trader can gain derivative exposure to the technology markets,”
Guzman, president of the broker in  Coral Gables ,  Florida , said
in a telephone interview. “Membership in the  S&P 500 ,  Russell
2000  and MSCI indexes enable you to get more long-term
investors.”  More than $5.58 trillion was benchmarked to the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, with $1.31 trillion directly linked to the
index, at the end of 2010, according to S&P’s website.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc., billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s
insurance and investment firm, was picked to join the S&P 500 in
January 2010.  Index funds  may give Berkshire shares stability,
Buffett told shareholders that month.  “You’ve got a permanent stockholder for 6 or 7 percent of
your shares,” Buffett said at the time. “We like permanent
shareholders. That’s exactly what we’re looking for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  