-- Farmers at Center of Mad Cow Probe Grumble Over Tainted Image
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-26T10:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/farmers-at-center-of-mad-cow-probe-grumble-over-tainted-image.html
Mike Correia and four other
weathered men in blue jeans and soiled work boots gathered for
coffee at a gas station outside Hanford,  California . The farming
center is where the fourth case of mad cow disease ever found in
the U.S. has surfaced. The topic was the media.  “The dairy business is hurting already and we don’t need
this,” said Correia, seated at a dinette table near the cash
register. He grows feed for cattle nearby in the southern San
Joaquin valley. “Dairy down here makes the world go.”  Farmers fear a repeat of 2003, when the first confirmed
U.S. case led to losses estimated as high as $4.7 billion in
2004 for the American beef industry. Within hours of the latest
announcement, cattle futures plummeted to a nine-month low. Some
South Korean retailers said they would suspend imports of U.S.
beef. “Mad cow disease” was the most-searched term on  Google 
for a time yesterday.  Correia, 56, and the other farmers gathered around that
table complained about how television news showed stock footage
of sickened cows that was unrelated to the case in California.  “People are going to think it’s in the food chain and the
media is blowing it out of proportion,” Correia said. “They
are scaring people and they have nothing to worry about.”  The diseased cow arrived April 18 at a Baker Commodities
Inc. facility just outside of Hanford, where so-called deadstock
are held before going to a rendering plant, Dennis Luckey,
executive vice president of operations at Los Angeles-based
Baker, said in a telephone interview.  Rendering Products  Cattle and dairy farmers typically pay such  rendering
companies  to haul away cows not intended for the dinner table.
The company turns the carcasses into protein supplements for
chickens and pigs, an ingredient in pet food, and other
products, according to Baker’s website.  A dead dairy cow at the company’s transfer station in
Hanford was identified by a routine test for the brain-wasting
disease, known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE,
agriculture officials said April 24. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack sought to reassure the public, saying the infected
animal didn’t enter the human food chain.  “People are going to panic,” Dave Thomas, who owns a
small dairy farm with 300 cows and two workers just west of
town, said as he inspected his milking stalls. “There’s nothing
I can do about that.”  Scientists say the disease is spread through feed that
contains brain or spinal cord tissue from infected animals.
People can get it from eating products containing such tissues,
including head cheese. Since 1997, feed made from mammals has
been banned from cattle rations, and high-risk materials such as
brains have been kept from the human  food supply , according to
the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  ‘Atypical’ Disease  The California cow tested positive for so-called atypical
BSE, which the Agriculture Department said isn’t generally
associated with an animal consuming infected feed. Such cases
can occur spontaneously in older animals, according to the
department.  In Hanford, a community of 55,000 about 200 miles northwest
of  Los Angeles , many people were taking the development in
stride. The community is a trading hub for hundreds of sprawling
dairy farms, orchards and crop fields in the surrounding area.  The public should be reassured by the routine and random
testing, said Steve Maddox,  named  2011 Outstanding Dairy
Producer of the Year by Western DairyBusiness magazine.  “The nice thing about this situation is that the system
works,” said Maddox, who milks about 3,500 cows in Hanford.
“Our controls and systems that we have in place are doing what
they’re supposed to do.”  After the USDA announcement, Maddox said he spent 45
minutes on the telephone with his congressman, U.S.
Representative Jim Costa, a Fresno Democrat.  ‘Rumors Kill Us’  “He asked me what he could do to help,” Maddox said. “I
told him the most important thing right now is that accurate
information gets out. It’s the rumors that kill us.”  Mad cow disease has been most prevalent in the U.K., which
has had 184,000 cases since 1987. Last year, 29 cases were
reported worldwide.  Canada , the biggest U.S. agricultural
trading partner, had 19 as of February 2011, according to the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The discovery in California spurred fresh calls for
increased monitoring of the U.S. meat supply. In 2003, after the
first case, dozens of countries shut their doors to U.S.
shipments. Some nations, including  China , have maintained part
of the restrictions ever since.  Sold for Slaughter  “We beefed some cows just today, and I was afraid the
price would drop, but we got lucky and they paid us the same
price,” said Joseph Parreira, referring to the sale of some of
the 5,000 dairy cows on his father’s farm. Dairy cattle that
aren’t producing enough milk to be profitable are often sold for
slaughter.  Live-cattle futures were up 0.2 percent at $1.12525 a pound
by 11:25 a.m. London time on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
The price lost 2.6 percent on April 24 as the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  disclosed the disease, before rebounding 0.6 percent
yesterday.  Parreira said he has no plans to eat less beef. “Your
chances of dying from an infected cow aren’t high enough to even
register or worry about,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Hanford, California, at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  