-- FBR Raises $550 Million for New Mortgage Insurer
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-04-26T17:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/fbr-raises-550-million-for-new-mortgage-insurer.html
FBR & Co. (FBRC) , the investment bank run
by Chief Executive Officer Richard J. Hendrix, raised $550
million this week to fund NMI Holdings Inc., a planned U.S.
mortgage insurer.  FBR underwrote a private offering of NMI shares and holds a
stake of less than 5 percent, said Joseph Kavanagh, a senior
managing director at the Arlington, Virginia-based firm. NMI was
initially formed as a subsidiary of FBR, whose fee on the sale
may almost match its total revenue in the first quarter.  Investors in the San Francisco-based insurer include
“well-known, well-respected names,” none owning more than 15
percent, Kavanagh said, declining to name the institutional
clients. NMI still needs to be approved by  Fannie Mae  or  Freddie
Mac , the government-run mortgage financers that are the main
customers of such guarantors.  “We feel very optimistic about the impact this company and
this management team is going have on the U.S. housing system,”
Hendrix said in a telephone interview. The deal will “help NMI
get capital back into the housing market in a way that
ultimately should literally benefit individual homeowners.”  NMI, whose insurance unit is called National Mortgage
Insurance, is being led by Chief Executive Officer Brad Shuster.
He oversaw  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ) ’s foreign units before U.S. home loans
drove that guarantor into bankruptcy last year.  Mortgage insurance is typically required for debt exceeding
80 percent of a property’s value, paid for by consumers and
picked by loan originators. The protection covers some or all of
 foreclosure losses  for lenders or Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
which guarantee bonds backed by home loans.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) ,
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s United Guaranty unit and
 MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  led in policy sales last year.  New Insurers  NMI would be the second entrant to the industry since a
U.S. housing bubble began to burst in 2006, pushing three
competitors out of the business.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , private-
equity firm Pine Brook and reinsurer PartnerRe Ltd. are among
backers of the industry’s other startup, Essent Guaranty Inc.
The Radnor, Pennsylvania-based firm raised $600 million in 2009
and 2010 and began writing policies last year, providing $3.2
billion of coverage, according to newsletter Inside Mortgage
Finance.  The depletion of 80 percent of the capital of existing
insurers since 2007 and retreat of the government’s Federal
Housing Administration amid dwindled reserves is creating
opportunities for new competitors, Kavanagh said. At the same
time, reforms of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac may shrink the
insurers’ role in the market in the future.  ‘Meaningful Role’  “That’s a risk investors were willing to take,” Hendrix
said. “There’s a general belief there’s going to be a
meaningful role for private mortgage insurance going forward no
matter how that restructuring gets done.”  For FBR, which was called Friedman Billings Ramsey Group
and specialized in underwriting  mortgage  lenders and other
specialty finance firms during the credit bubble, the NMI deal
“is important both financially but also in terms of reputation
and our brand,” Hendrix said.  That’s because “transactions like this, that are built
around big important themes, are things we pride ourselves on,”
he said.  FBR’s placement fee was an estimated $38.3 million,
according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. The
firm this week  reported  revenue last quarter of $39.1 million.
The “fee is contingent and will not be earned unless and until
all of the necessary agency and regulatory approvals have been
granted,” Nathaniel Garnick, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 