-- Fed Sells CDOs From AIG Rescue to Barclays, Deutsche
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-26T23:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/fed-sells-cdo-debt-from-aig-rescue-to-barclays-deutsche-bank.html
(Corrects Fed’s value of CDOs in sixth paragraph.)  The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York said it sold $7.5 billion of collateralized debt
obligations linked to commercial mortgages to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The joint winning bid “represents good value for the
public and significantly exceeds the original price” the
central bank paid for the assets, New York Fed President William C. Dudley said today in a statement on the regional bank’s
website.  The New York Fed said on April 18 it was inviting eight
broker-dealers to submit bids at auction after receiving
“several” unsolicited requests to purchase the so-called MAX
CDOs, which were held in its Maiden Lane III LLC portfolio.  Three teams of Wall Street firms were competing for the
debt, which was assumed in the 2008 bailout of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , according to people familiar with the
transaction.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  also joined forces, as did  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)   Banks combined resources to reach more investors and reduce
risk, in contrast with sales from prior Maiden Lane portfolios
composed of home-loan bonds, said Richard D’Albert, co-chief
investment officer at Seer Capital Management LP. The winning
consortium had to buy the entire portfolio, though the firms may
sell the CDOs intact or break them down to sell the underlying
securities.  Dubbed MAX  The CDOs, dubbed MAX by Deutsche Bank when they were issued
in 2007 and 2008, are composed of securities of varying ratings
culled from 103 commercial-mortgage bond offerings. The pair was
valued by  the Fed  at $4.2 billion in December, according to the
district bank’s website.  AIG shares extended gains after the announcement, rising 56
cents, or 1.7 percent, to $33.39 at 12:48 p.m. in New York
trading.  While this was the first such auction from the Maiden Lane
III portfolio, the New York Fed earlier finished selling all the
bonds in its Maiden Lane II LLC vehicle in February. Maiden Lane
II was created to hold residential-mortgage assets assumed in
AIG’s bailout.  The New York Fed began unloading the Maiden Lane II debt
last year through regular and more public auctions, which it
halted after traders blamed the sales for damaging prices in
credit markets. The central bank later completed selling the
securities by turning to a more limited number of dealers in
response to unsolicited bids.  The New York Fed said in February that taxpayers earned
$2.8 billion on their $19.5 billion loan to the Maiden Lane II
vehicle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  