-- Ferguson, Mourinho Compete to Sign Lucas for $19 Mln: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-04-26T09:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ferguson-mourinho-compete-to-sign-lucas-for-19-mln-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Fergie and Mourinho’s Tussle  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  and Real Madrid
boss Jose Mourinho are both keen to sign Brazilian teenager
Lucas, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 19-year-old Lucas, who plays in midfield for Sao Paulo,
has been valued at 12 million pounds ($19 million).  Rovers’ Salgado LA-bound?  Blackburn Rovers player Michel Salgado may join his friend
 David Beckham  at Los Angeles Galaxy, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 36-year-old Spanish full-back will become a free agent
this summer. The former England star and Salgado played together
at Real Madrid.  Kuyt Wants to Come Home  Liverpool forward  Dirk Kuyt , 31, wants to come home to the
Netherlands and join his former club Feyenoord, the  Daily Mirror 
reported, citing his friend and Chelsea striker  Salomon Kalou .  “Dirk told me he wants to return now,” Kalou told Dutch
television. “Dirk said to me that I also must come, that we
both have to return to Feyenoord,” said Kalou, who used to play
with Kuyt at De Kuip in Rotterdam.  Kuyt, who had been the top scorer at Feyenoord in all three
of his seasons there before he joined Liverpool in 2006, has a
clause in his contract that allows him to join a foreign club
for 1 million pounds, the paper said.  No Olympics for Wilshere  Arsenal player  Jack Wilshere  won’t be playing for the
British Olympic soccer team at the London Games because he wants
to focus on getting fit for his club in the new season, the  Sun 
reported.  Wilshere, who had been one of the picks of Olympic team
coach  Stuart Pearce , hasn’t played all season because of an
ankle injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports
desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  