-- FIFA Made $873 Million in 2011, Beating Own Estimate by 22%
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-26T14:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/fifa-made-873-million-in-2011-beating-own-estimate-by-22-.html
FIFA, soccer’s governing body,
surpassed its revenue estimates for last year by 22 percent as
it benefited from income from television and marketing rights to
the 2014 World Cup.  The Zurich-based organization had sales of $873 million,
after budgeting for $715 million, according to an annual
financial statement posted on its website.  “I am delighted to note that, financially, FIFA stands on
rock-solid foundations,” president  Sepp Blatter  said in a
foreword to the 98-page document. FIFA’s reserves have increased
to $1.3 billion as the body tries to protect itself from dangers
such as the cancellation of its $5 billion World Cup.  The World Cup, which is played every four years, is FIFA’s
biggest revenue-producing event. Sales beat the estimate because
of “extremely successful” marketing of television and branding
rights for the next tournament in  Brazil , the financial
statement said.  Expenditure was $37 million lower than the $703 million
approved by FIFA’s Congress because of cost-cutting measures and
deferred payments related to the World Cup. Julio Grondona, the
chairman of FIFA’s finance committee, said contracts worth $2.3
billion have already been signed for the 2018 World Cup in
 Russia , while the revenue for the event in Brazil will be more
than FIFA forecast.  Rising construction costs, labor disputes and a
disagreement between the Brazilian government and FIFA over
legislation have slowed the preparations for the tournament.  “FIFA’s economic success depends strongly on successful
marketing, and above all, the smooth staging of the World Cup,”
Grondona said. “Therefore, the upcoming World Cups must also be
prepared financially with great care and precision, and the
necessary reserves for any for any operative risks must be built
up.”  FIFA said it expects revenue of $954 million next year,
with $575 million coming from television and $323 million from
marketing. The financial report also says FIFA will pay $50
million in 2013 to meet the cost of worldwide insurance for
players appearing in national team matches after reaching an
agreement with clubs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  