-- Food Stamps Keep Going Up as Unemployment Falls: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-04-26T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/food-stamps-keep-going-up-as-unemployment-falls-bgov-barometer.html
Food-stamp use has been increasing
even as unemployment declines, a break with historic patterns as
more eligible recipients such as those stuck in part-time jobs
take advantage of the program.  The BGOV Barometer shows that food-stamp enrollment rose to
an all-time high in 2011 while the number of Americans on
jobless rolls dropped to 13.1 million at the end of last year
from a peak of 15.4 million in October 2009.  Food-stamp enrollment has risen and fallen in tandem with
unemployment most of the time since the  Food Stamp Act of 1964 
created the modern program. Changes in qualification rules and
efforts to reach more eligible people drove an increase that
started under President  George W. Bush  and accelerated under
President  Barack Obama , said Parke E. Wilde, an associate
professor at  Tufts University  in  Boston  who studies food-stamp
policy.  “The main reason caseloads are rising is increased
participation among eligible people, and a higher fraction of
the population that is eligible,” Wilde said.  Spending for food stamps has  more than doubled  in four
years to a record  $75.7 billion  in the fiscal year ended Sept.
30, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s biggest expenditure.
Funding over the next 10 years would be cut by more than $33
billion, about 4 percent, under a plan approved by the House
Agriculture Committee on April 18. The Senate Agriculture
Committee is preparing to take up a farm bill including more
modest cuts in  food stamps .  Participation Increases  From 2002 to 2009, the most recent year of  available data ,
participation rose to 72 percent of eligible recipients from 54
percent, according to the USDA. About 46.45 million people
received the aid in January this year -- almost one in every
seven Americans -- down from a record 46.51 million in December
and only the second drop since 2008, the USDA said earlier this
month.  Joblessness peaked at 10 percent in October 2009 and was at
8.2 percent in March, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. The drop in unemployment doesn’t reflect 7.7 million
Americans who are working part-time for economic reasons, such
as a lack of full-time work, Labor Department statistics show.  Enrollment in the program is still likely to decline as the
jobless rate improves, said  Kevin Concannon , the USDA
undersecretary who oversees food stamps.  Congress may need to take further steps to rein in food-
stamp spending, possibly through tapering benefits for
recipients at higher incomes or experimenting with less-
expensive block-grant initiatives in several states, said Ron Haskins, co-director of the Center on Children and Families at
the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  “It’s an important program,”  said Haskins, formerly a
senior adviser to the George W. Bush administration on welfare
policy. “There is money to be saved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  