-- Ford Quarterly Profit May Fall by Half on Overseas Losses
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-04-26T20:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ford-quarterly-profit-may-fall-by-half-on-overseas-losses.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, tomorrow may report that first-quarter profit
slid by almost half as earnings in  North America  couldn’t
overcome losses in the automaker’s international operations.  Net income may have fallen to $1.34 billion, the average of
seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, down 48 percent
from $2.55 billion a year earlier. Profit excluding some items
may have fallen to 36 cents a share, according to the average of
17 analysts’ estimates, from 62 cents a year earlier.  Ford may have lost $225 million in  Europe  and Asia,
according to  Brian Johnson , a Barclays Capital analyst. In North
America, operating earnings may have totaled $1.8 billion, as
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s push to boost fuel
economy paid off amid  rising  U.S. gasoline prices, the analyst
said.  “Ford has done a very good job, marketing wise, to
position itself as the fuel-economy leader among the Big
Three,” said Johnson, who is based in  Chicago . “But they’re
facing headwinds in Europe,  South America  and Asia-Pacific.”  Ford has warned it may report a pretax loss exceeding $190
million in Europe for the first quarter as the sovereign debt
crisis exacerbates industry overcapacity. Profit in South
America is falling as competition rises. The automaker said it
may report a loss in Asia as it continues recovering from last
year’s Thai floods that hobbled production.  “We certainly felt a significant effect in 2011 from both
of the natural disasters,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s  Asia  chief,
said in an April 18 interview, referring to last year’s Thai
floods and Japanese earthquake. “We continued to feel that
effect in the first quarter.”  Ford Shares  Concerns about the financial crisis in Europe and sluggish
growth in  China  have weighed on Ford’s stock, which is  down  24
percent from a year ago. Ford shares rose 1.2 percent to $11.87
at the close in  New York .  “Europe remains a weak spot, and the current outlook is
not likely to improve any time soon,”  Peter Nesvold , an analyst
with Jefferies & Co., wrote in a note yesterday on Ford’s first-
quarter earnings. “This geographic theme -- stronger North
America, weaker international -- is likely to be the key
takeaway from Friday’s report.”  Ford bonds received a boost this week as  Fitch Ratings 
became the first major ratings company to raise the automaker to
investment grade. Ford had a so-called junk rating on its debt
since 2005.  Ford ended 2011 with its  11th consecutive  profitable
quarter, with fourth-quarter net income of $13.6 billion, or
$3.40 a share, compared with $190 million, or 5 cents, a year
earlier. Ford earned $29.5 billion in the last three years after
$30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008.  ‘Just Took Off’  Ford’s 7.45 percent bonds due July 2031 rose 4.25 cents to
126.75 cents on the dollar over the last two days in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  “We’ve been looking at Ford debt and it just took off,”
said  Mirko Mikelic , a senior  money manager  at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Grand Rapids,  Michigan , which recently purchased
five-year Ford notes. “We’re disappointed we didn’t pick up
some equity in December, but we got concerned about what was
going on in Europe.”  The risks Ford faces overseas are more than offset by its
strength in North America and the lower-cost business model
Mulally has instituted since he came to Ford from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in
2006, said Stephen Brown, auto analyst at Fitch.  Revamped Lineup  “Fundamentally, they’re set up to better withstand any
kind of a downturn,” Brown said in an interview yesterday.
“Europe is a challenge right now, but the majority of their
revenue still comes out of North America and North America is
looking very good right now.”  Ford’s  revenue  may fall to $32 billion, the average of 11
analysts’ estimates, from $33.1 billion last year. Pretax profit
may fall to $2.1 billion from $2.8 billion last year, the
average of six analysts’ estimates.  Mulally has revamped Ford’s lineup with a focus on fuel
economy. The subcompact Fiesta gets as much as 40 miles (64
kilometers) per gallon in highway driving, while the F-150
pickup offers two fuel-efficient V-6 engines that account for
more than half of sales. From 2008 to 2011, the F-150 didn’t
come with a V-6.  That leaves Ford better able to cope with rising  fuel
prices  than in 2008, when an overdependence on trucks and sport-
utility vehicles tanked the automaker’s sales and led to record
losses, Brown said.  Profitable Cars  “They do still make more money on trucks and SUVs,” Brown
said. “But at least today, they’re making some profits on cars
and they have very competitive offerings, in particular in the
smaller car ranges.”  Ford’s U.S. car and light-truck sales rose 8.5 percent to
537,822 vehicles in the first quarter, according to Autodata
Corp. of Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey . The automaker’s U.S. market
share fell to 15.5 percent from 16.2 percent as Japanese
automakers restocked inventory and made a sales push following
last year’s production interruptions due to the earthquake.  Ford’s sales and earnings will pick up speed in the second
quarter, as new models such as the redesigned Fusion sedan and
Escape SUV begin to arrive, Johnson said.  Ford this month raised its forecast for industrywide U.S.
vehicle sales to a range of 14.5 million to 15 million,
including medium- and heavy-duty trucks. The company entered the
year predicting U.S. auto sales of 13.5 million to 14.5 million.  ‘Fast Start’  “The first quarter is off to a fast start,”  Mark Fields ,
Ford’s president of the Americas, said in an April 4 interview.
“It surprised the most astute economists.”  By borrowing $23.4 billion in late 2006, Ford avoided the
bailouts and bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC in 2009. The automaker
put up all major  assets  as collateral, including the Ford blue
oval logo.  Ford is on the verge of recovering those assets if another
major rating company raises the automaker to investment grade.
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service each rates Ford
as  one step  below that level.  Ford’s comeback has led to high expectations from
investors, Mikelic said.  “I don’t know anybody who is saying they’re expecting Ford
to post mediocre results,” he said. “The expectations have
risen now that they’ve done a pretty good job getting through
this crisis of the last few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  