-- Ford Revs Up Taurus SHO With Futuristic Makeover
-- B y   J a s o n   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ford-revs-up-taurus-sho-with-futuristic-makeover.html
The Kennedy brothers are alive. The
 Berlin Wall  is still standing, Toyota never became a household
name and the  Ford (F)  Taurus is still the best-selling car in
America.  These are the good makings of a science-fiction novel,
plotting an alternative timeline to our own. That’s what came to
mind when I first saw the 2013 Taurus SHO: Its designers seem to
have been living out their own parallel reality.  It’s big, solid and unabashedly American, ignoring nearly
all the design fads found in today’s sports sedans. An
automotive Polaroid of what could have been.  The original Taurus had its heyday in the mid-1980s, the
runaway hit for Ford that was innovative yet conservative.
Aerodynamic for its time, it had flush door handles and no
grill. Clever, but decidedly unflashy, a smart car for the
masses. Call it trickle-down autonomics.  It continued as the U.S.’s best-selling car into the next
decade, until a bungled redesign helped the  Toyota (7203)  Camry capture
the mantle in the late 1990s.  Flash forward to today: The 2013 model year is available
with four and six cylinders, with front and all-wheel-drive.
Starting at around $27,400, it’s got a grill and some flash. But
it’s only a niche sedan in the Ford lineup.  Face Lift  The most interesting model is the face-lifted SHO, which
stands for super high output. At $40,000 and with 365
horsepower, it’s the “sporty” Taurus, only available in AWD.  It’s got a heck of an engine, the 3.5-liter, twin-turbo,
EcoBoost V-6 with 350 pound-feet of torque. It runs on 91 octane
and gets 17 miles per gallon in the city and 25 on the highway.  The SHO doesn’t look sporty in any conventional sense. It
carries all its weight up top. The beltline is high, the side
windows are small, and the pillar which bisects the front and
rear doors is absurdly thick. The whole thing is best described
as stocky.  Especially when you put it next to the Audi A7 or the four-
door  BMW (BMW)  6 Series Gran Coupe recently shown at the New York auto
show. Those slinky sedans have impossibly low centers of gravity
and roofs which slope sharply downward, making for sexy
silhouettes but little headroom.  Beer Kegs  The Taurus’s roof only starts tapering behind the rear
passenger seats. Such styling is resolutely old-school, but
those riding in the back will be grateful for it. A full-size
car, it will fit five passengers, and the capacious trunk is big
enough to fit a couple of beer kegs stood on end.  The 2013 model has a new upright, more attitudinal grill
filled with black mesh with the Ford logo floating in the
center.  The SHO commands nearly as much road presence as a SUV. It
speaks of authority and power, and is vaguely cop-like. That
makes sense, as Ford’s new Police Interceptor is Taurus-based,
and will replace the venerable Crown Victoria as the vehicle
most likely to make you hit the brakes when speeding.  My pre-production test car was painted in a beguiling
“green gem metallic,” which shifted shades depending on the
light, a hue well suited to the SHO’s blunt shape.  It also came with optional 20-inch aluminum wheels and
performance-geared Michelin tires. Its grip was good even on wet
surfaces, and the rubber handled well during emergency lane
changes at highway speeds.  Smoky Brakes  The new Taurus also gets better brakes. The last time I
tested a SHO, the rotors were pouring smoke after ten minutes of
hard driving. Now they’re hearty and resilient.  Still, a sports car this is not. The SHO does not feel
buttoned up in the corners, nor does it suck down to the road at
speed. The ride is bouncy, like sitting on an over exuberant
pony. Crest a rise in the road and there’s an uncomfortable
sensation of floating before the suspension finally resettles.  The steering is lousy, hazy and overly boosted by
electronic assist.  This is not a brother to the Mustang, nor a riposte to the
Dodge Challenger or Chevy Camaro. It has no muscle-car
pretentions. Rather it brings to mind the latest Chrysler 300, a
sedan which also feels like a piece of Americana lifted from the
last century.  The 300’s high performance version, the SRT8, is a lot more
serious about speed, with a 6.4-liter Hemi V-8 with 470 hp.
What’s more, the Chrysler’s interior is warmer and more bespoke.  Brooding Interior  The inside of the Taurus is efficient if brooding. The dash
board extends into two separate hoods, like those over a kitchen
range, that hover over the gauges and the glove box.  The dashboard is high and the seating position upright,
giving the impression you’re ensconced in a deep cockpit. The
center console is a swath of black lacquer, buttons nestled
inside.  This fall, Ford will also be offering the 2013 Fusion, a
midsize sedan more in tune with modern car design. The front end
looks like an  Aston Martin ; the roof is sleek and sloping. It
will also be offered as hybrid and plug-in models. Expect the
Fusion to cannibalize a measure of Taurus sales.  In some alternate reality, the Taurus might be a hit. But
in this one, it just feels out of place.  The 2013 Ford Taurus SHO AWD at a Glance  Engine: 3.5-liter, twin turbo EcoBoost V-6 with 365
horsepower and 350 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about 5.7 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 17 city; 25 highway.  Price as tested: $42,995.  Best feature: That authoritative front end.  Worst feature: Bouncy ride.  Target buyer: The driver who wants a full-size sedan with
presence.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Martin Gayford reviews Ron
Mueck’s  art show  in  London :  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  Kindle .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 