-- France Unemployment Near 10%
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-04-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/france-unemployment-near-10-fueled-by-laws-election-omits-jobs.html
Tired of waits to fill orders and
lack of control over his Asian factories, Pierrick Haan, chief
executive officer of Dupont Medical, decided last year to return
production of some wheelchairs and medical equipment to  France .  The 150-year-old Dupont Medical created 20 jobs making
custom devices at a plant in central France -- and will stop
there. Faced with France’s stifling labor code, Haan probably
will send any additional production of standard equipment to
what he calls “Near France:” Tunisia, Bulgaria or  Romania .  “The cost of labor isn’t the main problem, it’s the
rigidities,” Haan said in an interview. “If you make a mistake
in your hiring plans, you can’t correct it.”  While polls show job creation and the economic crisis are
the  top issues  for French voters in next month’s second-round
election, neither President  Nicolas Sarkozy  nor Socialist
Francois Hollande are focusing on Haan’s concern. Companies say
the biggest obstacle to hiring is the “ Code du Travail ,” a
3,200-page labor rulebook that dictates everything from job
classifications to leave for training to the ability to fire.  The difficulty of complying results in minimal hiring,
economists say. There are now 2.9 million  people out of work  in
France, almost 10 percent of the workforce and the most in 12
years. France has lost more industrial jobs than any European
country over the past decade and risks falling further behind as
countries including  Italy  and  Spain  loosen their own rules.  ‘Exorbitant Costs’  “For the 100 employees we have in France, we have 10
employee representatives, for whom we have to organize weekly
meetings even when there is nothing to discuss,” Haan said.
“Every time a social security contribution changes, which is
frequently, we have to update software and send our HR people
for training. We can’t fire anyone without exorbitant costs and
procedures.”  Sarkozy and Hollande face off May 6 after Hollande won
28.6 percent and the president 27.2 percent in a 10-candidate
first round of voting on April 22. In Frouard, the town in
eastern France where Dupont Medical is based, Hollande won 32.9
percent while Sarkozy was backed by 19.4 percent of voters.
Anti-immigrant candidate Marine Le Pen had 22.6 percent.  The code sets hurdles for any company that seeks to shed
jobs when it’s turning a profit, dictates the terms of parental
leave and forces employers with more than 50 workers to organize
worker committees, provide lunch subsidies and organize annual
medical check-ups. It also offers judges scope to reverse staff
cuts years after they’re initiated if they don’t meet the rules
and makes some violations a criminal offense that could put
executives in jail.  Software Job Cuts  One such legal battle is being waged by software maker
Viveo Group, an arm of Geneva-based  Temenos Group AG. (TEMN)  Having
started required talks with the workers’ council in February
2010 to  cut  about a third of its 180-member staff, court records
show Viveo offered employees a voluntary departure plan in June
of that year as the council dragged its feet on evaluating it.  The workers’ council then went to court to block the cuts.
It won a ruling against the original plan in January 2011 on the
grounds that Viveo was forecasting an 18 percent increase in
sales, meaning its future didn’t depend on the cuts. France’s
 highest appeals court  is reviewing the decision and rules May 3.  “What holds back hiring in France is the lack of clarity
on how to legally cut jobs,” said Deborah David, a labor lawyer
at Jeantet Associes in Paris who has followed the case. If the
decision is upheld, Viveo will have to have to take back the
workers and hand over 2 1/2 years in back pay, she said.  Lingerie Layoffs  When courts don’t intervene, politicians often do. After
the owners of the Lejaby SAS lingerie factory in Yssingeaux,
eastern France, won court approval to fire about half their 450
employees in January and shift production to  Tunisia , they found
themselves thrust into the center of this year’s campaign.  Sent by Hollande to visit the plant, Socialist legislator
Arnaud Montebourg told the workers they “symbolized the
situation of the country.” He promised his party would work to
bring back jobs that have gone abroad over the past decade if it
won power.  Sarkozy vowed to save the plant and took credit for
orchestrating its takeover by Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessey
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , which is converting it to leather goods
production.  “Nothing would have been possible without the president,”
Higher Education Minister Laurent Wauquiez said Feb. 2. “He
used our employment and training policies, notably the training
and professional conversion plans, and his work was critical.”
Saving the factory was a “symbol of how we can succeed in
France,” he added.  Hiring Harder  The costs imposed by French regulation can even make hiring
difficult.  “The legal code is extremely complex and companies often
don’t know how to employ people and create jobs quickly,” said
Ludovic Subran, head of economic research at credit insurer
 Euler Hermes SA (ELE)  in Paris. “What they need is to hire easily and
temporarily. Once they have someone in the door on that basis,
they’re more likely to keep them on for the long term.”  Hollande makes no mention of labor regulations in his
platform, which seeks to generate jobs through increased
government hiring, such as creating 60,000 new teacher posts,
and tax incentives for companies. He said on April 25 that he
would act to counter “a parade of firings” expected after the
election if he wins office, adding that he understands the need
to make the labor market “more fluid” to revive growth.  Worker groups say the code itself isn’t the issue.  Complicated Cars  “If the code is complicated, it’s because our society is
complicated,” said Bernard Vivier, director of the Higher
Institute of Labor in Paris, which studies labor relations for
unions and companies. “The growing complexity represents a
society that is increasingly structured and organized. Cars are
much more complicated today than they were 40 years ago. Why
shouldn’t the labor code be?”  As president, Sarkozy sought to free up  job creation  by
cutting social charges and pushing companies to reach labor
accords outside of national contracts. But he rarely mentioned
those efforts in his re-election campaign, which focused on
immigration and security. Economic issues were largely framed as
pledges to cut France’s debt.  Sarkozy argued that French unemployment has risen less than
in many other European countries.  France’s unemployment  rate was
9.8 percent in the last quarter of 2011, up from a 25-year low
of 7.5 percent in the first quarter of 2008. That’s comparable
to Italy, where joblessness rose to 8.8 percent from 6.0
percent, while better than Spain, where it’s jumped to 22.9
percent from 8 percent.  The only major economy in Western Europe to buck the trend
is  Germany , where joblessness fell to 6.7 percent from a peak of
8.3 percent at the worst of the crisis in mid-2009.  German Labor Law  German unemployment  reached a postwar high of 12.1 percent
in March 2005, prompting street protests against then-Chancellor
 Gerhard Schroeder ’s package of labor-rule changes that included
limits on welfare payments and easier rules on firing.  And new governments in Spain and Italy have launched
overhauls of their labor markets, making it easier to hire and
fire workers.  “We have something in France that destroys work, and that
is the labor code,” said Jean-Francois Roubaud, head of medium-
sized-company lobbying group  CGPME  in Paris. “Companies don’t
want to hire because they can’t get rid of workers if things
don’t work out as planned.”  The restraints also have created distortions. France has
2.4 times as many companies with 49 employees as with 50, the
threshold at which firms must create three different worker
councils, introduce profit sharing and submit a restructuring
plan if they fire workers for economic reasons.  Creating Companies  France has about 1,500 companies with 48 employees and
about 1,600 companies with 49 employees, but only 660 with 50
and 500 with 51, according to a December 2011 report from state
statistical unit Insee.  French businesspeople often get around restraints by
creating new companies, rather than expanding existing ones.  “I can’t tell you how many times when I was minister I’d
meet an entrepreneur who would tell me about his companies,”
Thierry Breton, CEO of  Atos Origin SA (ATO)  and finance minister from
2005 to 2007, said at a Paris conference pm April 4. “I’d ask,
‘Why companies?’ He’d say, ‘Oh, I have several so that I can
keep them under 50.’ We have to review our labor code.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 