-- Freeing Boomers From Social Security Cuts Blows Up Math
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/freeing-boomers-from-social-security-cuts-blows-up-math.html
Young people may be the biggest
casualties of the U.S. Congress’s unwillingness to fix Social
Security.  Retiring  Baby Boomers  are swelling the program’s rolls,
with 10,000 turning 65 every day, according to the Pew Research
Center. By 2035, there will be only two workers paying taxes to
finance benefits for every retiree. While lawmakers have no
solution, they generally agree they can’t make significant cuts
for those in or near retirement.  The longer Congress waits to act, the more people will be
shielded -- and the more heavily cuts will fall on younger
Americans. The result could be a two-tiered system raising
questions about generational fairness, said Andrew Biggs, former
deputy commissioner of the  Social Security Administration .  “It’s like a seesaw -- if one side is up, the other side
has to be down,” he said. “Nobody wants to do the actual
things you have to do so you don’t screw your kids on this
stuff.”  The Social Security benefits math is an illustration of the
price of failing to address the long-anticipated retirement of
the Baby Boom generation.  The eldest of those 77 million Americans born between 1946
and 1964 became eligible for Social Security four years ago. The
basic problem with the benefits math is the number of retirees
in this generation is growing much faster than the number of
workers supporting them through the Social Security payroll tax.  Decades in the Making  The trend has been decades in the making. In 1965, for
example, 81 million workers were supporting 20 million
beneficiaries -- about a four-to-one ratio.  That will shrink this year to a ratio of 2.8 workers,
according to an annual report released this week by the Social
Security trustees. By 2035, the ratio will decline to 2 workers,
the trustees said, with 186 million workers and 91 million
Americans receiving benefits.  Neither Democrats nor Republicans have a plan to fix the
problem. House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s 2013 budget
proposal calls for overhauling the government’s other major
retirement program, Medicare, while suggesting that policymakers
offer ideas on Social Security. President  Barack Obama  has
expressed support for shoring up the program without proposing
specific solutions. The last major cuts to the program were made
in 1983.  Some lawmakers who have resisted making changes said the
trustees’ report, which showed the program’s trust fund will run
dry in 2033, emphasized they have time to consider solutions.  20 Years More  “The program will be fully funded for more than 20 years,
so we have time to find smart ways to improve it,” said Senate
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat whose
panel has jurisdiction over the program.  The trustees said once the  trust fund  is depleted, incoming
revenue will be enough to cover only three-quarters of scheduled
benefits. That means if Congress doesn’t act, after that
payments would be cut by 25 percent for all beneficiaries
including “the poor 95-year-old widow,” said  Chuck Blahous ,
one of the program’s trustees.  Lawmakers generally agree it’s unfair to make significant
cuts for current retirees because they’ve planned around the
current system and don’t have time to rebuild their nest eggs to
make up the difference from any cuts. According to AARP, the
advocacy group for the elderly, Social Security checks kept 35
percent of seniors out of poverty in 2010.  ‘Over a Lifetime’  “People make their decisions over a lifetime -- they do a
certain amount of saving, they do a certain amount of spending
on the assumption that they’ve earned this particular benefit,”
Blahous said. “We should strain every nerve and muscle to make
sure that the people already in retirement, whatever their
income level, don’t lose benefits they planned on.”  That’s one reason why Ryan’s Medicare overhaul wouldn’t
take effect until 2023 and would apply only to those currently
younger than 55. The chairmen of Obama’s debt-reduction
commission called for changing Social Security’s benefit formula
only for those retiring after 2016. They also proposed raising
the  retirement age  -- starting in 2027.  If lawmakers wait until 2033 to act and decide to exempt
those already on the rolls from cuts, they couldn’t make the
program’s finances balance even if they began eliminating
benefits for younger Americans, according to Blahous.  “That’s how crazily out of balance it is by then,” he
said. “The options before us in 2033 are just not feasible.”  Part of the reason for lawmakers’ inaction, even as they
debate overhauling Medicare,  is that it’s politically more
difficult to cut Social Security, said Marc Goldwein, policy
director of the Washington-based Committee for a Responsible
Federal Budget.  Differences From Medicare  That’s because with Medicare there are middle men. The
government pays doctors and hospitals and others to care for
seniors. If Congress cuts payments to them, seniors may not
notice. By contrast, with Social Security, there is just the
government and a check, and it’s harder for beneficiaries not to
notice the cuts.  “With Social Security, everyone is very clear on exactly
what they’re getting,” Goldwein said. “With Medicare, it’s
much more abstract.”  The irony may be that the longer Congress waits to address
the issue, the more wrenching the changes will need to be and
the more likely lawmakers will have to accept solutions they
don’t want, Blahous said.  “If you delay long enough, neither side gets what they
want,” he said. “If you delay long enough, then you have to
swallow tax increases that conservatives don’t want, and if you
delay long enough, you have to abandon a lot of the benefit
protections that progressives want. So everybody loses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  