-- Fresenius SE Bids $4.1 Billion to Buy Rhoen Klinikum
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-05-02T13:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/fresenius-se-offers-to-buy-rhoen-klinikum-for-4-1-billion.html
Fresenius SE offered to buy  Rhoen
Klinikum AG (RHK)  for 3.1 billion euros ($4.1 billion) to cement its
position as  Germany ’s biggest operator of private hospitals.  Fresenius plans a tender offer at 22.50 euros a share, 52
percent above yesterday’s closing price, the  Bad Homburg ,
Germany-based company said in a statement today. Rhoen Klinikum
Chairman Eugen Muench supports the sale and he and his wife will
tender their 12 percent stake, Fresenius said. Rhoen Klinikum
Chief Financial Officer Erik Hamann said the bid surprised
company executives, and the board will review the proposal.  The deal would boost Fresenius’s annual hospital sales to
about 6 billion euros, or 8 percent of the German market, and
allow “substantial” cost savings, Fresenius said. Some
investors may have preferred the company to build up businesses
with better growth and profitability prospects, such as the
Fresenius Kabi infusion-therapy operation or dialysis provider
Fresenius Medical Care AG, said Birgit Kulhoff of Rahn & Bodmer
Co.  “This looks like we’ll see a slower-growth company in the
future,” Kulhoff, a  fund manager  in Zurich whose portfolio
includes Fresenius SE shares, said in a telephone interview.  Fresenius rose 2.8 percent to close at 76.03 euros in
 Frankfurt , erasing a decline of as much as 7.2 percent. Rhoen
Klinikum surged 44 percent to close at 21.25 euros.  ‘All Due Care’  Rhoen Klinikum’s board will review the price and whether
the bid is in the interest of the company and employees, the
company said in a  statement . “We were made aware of this
announcement today with everybody else,” Hamann, the CFO, said
on a conference call with analysts. “As soon as we receive an
offer document, the management board and the supervisory board
of Rhoen Klinikum will exam it with all due care.”  Fresenius informed Rhoen Klinikum of its intention before
today, Joachim Weith, a Fresenius spokesman, said in a phone
interview. The smaller company’s reaction is “constructive and
open,” Weith said. “Everybody is benefiting from the deal. We
haven’t received a negative signal.” Fresenius expects to make
a detailed bid document public in the second half of May, and
the offer will run through June, the company said.  Public Hospitals  Fresenius Chief Executive Officer Ulf Mark Schneider, asked
on a conference call why the offer wasn’t recommended by the
Rhoen Klinikum board, didn’t answer. “My understanding is that
when it comes to the supervisory board, there was a resolution
that it would look constructively at our offer,” he said.  Muench founded Rhoen Klinikum, based in Bad Neustadt an der
Saale, in 1973. The company helped begin a push to save money in
the industry by buying public hospitals and consolidating
administrative and other functions.  The founder won’t tender his shares to any other potential
bidders, he said in the Fresenius statement. “I believe in the
growth prospects of the combined company and do not plan to sell
my shares to potential third parties,” Muench said.  About 30 percent of German hospitals are now privately
owned, while 32 percent are in the hands of municipalities and
38 percent held by religious institutions, according to Martin Brunninger, an analyst for Nomura International Plc in  London .
Today’s deal may mark the end of the privatization trend as
governments seek to keep the remaining university hospitals and
other city assets public, Brunninger said in a phone interview.  “We are close to the limit,” he said. “In order to
consolidate and get critical mass, because there is limited room
for privatization, Fresenius had to buy a larger group.”  Forecasts Raised  Three-quarters of Germany’s residents will be within an
hour’s drive of a Fresenius hospital after the deal, Schneider
said in the statement.  Fresenius will finance the acquisition with a syndicated
loan, a bond issue and equity instruments of as much as 1
billion euros. The company said it has financing commitments
from Deutsche Bank AG,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  Fitch Ratings
today affirmed Fresenius’s BB+ rating.  The bid values Rhoen Klinikum at 11 times this year’s
forecast earnings, including net debt, Fresenius said.  Fresenius also raised its forecasts today, saying it
expects net income to increase 12 percent to 15 percent this
year, excluding currency effects, up from a previous prediction
of 8 percent to 11 percent. The sales gain will be at the upper
end of the targeted range of 10 percent to 13 percent, it said.  Fresenius, which  owns  31 percent of Fresenius Medical Care,
said it doesn’t plan to sell shares of the dialysis company to
fund the Rhoen Klinikum deal.  Combining With Helios  Fresenius plans to combine Rhoen Klinikum with its Helios
hospital business. It also owns a health-care services
operation, Vamed, and the infusion-therapy and clinical-
nutrition distributor Fresenius Kabi.  Rhoen Klinikum is being advised by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
Berenberg Bank. Fresenius is getting advice from Deutsche Bank
and the company’s legal adviser is  Hengeler Mueller .  Fresenius’s offer is contingent on receiving at least 90
percent of Rhoen Klinikum shares in the offer, and on winning
approval from antitrust regulators. Rhoen Klinikum’s articles of
incorporation require 90 percent for a deal to go through,
Fresenius said. The company may need to sell individual
hospitals in regions where there is overlap due to antitrust
concerns, Weith said.  Fresenius said it hopes to close the purchase in the third
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  