-- FTC Hires Ex-Fannie Mae Counsel to Run Google Probe
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-04-27T18:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ftc-hires-ex-fannie-mae-counsel-to-run-google-probe.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
hired a top Washington litigator to run its antitrust
investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , signaling the agency may be
preparing a lawsuit against the world’s largest search engine.  The FTC is bringing in Beth Wilkinson, a partner with Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, who is known for winning
the death sentence against Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh
and litigating for companies including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM)  General counsel of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  from
2006 to 2008, Wilkinson, 49, has never lost a case.  “Historically, the FTC and the  Justice Department  bring in
outside counsel only in the most high-profile and complicated
cases, and only when they’re really serious about proceeding,”
said Samuel Miller, senior counsel with Sidley Austin LLP in  San
Francisco , who was tapped to lead the department’s antitrust
case against Microsoft Corp. in 1994.  Google disclosed in June that the FTC had opened a broad
antitrust investigation of its business practices. The FTC is
focusing on whether Google unfairly ranks search results to
favor its own businesses and increased advertising rates for
competitors, people familiar with the probe told Bloomberg News
at the time.  Android Probe  The agency also is examining whether the  Mountain View ,
California-based company is using its control of the Android
mobile operating system to discourage smartphone makers from
using rivals’ applications, and whether search results that
include the new Google+ social-networking service violate
antitrust laws, the people said.  “We are delighted to have someone of her caliber helping
us on such an important matter,” said Rich Feinstein, director
of the FTC’s Bureau of Competition.  He said no conclusion has been reached on whether to bring
a lawsuit and no decision is “imminent.” He declined to
comment further on the investigation.  Google spokeswoman Mistique Cano declined to comment on
Wilkinson’s hiring.  The FTC is hiring Wilkinson, who will be paid a $155,000
annual salary for the project, as the European Commission is
poised to decide on its own antitrust investigation of Google.
European Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said April 23
that a decision is expected soon.  Other outside litigators brought in by antitrust enforcers
include  David Boies , chairman of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP,
who was hired to lead the Justice Department’s second antitrust
case against Microsoft in 1998.  Sandy Litvack, a lawyer with  Hogan Lovells  in Washington
and a former head of the Justice Department’s antitrust
division, was hired by the department in 2008 to lead its review
of a proposed agreement between Google and Yahoo! Inc. The joint
venture was dropped after the department threatened a lawsuit to
block it.  AT&T Case  Most recently, the Justice Department hired Los Angeles-
based lawyer Glenn Pomerantz, a partner at Munger, Tolles &
Olson LLP, to bolster the trial team working on the lawsuit
against AT&T Inc.’s acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc. -- a deal
the companies dropped in December.  “If you’ve got a big-time litigator, you must at least be
considering bringing a serious case,” said Gary Reback, an
antitrust lawyer at Carr & Ferrell LLP in Menlo Park,
 California , who represents shopping websites including
ShopCity.com, that have complained to the FTC and the European
Commission about Google’s business practices.  Wilkinson, a former U.S. Army captain, has the skills to
put the complex issues in the case in a way that people can
understand, Reback said.  “For a case that involves technology and antitrust, it’s
important to have someone who can take it out of legalese and
have it make sense,” Reback said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  