-- Galaxy to Invest $2.1 Billion to Expand Resort in Macau
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-04-26T09:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/galaxy-to-invest-hk-16-billion-to-expand-macau-resort-correct-.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,
the  Macau  casino operator that more than tripled earnings last
year, plans to invest about HK$16 billion ($2.1 billion) to
almost double the size of its resort in the world’s largest
gambling hub.  The second phase of the company’s Galaxy Macau resort on
the territory’s Cotai strip will add as many as 500 gaming
tables and offer 1,300 more hotel rooms, the company said in a
statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today. The resort, which
will span 1 million square meters, is scheduled to open by the
middle of 2015 and construction has started in the first
quarter, it said.  Galaxy’s expansion will intensify competition in the former
Portuguese colony where rivals including  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  Wynn
Macau Ltd. (1128) , and  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  are  planning
projects to draw more Chinese tourists. Gamblers from China’s
mainland have driven up revenue for Macau casino operators.  “The phase two project is bringing online what the market
needs,” said Grant Govertsen, an analyst at Union Gaming Group.
The project “cements” Galaxy’s presence as the second-largest
casino operator in Macau’s Cotai Strip, he said.  Galaxy shares rose 3.7 percent to HK$23.75 at the close of
Hong Kong trading. The benchmark  Hang Seng  Index gained 0.8
percent. The company’s shares have surged 67 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent gain for the Hang Seng.  Luxury Stores  Galaxy, founded by  Hong Kong  property tycoon Lui Che Woo,
opened the $1.9 billion Galaxy Macau resort in May last year.
The project helped more than triple its profit in 2011. The
expansion will add to its existing 450 gaming tables in the
resort. Galaxy also operates casino-hotels such as Starworld
hotel, Waldo and Grand Waldo casinos in the former Portuguese
colony.  The new phase will add luxury stores and 1,300 rooms from
the JW Marriott and the Ritz-Carlton, taking the total to 3,600
rooms across five hotels on the Cotai Strip, modeled on the  Las
Vegas Strip .  “These developments will serve as a catalyst for future
growth and diversification of Macau’s tourism and leisure
market,” the casino operator said in a statement. Galaxy plans
to fund the project through cash and debt, and doesn’t plan to
issue equity, it said.  The company now has HK$7.7 billion cash on hand, chairman
Lui Che Woo said in a press conference, as well as HK$6 billion
free cash flow generated from operation, chief financial officer
Robert Drake said in an interview today.  Rival Adelson  Billionaire Sheldon Adelson’s Hong Kong listed unit, Sands
 China , opened the first phase of Sands Cotai Central on the
Cotai Strip earlier this month. The new property will have more
than 400 gaming tables and about 5,800 hotel rooms when
completed in 2013 under the brands Conrad, Sheraton and Holiday
Inn. The company already operates the island’s largest resort,
the Venetian Macau.  Macau is the world’s  biggest casino hub , with $34 billion
in gambling revenue last year, almost six times the $6.07
billion of  Las Vegas , according to figures provided by the Macau
and Nevada authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  