-- Geithner Urges China to Loosen Hold on Finance System
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-04-26T21:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/geithner-urges-china-to-loosen-hold-on-finance-system.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called on China to loosen state control of its
financial system and to raise the ceiling on deposit interest
rates.  “Financial sector reforms are critical to China’s
continued growth -- and that growth in turn represents
tremendous opportunity for American companies and workers,”
Geithner said in a speech in  San Francisco  today. “Financial
reform in China will help reduce one of the main advantages
China’s state-owned enterprises have in competing with U.S.
companies.”  Geithner, 50, was speaking ahead of his trip to China next
week to meet with officials of the world’s second-largest
economy. The U.S. will raise longstanding issues from the value
of China’s currency to intellectual property protection.  Geithner said the U.S. has made “significant progress” on
its objectives in  China , including almost doubling exports of
U.S. goods since early 2009. He praised China for actions such
as committing to improving protection and enforcement of U.S.
intellectual property rights.  China also has opened up to foreign industries including
auto-liability insurance and bond underwriting, he said.  “Despite this important progress, we have unfinished
business and new challenges ahead,” said Geithner, who has
studied Chinese and lived in China.  ‘Save Excessively’  “China’s financial system is still dominated by large
state-owned banks, who favor lending to large state enterprises,
with comprehensive controls on deposit interest rates,”
Geithner said. That system limits the returns of consumers to
below inflation, “forcing them to save excessively” and
restricting consumption, he said.  “Raising the ceiling on deposit rates will also allow
Chinese households to earn a higher return on their savings,
both increasing their income and reducing their need to save,
thus increasing their ability to consume goods and services,
including from the  United States ,” Geithner said at the
Commonwealth Club of  California .  Geithner also said that while he welcomes China’s moves to
make the currency more flexible, “the process of correcting the
misalignment of the  exchange rate  remains incomplete, and the
Chinese currency needs to appreciate further against the dollar
and the other major currencies.”  China said April 14 it will increase the yuan’s trading
band to 1 percent from 0.5 percent, the first widening since
2007.  Geithner also said China’s state-owned enterprises “still
compete with a range of unfair advantages in the Chinese and
global markets. They have privileged access to cheap land,
resources and credit.” Putting resources into the state
companies “while many of China’s most dynamic private firms are
starved for credit, ultimately hurts  China’s economy .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  