-- George Doty, Who Guarded Goldman Sachs Purse, Dies at 94
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-04-26T20:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/george-doty-who-guarded-goldman-sachs-purse-dies-at-94.html
George Doty, an accountant by
training who helped establish Goldman, Sachs & Co.’s rigorous
rules on finances and conduct as partner in charge of
administration for two decades until 1984, has died. He was 94.  He died on April 24 at his home in Rye,  New York , following
a long illness, according to a death  notice  released today by
Graham Funeral Home in Rye.  As overseer of the firm’s purse strings, Doty handled
financial matters of all sizes, ranging from the requisite
capital contributions by new partners to expenditures on office
furniture.  “Facetiously, we used to call him the ‘no’ partner, and
the rest of us probably were ‘yes’ partners,” John C. Whitehead, 90, whose 37-year tenure at Goldman Sachs culminated
in eight years as co-head of the firm, said today in an
interview. “George was the cautionary voice: ‘Have you thought
of this? Have you thought of that? What if such-and-such
happens?’ He was a go-slow, be-careful partner, very valuable in
helping make the firm’s decisions.”  Outside  Wall Street , Doty, who was Catholic, was known as a
major philanthropist, particularly to religious causes and
institutions.  Supporting Catholic Groups  He and his wife of 63 years, Marie, who died in 2008,
“have been especially good to Catholic concerns for alleviating
poverty, strengthening higher education and supporting family
life,” the Catholic Near East Welfare Association, a papal
agency that promotes Christian unity and provides humanitarian
assistance, said today in a  blog posting .  At  Fordham University , the Jesuit institution from which he
graduated in 1938, he was “the man who has given more
consistently than anyone in the university’s history,”
according to a  2010 article  on the school’s website. He was a
former trustee at the New York-based institution.  Doty’s path to Wall Street came through being a partner at
Lybrand, Ross Brothers & Montgomery, the accounting firm that is
now part of PricewaterhouseCoopers. New York-based  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
was one of Doty’s client accounts.  He also knew Whitehead from weekly meetings of their Naval
Reserve unit.  “We had been having long talks about how to build up a
truly great professional firm,” Doty told Charles D. Ellis for
“The Partnership,” his 2008  book  on the firm. “We got along
well and I felt he really had something going at Goldman
Sachs.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is now the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank 
by assets.  ‘All About Control’  At Goldman, “Doty was all about control, and for him
financial control came first,” Ellis wrote. “Expenses were
watched closely. All partners’ tax returns were either done
through the firm or turned in promptly for careful review by the
firm.”  As an experienced auditor, Doty was on alert for any
corner-cutting or cheating and “knew that the best way to
prevent big trouble is to be persistently diligent on small
troubles,” Ellis wrote.  In the late 1970s, Doty managed the firm’s relocation from
55 Broad Street. After mulling sites elsewhere in  Manhattan , he
and his colleagues decided to stay close to Wall Street and
build at 85 Broad, which would be the firm’s  famously unflashy 
home for three decades until 2010.  ‘Everyone’s an Equal’  Under Doty, function easily trumped form. “When we set up
an enormous trading room, we deliberately built it on one floor
and had only one men’s room,” he told Ellis. “Standing side by
side at urinals, everyone’s an equal.” He said he’d walk to the
restroom slowly, “so it was easy to follow me” if you had a
concern or suspicion to pass along.  William D. Cohan, in “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs
Came to Rule the World,” said Doty served as a counterbalance
to the “risk-taking tendencies” of Gustave “Gus” Levy, who
ran the firm’s trading department before becoming senior partner
in 1969.  Doty told Cohan that  Sidney Weinberg , the senior partner,
and Walter Sachs, another partner, “used to be scared of Gus
for taking them over the cliff because he was a better risk
taker in the markets than they really had the stomach for. I was
brought in at least partly as the counterbalance and to try and
prevent us from getting too exposed.”  Starting a Career  George Espy Doty Sr. was born on Feb. 15, 1918, in
Manhattan, the fourth of six children of George E. Doty, a
doctor, and the former Lillian Bergen, according to the death
notice.  He graduated from the private Collegiate School in
Manhattan in 1934 and earned an undergraduate degree in 1938
from Fordham and a master’s degree from  Columbia University  in
1939. He worked at Price Waterhouse and General Motors Corp.
before enlisting in the U.S. Navy in World War II.  He worked for 17 years at Lybrand, reaching senior partner,
before joining Goldman Sachs in November 1964. He retired in
1984, becoming a limited partner. He is listed as one of 27
“senior directors” of the firm -- former employees who may be
called on as advisers in their fields of expertise -- in the
latest annual report.  He was a founding member and former chairman of the
 American Federation for Aging Research , which funds and supports
work in the field of geriatric research and medicine.  Doty’s family has other Goldman ties. His two sons, George
Jr. and William, worked at the firm, and William’s wife, Jana
Hale Doty, is a retired partner. Elizabeth Doty, a daughter of
George Jr., works in the firm’s London office, in the
fundamental strategies group.  Survivors include his children, Anne Marie Paine of
Fairfield,  Connecticut ; Barbara Doty of Sag Harbor, New York;
Virginia Doty of  New York City ; George of New York City; and
William of Harrison, New York, as well as 16 grandchildren and
nine great-grandchildren, according to the death notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  