-- German Note Yield Drops to Record on Confidence, Spain Concern
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-26T16:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/german-bonds-snap-drop-before-european-economic-confidence-data.html
German bonds gained, with two-year
note yields dropping to a record, as euro-area  economic
confidence  declined and  Spain ’s prime minister said his
country’s ability to fund itself is at risk.  Germany’s cost to borrow for two years dropped to as low as
0.089 percent, almost the same yield as three-month Treasury
bills. Ten-year bunds advanced after the country’s inflation
rate slowed to a 14-month low, boosting the appeal of fixed-
income securities. Spanish bonds fell as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said more austerity is needed to cover funding needs and
avoid needing a bailout.  “The fall in German yields confirms that markets are
becoming more nervous again,” said Niels From, chief analyst at
Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “The market is worried about the
macroeconomic challenges in Spain. Euro-region sentiment
surprised on the downside so that confirms that from a
macroeconomic perspective nothing is improving in  Europe .”  Germany’s two-year yield declined three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 0.09 percent at 5 p.m. London time.
The 0.25 percent note due in March 2014 gained 0.055, or 55 euro
cents per 1,000-euro ($1,321) face amount, to 100.29. The 10-
year yield fell six basis points to 1.68 percent.  The yield on the three-month U.S.  Treasury bill  was little
changed at 0.086 percent.  Sentiment Worsens  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 92.8 from a revised 94.5 in March, the
European Commission said in Brussels. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast a reading of 94.2. A gauge of sentiment among
European manufacturers dropped to minus 9 from minus 7.1.  German  government securities  also gained after Deutsche
Bank AG, the nation’s largest lender, said first-quarter profit
slid 33 percent and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker, said yesterday the European market was “weaker than
expected,” spurring demand for safer assets.  German inflation, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, slowed to 2.2 percent in April from 2.3 percent in
March, according to the Federal Statistics Office. That’s the
lowest since February 2011.  Spanish bonds declined after the  International Monetary
Fund  said yesterday the nation may need to use more public money
to shore up its financial sector.  “What if the same thing happens to us as to those that
haven’t been able to fund their debt on the markets, or find
money to cover their deficit?” Rajoy told reporters today
following a meeting in  Madrid  with NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen.  Spanish Bonds  Spain’s 10-year  yield  climbed three basis points to 5.83
percent, widening the spread over similar-maturity German bunds
by nine basis points to 415 basis points. Spanish 10-year yields
have risen above 6 percent on seven days this month, reflecting
investor concern the nation’s borrowing costs may reach levels
that prompted bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Italian bonds pared earlier losses after borrowing costs
increased at a bill sale.  Italy’s Treasury sold 8.5 billion euros of six-month bills
at a yield of 1.772 percent, up from 1.119 percent at the
previous auction on March 28. Investors bid for 1.71 times the
amount offered, versus 1.51 times last month.  “Although the Italian Tesoro had to pay more to get the
paper away, Italian bonds remained quite steady as the target
volume was achieved which is what the markets were primarily
focused on,” Sercan Eraslan, a fixed-income strategist at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,  Germany , wrote in a note to clients.  Italy’s 10-year yield was little changed at 5.64 percent
after rising as high as 5.71 percent.  German bonds returned 13 percent over the past year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italy’s securities
gained 1.5 percent, and Spain’s have lost 1 percent.  Volatility in Dutch securities was the highest in euro-
region markets, according to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and
10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps compiled by
Bloomberg. The Dutch 10-year yield fell eight basis points to
2.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  