-- Five German States Say Inflation Slowed in April on Energy
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-04-26T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/german-state-of-saxony-says-inflation-rate-fell-to-13-month-low.html
Inflation in five German states
eased in April as energy prices rose at a slower pace.  Inflation rates declined in Saxony, Hesse, North Rhine-
Westphalia, Baden-Wuerttemberg and Bavaria, the states’
statistics offices said today. Brandenburg’s rate held steady.  Economists forecast that  German inflation , calculated using
a harmonized European Union method, slowed to 2.2 percent from
2.3 percent, according to the median of 22 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey . The Federal Statistics Office will
release that report, based on data from the six states, later
today.  “In the short term, everything depends on the development
of oil prices,” said  Joerg Lueschow , head of economics at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “If oil prices are going to sink
slightly, the inflation rate is probably going to fall below 2
percent in the second half of the year.”  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday
softened his tone on the inflation outlook in the 17-nation euro
area after  oil prices  eased and the sovereign debt crisis
worsened, threatening to derail the region’s nascent economic
recovery. Still, price pressures may build in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, as unemployment at a two-decade low helps
workers win bigger pay increases and boosts consumer spending.  In Saxony, household energy costs rose 5.2 percent in the
year, with gas 7.5 percent more expensive and heating oil 6.9
percent dearer. Fuel prices were up 5.2 percent. Seasonal foods
such as fresh vegetables were 2.7 percent cheaper than in April
last year. Consumer prices increased 0.1 percent from March.  ECB Changes View  The price of crude oil has dropped 5 percent in the last
two months.  The ECB in March forecast inflation of 2.4 percent this
year, in breach of its 2 percent limit, even as it predicted the
region’s economy will contract 0.1 percent. Euro-area inflation
was 2.7 percent in March.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday that
policy makers’ assessment of inflation risks has changed.  “Because we see everywhere economic growth is slowing down
a little bit, so we have a different perspective now on the risk
for inflation coming from oil and commodities compared to
earlier,” he told reporters in Luxembourg. “We believe that
oil prices will not continue to go up.”  “Risks to the outlook for price developments are broadly
balanced,” Draghi told lawmakers yesterday. Three weeks ago he
warned of “upside risks.”  IMF Forecasts  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann nevertheless said on
April 23 that the International Monetary Fund’s forecast for
euro-area inflation to average 2 percent this year and slow to
1.6 percent in 2013 may be too optimistic.  “Taking into account rising energy prices and robust  core
inflation , prices could rise faster than the IMF expects,”
Weidmann said. “Even if we are concerned about the impact on
the peripheral countries, monetary policy makers must do what is
necessary once upside risks for euro-area inflation increase.”  Inflation slowed the most in Baden-Wuerttemberg, where the
rate dropped to 1.9 percent from 2.4 percent in March. The state
said inflation was damped by the one-off impact of the abolition
of university tuition fees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  