-- Glaxo’s Votrient Gains U.S. Approval for Deadly Sarcomas
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-26T21:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/glaxo-s-votrient-gains-u-s-approval-for-deadly-sarcomas.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  won U.S.
clearance to expand marketing of its 2-year-old kidney-cancer
pill Votrient for rare malignancies known as soft-tissue
sarcomas.  The Food and Drug Administration approved the drug for
patients with tumors in tissues such as muscle, fat or blood
vessels who have had chemotherapy, the agency said today in a
 statement .  Glaxo, based in London, won FDA approval in 2009 for
Votrient, also known as pazopanib, as a treatment for advanced
renal-cell carcinoma.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Sutent and Nexavar from
Bayer AG and  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  are among competing
kidney cancer drugs. Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, may
earn almost 148 million pounds ($231 million) from Votrient this
year, according to the  average estimate  of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Soft tissue sarcomas are a diverse group of tumors and
approval of Votrient for this general class of tumors is the
first in decades,” said  Richard Pazdur , director of the Office
of Hematology and Oncology Products in FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, in the statement.  While there are more than 50 types of soft-tissue sarcomas,
they represent about 1 percent of U.S. cancer cases, according
to  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York. About 20
percent of people diagnosed with the tumors are younger than 35,
according to the  Sarcoma Alliance , a nonprofit patient advocacy
group in Mill Valley, California.  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)  are seeking FDA
approval for an experimental soft-tissue sarcoma drug called
ridaforolimus that may compete with Votrient. Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based Merck is the second-biggest U.S.
drugmaker after Pfizer.  Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker, and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
the world’s largest health-products company, are among others
developing sarcoma treatments, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  