-- Goldman Sachs Banker in Probe for More Than Two Years
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/goldman-sachs-banker-in-california-said-to-be-target.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker
Matthew Korenberg has been the subject of a U.S.  insider-trading 
investigation for 2 1/2 years related to Galleon Group LLC, his
lawyer said.  Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles are investigating
Korenberg, a banker at Goldman Sachs’s San Francisco office, and
Paul Yook, a former Galleon fund manager, for insider-trading
involving transactions in the health-care industry, said a
person, who didn’t want to be identified because the
investigation isn’t public.  Korenberg hasn’t been accused of giving inside tips
directly to Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , said John Hueston, the banker’s lawyer in Los Angeles.  “There was an investigation of insider trading but it had
nothing to do with Raj Rajaratnam,” Hueston said yesterday in a
phone interview. “That’s very significant. He is still at
Goldman Sachs and he has done nothing wrong and Goldman Sachs
has stood behind him and continues to stand behind him.”  Goldman Sachs has been aware of the allegations for more
than two years, conducted its own investigation and has fully
cooperated with the U.S., said  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for
the New York-based bank, in an e-mail. Korenberg “remains
actively employed,” DuVally said.  Among the transactions believed to be under investigation
is  Abbott Laboratories Inc. (ABT) ’s acquisition of Advanced Medical
Optics Inc. in 2009, the person familiar with the investigation
said. Korenberg worked on the Goldman Sachs team that advised
Advanced Medical Optics, according to The Deal magazine.  SEC Settlement  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last year
reached a settlement with four people, including former Major
League Baseball player Doug DeCinces, who were accused of
getting inside tips about the deal and buying Advanced Medical
shares.  The source of the information wasn’t disclosed in court
filings and was only described as an Advanced Medical employee
“directly involved” in the transaction. When the settlement
was announced in August, the SEC said its investigation was
continuing.  The existence of the  California  investigation was
disclosed in court proceedings in  New York  involving  Rajat Gupta , the former Goldman Sachs director who’s accused of
passing illegal tips about Goldman Sachs and other companies to
Rajaratnam.  Illegal Tips  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s lawyer, said federal prosecutors in
New York notified him this month that a Goldman Sachs employee
was under investigation by federal authorities in California for
passing illegal tips to Rajaratnam. The person, who wasn’t
identified, was the third person at the bank alleged to have
played a role in insider trading related to Galleon.  Gupta is accused leaking illegal tips to Rajaratnam about
the bank as well as  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also a
director. He pleaded not guilty to the charges and is scheduled
to go on trial May 21.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, in New York, who is
presiding over Gupta’s case, had directed that prosecutors
disclose the names of other Goldman Sachs employees who could be
the source of inside information for Rajaratnam.  In January, prosecutors said that Rajaratnam had another
source who passed him inside information, a Goldman Sachs
executive, who Rakoff dubbed “Mr. X.” Prosecutors said the
executive passed illegal tips to Rajaratnam about  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Intel Corp. (INTC)   Neither of Rajaratnam’s two other tippers has been publicly
identified by the U.S. Naftalis has asserted that the “wrong
man” is on trial and has said he will use the information about
other tippers to defend his client at trial. He declined to
comment on the identity of the two other tippers saying their
identities remain under seal.  Gupta Trial  Korenberg didn’t work on any of the deals involved in the
Gupta case and has never been investigated for passing alleged
tips to Gupta or Rajaratnam, Hueston said.  “These are entirely false allegations,” Hueston said.  “The multiyear investigation that he has been involved with
has resulted in nothing,” Hueston said. “He has never tipped
any information, he was never alleged to have tipped any inside
information. He has had a distinguished career at Goldman
Sachs.”  Hueston declined to comment on the nature of the
investigation involving Korenberg.  ‘Found Nothing’  “I’m not going to elevate the insignificance of that
investigation that’s gone on now for more than 2 1/2 years and
has found nothing,” he said.  Korenberg’s identity was reported earlier by the New York
Times.  Yook co-founded Sedna Capital Management LLC with
Rajaratnam’s brother, Rengan in 2004. The two men returned to
Galleon in 2007, where Yook managed the Galleon Health Sciences
Fund.  Yook didn’t return a call yesterday to a number listed
under his name in New York. Laura Eimiller, a spokeswoman for
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in  Los Angeles , declined to
comment on the investigation. Naftalis, Gupta’s lawyer, declined
to comment on Korenberg.  The unidentified tipper “allegedly gave material,
nonpublic information to Mr. Raj Rajaratnam,” Naftalis said at
the hearing. “We obviously would request of the government to
get us any and all information relating to this additional
source that Mr. Raj Rajaratnam had at Goldman Sachs of nonpublic
information as soon as possible.”  Rajaratnam’s Brother  Yook and Rengan Rajaratnam were the subject of an insider-
trading investigation by the SEC that led to the Galleon
prosecution, prosecutors and regulators said at a 2010 pretrial
hearing in Rajaratnam’s case.  Yook was questioned under oath by regulators as part of the
investigation. Lindi Beaudreault, a lawyer for both funds, was
asked about Yook’s questioning under oath by the SEC during that
probe, which didn’t result in criminal charges or a civil suit.  “At any time during Mr. Yook’s deposition, did he admit to
engaging in insider trading?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter asked Beaudreault.  “I am sure he didn’t,” Beaudreault said.  “At any time during his deposition did he describe any
suspicion that he had of insider trading?” Streeter asked.  “I don’t really remember about his deposition,” she said.  Prosecutors said Sedna had come under scrutiny for a trade
in  Align Technology Inc. (ALGN)  in which the fund earned $4 million.  Yook was questioned about the trade in a joint interview
with the SEC and FBI agents.  ‘Incredibly Nervous’  “This was the first time that Sedna traded ALGN,” B.J.
Kang, an FBI agent who led the criminal investigation, testified
at the pretrial hearing. “The SEC interviewed Yook and Mr. Yook
denied any wrongdoing. Mr. Yook was incredibly nervous during
his testimony,” Kang said.  Since 2009, insider-trading and securities fraud charges
have been filed against at least 64 people in the U.S.
investigation. At least 59 people have either pleaded guilty or
been convicted at trial. They include Rajaratnam, who is serving
an 11-year prison term.  Goldman Sachs named Korenberg on a list of 272 managing
directors in November 2009.  A woman carrying a white dog at Korenberg’s brown, two-
story home in the Pacific Heights neighborhood of  San Francisco ,
said, “Sorry” and closed the door when asked for comment about
the investigation. Korenberg bought the 2,640-square-foot, four-
bedroom home built in 1900, for $2.6 million in 2010, according
to real-estate website blockShopper.com.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  