-- Google Street View Investigation by U.S. Declared Closed
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/google-tells-u-s-regulator-it-cooperated-on-privacy-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said federal
prosecutors closed an investigation last May into the company’s
use of custom-equipped autos to collect wireless data in its
Street View project.  The U.S.  Justice Department  concluded last year that “it
would not pursue a case for violation of the Wiretap Act,”
Google said yesterday in a filing with the Federal
Communications Commission.  The commission proposed on April 13 to fine Google $25,000
for delaying the agency’s probe into Street View, which sends
cars to photograph buildings and homes in neighborhoods. The
company said yesterday that it acted in good faith and will pay
the FCC’s penalty to conclude the inquiry.  “Google has cooperated fully with investigations around
the globe,” the  Mountain View , California-based company said in
the filing.  “In promising to pay the bureau’s penalty, the company has
rightly admitted wrongdoing,” Tammy Sun, an FCC spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. “Going forward, important concerns about the
privacy of unencrypted Wi-Fi communications remain.”  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  Google Delayed Inquiry  The FCC found Google had delayed its inquiry into data
collected with custom-equipped cars that cruised streets and
took in wireless streams from homes and businesses.  For three years starting in May 2007, the cars collected
content from wireless networks that wasn’t needed for that
project, according to the FCC’s April 13 findings. Google
gathered e-mail and text messages, passwords, Internet-usage
history and “other highly sensitive personal information,” the
FCC said.  Google said yesterday it “grounded” its Street View cars
upon learning of the unwanted data collection and has cooperated
with investigations.  Google, owner of the largest Internet search engine, has
come under mounting scrutiny from regulators over how it handles
information.  In October 2010, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said it
ended its investigation of Street View after the company said it
would improve privacy safeguards. Last year, Google agreed to 20
years of independent privacy audits to settle claims with the
FTC that it deceived users and violated its own privacy policies
with the Buzz social network. Yesterday the FTC said it has
hired Beth Wilkinson, former general counsel of  Fannie Mae , to
run its antitrust investigation of Google.  ‘Thorough Examination’  The FCC probe followed the trade commission closing its
Street View investigation and the Justice Department “conducted
and long ago completed its own thorough examination of the
facts,” Google said in yesterday’s FCC filing.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center, which requested
the FCC investigation, isn’t satisfied and will seek information
from the Justice Department,  Marc Rotenberg , executive director
the Washington-based policy group that focuses on consumer
privacy issues, said in an interview.  “We don’t know what the  Department of Justice  has
determined,” Rotenberg said. The Justice Department may have a
“very different” characterization, he said.  “Google downloaded the private communications of millions
of users with Wi-Fi routers in the  United States ,” Rotenberg
said. “That is not permissible under the federal wiretap act.
It can’t be.”  The FCC said April 13 that it had decided not to penalize
Google for the Street View activities, with the penalty assessed
for not cooperating in the investigation. Communications and
wiretap law were unclear and a Google worker the agency
identified as “Engineer Doe” had declined to testify, the FCC
said.  The FCC didn’t repeat an initial request to speak to
Engineer Doe once Google reported that the worker asserted his
constitutional right not to cooperate, the company said.  Google shares rose 0.9 percent to $615.47 yesterday at the
New York close. They’re down 4.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net  or
Todd Shields at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  