-- Grassley Presses Schapiro on SEC’s Treatment of Whistle-Blowers
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-04-26T18:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/grassley-presses-schapiro-on-sec-s-treatment-of-whistle-blowers.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  is facing questions from the
top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee about the
agency’s protection of whistle-blowers.  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  wrote a letter to Schapiro
yesterday asking for details about how the SEC handles
information provided by informants. The letter follows a report
in The Wall Street Journal yesterday that during an
investigation of Pipeline Trading Systems LLC an SEC lawyer
showed a whistle-blower’s notes to company executives.  The executives were able to identify the whistle-blower,
Peter Earle, because they recognized his handwriting, according
to the Journal’s story. Earle worked in Pipeline’s trading unit,
Milstream Strategy Group, the Journal said.  “Exposing a confidential whistle-blower can lead to
employer retribution and chill the environment for future
whistle-blowers to come forward,” Grassley said in the letter.  Grassley is asking Schapiro to explain the SEC’s procedures
for protecting whistle-blower information and whether the SEC
believes handwriting can identify an informant.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  didn’t comment on Grassley’s
letter. In a letter published in the Journal today, George Canellos, the director of the SEC’s New York regional office,
said the agency “in no way exposed Peter Earle as a whistle-
blower.”  “The SEC made sure to obtain all of the notes of the
approximately six Milstream traders and in the SEC’s deposition
of Gordon Henderson (the supervisor of Mr. Earle and the other
traders), the SEC used other traders’ notes along with those of
Mr. Earle,” Canellos wrote. “The use of these traders’ notes -
- highly relevant evidence prepared in the ordinary course of
their work at Milstream -- in no way revealed whether Mr. Earle
or any other trader was or was not cooperating with the SEC.”  The 2010 financial regulatory overhaul requires the SEC to
pay awards to whistle-blowers who provide information that
results in fines exceeding $1 million. The law prevents
employers from retaliating against whistle-blowers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  