-- Greek, Nordic Rare Earths Could Save European Industry
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-04-26T15:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/greek-nordic-rare-earths-could-save-european-industry.html
Rare-earth metals in  Greece  and the
Nordic countries should be tapped to save  Europe ’s car and
electronics industries from uncertain imports, a panel of
geologists said today.  While Europe is rich with the rare-earth elements used to
power batteries and produce magnets, leaders haven’t
demonstrated the political will to tap them, according to
Friedrich Wellmer, former president of Germany’s Geological
Survey. Scientists at the European Geosciences Union’s annual
meeting in Vienna urged policymakers to address the problem.  “It is not that the elements don’t exist in Europe,” said
Wellmer, who is now the chairman of sustainable management at
France’s Institute for Advanced Studies. “It has become more
unacceptable socially to mine them.”  Rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements, are used in
products such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPod music players, flat-screen
televisions and hybrid cars. European industry, which imports
more than 90 percent of its rare-earth-metal needs, consumes
about a third of the 70,000 tons of material used annually.  “Europe relies on natural resources whether we like it or
not,” said Richard Herrington, a professor of mineralogy at
 London ’s Natural History Museum. “It just takes a political or
economic crisis to put pressure on European industry. We’re
seeing that now.”  WTO Complaint  The U.S. Defense Department warned that it would intervene
in case of a shortage of rare-earth materials for defense
electronics and motors, Brett Lambert, the Pentagon official
responsible for industrial policy, said on April 9.  China , the
world’s biggest producer of the metals, imposed export
restrictions in 2010 and the U.S., the EU and Japan have
challenged the curbs at the  World Trade Organization .  Tapping abandoned mines in Greece and Albania, along with
newly discovered deposits in Finland, would alleviate European
industries’ problem, according to Herrington, who proposes
mandatory labeling to alert raw-material users about the origins
of their products.  “Toyota is getting into partnerships with mining
companies,” said Nick Arndt, a geologist at France’s Joseph
Fourier University. “It’s not quite clear why European
companies are not doing that.”  Toyota Tsusho Corp. (8015) , the trading company of Asia’s largest
automaker, signed an agreement in December to accelerate
production of rare-earth metals for Canadian mining company
 Matamec Explorations Inc. (MAT)  and buy all the output from its Kipawa
mine. On Dec. 4, Korea Resources Corp. led a group of Korean
companies in an accord with Luxembourg-based Frontier Rare
Earths to develop its South African mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  