-- Griffin III Leads Draft Tweeters as NFL Seeks to Boost Revenue
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/griffin-iii-leads-draft-tweeters-as-nfl-seeks-to-boost-revenue.html
The  National Football League , which
produces the biggest audiences in U.S. broadcasting, is trying
to engage a similar-size following on social media when its
annual college player draft starts tonight at Radio City Music
Hall in New York.  The league has a squad of players, analysts, team
executives and television personalities armed with laptops to
play online host to the biggest offseason event in the U.S.’s
most popular sport. Commissioner  Roger Goodell  has called
digital media  “critical”   for increasing the NFL’s more-than
$9 billion annual revenue.  “The second the commissioner walks up to announce that
first pick, you see this absolute explosion on all these
platforms,” Jeff Berman, general manager for NFL Digital Media,
said in a telephone interview. “What’s happening here is we’re
catching a wave that’s been building for years.”  The NFL’s three-day draft begins with the  Indianapolis
Colts  choosing first and the Washington Redskins second. The
Colts said they will take Stanford University quarterback  Andrew Luck ; the Redskins probably will select Baylor University
quarterback Robert Griffin III.  Fans aren’t waiting for television analysts such as ESPN’s
Mel Kiper to break down the picks before beginning conversation
on social media, said Frank Hawkins, a founder of New York-based
consulting firm Scalar Media Partners LLC. Twitter mentions of
the terms “ NFL draft ” and “#nfldraft” are up about 37
percent to 192,000 over the equivalent week last year, according
to San Francisco-based Topsy Labs Inc.  King of Media  That activity supplements a telecast that has reinforced
the NFL’s dominance of traditional broadcast media. The 2010
draft, the first in prime time, brought  Walt Disney (DIS)  Co.’s ESPN
unit the most viewers in more than three decades broadcasting
the event.  The network said ratings rose 27 percent for its 14 1/2
hours of coverage on ESPN and ESPN2 after the league expanded
the draft to three days and aired the first three rounds during
television’s most-watched period. Last year’s draft was the
second most-watched, with 42 million viewers tuning in to
coverage on ESPN, ESPN2 and the NFL Network, the league said.  “There’s money to be made in making it easy for people to
communicate with one another and get more involved with the
draft,” said Hawkins, former head of strategic planning for the
NFL’s media group. “They’re a media company, and over the years
they’ve gotten better and better at not leaving any stones
unturned.”  Part of Growth  Goodell, 53, in 2007 formed a digital media committee to
explore increasing revenue from new technology. He said digital
media will be a major part of the league’s growth, citing the
RedZone Channel, which cuts from game to game as teams move into
scoring position and is available on devices including mobile
phones, as a model. The Wall Street Journal  reported in 2010 
that Verizon Communications Inc. had signed a four-year deal to
carry the channel on mobile phones valued at $720 million.  The NFL currently earns about $4 billion annually in
broadcast rights fees from companies including CBS Corp., News
Corp.’s Fox unit, Comcast Corp.’s NBC, ESPN and DirecTV, with
that total set to increase under extensions signed last year
that run through 2022.  To expand the draft’s audience away from TV, when three
 Super Bowls  and the finale of “M*A*S*H” are the only programs
to exceed 100 million U.S. viewers, NFL’s digital arm has spent
weeks preparing for the event, with its analysts including
former league executive Michael Lombardi and anchor Rich Eisen
working across platforms, Berman said. The goal is to create
conversations, “just the way they happen around the water
cooler.”  Goodell on Twitter  NFL Twitter users include Goodell, who tweets at
 @nflcommish  and has about 250,000 followers. Saints quarterback
Drew Brees,  @drewbrees , and Arizona Cardinals receiver Larry Fitzgerald,  @larryfitzgerald , are among players whose Twitter
audience exceeds 1 million people.  Colts owner  Jim Irsay  has about 162,000 Twitter followers
for  @JimIrsay . He’s been discussing his team’s options on the
social networking site since quarterback  Peyton Manning  left for
the  Denver Broncos  this offseason.  The Colts are planning to use the Google+ social networking
site to allow eight fans to visit with the top pick in an event
sponsored by New Era Cap Co., the league’s official cap company,
the team said in a statement.  Giants Show  Pat Hanlon, spokesman for the Super Bowl champion  New York
Giants , tweets to about 32,500 followers at  @giantspathanlon . He
said social media has put teams in direct contact with fans,
allowing them to enhance events such as the draft with
conversation.  “It has given our fans the ability to instantly react,
discuss and debate their team’s selections,” Hanlon said.  Griffin, projected by most analysts to be the draft’s
second pick, joined Twitter on April 3. In three weeks, @RGIII
has amassed more than 132,000 followers. The 22-year-old
quarterback said he wants to motivate fans through the social
networking site.  “I’m not going tell people, ‘Hey, I just opened up a bag
of Doritos and ate them,’” he said in an interview in  New York 
after being introduced as a spokesman for Subway Restaurants.
“I know that I can influence a lot of people, so whenever I say
something, it’s not scripted, it’s something that I’m feeling in
that moment.”  Let Them Talk  The NFL can rely on an ongoing tide of enthusiasm,
especially in an offseason when Manning, a four-time NFL Most
Valuable Player, switched teams, Berman said. Mostly, the goal
is staying out of the way of the conversation.  “You can’t force social,” Berman said. “There’s so much
unknown in the world of digital, but what we know is the fans
are trying to talk about their players, their teams and their
passions. We’re just leveraging platforms to give them room for
what they want to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net . 