-- Gross Cuts Treasuries, Raises Mortgages in Fed Buy Bet
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-04-26T21:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/gross-cuts-treasuries-raises-mortgages-in-fed-buy-bet.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said that while more monetary stimulus isn’t likely
at the moment, additional quantitative easing remains an option
for the  Federal Reserve  if employment growth is sluggish.  “The chairman has not ruled it out,” Gross, who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, said during a Bloomberg Television
“Street Smart” interview with  Trish Regan . “If we see some
weak employment reports over the next few months, then QE3 is
back on.”  The central bank remains “prepared to do more as needed,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday at a press
conference following a meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in  Washington , where policy makers reiterated their
pledge to keep borrowing rates at record lows through 2014.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury  notes  are likely to
remain around 2 percent through the end of the year with the Fed
and other central banks keeping  interest rates  at artificially
low levels, Gross said. Pimco favors mortgage securities over
Treasuries because of the additional yield they offer over
government debt in that environment, he said.  “Mortgages benefit from inactivity and low volatility,”
he said. Gross cut holdings of Treasuries in March to 32 percent
in the $252.4 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  and raised the
percentage of mortgages to 53 percent, the highest since June
2009. “If you expect yields to stay the same for the next one,
two or three years, then the 100 basis points or 150 basis
points from a mortgage is much better than the 2 percent from a
10-year Treasury.”  Operation Twist  Gross said in March that the Fed will probably shift focus
to mortgage securities to keep borrowing rates low when its so-
called Operation Twist program ends in June.  The central bank is pursuing a maturity-extension program
announced in September to replace $400 billion of short-term
debt in its portfolio with longer-term securities. The Fed
 purchased  $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative
easing that have become known as QE1 and QE2 as part of its
efforts to support the world’s biggest economy.  “We’re really moving into a weaker, not necessarily weak,
but a weaker employment framework, which would probably produce
150,000 jobs, but not the 200,000 that got the market excited,”
Gross said. Reducing the  unemployment rate  to a target of 7
percent or lower, may require additional QE, he said.  ‘Dysfunctional Family’  The yield on the 10-year note dropped to an eight week low
of 1.91 percent on April 23 after touching 2.4 percent on March
30 as investors poured into the securities as the European debt
crisis worsened.  “Euro land is a dysfunctional family,” Gross said. “It’s
more dysfunctional than Democrats and Republicans in
Washington,” he said, adding that  Germany  may have to continue
to subsidize bailouts.  Gross’s  fund  has returned 5.9 percent in the past year,
beating 50 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 1.4 percent during the past month, better
than 99 percent of competitors. Over the past five years, Gross
has topped 98 percent of similar funds.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.77 trillion of assets as of March 31, including
assets managed on behalf of its parent’s affiliated companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  