-- High Court Skeptical of Obama’s Use of Power as Campaign Starts
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/high-court-skeptical-of-obama-s-use-of-power-as-campaign-starts.html
President  Barack Obama  faces the
specter of twin setbacks at the U.S. Supreme Court in the middle
of his re-election campaign with justices questioning his
assertion of federal power on both health care and immigration.  U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the president’s top
courtroom lawyer, met resistance across ideological lines
yesterday as he called on the court to strike down Arizona’s
crackdown on illegal immigrants. Even Justice  Sonia Sotomayor ,
the court’s only Hispanic and an Obama appointee, told Verrilli
his argument is “not selling very well.”  Coupled with last month’s argument over Obama’s health-care
overhaul, the session raised the possibility of a one-two punch
hitting the president in June, when the court might invalidate
his signature domestic achievement and uphold the core of the
 Arizona  law his administration went to court to stop.  June may be the “cruelest month” for Obama, said Barbara
Perry, a presidential and Supreme Court scholar at the
 University of Virginia ’s Miller Center. “His hope has to be
that if both of these huge cases go against him, Americans will
be at the beach and won’t be paying attention, but I don’t think
he will be that lucky.”  Both cases pit the administration against Republican-
controlled states over the federal-state balance of power, which
will be an issue in the election.  Mitt Romney , who along with
Obama is vying for Hispanic votes, has taken a tough stance on
illegal immigration in his bid for the Republican presidential
nomination, even as a report this week said the wave of
undocumented aliens from Mexico has ended and many have returned
to their native country.  Ripple Effect  White House spokesman  Eric Schultz  declined to comment.  The court’s immigration decision may also have a ripple
effect on laws enacted during the past two years in  Alabama ,
 South Carolina ,  Georgia ,  Utah  and  Indiana .  The justices yesterday voiced skepticism about parts of the
Arizona law, including penalties on illegal immigrants who seek
jobs and a provision that would make it a state criminal offense
for a foreigner to be in Arizona without correct documentation.  “They were very concerned about picking and choosing among
the sections of the statute,” said Garrett Epps, a law
professor at the University of Baltimore who attended the
argument.  Still, the justices made clear they see states as having a
role to play in addressing the presence of what the government
has  estimated  are 11.5 million unauthorized aliens in the U.S.  Defending the Borders  “What does sovereignty mean if it does not include the
ability to defend your borders?” Justice  Antonin Scalia  said
during the 80-minute session, which ran 20 minutes beyond its
scheduled time.  The central legal question is whether the U.S. Immigration
and Nationality  Act , which says states may cooperate in
enforcing federal law, preempts the 2010 Arizona statute.  The administration sued to challenge four provisions in the
Arizona law, known as S.B. 1070. Probably the measure’s most
contentious part says police officers must check immigration
status when they arrest or stop someone and have “reasonable
suspicion” that the person is in the U.S. illegally. The
disputed provisions haven’t taken effect.  Paul Clement , the lawyer representing Arizona, sought to
minimize the provision’s impact. Answering questions from
Sotomayor, Clement -- who argued against Verrilli in the health-
care case as well -- said if federal officials didn’t want to
take custody of an illegal immigrant, Arizona police officers
would have to release the person unless they had a basis under
state law for making an arrest.  Setting the Tone  That statement set the tone for much of the rest of the
session, undercutting Verrilli’s assertion that the law
encroaches on the exclusive federal right to set immigration
policy.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  repeatedly said federal
officials would make the final call about whether a person
should be deported or prosecuted for violating federal law.  “All it does is notify the federal government, ‘Here is
someone who is here illegally,’” Roberts said. “The discretion
to prosecute for federal immigration offenses rests entirely
with the attorney general.”  Said Roberts, “It seems to me that the federal government
just doesn’t want to know who is here illegally or not.”  Two Democratic appointees -- Sotomayor and Justice  Stephen Breyer  -- joined in that line of questioning. Breyer raised the
possibility of upholding the provision with the understanding
that it wouldn’t cause people to be detained “significantly
longer” than they would have been previously.  ‘Filled With Optimism’  “If that were the situation, and we said it had to be the
situation, then what in the federal statute would that conflict
with?” Breyer asked Verrilli.  Arizona’s Republican governor,  Jan Brewer , said she is
“filled with optimism” after yesterday’s arguments. “Many
people never gave us a chance to get this far,” she said in a
statement.  The Obama administration says the measure would undermine
its efforts to give highest priority to illegal aliens who
threaten public safety and those who belong to gangs that
smuggle other aliens, drugs and weapons.  “These decisions have to be made at the national level,”
Verrilli argued.  ‘Unusual Theory’  Clement said many Arizona police officers already are
routinely checking immigration status when they stop a person or
make an arrest. The new law would simply extend those “ad hoc”
checks into a statewide policy, he said.  “The government’s rather unusual theory that something
that’s OK when done ad hoc becomes preempted when it’s
systematic, I think that theory largely refutes itself,”
Clement argued.  One issue not directly before the justices is the
contention that the law will lead to racial profiling by police
officers. That claim is part of a separate lawsuit being waged
by civil rights advocates against the Arizona measure.  In addition to the status-check provision, Arizona’s law
would authorize officers to arrest anyone they have “probable
cause” to believe is eligible to be deported.  The law also would bar aliens without proper papers from
seeking or performing work. Roberts suggested he is skeptical
about that provision, which he said is in tension with the
federal focus on punishing employers that hire illegal aliens.  The Arizona employment provision “does seem to expand
beyond the federal government’s determination about the types of
sanctions that should govern the employment relationship,” he
said.  Kagan Withdraws  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in yesterday’s case.
She played a role in the litigation as Obama’s top Supreme Court
lawyer before her 2010 appointment to the court.  Her disqualification creates the possibility the court
might divide 4-4 on some aspects of the law. That would leave
intact a lower court ruling blocking those provisions, without
setting a nationwide precedent.  Arizona says its 370-mile border with  Mexico  is the
crossing point for half the U.S.’s illegal immigrants, giving it
the right to tackle a problem the national government has failed
to address.  The state had 360,000 unauthorized immigrants in 2011,
according to the U.S. Department of  Homeland Security . During
the last four decades, 12 million immigrants came to the U.S.
from Mexico, more than half illegally, according to a report
released April 23 by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan
research group in  Washington . Net Mexican migration to the U.S.
has now stopped and may have reversed, the report said.  The case is Arizona v.  United States , 11-182.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  