-- Lin Has NBA Season’s Top Selling Jersey After Joining Knicks
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-26T18:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/lin-has-nba-season-s-top-selling-jersey-after-joining-knicks.html
New York  Knicks point guard Jeremy Lin, who didn’t have his name on a National Basketball
Association jersey when the regular season began, ended the
campaign with the league’s best seller.  Lin, the Harvard University graduate who twice was cut by
other NBA teams, went from bench warmer to star after scoring 25
points in a Feb. 4 win over the  New Jersey Nets . The Knicks, who
had lost 11 of 13 games, reeled off seven straight wins under
his direction, spawning an international craze known as
“Linsanity.”  Lin, 23, hasn’t played since the end of March after
undergoing knee surgery. He finished the regular season
averaging 14.6 points and 6.2 assists per game.  Reigning NBA Most Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  of the
 Chicago Bulls  had the top-selling jersey from April 2011 until
today, the league said, based on sales at the NBA Store in New
York and on NBAStore.com. Lin, who was signed by the Knicks on
Dec. 27 -- two days after the lockout-shortened season began--
was the regular season’s No. 1 seller.  Rose, whose jersey climbed to No. 1 from No. 5 last year,
helped the Bulls earn the top seed in the Eastern Conference
this season. Chicago is 49-16 with one contest remaining, and
Rose has averaged 21.8 points and 7.9 assists per game.  He was followed by Lin, then Kobe Bryant of the  Los Angeles
Lakers , who has had the NBA’s top-selling jersey six different
years, ranked third. The Miami Heat’s LeBron James was fourth,
and the Knicks’ Carmelo Anthony came in fifth.  The Heat’s Dwyane Wade was sixth; Dirk Nowitzki, who led
the  Dallas Mavericks  to an NBA championship last season, was
seventh; the Oklahoma City Thunder’s  Kevin Durant  was eighth;
the Los Angeles Clippers’ Blake Griffin was ninth; and Boston
Celtics’ Rajon Rondo completed the top 10.  The Bulls had the league’s most popular merchandise,
followed by the Knicks, Lakers, Heat and Mavericks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 