-- Indian Banks Exposure to Coal Limits Lending to Solar, SBI Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-26T04:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/indian-banks-exposure-to-coal-limits-lending-to-solar-sbi-says.html
Indian banks have limited scope to
boost lending to solar plants after funding for coal projects
pushed them close to the limit for financing to the power
industry, the nation’s biggest lender said.  Most banks are reaching their 15 percent cap on domestic
advances to the power industry and it’s unlikely they’ll seek to
separate renewable energy into another category to allow more
lending, said S. Vishvanathan, chief executive officer of SBI
Capital Markets Ltd., the investment banking unit of the  State
Bank of India. (SBIN)   “To change sectoral limits, you need approval from the
board,” Vishvanathan said yesterday in an interview in Jodhpur
in the state of Rajasthan. “What’s the rationale? They really
are the same sector.”  A shortfall in commercial project finance could stall the
solar industry in India, one of the biggest growth markets,
adding to the woes of panel makers like  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and
Suntech Power Holdings Co. which are looking to India and  China 
to offset plummeting sales in  Europe . India will need at least
$3.2 billion of debt finance in the next three years to complete
already announced solar projects, according to the  Asian
Development Bank .  New Technology  Government-backed development banks like the ADB, the World
Bank’s International Finance Corp. and the U.S. Overseas Private
Investment Corp. have spearheaded financing of solar power
projects in  India  and are training local banks on how to assess
the risks of a technology that’s new to the country.  “If solar is going to take off here, the commercial banks
are going to have to do the heavy lifting,” said Michael
Barrow, director of infrastructure finance in the ADB’s private
sector department. “There’s not enough in our kitty or in the
IFC’s or OPIC’s to finance this alone.”  Banks failed to foresee risks in India’s coal power
industry which has delayed or canceled about $36 billion in new
projects because of domestic fuel supply constraints. In
February, India’s state-owned lenders were for the first time
charging more for coal-power producers to borrow money than for
wind and solar farms.  That lesson may be reinforcing local banks’ wariness about
expanding into solar, a resource they are less familiar with
than coal, Barrow said.  ‘Dark Tunnel’  SBI Capital Markets has financed five solar projects
developed by  Tata Power Co., (TPWR)  Kiran Energy Solar Power Pvt.,
Sunborne Energy Holdings LLC, Alex Astral Power Pvt. and  Acme
Tele Power Ltd. (ATPL)   “We really struggle to figure out the risks,”
Vishvanathan said. “To a person doing it for the first time
it’s like going inside a dark tunnel. We’re learning as we put
our money in.”  The biggest uncertainty for lenders is the lack of ground
data on solar irradiation that could affect a plant’s output,
Vishvanathan said. Other factors that worry banks include the
viability of solar equipment suppliers and whether they’ll
survive long enough to uphold warranties over the 20-year
lifetime of a plant, he said.  The financial health of India’s state-run utilities buying
the solar power is also a concern for lenders. While solar
projects have signed long-term contracts to sell their power at
preferential rates, the cash-starved state buyers may default or
try to renegotiate terms, Vishvanathan said.  “The credit risk of the buyers is a question mark. We’re
not sure that they can pay the money or that they will,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 