-- India Said to Delay Rule Putting $7.6 Billion Sales on Ho
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-04-27T05:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/india-said-to-extend-deadline-for-company-ownership-rules.html
Indian companies may delay share
sales worth about 400 billion rupees ($7.6 billion) after a
government official said the regulator plans to extend a
deadline for owners to trim their holdings amid a market slump.  The benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) ’s 12 percent decline in the
past year makes it difficult for companies to sell shares,
according to the official, who declined to be identified citing
rules. A new date has yet to be decided, the official said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government in June 2010
ordered founders of private companies to reduce their holding to
at least 75 percent by June 2013, and state-run companies by
August next year. The requirement would have prompted firms
including  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,  India ’s biggest maker
of power equipment, and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , chaired by billionaire  Azim Premji , to sell about 400 billion rupees of stock, U.K. Sinha,
chairman of the market regulator said on April 13.  “The government’s intention is to help state companies
struggling to offload shares,” said R.K. Gupta, the New Delhi-
based managing director of Taurus Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees $1 billion of assets. “Companies planning to delist
will get more time.”  Astrazeneca Pharma India Ltd. (ASTR)  sank 6.2 percent to 2,073
rupees at 10:40 a.m. in Mumbai, the worst performer on the BSE
Mid-cap Index.  Wyeth Ltd. (WYH)  lost 2.5 percent.  Blue Dart Express
Ltd. (BDE)  fell 2.8 percent to 2,032 rupees, paring the year-to-date
gain to 29 percent.  Going Private  Astrazeneca has surged 70 percent this year and Wyeth
reached a four-month high on April 17 on speculation the owners
may take the companies private to avoid having to reduce stake,
said Kishor Ostwal, managing director of  CNI Research Ltd. (CNIR)   About 180 private companies will have to sell 270 billion
rupees of shares, while 16 state-owned firms will offer 120
billion rupees of stock, Sebi’s Sinha said.  An e-mail sent to the press office of the regulator, the
 Securities & Exchange Board of India , wasn’t answered. D S
Malik, a spokesman at the  finance ministry , declined to comment.  The government raised 139 billion rupees selling stakes in
state companies in the year ended March, missing a 400-billion
rupee target, amid a 25 percent decline in the Sensex in 2011.  It plans to sell stakes in state-owned companies including
Bharat Heavy,  Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HNAL) ,  Steel Authority of
India Ltd . and  Hindustan Copper Ltd. (HCP)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  