-- Ineos Said to Increase Covenant-Lite Loan to $3.03 Billion
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-04-26T18:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ineos-said-to-increase-covenant-lite-loan-to-at-least-2-billion.html
Ineos Group Holdings Ltd increased
the size of loan to support a refinancing to $3.025 billion,
making it the largest covenant-lite financing.  Barclays and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are arranging the debt,
which includes a $2 billion portion and a $650 million euro-
denominated slice, both due in six years, and a $375 million
facility maturing in three years, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the deal is private.  The loan for the Swiss chemical maker is the biggest
covenant-lite deal, which doen’t carry typical lender protection
such as financial maintenance requirements, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service changed its
outlook on Ineos to positive on April 20, saying that the loan
provides the company with a ‘higher degree of financial
flexibility’ due to the removal of the covenant restrictions.  The Rolle, Switzerland-based company reduced an eight-year
bond sale to $775 million, from $2.2 billion initially proposed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $2 billion debt will pay interest at 5.25 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, while the
euro-denominated portion will pay 5.5 percentage points more
than Euribor, the person said. The $375 million portion will pay
4.25 percentage points more than Libor. All three slices will
have a 1.25 percent minimum on the lending benchmark.  Original Issue Discount  Both slices of the six-year debt will be sold to investors
at 98.5 cents on the dollar, the person said, while the three-
year portion will be sold to investors at 99 cents on the
dollar. Original issue discounts reduce proceeds for the company
and boost the yield to investors.  Richard Longden , a London-based spokesman for Ineos,
declined to comment.  The loan will have so-called incurrence-based covenants
rather than financial-maintenance requirements, and proceeds
will be used to refinance part of about $3.6 billion of
outstanding senior credit facilities, the company said April 16.
The refinancing is being organized through the company’s wholly-
owned units Ineos Finance Plc and Ineos US Finance LLC,
according to a statement.  Lenders will receive soft-call protection of 102 cents and
101 cents, the person said, meaning that Ineos would have to pay
2 cents more than face value and a one cent premium to reprice
the debt in its first and second year, respectively.  Lenders may receive portions of the debt tomorrow morning,
New York time, said the person. A three-year piece denominated
in euros has been eliminated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  