-- IPhone Frenzy Slows Growth for Prepaid Wireless Carriers
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-04-26T20:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/iphone-frenzy-means-slower-growth-for-prepaid-wireless-carriers.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  and
 Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , the two biggest prepaid
mobile-phone carriers in the U.S., are watching the iPhone’s
booming sales from the sidelines.  Apple Inc.’s device -- the best-selling smartphone at  AT&T (T) 
Inc.,  Verizon Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  -- isn’t
available from MetroPCS and Leap, which typically offer lower-
end models to users who don’t want monthly contracts.  Getting locked out of the iPhone market may be taking a
toll on prepaid carriers -- an area that’s been one of fastest-
growing parts of the mobile-phone industry, fueled by young
people and lower-income consumers wanting a phone without having
to go through a credit check and other hassles. MetroPCS added
82 percent fewer subscribers in the first quarter than a year
earlier, while Leap drew 22 percent fewer.  “We are seeing the impact of the iPhone,” said Avi
Greengart, a research director at Washington-based Current
Analysis.  The first-quarter results of MetroPCS and Leap, both
released in the past 24 hours, sent the stocks tumbling today in
U.S. trading. Leap  dropped  20 percent to $6.14, the biggest
decline since August. MetroPCS decreased 11 percent at $7.08,
also the worst since August.  MetroPCS, based in Richardson,  Texas , netted about 132,000
new customers last quarter, missing a  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC) 
estimate of 350,000.  San Diego ’s Leap added 258,000.  Costly Promotions  In addition to the decelerating growth, the prepaid
carriers have had to step up promotional pricing and rebates,
crimping profit more than analysts had anticipated. In contrast,
the three carriers -- Verizon, AT&T and Sprint -- all topped
analysts’ estimates, helped by iPhone sales.  The Apple device made up 78 percent of AT&T’s smartphone
sales in the first quarter. At Verizon, which added the iPhone
to its network more recently, the product accounted for 51
percent. The company relies more on models running Google Inc.’s
Android operating system.  Apple’s profit almost doubled to $11.6 billion last
quarter, lifted by the surging popularity of the iPhone, while
revenue jumped 59 percent to $39.2 billion. The company sold
35.1 million iPhones in the period.  Prepaid carriers also face more direct competition from
traditional mobile-phone services. When it started, the MetroPCS
$50 month-by-month unlimited service plan was an attractive
alternative for consumers who didn’t want to be locked in to
more expensive two-year contracts. Now those users can get
similar prepaid plans from the top three carriers.  Smartphone Demand  The broader shift to smartphones also hasn’t helped, said
Mark Winther, an analyst at research firm IDC in  New York . The
networks of the prepaid carriers aren’t as well suited to the
data downloading required by those devices, and that may be
pushing customers away, he said.  “MetroPCS’s high churn rate may be the smartphone users
disgruntled by bad performance, and going to another carrier,”
Winther said.  The promotional pricing, meanwhile, is hurting MetroPCS’s
profit margins, Christopher Larsen, an analyst at Piper Jaffray,
said in a report. The company’s adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were $262
million, 23 percent below his projection.  The cost of adding new customers rose 50 percent at
MetroPCS. A $30 mail-in rebate implemented in March and other
promotions have ramped up those expenses, John Hodulik, an
analyst at UBS AG in New York, said in a research note.  Takeover Plan  Sprint considered  buying  MetroPCS, only to have its board
vote down the acquisition, two people familiar with the plan
said in February. The board decided the stock-and-cash
transaction, which may have cost as much as $8 billion including
debt, would have been too expensive given the current level of
Sprint’s stock price.  The entire wireless industry is facing slowing growth as
the market becomes saturated. The number of wireless devices,
including tablets, now exceeds the number of people in the U.S.,
said Bob Roche, a statistician with the trade group CTIA.  That’s forced the big carriers to fight harder for market
share, said  Current Analysis ’ Greengart. Smaller companies are
increasingly in their cross hairs, he said.  “With the big guys still growing in a saturated market,
the new customers have to be coming from somewhere,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  