-- Iran Nuclear-Program Raid Fears Ease, Conciliation Seen
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-26T16:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/iran-nuclear-program-attack-fears-ease.html
Iranian and Israeli officials
offered what may be conciliatory signs this week, easing
concerns of a possible strike on the Persian Gulf country’s
nuclear installations.  Iran ’s envoy to Moscow, Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi, yesterday
said officials are considering a Russian proposal to avert
sanctions.  Israel ’s top military chief, meanwhile, said Iran’s
leadership is “rational” and won’t seek to build a bomb, in
comments reported the same day.  Tensions over the Iranian program helped drive Brent crude
prices to about $125 a barrel last month, the highest in more
than 3 1/2 years. Prices fell more than 2 percent on the next
trading day after Iran and the world powers broke a 15-month
stalemate on the nuclear conflict during talks April 14 in
Istanbul. Negotiations are set to resume May 23 in  Baghdad .  We’re seeing “signals of an easing of rhetoric on war, not
an easing of pressure or sanctions,” said  Scott Lucas , a
professor at the University of  Birmingham  in  England  who founded
a  website  that offers analysis on international affairs.  Odds compiled by Intrade.com that Israel or the U.S. will
strike Iran by the end of this year dropped to about 28 percent
this week, from 33 percent at the end of March and as high as 62
percent in February.  ‘Productive Process’  Iran is studying a proposal under which it would halt the
expansion of its uranium enrichment work as part of its nuclear
program and may allow stricter inspections of its atomic
facilities, Sajjadi said in an interview with Bloomberg at the
Iranian Embassy in Moscow yesterday.  Speaking today in an interview with the official  Islamic
Republic News Agency , Sajjadi said the media response to his
comments have been “overdone.”  “My comments have been overdone in Bloomberg and other
media as if I had issued a statement on the willingness to
ratify the so-called Additional Protocol,” Sajjadi said,
referring to an additional measure to safeguard agreements with
the  International Atomic Energy Agency , which allows more
thorough inspections of Iran’s nuclear-related sites.  Lucas said it’s not clear whether Sajjadi was “speaking
with the backup from the top” in yesterday’s interview. It is
yet to be seen whether this constitutes “a productive process
leading to the Baghdad talks,” he said.  Nuclear Right  U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  dismissed
Sajjadi’s remarks, saying he is “not a central player” in
international talks over  Iran’s nuclear program . “What’s most
important is what Iran says and does at the negotiating table,”
she told reporters yesterday in  Washington .  Sajjadi also said yesterday that his country will ensure it
maintains its right to produce nuclear energy. Iran has long
maintained that as a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty it can enrich uranium on its soil.  While Iran says it needs the material for use as fuel in
its Bushehr nuclear power plant and for a Tehran medical-
research reactor, the U.S. and EU accuse it of seeking to divert
its use toward building nuclear weapons. Uranium enriched at
higher degrees can form the core of a bomb.  In comments that preceded those of Sajjadi yesterday,
Israel’s army Chief of General Staff Benny Gantz said in an
interview with the  Haaretz  newspaper that a decision by Iran’s
supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , to build a bomb would be
“an enormous mistake, and I don’t think he will want to go the
extra mile.”  ‘Very Rational People’  “I think the Iranian leadership is composed of very
rational people,” Gantz said.  Gantz’s comments contrast sharply with the views of the
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government, IHS
Jane’s Middle East analyst  David Hartwell  wrote in a note today.  “Gantz’s unusually blunt intervention appears designed to
quell the international hysteria that often accompanies the
debate about Iran and military action,” Hartwell wrote. “While
it appears to have been generally accepted, at least for the
time being, that an Israeli attack is not imminent and indeed is
very unlikely at all in 2012, Gantz’s comments will not reduce
the Israeli government’s desire to keep the issue -- by whatever
means -- near the top of the international diplomatic agenda for
the rest of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  