-- Ireland’s Noonan Says Will Cut Growth Forecast by Almost Half
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-04-26T15:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ireland-s-noonan-says-will-cut-growth-forecast-by-almost-half.html
Ireland’s economy will grow this
year at about half the pace forecast by the government in
December, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.  Irish growth may be about 0.75 percent this year, Noonan
said in an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE today,
down from a December estimate of 1.3 percent. In its sixth
review of Ireland’s bailout program, European and international
authorities said that while the country is on track to reach its
fiscal deficit target, “considerable challenges” remain.  Irish export demand growth is slowing as the European
sovereign debt crisis spreads, while the domestic economy is
laden down by debt. The  International Monetary Fund , the
 European Central Bank  and the European Commission, Ireland’s so-
called troika partners, said today that the economy will
probably grow by 0.5 percent in 2012.  “A stronger recovery in 2013 would depend on a rise in
trade partner growth together with some stabilization of
domestic demand,” said Craig Beaumont, the IMF’s Mission Head
to Ireland, in a telephone call with reporters.  Ireland swung into a recession in the final quarter of last
year as the legacy of the country’s property and fiscal
austerity measures continued to weigh on domestic demand. Irish
 home prices  were unchanged in March from the previous month, the
first time since August 2010 that values didn’t decline, the
country’s statistics office said today.  Deficit  The government is likely to meet the 2012 goal of cutting
its deficit to 8.6 percent of gross domestic product from an
estimated 9.4 percent last year, the troika said in its
statement today.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 6.83 percent, down from 9.1 percent at the
start of December.  Ireland’s planned market return following its acceptance of
a bailout in 2010 will be “gradual” and may start this
“summer,” Noonan told reporters in Dublin today. The National
Treasury Management Agency Chief Executive Officer  John Corrigan 
said on Jan. 13 the agency is looking at the possibility  of
selling short-term securities in June or July.  As the government prepares to reenter credit markets, it is
seeking European help to refinance cost of bailing out the
former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. A paper by the troika on the
banking debt probably won’t be ready before voters go to the
polls on  Europe ’s new fiscal treaty, Noonan said, adding the
“Spanish situation” may affect the timing of the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  