-- Mississippi Attorney General Fights BP Gulf Spill Settlement
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-26T02:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/mississippi-attorney-general-fights-bp-gulf-spill-settlement.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s multibillion-dollar deal
to settle private economic damage claims from the 2010  Gulf of
Mexico   oil spill  should let victims who agreed not to sue in
exchange for early payments participate in the new settlement,
Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood said in a court filing.  BP should “nullify the illegal, illegally-obtained and
unconscionable” releases victims signed with the Gulf Coast
Claims Facility, which administered spill-damage claims for BP,
Hood said in a filing today in federal court in  New Orleans .  Hood seeks to void hundreds of millions of dollars in so-
called quick-pay settlements given to spill victims. Individuals
received $5,000 and businesses got $25,000 through the quick-pay
claim system, regardless of the magnitude of damages they
suffered from more than 4.1 million barrels of oil that spewed
from BP’s well off the  Louisiana  coast in 2010.  Many of the 200,000 spill victims who gave up their right
to sue for actual and future damages did so “as a result of
economic duress,” because they didn’t have the economic staying
power to wait for a court resolution of their claims, Hood said.  Hood seeks to void any releases signed by the 2,600
claimants whose cases were identified as having been resolved in
error in an audit of the claims facility. The audit was
requested by the U.S. Justice Department after Hood and other
state attorneys general complained about unfairness and delays
in the claims-payment process.  Ellen Moskowitz , a BP spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return e-mail or phone messages left after regular business
hours seeking comment on the Mississippi attorney general’s
filing.  $7.8 Billion  BP in March agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans is considering
whether to approve that settlement.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  