-- Italy Borrowing Costs Rise at Auction on Crisis Concerns
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-04-26T10:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/italy-borrowing-costs-rise-at-auction-on-crisis-concerns.html
Italy’s borrowing costs jumped at
the sale of 8.5 billion euros ($11.3 billion) of six-month bills
as renewed concern about the spread of the region’s debt crisis
forced the Treasury to offer higher rates to attract investors.  The Treasury sold the debt at a rate of 1.772 percent, up
from 1.119 percent at the previous auction on March 28.
Investors bid for 1.71 times the amount offered, up from 1.51
times last month. The Treasury sold the maximum 8.5 billion
euros planned for the sale before a sale of bonds tomorrow.  “The solid demand bodes well for tomorrow’s auction,”
Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist at UBS in  London ,
said by phone.  Italian bonds pared gains after the sale and the yield on
the benchmark 10-year bond rose 5 basis points to 5.69 percent
at 11:35 in  Rome , pushing the difference with German bunds to
398 basis points. “We are probably seeing some profit-taking”
Ziglio said.  Italian bonds may gain this week after declining for the
previous six weeks after the Spanish government fueled new
concern about the debt of so-called peripheral nations when it
announced on March 2 it wouldn’t meet its deficit target this
year. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  last week pushed back
the government’s goal to balance the budget by one year to 2014.  Spanish Sale  Spain  sold 1.9 billion euros of bills on April 24, missing
the maximum target even after reducing the goal for the sale,
and its borrowing costs almost doubled from the previous tender.
Italy will test markets again tomorrow, when the Treasury seeks
to sell as much as 6.25 billion euros of bonds, including 5- and
10-year debt.  Demand for Italian debt has been underpinned by domestic
banks as foreign investors scale back their bets on  Europe .
Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  is meeting with
officials from The China Investment Corp. today to try to
convince them to buy Italian debt, newspaper Il Sole-24 Ore
reported today.  Political uncertainty in Europe is also adding to concerns
that the euro zone debt crisis is far from over. This week Dutch
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered to quit after lawmakers split
over austerity. French president  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first
round of his re-election bid and trails in opinion polls going
into the second round of the vote, raising concern about the
future of French-German cooperation to fight the crisis.  “The outcome of  France ’s presidential election could be
the trigger for renewed selling pressure if it leads to serious
disagreements between Paris and Berlin over how to manage and
contain the euro-zone crisis,” Nicholas Spiro, managing
director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, said in an e-
mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  