-- Italian Business Confidence Drops to Lowest in Two Years
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-04-26T09:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/italian-business-confidence-drops-to-lowest-in-xx-months.html
Italian business confidence
unexpectedly fell to the lowest level in more than two years in
April amid concerns that the country’s fourth recession in a
decade may deepen.  The manufacturing-sentiment  index  dropped to 89.5 from a
revised 91.1 in March, Rome-based national statistics institute
Istat said today. Economists had predicted a reading of 92.1,
according to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  “It is premature to say whether today’s decline in
business sentiment might be a temporary blip or a signal of a
more protracted phase of very weak economic activity,”
Unicredit economists Chiara Corsa and Loredana Federico wrote in
a note today. “Still, taken at face value the April figure is
consistent with a GDP contraction at the beginning of the second
quarter.”  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet, which is implementing
a 20 billion-euro ($26.4 billion) austerity plan to eliminate
the deficit, lowered its forecasts for the euro-region’s third-
biggest economy on April 18, saying it will contract 1.2 percent
this year. The Treasury also forecast that unemployment, at an
11-year high of 9.3 percent, won’t start declining until 2013.  Taxes, Gasoline  Pessimism among households has grown as tax increases and
higher gasoline prices crimp domestic demand.  Consumer
confidence  plunged to the lowest in more than 15 years this
month, Istat said on April 23.  The government has no room to cut income tax levels until
it gets public finances under control, Deputy Finance Minister
 Vittorio Grilli  told reporters on April 24.  Italy  last week
followed  Spain  in delaying its deficit goal, saying it will be
able to erase it only in 2014, a year later than planned in
December.  Italy entered a recession in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Gross domestic product may have contracted a further 0.7 percent
in the three months through March as industrial production
probably slowed, the  Bank of Italy  said in its economic bulletin
last week. The economic outlook “remains marked by a high
degree of uncertainty,” the central bank said.  Earlier this month, Confindustria, the country’s employer’s
lobby, projected that industrial output shrank 2.3 percent in
the first quarter, about the same as the 2.4 percent decline in
the final three months of 2011.  New car registrations in Italy fell 27 percent in March as
Fiat SpA’s Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said he
expects sales to tumble to the lowest since 1985 this year after
dropping 36 percent last month.  Industrial orders fell 12.3 percent in February from a year
earlier while sales fell 1.5 percent, Istat said on April 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  