-- Lithgow’s Closeted Alsop Shilled for JFK, Pentagon
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-26T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/lithgow-s-closeted-alsop-shilled-for-jfk-pentagon.html
David Auburn’s intensely satisfying
new drama “The Columnist” has as much to do with journalism as
“Proof,” his  Pulitzer Prize  winner, had to do with
mathematics.  Which is to say, only tangentially, and thank goodness for
that. “The Columnist” is about power.  In a thriller-paced Broadway production staged by Daniel Sullivan,  John Lithgow  plays political columnist and consummate
Washington insider Joseph Alsop.  At one time, Alsop (frequently with his brother, Stewart)
was at the top of D.C.’s journalistic food chain, cozying up to
the best and brightest, offering unsolicited advice, protecting
the peccadilloes of friends in high places and needling enemies
with the full power of a press that mattered.  The play begins in a Moscow hotel room at the end of Joe’s
tryst with a man who turns out to be a Soviet agent.  Alsop’s life in the closet is the worst-kept secret among
the Georgetown elites.  He marries his close friend Susan Mary (Margaret Colin, in
a heartbreaking performance) to further the sham.  No one is fooled (except perhaps Susan Mary herself). His
attentive relationship with her college-bound daughter Abigail
(Grace Gummer) goes a long way in humanizing Alsop, whose
imperiousness will expand in direct proportion to the
diminishment of his power.  Kennedy Visits  Alsop, who denounces red baiting senator Joseph McCarthy as
a “thug,” celebrates the election of  John F. Kennedy . The
president stuns him with a visit late in the night following his
inauguration.  A Yankee blueblood groomed in boarding schools and the  Ivy
League , Alsop is drunk on visions of the cultural changes a
Kennedy administration promises.  Those visions are dashed in  Dallas , by which time Alsop has
begun crusading for increased U.S. intervention in  Vietnam .  His chief antagonists are journalists like David Halberstam
and  Neil Sheehan , whose dispatches from the front regularly
debunked the myths of winning, decanted by the Pentagon into
Alsop’s columns.  Halberstam, played by Stephen Kunken with an exacting blend
of arrogance and integrity, dogs Alsop, who eventually alienates
even his brother (the fine Boyd Gaines).  War Machine  The evening belongs to Lithgow, exulting in his best role
in years.  Wearing Alsop’s signature owlish horn-rimmed spectacles and
expertly capturing his polished, vaguely British locution,
Lithgow rides the currents of “The Columnist” with elan.  One moment he’s lecturing Abigail on her improper skirt
hem. Next he’s in a life-or-death struggle with Stewart.  Their fiercest argument concerns seductions of power that
have led him to betray his readers in exchange for continued
access to an increasingly duplicitous war machine.  What Auburn and his star astutely reveal is the slow, sad
extinguishing of the very life force that comes, inevitably,
with irrelevance.  Through June 17 at the Friedman Theatre, 261 W. 47th St.
Information: +1- 212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 