-- Mitsubishi to Consider Bid for Gavilon to Gain U.S. Grain
-- B y   I c h i r o   S u z u k i   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-04-26T09:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/mitsubishi-said-to-consider-bid-for-gavilon-to-gain-u-s-grain.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Marubeni
Corp. (8002) ,  Japan ’s top and fifth-biggest trading companies, are
considering making independent bids for U.S. grain handler
Gavilon Group LLC, according to people with knowledge of the
matter.  Mitsubishi, based in Tokyo, made an initial approach last
month after Gavilon began looking at a sale in January, said one
person, who asked not to be named because the offer is private.
Marubeni may also make an offer, said another person who has
direct knowledge of the process. The Omaha, Nebraska-based
company may fetch as much as $5 billion, people familiar with
the matter said March 6.  Tokyo-based Mitsui & Co., Baar, Switzerland-based  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ,  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  are
among companies that have shown interest in Gavilon, according
to people with knowledge of the matter. The closely held company
controls one of the world’s largest fertilizer distribution
networks, as well as the third-biggest U.S. grain-merchandising
operation, according to its  website .  “The U.S. is the largest corn producer so to control
Gavilon means you’ll have a slice of U.S. supply and possibly
rising exports to  China ,”  Ben Santoso , a commodities analyst at
DBS Vickers Securities ( Singapore ) Pte., said by phone from
Singapore. “Mitsubishi may want to expand their market share.”  Commodity traders are seeking to tap rising demand for
food, driven by population and economic growth in countries
including China, India and Indonesia. Glencore, which last month
agreed to buy Canada’s  Viterra Inc. (VT)  for C$6.1 billion ($6.2
billion), expects Asian consumption to drive annual growth of as
much as 3.5 percent in global grain and oilseed demand.  Triple Trade  Buying Gavilon would almost triple Mitsubishi’s grain trade
to about 27 million metric tons a year, exceeding rival
Marubeni’s 22 million tons. The company already has a plan to
double its volumes to 20 million tons by 2015.  Mitsubishi is “very interested in increasing trading
volume in China and Asian markets,” Akira Kishimoto, an analyst
with JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. said from Tokyo. “They are
relatively aggressive in terms of acquiring these food traders
globally.”  Mitsubishi closed down 0.6 percent to 1,772 yen in  Tokyo ,
trimming its gain for the year to 14 percent. Marubeni declined
0.2 percent to 564 yen.  Mitsubishi, Marubeni and Mitsui spokesmen wouldn’t comment
when contacted by phone today and they declined to give their
names for publication, citing company policy. A voice mail
message left at Gavilon’s office in Omaha after hours wasn’t
immediately returned.  ‘New Player’  Gavilon is more likely to be acquired by a “new player”
in the U.S. agriculture industry than an established company
because of antitrust concerns, rival Cargill Inc.’s Vice
Chairman Paul Conway said last month.  Cargill dominates the U.S. grain market along with Archer
Daniels Midland Co. and Bunge. While the Minneapolis-based
company likes parts of Gavilon, it can’t buy the whole business
because to do so and then sell off unwanted assets may lead to
tax costs and regulatory risks, Conway said in a March 22
interview.  Wilmar, Mitsui and Viterra, which subsequently agreed to
the deal with Glencore, and Bunge were exploring offers for
Gavilon, people familiar with the matter said last month.  Wilmar, the world’s largest palm oil trader, spoke with
Gavilon last year about a purchase without sealing a deal,
according to one person. Gavilon is working with Morgan Stanley
to review options including a sale, a person familiar with the
matter said in January.  Grains, Energy  Gavilon’s businesses include sourcing energy, fertilizer
and grains, according to its  website . As well as storing
commodities, the company arranges transportation and employs
2,000 people in 300 locations in six continents.  The U.S. company took its current form when  ConAgra Foods
Inc. (CAG)  sold its trading and merchandising operations for about
$2.75 billion, including debt, to Ospraie Management LLC, the
hedge-fund firm founded by Dwight Anderson, Soros Fund
Management LLC and private-equity firm General Atlantic LLC in
2008. Anderson formed Ospraie in 2004 after working with Tudor
Investment Management, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge-
fund firm run by  Paul Tudor Jones . ConAgra had acquired Gavilon
predecessor Peavey Co. in 1982.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  