-- Mitsubishi UFJ to Hire 3,000 for Overseas Retail Banking
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-04-27T02:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/mitsubishi-ufj-to-hire-3-000-for-overseas-retail-banking-push.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest lender, plans to hire as many as 3,000 people
abroad over the next three years to expand its overseas retail
banking business.  The bank targets generating at least 40 percent of its
profit from overseas within the period, compared with about 28
percent now, Takashi Morimura, the head of global banking at
lending unit Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said in an
interview yesterday. It aims to open branches and offices in
countries including  China ,  India  and  Indonesia , he said.  Mitsubishi UFJ and domestic rivals are eyeing assets and
markets in Asia and  North America  to make up for slowing growth
opportunities at home, where the  population  is falling and low
 interest rates  are squeezing  profit margins . Japan’s three
biggest banks took their largest slice of the Asian loan market
in more than a decade last year as European lenders retreated.  “Before their European rivals rebound from the region’s
sovereign crisis, Mitsubishi UFJ will aggressively capture
personnel and deposits outside of Japan in the years ahead,”
said Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based banking analyst at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. “By grabbing more deposits in overseas
markets, they can boost lending abroad, while at the same time
looking to buy stakes in some Asian banks.”  Bucking Industry Cuts  Under Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi President Nobuyuki Hirano’s
plan to boost overseas profit growth, the latest hiring plans
would increase the workforce at its global division by 15
percent from about 20,000, Morimura said. That contrasts with
the worldwide banking industry’s more than 130,000 job cuts
announced last year as lenders cope with stricter capital rules
and  Europe ’s debt woes.  Mitsubishi UFJ shares fell 0.5 percent to 386 yen as of
11:14 a.m. in Tokyo Stock Exchange trading. Japan’s benchmark
 Topix (TPX)  index slipped 0.1 percent.  The company, which got 79 percent of its  revenue  from Japan
in the year ended March 2011, is also adding 50 derivatives
traders and 150 sales and research staff worldwide over three
years, global markets chief Hitoshi Suzuki said in an interview
this month.  In Asia, Mitsubishi UFJ is seeking stakes in China,  Hong
Kong  and  Taiwan  banks to help accelerate overseas profit growth
to 10 percent annually over the next three years from an average
of 7 percent for the past three, Morimura said. About 6 percent
of revenue comes from  Asia , excluding Japan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Search  In North America, the bank’s second-largest market,
Mitsubishi UFJ is searching for takeover targets, mainly on the
U.S. west coast, to boost its commercial banking operations and
counter sluggish loan  demand  at home.  The lender spent $3.5 billion in 2008 to purchase San
Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp., where it now employs about
10,000 people. Morimura said he doesn’t plan to add workers at
UnionBanCal, where he once served as president.  It bought Santa Barbara, California-based Pacific Capital
Bancorp for $1.5 billion in March.  “Acquisitions and investments will be the big theme for us
in the coming years,” Morimura said. “In addition to the west
coast, we’ll be also looking at the U.S. east coast to search
for acquisition targets.’  Trust Bank  Japanese companies, bolstered by a strong yen, last year
acquired the most overseas assets since at least 2000, with
about 800 cross-border deals worth $88.7 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s trust banking arm is also looking for
takeover targets. It plans to invest in a U.S. fund management
firm in the next three years, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking
Corp. President Tatsuo Wakabayashi said this month. The unit
signed a deal for 15 percent of AMP Ltd.’s Australian asset
management business last year for A$425 million ($441 million).  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-
biggest bank by market value, in January agreed to buy Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s aviation division for $7.3 billion.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc., the third biggest, last year
bought a 15 percent stake in Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for
Foreign Trade of  Vietnam  for about $570 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  