-- Jakks Pacific Seen Raising Bid in Buyback-Poison Pill: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-04-27T21:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/jakks-pacific-seen-raising-bid-in-buyback-poison-pill-real-m-a.html
Jakks Pacific Inc. (JAKK) , the maker of
Disney Fairies dolls and Pokemon cards, is betting share
buybacks and a poison pill will force Oaktree Capital Management
LP to boost the cheapest bid on record for a toy company.  After rejecting Oaktree’s September offer of $20 a share,
Jakks fell as low as $13.36 in January as traders speculated a
lower revenue forecast would compel Oaktree to reduce its bid,
which already valued Jakks at a 48 percent discount to sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This week, Jakks said
it will buy back shares at $20 each, add two board members and
meet with Oaktree, pushing the stock to $18.98 yesterday. That’s
the closest Jakks has been to the offer price since December.  The repurchase is setting a new “floor” for takeover
discussions, said Tullett Prebon Plc, as the Malibu, California-
based company tries to prove that its toys, including  Monsuno 
action figures based on a Japanese animated television show, are
worth more than Oaktree’s proposal. With a shareholder rights
plan adopted in March blocking an unwanted hostile takeover, GFI
Group Inc. and Needham & Co. say the deal may reach at least $22
a share, a 37 percent premium to the  stock price  before the bid
was first disclosed in September.  “Jakks is saying, ‘We’re a buyer at $20, not a seller,’”
Peter Lobravico, New York-based vice president of merger
arbitrage trading and sales at Wall Street Access, said in a
telephone interview. “Management and the board are doing things
right. Jakks put the ball back in Oaktree’s court. It’s up to
Oaktree to come out and revise the offer.”  Smurf Toys  Joel Bennett , chief financial officer of Jakks, didn’t
respond to a phone call.  John Christiansen , a spokesman for Los
Angeles-based Oaktree, declined to comment on whether the
company is considering raising its offer for Jakks.  Today, shares of Jakks rose 4 cents to $19.02.  Founded  in 1995, Jakks sells everything from Hello Kitty
plush toys and princess costumes to  Smurfs  figurines and
swimming pool toys. It licenses brands from Walt Disney Co.,
 Warner Bros . and the  Ultimate Fighting Championship  mixed
martial arts league, according to its  website .  After Jakks’ board refused to engage in talks, Oaktree made
public on Sept. 14 that it wanted to acquire the toymaker for
$20 a share. The offer valued Jakks at about $387 million after
subtracting net cash, or about 52 cents for every dollar of
sales in the 12 months prior to the bid, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was the cheapest among toy acquisitions of
at least $100 million, which have a median multiple of 1.07
times revenue, the data show.  Poison Pill  Jakks turned down the offer on Oct. 5, saying the buyout
firm was trying to take advantage of adverse economic conditions
to buy the company below its “intrinsic value.”  The shares tumbled to a 21-month low in January as analysts
and traders speculated the reduction of Jakks’ 2011 sales
 forecast  the prior month would leave it without a buyer or
compel Oaktree to cut the bid. The toymaker’s  revenue  fell for a
 third  straight year in 2011 as U.S. consumers cut back on
spending and children favored video games over its stuffed
animals and action figures.  After Jakks adopted a poison pill in March that capped
investors at 10 percent to help fend off unwanted takeover
attempts, shareholder Clinton Group Inc. sent a letter to the
board asking it to review options and weigh Oaktree’s bid.  “It’s been kind of a saga,” Lobravico said. “You had an
activist shareholder send a letter in mid-March all of a sudden
asking them to run a sale process and to look at the Oaktree
offer.”  Tender Offer  Through yesterday, the stock had risen  7.8 percent  since
April 17 when Oaktree, which oversees  $75 billion  and owns 5
percent of Jakks shares, said the acquisition is “of the
highest priority.”  Jakks agreed this week to meet with Oaktree and provide
requested information. The company also said it will do a self-
tender for $80 million of its stock for at least $20 a share and
add two independent directors to its current six-member  board .
In turn, Clinton Group, which now owns a 4.9 percent stake,
agreed to support this year’s incumbent board nominees.  “When a company like Jakks is doing a self-tender at $20,
they’re saying that that’s not the ceiling, that’s the floor,”
 Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations
and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon, said in a
phone interview. “It could behoove Oaktree -- if they’re really
interested -- to say enough is enough, here’s a higher offer.
And it could still make sense for both them and shareholders.”  ‘Less Downside’  Jakks shares closed yesterday at $18.98, only 5.1 percent
below Oaktree’s offer. The company’s recent moves also prompted
 analysts  to increase the average projection for Jakks shares in
the next 12 months to $21.60 this week, the first time it has
exceeded Oaktree’s offer since December, estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “There is less downside because of the self-tender,
because of the obvious interest of these two parties and because
the business is stabilizing,”  Sean McGowan , an analyst for
Needham in New York, said in a phone interview. “I’m not sure
this will be an open-arms embracing type of discussion, but
something’s going to happen.”  Joseph De Perio, a senior portfolio manager at Clinton
Group, said Oaktree should pay more than $24 a share, based on
an analysis of prior transactions and a leveraged buyout model.  “We trust that the newly augmented board will work in the
best interest of shareholders to evaluate a firm proposal from
Oaktree,” De Perio said in the statement. “Given their
continued interest level today, prevailing market prices and the
self-tender price of $20, I assume for the sake of their own
time, that they are evaluating a transaction that would provide
a clearing market price.”  ‘Wide Gap’  Even if Oaktree boosts the offer, it may be not be enough
to convince Jakks to sell, said Edward Woo, an Irvine,
California-based analyst for Ascendiant Capital Group LLC.  “There might be a wide gap between what Jakks thinks
they’re worth and what Oaktree is willing to pay,” Woo said in
a phone interview. “My guess is what Jakks wants is something
north of $25.”  It would be easier to argue that Jakks deserves a higher
price if it owned the intellectual property behind more of its
toys instead of having licensing deals, which eventually expire,
Woo said.  Still, Jakks is boosting its share price by putting its
 cash  to use with the buybacks. The company’s cash and short-term
investments had risen to about $255 million as of March 31, or
about 52 percent of its current $494 million market value.  Oaktree may now have to pay $22 a share to get Jakks’ board
to agree to a deal, said Needham’s McGowan and Alfredo Scialabba, a New York-based special situations and risk
arbitrage analyst at GFI Group. That’s 37 percent more than
Jakks’ average price in the 20 days before Oaktree’s offer was
made public last year.  “Oaktree is still in the process,” Scialabba said in a
telephone interview. “Now they clearly have access to internal
numbers. Based on those numbers they will be able to boost it a
little.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 