-- Japan, Australia Stock Futures Rise on U.S. Housing Data
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-04-27T07:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/japan-australia-stock-futures-rise-on-u-s-housing-data.html
Japanese  stocks  declined, reversing
an earlier surge that came after the  Bank of Japan  added
stimulus, as investors interpreted a statement on price gains as
a sign an end to deflation may damp prospects for further easing.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,  Japan ’s second-
biggest lender by market value, lost 0.4 percent after paring
gains of as much as 2 percent.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that
depends on Europe for a third of its sales, slid 1.2 percent
after Spain’s credit rating was cut, weakening the euro against
the yen. Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of gaming
consoles, sank the most in seven months after forecasting net
income that lagged analysts’ expectations.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.4 percent to 9,520.89
at the close in  Tokyo , after earlier rising as much as 1.4
percent minutes after the central bank made its announcement.
Volume on the gauge was almost 25 percent above the 30-day
average. The broader Topix Index fell 0.7 percent to 804.27,
declining 0.9 percent on the week.  “Investors are worried the BOJ may tighten its monetary
policy, not ease it,” said Koichi Kurose, chief economist at
Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “The BOJ statement says that there’s
a high probability that the  consumer price index  will reach 1
percent before long. That’s the most negative part here.”  Shares erased earlier gains after the Bank of Japan said in
a statement it would not be long before a 1 percent inflation
goal was reached, casting future stimulus in doubt.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group lost 0.4 percent to 2,584
yen.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender
by market value, dropped 0.3 percent to 387 yen, after earlier
surging as much as 3.1 percent.  ‘Scaled Back’  The BOJ’s asset-purchase fund, its main policy tool since
the benchmark interest rate was cut to near zero, is now 40
trillion yen, today’s announcement showed in Tokyo. The central
bank also extended the maximum maturity of government bonds
purchases in the program to three years. A separate credit
facility providing funds to banks was pared by 5 trillion yen.  “The bank has actually scaled back the other main element
of the asset purchase program, cutting the amount available
under its six-month lending program by 5 trillion yen,” said
 Julian Jessop , chief global economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in London. “It cited weak demand, but this simply underlines
the fact that there is little evidence that Japan’s recovery is
being held back by problems with the cost or availability of
credit.”  The stimulus came as government reports today showed
industrial production rose less than analysts anticipated in
March and household spending missed estimates.  Spain Rating Cut  Companies linked to  Europe  fell after Spain’s credit rating
was cut by S&P on concern the nation will have to provide
further support to the banking sector. Spain’s borrowing costs
have climbed as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to
implement austerity measures as the economy contracts.  Canon lost 1.2 percent to 3,670 yen. Nippon Sheet Glass
slumped 1.9 percent to 104 yen.  Nintendo tumbled 5.6 percent to 10,900 yen, its biggest
drop since Sept. 28. The video-game company fell after
forecasting a drop in net-income that that missed analysts’
estimates as consumers increasingly play games on mobile devices
including Apple Inc.’s iPhone. Nintendo yesterday reported its
first annual loss since going public in 1962.  Almost a fifth of the Topix’s 1,665 companies reported
earnings this week. Net income grew about 30 percent in the
first quarter at 379 companies that reported results since April
10, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  