-- Jefferies Said to Hire Latimer to Start Canadian Unit
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-04-26T19:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/jefferies-said-to-hire-steven-latimer-to-start-canadian-business.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  is starting a
Canadian  investment-banking  business amid a jump in deals and
has hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  banker Steven Latimer to lead
it, according to a person with knowledge of the move.  Latimer, based in Toronto, also will oversee the New York-
based firm’s natural resources and mining business in the
nation, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the move isn’t public. He previously was a director leading
metals and mining investment banking in Canada at Zurich-based
Credit Suisse, the person said. Latimer will report to Benjamin Lorello, global head of investment banking and  capital markets .  Jefferies is expanding into Canada after announced deals so
far this year increased 24 percent to almost $60 billion, led by
resource and energy industries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler , 50, has
recruited bankers and traders as rivals retrenched after the
2008 credit crisis.  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman for Jefferies, and Jack Grone
at Credit Suisse said they couldn’t comment.  The Bank of Canada said last week the economy will expand
2.4 percent this year, up from a January projection of 2
percent, as companies become more confident in U.S. growth and
as risks from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis abate.  Jefferies has  offices  in 18 U.S. cities and about a dozen
others abroad, including Frankfurt, Paris and Hong Kong,
according to the company’s website. The firm received 14 percent
of its fiscal first-quarter net revenue of $780 million from
Europe and 1.5 percent from  Asia , with the rest coming from the
Americas, according to a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 