-- Jet-Fuel Stockpiles Fall to Five-Month Low in Europe’s Hub
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-04-26T16:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/jet-fuel-stockpiles-fall-to-five-month-low-in-europe-s-hub-1-.html
Jet-fuel stockpiles in independent
storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp,  Europe ’s oil-trading
hub, fell to the lowest level in five months, according to PJK
International BV.  Inventories of the  aviation fuel  dropped 15 percent to
392,000 metric tons in the week to today even as supplies
arrived from  Bahrain  and the United Arab Emirates, according to
data by PJK, a researcher in the Netherlands. That’s the lowest
level since Nov. 24.  Gasoil stockpiles decreased for a third week, dropping 3.1
percent to 2.53 million tons on exports to  Latin America , the
data show. That’s the lowest level since mid-March. Cargoes of
the fuel, which includes diesel and heating oil, arrived from
the U.S.  “Gasoil declined because there was a drop in imports from
 Russia  this week,” Patrick Kulsen, commercial director at PJK,
said by phone from Breda, where the company is based. Last week
the fuel arrived from Finland, Russia and the U.S.  Gasoline stockpiles declined for a second week, falling 4.9
percent to 735,000 tons on exports to Mexico and  Nigeria , PJK
data show. That’s the lowest level in a month. Supplies arrived
from France, Finland, India, Norway,  Poland , Spain and the U.K.  Naphtha inventories increased 6.3 percent to 84,000 tons as
cargoes arrived from Russia and the U.K., according to the data.
That’s the highest level in a month.  Fuel oil  stocks gained 5.9 percent to 633,000 tons as
supplies arrived from  Lithuania , Poland, Russia,  Sweden  and the
U.K., the data show.  The following table shows the weekly inventory changes in
thousands of tons for gasoline, naphtha,  fuel oil  and jet fuel
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  