-- Jets’ Woody Johnson, Tory Burch, Toni Morrison: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-26T11:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/jets-woody-johnson-tory-burch-toni-morrison-scene.html
Robert Thomas of the pop band
 Matchbox Twenty  performed an acoustic set in the Temple of
Dendur last night for  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center .  “I don’t think the temple could handle full-on drums and
amps,” Thomas said as guests arrived at the  Metropolitan Museum 
of Art. They included  Woody Johnson , owner of the Jets, designer
Tory Burch and Nina Rennert Davidson, daughter of billionaire
Ira Rennert.  “Everybody here is feeling generous,” Thomas said. “You
want to stoke that fire as much as you can.”  His mother was diagnosed with cancer when he was 12,
Thomas said, and a few years ago his dog Tyler, a terrier mix,
died of cancer.  Thom Mayne, architect of the planned Le Phare skyscraper in
Paris as high as the Eiffel tower, pulled out a pen last night
at the Plaza to write down something  Peter Sellars  said: “The
question of the 21st century is how will we share?”  Mayne recorded the line in the program for the  American
Academy  of Rome gala as Sellars spoke to accept the academy’s
2012 Centennial Medal. The theater and opera director was
honored along with the artist William Kentridge.  The Academy was raising money to put up artists,
architects, writers, and musicians in Rome for a year to share
meals, space and ideas.  Pritzker Winner  “You’re mingling with people in all disciplines,” said
the Pritzker prizewinner Mayne, an academy board member, who is
also responsible for the shiny Cooper Union building at Astor
Place in New York. “The stay at the academy allows you to
recalibrate, rethink your objectives, redefine who you are.”  Kentridge wore his new medal as he dined between Nancy
Kissinger and Mercedes Bass, the dinner chairwoman. He said he
would like enough medals to repeat what an African king did at
the coronation of the queen of  England : he attended wearing a
leisure suit and with a man bearing all his medals.  “So until I have enough this one is staying in the
cupboard,” Kentridge said.  Toni Morrison, not wearing her Nobel medal, stopped by
Chuck Close’s table, while chef Alice Waters, who conceived the
academy’s local, organic meals, checked in with artist Maira
Kalman across the room.  Paul LeClerc, former president of the  New York Public
Library , reported on his new job as director of Columbia
University’s Europe Global Center in Paris. One perk: he’ll be
closer to the academy in Rome.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Martin Gayford reviews
Ron Mueck’s  art show  in  London : Rich Jaroslovsky on  Kindle ;
 Jason Harper  on the  Ford Taurus SHO .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 