-- Jordan's Prime Minister Resigns After Six Months
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   M o h a m m e d   G h a z a l
-- 2012-04-26T14:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/jordan-s-prime-minister-resigns-after-six-months.html
Jordan’s Prime Minister Awn al-
Khasawneh resigned today, six months after  King Abdullah 
appointed the former judge at the International Court of Justice
with a mandate to speed political change in the country.  “His Royal Majesty, King Abdullah II, by royal decree, has
accepted the resignation of the government of Awn al-Khasawneh,
which was submitted today,” according to a statement on the
official Petra news agency.  Khasawneh replaced  Marouf Bakhit , a former army general who
critics said was slow to implement political and economic
changes following protests inspired by a wave of popular
uprisings across the Arab world that ousted leaders in  Egypt ,
Yemen, Tunisia and  Libya .  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the  Middle East ,
relies on foreign investment and grants to support its budget
and current-account deficits. The government has increased
public salaries and subsidies since pro-reform protests broke
out.  Confirmation of Khasawneh’s resignation ends confusion
following conflicting reports today. His departure was first
reported by the Al-Quds Al-Araby newspaper and then swiftly
denied in a statement on Petra. That denial was subsequently
corrected by the official  news agency .  King Abdullah changed the government twice last year and
promised to ease restraints on political parties and allow the
formation of governments based on a parliamentary majority,
without saying when this could happen.  “Political reform characterizes the current phase in the
journey of our beloved Jordan,” Abdullah told the prime
minister in his designation letter last year.  Khasawneh is a former chief of the royal court and
previously served as a legal adviser to the late King Hussein,
father of the current monarch.  Jordan’s opposition, made up largely of Islamist groups
that oppose peace with Israel as well as members of the
communist party, staged protests last year to demand change and
an end to corruption, inspired by the pro-democracy revolts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  