-- Joseph Rice to Leave as Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Chairman
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/joseph-rice-to-leave-as-clayton-dubilier-rice-chairman.html
Joseph Rice III, chairman of the
private-equity firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC, will step down
later this year, the company told its investors.  Rice, 80, will leave in June, the New York-based firm said
yesterday in a letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. The firm declined to comment.  Clayton Dubilier is one of the oldest private-equity firms.
Rice, a lawyer, was at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP before working in
 investment banking  and leveraged buyouts and helped form the
firm that bears his name in 1978.  “Joe is an extraordinary partner to me and many others who
have had the opportunity to work in the firm over the past 34
years,” Chief Executive Officer Donald Gogel wrote in the
letter. “Equally significant, Joe is a great partner to the
more than 150 investors that have entrusted us with their
capital over the years and to dozens of our portfolio company
CEOs.”  The firm specializes in so-called carve-out deals, in which
it buys unwanted or underperforming divisions of larger
corporations such as  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and Ford Motor Co. Clayton,
Dubilier & Rice was among the first to hire former corporate
executives, known as operating partners, to advise on deals. The
firm counts former  General Electric Co. (GE)  Chairman Jack Welch
among its advisers.  Rice graduated from Williams College, where he is now a
trustee emeritus, and was a lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps
before earning a law degree from  Harvard Law School  in 1960.
He’s a member of the  Council on Foreign Relations  and the
 Brookings Institution .  Clayton, Dubilier & Rice is among a small number of
private-equity firms that have successfully transferred
management from the founders. Gogel became CEO in 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  