-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for April (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-04-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-april-text-.html
Following is the text from the
 Kansas City  Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City  released the April
Manufacturing Survey today. According to Chad Wilkerson, vice
president and economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas
City, the survey revealed that growth in Tenth District
manufacturing eased further in April, but activity remained
expansionary and well above year-ago levels.  “Factories in our region report continued growth, especially in
employment, but at somewhat slower rates than in previous
months, when unseasonably warm weather may have helped boost
activity” said Wilkerson.  “Expectations for the rest of the
year notched down a bit as well, but remained positive.”  Summary  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing eased further in April,
but activity remained expansionary and well above year-ago
levels.  The majority of producers reported some negative
effects from elevated gasoline prices, and nearly half of all
respondents noted difficulties finding workers.  Price indexes
were mixed, with slight easing in some materials price indexes
and fewer producers planning to raise selling prices.  The month-over-month composite index was 3 in April, down from 9
in March and 13 in February (Tables 1 & 2, Chart).  The
composite index is an average of the production, new orders,
employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory
indexes.  Manufacturing growth eased in most durable and
nondurable goods-producing plants, with the exception of
fabricated metal, plastics, and rubber products.  Other month-
over-month indexes also slowed in April.  The production index
dropped from 13 to 0, and the shipments, new orders, and order
backlog indexes also fell.  In contrast, the employment index
remained unchanged, and the new orders for exports index edged
up slightly.  The raw materials inventory index increased from 0
to 5, while the finished goods inventory index fell after rising
the past two months.  Year-over-year factory indexes were generally stable in April.
The composite year-over-year index was unchanged at 24, and the
order backlog index also remained flat.  The production,
shipments, and new orders indexes eased slightly, and the new
orders for exports index fell into negative territory. However,
the employment index jumped from 23 to 31 - its highest level
since early 2007 - and the capital expenditures index increased
for the third straight month.  Both inventory indexes edged
higher.  The majority of future factory indexes eased slightly, but
remained close to levels in late 2011.  The future composite
index decreased from 18 to 12, and the future production, new
orders, shipments, and order backlog indexes also fell.  The
future employment index moderated after posting solid gains the
last few months, and the future capital spending index dropped
to its lowest level since late 2010.  The future raw materials
inventory index decreased from -5 to -8, and the future finished
goods inventory index dropped into negative territory.  Price indexes were mixed.  The month-over-month raw materials
price index decreased to its lowest level in nearly two years,
while the finished goods price index edged higher from 3 to 7.
The year-over-year raw materials price index inched higher from
71 to 74, and the finished goods price index also rose.  The
future raw materials price index eased from 65 to 54, and the
future finished goods price index fell to an 18-month low,
indicating fewer firms plan to pass recent cost increases
through to customers. 