-- Korea Sovereign Yield Decline May Be Ending: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-04-26T03:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/korea-sovereign-yield-decline-may-be-ending-technical-analysis.html
A retreat in South  Korea ’s
sovereign bond yields may be ending as they approach key
technical levels, according to Woori Investment & Securities Co.  The yield on the government security due December 2014 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.49 percent as of
11:52 a.m. in  Seoul , according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
The rate has dropped 14 basis points from this year’s high of
3.63 percent reached on March 23.  A further decline will be limited as the yield approaches
3.45 percent, a 61.8 percent reversal of its advance to this
year’s high from 3.34 percent at the beginning of 2012, based on
a series of numbers know as the Fibonacci sequence, said Travis
Choi, a Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at Woori Investment, a
unit of the nation’s biggest financial holding company.  “For yields to fall further either one of two conditions
must be met -- a lowering of the benchmark  interest rate  or a
resumption of overseas investors’ Korean bond purchases,” Choi
said. “We expect borrowing cost to remain unchanged this year.
Foreigners’ deleveraging will continue until June as European
banks seek to boost capital.”  The  Bank of Korea  has held its benchmark interest rate at
3.25 percent for almost a year. Overseas investors bought 689
billion won ($605 million) more government notes than they sold
this month through yesterday, compared with 3 trillion won of
net purchases in March, data from the Seoul-based  Financial
Supervisory Service  show.  Bond prices may drop in the short term, pushing the three-
year yield to as high as 3.62 percent in the coming month,
before it faces downward pressure again as expectations for a
rate cut grow and foreign investment picks up, Choi said.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low. In
 technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts of
trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  