-- NAMA Plans to Redeem $4 Billion of Bonds This Year, CEO Says
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/nama-plans-to-redeem-4-billion-of-bonds-this-year-ceo-says.html
Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency will repay more than 3 billion euros ($4 billion) of
bonds this year as it raises revenue by selling loans and
renting out property, the agency’s chief executive officer said.  “We will look at redeeming more bonds” than that amount
if  cash flow  is stronger, NAMA Chief Executive  Brendan McDonagh 
said in an interview at the agency’s Dublin headquarters.  The agency, Ireland’s so-called bad bank, is trying to
increase revenue by making debtors lease properties while it
seeks buyers, McDonagh said April 10. NAMA is also weighing the
sale of developers’ loan portfolios and planning to provide
financing to help sell assets, he said.  NAMA used bonds to buy commercial-property loans with a
face value of 74 billion euros from the country’s banks for 32
billion euros. The banks use the bonds as collateral to draw
cash from the  European Central Bank . McDonagh has redeemed about
1.25 billion euros of the bonds so far, with a goal of repaying
7.5 billion euros by the end of 2013.  NAMA bought the loans from the banks at values from three
years ago and Irish commercial property prices have since fallen
20 percent, McDonagh said. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
last week that the agency will likely take an 800 million-euro
impairment charge for 2011.  “The impairment charge doesn’t account for those parts of
the portfolio which have grown in value,” McDonagh said. “It’s
only looking at the negative side of the equation.”  Outside of Ireland, average prices in NAMA’s portfolio are
up 10 percent since November 2009, McDonagh said.  The agency has spent about 280 million euros on working
capital for developments overseas, he said. Most of that was to
get planning permission for land in London and to complete other
developments in the city.  “When projects have been sufficiently de-risked with pre-
sales and things like that, we funded the development on the
basis of creating a profit out the other side,” McDonagh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  