-- Natural Gas to Climb as Goldman Sees Output Cuts: Energy
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a ,   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-04-26T13:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/natural-gas-to-climb-as-goldman-sees-output-cuts-energy.html
U.S.  natural gas  for delivery this
fall is trading at a record premium, signaling the fuel may be
poised to rebound from its worst quarter in two years because of
production cuts and rising demand from  power plants .  Gas futures for delivery in October traded at an all-time
high of 48.1 cents per million British thermal units above the
May contract on April 11, when prices dropped below $2 per
million British thermal units for the first time since 2002. The
spread was 19.7 cents on Jan. 30. Near-month gas may rebound to
$4 “relatively quickly,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an
April 24 report.  Prices have tumbled 31 percent this year as the fourth-
warmest winter on record crimped demand and output from shale
formations increased. Energy companies including ConocoPhillips
and  Encana Corp. (ECA)  have responded with production cuts, reducing
the chances that supplies will overwhelm storage before winter.
Demand for gas from power plants will climb 16 percent in 2012,
according to the Energy Department.  “We’re going to see production curtailments and an uptick
in power demand this summer that will prevent us from reaching
maximum storage capacity,” said  Scott Hanold , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in  Minneapolis . “Short-term gas contracts can
take a beating, but investors have a more constructive view of
longer-term contracts.”  Natural gas for May delivery increased as much as 6.9 cents
to $2.137 per million British thermal units in electronic
trading today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , and traded at
$2.12 per million Btu at 8:57 a.m. That follows yesterday’s gain
of 4.7 percent, the biggest since Feb. 16, and brings this
week’s increase to 10 percent. The spread between May and
October futures was 40.7 cents.  Tumbling Prices  Gas is the worst performer this year on the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities, falling 39 percent on a
total-return basis. Prices on the Nymex dropped 29 percent in
the first quarter, the biggest decline since the first three
months of 2010.  The futures slid to $1.902 per million Btu on April 19, the
lowest price since September 2001. Gas plunged as an inventory
 surplus  to the five-year average reached 61 percent at the end
of March, the biggest gap in six years. Marketed gas production
will increase 4.5 percent this year to average 69.22 billion
cubic feet a day from an all-time high last year, the Energy
Department estimated April 10 in its Short-Term Energy Outlook.  Stockpiles totaled 2.512 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended April 13, a record for that time of year, department data
show. Barclays Plc and Bank of America Corp. predicted that
inventory levels would approach or exceed 4.103 trillion cubic
feet, the department’s estimate for physical storage capacity,
by the end of October.  Output Cuts  That outcome is less likely now that prices at 10-year lows
have prompted energy companies to scale back production,
according to Hanold, who was third among gas-price forecasters
ranked by Bloomberg in the eight quarters ended March 31.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said April 23 that first-quarter output of
oil and gas fell 3.8 percent.  Encana,  Canada ’s biggest natural-gas producer by volume,
plans to reduce production by 600 million cubic feet a day,
according to the Calgary-based company’s first-quarter earnings
statement yesterday. The number of rigs drilling for gas has
tumbled 22 percent this year, data from Baker Hughes Inc. in
Houston show.  “There is a current weakness in market fundamentals due to
an oversupply of natural gas and it is clear that a continued
reduction of drilling activity will be required to restore
market balance,” Encana said.  Price Rebound  Natural gas may rebound as production growth slows and
colder weather returns later in the year, Goldman Sachs said in
its report this week. The 2011-2012 winter was the warmest since
2000 in the contiguous U.S., according to the National Climatic
Data Center in Asheville,  North Carolina .  About 51 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
Energy Department data show.  Gas may drop below $1.80 if hot summer weather fails to
materialize, Laurent Key, a gas analyst at Societe Generale SA
in  New York , said in an April 24 telephone interview.  The possibility of an El Nino, a warming of the mid-Pacific
Ocean, has forecasters predicting lower temperatures across the
U.S. this summer, which may mean less electricity will be needed
to run air conditioners, according to Weather Services
International in Andover,  Massachusetts . About 35 percent of
U.S. gas demand comes from power producers.  The El Nino pattern may also cause a below-average Atlantic
storm season, with four hurricanes expected this year compared
with 19 last year, according to researchers at  Colorado State
University  who pioneered long-range Atlantic forecasting. About
6.4 percent of U.S. gas production comes from the  Gulf of
Mexico , where storms can disrupt supplies.  Power Plants  Falling  gas prices  are compelling power-plant operators to
switch from burning higher-priced coal, Sabine Schels, head of
fundamental commodities research at Bank of America in London,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Gas costs for power plants slid to the equivalent of
$1.3783 per million Btu less than coal on April 19, the biggest
discount since coal futures began trading in 2001, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  American Electric Power Co., the biggest U.S. producer of
coal-fueled electricity, said April 20 that it used 62 percent
more gas in the first quarter than a year earlier because of low
prices.  Southern Co. (SO) , once the largest U.S. consumer of coal,
expects to generate 57 percent of its power from natural gas by
2020 if low prices and new environmental rules remain in effect,
Thomas Fanning, Southern’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said during an interview today.  Normal Winter  “Slower production growth combined with a return to more
normal winter weather next year will reduce the amount of price-
induced coal-to-gas substitution required,”  Jeffrey Currie , a
New York-based analyst at Goldman, said in the report.  Gas prices will recover next year as normal winter weather,
lower output growth and increasing demand bring storage back to
usual levels by October 2013, according to Schels.  “We are close to a bottom, but equally we think any price
recovery from there will be very long, drawn out and gradual,”
Schels said. “We’re generating a humongous amount of coal-to-
gas switching. You don’t need prices to go lower to generate
more switching, unless coal prices drop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in  London  at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  