-- Nigerian Blasts at Newspaper Offices Kill Eight, 34 Injured
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2012-04-26T19:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/nigerian-bombings-at-newspaper-offices-kill-at-least-eight-2-.html
Bombings at the offices of ThisDay
newspaper in the Nigerian capital of Abuja and the northern city
of Kaduna killed at least eight people and wounded 34 others,
police and emergency officials said.  A second blast in Kaduna killed at least one person and
wounded several others in the city’s Ungwan Muazu district,
local government official Sanusi Sirajo said by phone.  Three people died in Abuja, including two security guards
and a suicide bomber who drove a jeep through the back gate of
the ThisDay building before ramming into a wall and exploding
the vehicle, Olusegun Adeniyi, chairman of the newspaper’s
editorial board, told reporters.  Fourteen people wounded in the blast are receiving
treatment in two hospitals in the capital, Yushua Shuaib, a
spokesman for the National Emergency Management Agency said
today in an e-mailed statement.  An explosion in a building housing ThisDay and other
newspapers in Kaduna killed at least five people, Aminu Lawan, a
police spokesman, said by phone. Twenty people were wounded in
that blast, Shuaib said.  The blast in Abuja tore open the roof and destroyed the
walls of the ThisDay office, shattering glass in nearby
buildings, Nwakpa O. Nwakpa, a spokesman for the  Nigeria  Red
Cross in the city, said by phone.  “There was smoke everywhere, with broken glass falling all
over, and then a fire started,” said James Ogbu, a ThisDay
employee who survived the blast in Abuja with minor injuries.  Presidential Condemnation  President  Goodluck Jonathan  condemned today’s attack and
expressed sympathy for the bereaved families, according to a
statement on the presidential  website . Today’s attacks were
“ignoble, misguided, horrendous and wicked,” Jonathan said.  No group immediately claimed responsibility for the
bombings. Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame an
Islamist group Boko Haram for a surge in attacks in the mainly
Muslim north and Abuja in which hundreds of people have died
this year.  The nature and locations of the attacks point to the likely
involvement of Boko Haram, according to London-based risk-
analysis group Control Risks.  ‘Core Targets’  “While the sect is not known to have previously carried
out such attacks on media outlets, it may have elected to strike
a national newspaper in retaliation for negative coverage and to
inhibit journalistic examination and criticism of Boko Haram’s
activities,” Control Risks said in a statement on its website
today. “The targeted newspaper is widely read by the Nigerian
political and business elite, which feature among the Islamist
sect’s core targets.”  In 2002 more than 100 people died in sectarian riots in
Kano and Kaduna after ThisDay published a report about a Miss
World pageant in Abuja that radical Muslim groups said was
derogatory of the  Prophet Muhammad .  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a
sin,” claimed responsibility for the Aug. 26 suicide car-
bombing of a United Nations office in Abuja in which 25 people
died. It also claimed responsibility for an attack in Kano on
Jan. 20 in which 256 people were killed.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country of more than 160
million people, is almost evenly split between a largely Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  