-- Nintendo Misses Estimates as Apple Lures Gamers Away
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-04-26T10:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/nintendo-forecasts-return-to-profit-on-cost-cuts-sales-of-3ds.html
Nintendo Co. (7974) , the world’s largest
maker of video-game machines, forecast profit this fiscal year
that missed analysts’ estimates as consumers increasingly play
games on mobile devices including Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Net income  may total 20 billion yen ($246 million) for the
year ending March 31, the Kyoto, Japan-based company said in a
statement today. That compared with the 32.9 billion-yen average
of 20 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s
forecasts for sales and operating profit also missed estimates.  Apple reported a 94 percent jump in quarterly profit this
week while Nintendo is recovering from its first annual loss as
more game players go online using iPhones and iPads. The creator
of “Super Mario” predicts a 37 percent jump in sales of its
3DS handheld model, and the introduction of the Wii U console,
will drive a return to profit.  “Nintendo isn’t exempt from the impact of smartphones and
tablets,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps manage $6 billion at
Shinkin Asset Management Co. “The company’s performance will be
determined by the 3DS, which will probably be profitable this
year, and new products as well as the currency.”  Nintendo plans to sell 18.5 million units of the 3DS and
10.5 million Wiis. The company sold 9.84 million Wii units last
year, it said in today’s statement.  Net Loss  The net loss for the year ended March was 43.2 billion yen,
compared with analysts’ estimate for a 58.1 billion-yen loss. It
was the first loss since 1962 when Nintendo went public, Senior
Managing Director Yoshihiro Mori told reporters today in Osaka,
 Japan .  “What went wrong was that sales of the 3DS didn’t take off
as we expected,” Nintendo President Satoru Iwata said. “The
stronger yen against the euro was also another reason.”  A strengthening of the yen against foreign currencies cuts
the value of Nintendo’s overseas earnings when repatriated.  The company plans to introduce the 3DS in  South Korea  this
week and in other Asian markets this fiscal year, Iwata said.  Nintendo  rose  2.9 percent to 11,540 yen on the Osaka
Securities Exchange before it released earnings. The stock has
gained 8.9 percent this year, compared with a 4 percent drop by
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and a 24 percent increase for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Operating Profit  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
selling, general and administrative expenses, may total 35
billion yen this fiscal year, compared with a loss of 37.3
billion yen the previous 12 months, the company said. That
missed the 42.2 billion yen average of analyst estimates.  Sales may rise to 820 billion yen from 647.7 billion yen,
Nintendo said. Analysts had expected 842.8 billion yen.  Sales of the DS console, the predecessor to the 3DS, may
plunge 51 percent to 2.5 million units, the company said.
Software sales for the 3DS may more than double to 73 million
units, while those for the DS may decrease 39 percent to 37
million.  “Nintendo will be regarded with some concern this fiscal
year,” said Satoru Kikuchi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, who rates the stock hold. The 3DS and Wii U will erode
sales of older models and the company will need to rely on
having popular software, he said.  3DS Price  Iwata was forced to cut the price of the 3DS handheld
player by as much as 40 percent within six months of the
product’s introduction last year after sales failed to meet the
company’s estimate. Nintendo plans to release the product, which
allows users to see 3-D images without wearing special glasses,
in  Asia  this fiscal year.  Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft, the world’s three biggest
video-game console makers, are facing increasing competition
from  Apple (AAPL) , whose devices are capable of downloading and playing
games, some for free. By contrast, the software for the 3DS
starts from about 4,000 yen.  The company also plans to introduce the Wii U in time for
this year’s holiday shopping season, Iwata said in January.  The device’s centerpiece is a 6.2-inch touch-screen
controller, roughly the size of a tablet computer, that lets
users wirelessly connect to the console and shift content
between a TV and the device, according to Nintendo. The machine
will be equipped with a wireless credit-card reader to
facilitate online shopping and downloads of new game levels.  Microsoft’s Xbox  The console, which Nintendo plans to unveil in June, faces
tougher competition. Microsoft will release the next version of
its Xbox console in 2013 at the earliest, as the company
squeezes at least one more year of sales out of its current
model, two people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  In the U.S., the world’s biggest video-gaming market,
retail sales fell for four straight months, with March sales
plunging 25 percent, according to NPD, a research firm in  Port
Washington ,  New York .  Retail sales of packaged video games have fallen sharply
for about two years as consumers purchase games to play on
smartphones and social networks such as Facebook Inc., NPD said.  Nintendo probably sold 235,000 Wii consoles and 240,000 3DS
handhelds last month,  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities in  Los Angeles , said in an April 9 research note.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , sold 371,000 Xbox
360 consoles, the company said April 12, citing NPD figures.
Sony Corp. sold 325,000 PlayStation consoles and about 125,000
of its new PlayStation Vita handheld, Pachter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in  Osaka  at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  