-- North Korea Poised to Rattle Region With Nuclear Blast
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-26T18:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/north-korea-poised-to-rattle-region-with-nuclear-blast.html
Political pressure, a high-stakes
bargaining strategy and technical challenges may push  North
Korea ’s new leader to order the country’s third nuclear test any
time now.  North Korea has been escalating its threats against South
Korea and the U.S. in the past month as new leader Kim Jong Un
celebrates the centennial of the birth of the country’s founder,
his late grandfather  Kim Il Sung .  Those celebrations and the need to bolster the younger
Kim’s standing -- particularly in the aftermath of a failed
April 13 rocket launch -- are two reasons that North Korea
watchers such as  David Albright  expect the Pyongyang regime to
try to conduct an underground nuclear explosion. If it does so,
the North would stoke tensions with South Korea, the U.S. and
the  United Nations Security Council , which has forbidden the
regime from conducting nuclear and missile tests.  “It could happen any day now,” said Albright, president
of the Institute for Science and International Security in
Washington. His organization has posted satellite images on its
 website  that it says show North Korea’s preparations at the
Punggye-ri underground nuclear test site used twice in the past.  A nuclear test would make Kim “look more powerful and
successful,” Albright said. “He needs this to keep the
military feeling secure and the elites energized, and it
certainly scares the South Koreans. North Korea knows that
well.”  The regime risks a double failure if a nuclear test is
unsuccessful. That prospect isn’t necessarily daunting, Albright
said. “They can still say, ‘Look, we’re on the path to thermo-
nuclear weapons,’” he said.  Admission of Failure  While  South Korea  sees no evidence that a nuclear test is
imminent, it recently submitted a list of North Korean
organizations to be included in the  Security Council ’s expanded
sanctions, Foreign Ministry spokesman Cho Byung Jae told
reporters today in  Seoul , without giving details.  North Korea is already under UN sanctions for its two past
nuclear tests, and the Council censured Kim’s government after
this month’s launch of a rocket that disintegrated shortly after
takeoff. That debacle prompted a rare public admission of
failure to the outside world and raised questions about whether
Kim can secure his grip on the military and government as he
confronts global condemnation and an economy that struggles to
feed its own people.  Banning Garrett, director of the Asia Program and Strategic
Foresight Initiative at the Atlantic Council, a  Washington 
policy group, said the failed launch would feed a sense of
insecurity and paranoia that provokes North Korean leaders’
often outlandish threats.  Old Technology  “It’s a half-century-old technology and they can’t even
master that,” Garrett said of the missile launch. The point of
Pyongyang’s posturing and its nuclear program, Garret said, is
deterrence. “They feel threatened and paranoid and so they
maintain this façade,” Garrett said.  Regime officials have recently threatened their neighbor to
the south as well as the U.S. On April 23, a military squad
threatened to “soon” turn South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
and his government to “ashes in three or four minutes.” At a
ceremony yesterday to mark the 80th anniversary of the country’s
1.2 million-strong military, Vice Marshal Ri Yong Ho said the
army has “powerful modern weapons” capable of defeating its
enemies.  ‘Forcefully Retaliate’  “We are able to continuously corner the U.S. and
forcefully retaliate to the enemy’s provocative schemes for
war,” Ri said, according to a transcript of his remarks from
South Korea’s Unification Ministry.  “Cornering” the U.S. is one element in North Korea’s
calculations, said Sung-Yoon Lee, an assistant professor of
Korean Studies at  Tufts University , outside  Boston .  After North Korea conducted its first nuclear test in 2006,
the administration of President  George W. Bush  reacted by
lifting financial sanctions, beginning diplomatic talks in
December 2006 and the so-called six-party talks with  Russia ,
 China , South Korea, the U.S. and  Japan , in February 2007.  The U.S. also resumed food and energy aid and removed North
Korea from the list of state sponsors of terrorism in 2008.  “That was actually a very good move for the North
Koreans,” Lee said of the test, speaking in a telephone
interview. The North Koreans “painted the  Bush administration 
into a corner, especially as it was dealing with the war in  Iraq 
and having political problems.”  They conducted a second test in 2009, after President
 Barack Obama  took office. “The Obama administration did not
bite” then, Lee said.  Deal Collapses  In July 2011, the Obama administration began to engage
North Korea and reached an agreement with Pyongyang this year.
The North would halt tests of long-range missiles and nuclear
devices, and the U.S. would provide food aid. That deal
collapsed in the wake of the failed April 13 rocket launch,
which the U.S. said amounted to a test of missile technology.
The U.S. retracted the planned food aid.  That failure may provide a further impetus for North Korea
to test an atomic device, Albright said. “There’s a pattern,
when something doesn’t work right that’s fundamental to their
view of nuclear deterrence, they can get very reactive and you
see it now,” Albright said.  ‘People Made Fun’  With the failed missile test, “people made fun of them,
the military gets angry and starts to feel people don’t fear
North Korea,” he said. “One way to deal with that is a nuclear
test.”  There are also technical reasons, according to Albright and
Lee. “On one level, it’s a perfectly rational act,” said Lee,
who said it has been three years since Pyongyang last tested a
nuclear device.  Albright’s organization estimates North Korea has six to 18
nuclear weapons with about three kilograms of plutonium in each.
Efforts to create bomb designs with greater potential impact
would be a factor for conducting a test.  The Pyongyang government has hinted at efforts to develop a
thermo-nuclear device and may also be working on a device that
wraps highly enriched uranium around a plutonium core to
generate a much higher yield than its existing bombs, said
Albright, a physicist and former weapons inspector.  George Lopez , a former member of the UN panel of experts
for enforcing sanctions on North Korea, said he believes the
North Koreans are planning a uranium test.  Key Dates  “Technically, I’m betting that this test will be a uranium
test, not a plutonium test,” he said today. The technical
reason to conduct the test would be to evaluate uranium
enrichment quality and the detonation process, he said.  A South Korean intelligence report warned earlier this
month that recent activity at North Korea’s Punggye-ri nuclear
testing site is consistent with preparations for previous atomic
device detonations. South Korean Deputy Defense Minister Lim Kwan Bin warned shortly after the North’s failed rocket launch
that chances of a nuclear test are “very high.”  Lee said that Pyongyang has a fondness for taking
provocative action on or near significant dates. The first
nuclear test took place on Oct. 9, 2006, the day before the
Workers’ Party Founding Day. The second test, in 2009, took
place on the U.S. federal holiday of Memorial Day, which honors
all Americans who have died in wars.  Lee said the third test may occur on this year’s Memorial
Day, which falls on May 28.  “You’re thinking that’s too predictable, but they are
predictable,” Lee said. “When American officials are enjoying
a little break, or preoccupied, they like to pull officials back
into the office.”  Other possible dates include June 25, the day that marks
the start of the  Korean War , and July 27, when the armistice
ending the war was signed, Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  