-- Norway Announces State-Owned Replacement for Eksportfinans
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-04-26T09:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/norway-announces-state-owned-replacement-for-eksportfinans-1-.html
Norway  will form a fully state-
owned lender to fund export credits to replace Eksportfinans ASA
that is being wound down.  The company, called Eksportkreditt Norge AS, will provide
financing in the form of state-subsidised CIRR loans and CIRR-
qualified market loans on commercial terms, the Industry and
Trade Ministry said today in an e-mailed statement. CIRR loans
are loans granted to borrowers for export projects on terms
compliant with an Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development arrangement, the ministry said.  “Export Credit Norway will be established in order to
ensure a robust and competitive export financing scheme for
Norwegian industry,” Trade and Industry Minister Trond Giske
said in the statement. “The loans will be financed by the
state, which ensures companies’ access to credit in situations
where credit is not available in the  capital markets .”  Norway in November decided to wind down Eksportfinans after
rejecting the lender’s pleas to sidestep  European capital  rules
limiting loans to single industries. The move led Moody’s
Investors Service to downgrade the company to junk, roiling
credit markets as far away as  Japan . The 50-year-old company has
about $39 billion in bonds outstanding.  Government Grants  The government defended its move to remove support from
Eksportfinans as necessary to safeguard financing for the
country’s exporters.  Eksportfinans is 15 percent owned by the government.  DNB
ASA (DNB) , the country’s biggest bank, holds 40 percent, while 23
percent is held by  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender.
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen owns 8.09 percent.  The new company will be established by July 1. It will
receive grants from the government for its entire operations,
which will be set in annual budgets, according to the ministry.  “All loan applicants who meet the requirements will be
offered loans, and there will be no limit concerning large
exposures,” the ministry said.  They government has said it would support Norway’s export
industry with as much as 40 billion kroner ($7 billion) in
direct loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  