-- Nuance Gains Most Since 2009 as Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-04-26T20:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/nuance-gains-most-in-11-months-as-profit-tops-estimates.html
Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) , a maker
of speech-recognition software, rose the most in more than two
years after reporting preliminary second-quarter profit and
revenue that topped analysts’  estimates .  Nuance  advanced  9.3 percent to $24.91 at the close in New
York, for the biggest increase since November 2009. The
Burlington, Massachusetts-based company’s shares have dropped 1
percent this year.  Nuance, which provides technology for health-care and other
businesses, said today it completed its purchase of  Transcend
Services Inc. (TRCR) , a provider of medical-transcription services. The
health side of the business is growing faster than its call-
center speech software unit, said  Scott Sutherland , an analyst
with Wedbush Securities Inc.  “The revenue growth was a positive. But the quality of the
beat doesn’t look as good when you take a closer look,” said
Sutherland, who  rates  the shares the equivalent of sell.  “People would much rather hear good news on the mobile
side,” where a decline contributed to an earnings miss in the
fourth quarter, he said. “That’s where the sizzle is.”  Profit excluding some items for the quarter ended March 31
was probably 42 cents to 43 cents a share, up from a previous
projection in February of 36 cents to 40 cents, Nuance said in a
statement today. Analysts projected 38 cents, the average of
estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Adjusted revenue for the period was probably $416 million
to $418 million, the company said. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey had estimated $404.8 million.  The company is scheduled to report results on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  