-- Obama Should Move Quickly on Russia Trade Status, Camp Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-04-26T18:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/obama-should-move-quickly-on-trade-status-for-russia-camp-says.html
The Obama administration should
intensify its push to grant  Russia  permanent normal trade
relations, which would benefit U.S. companies, the Republican
chairman of a House committee that oversees trade issues said.  “It’s time for the White House to get out front on this
issue,” Representative  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , head of the House
Ways and Means Committee, said today in a Washington speech.  The U.S. would gain a powerful new enforcement tool by
giving Russia improved status, Camp said, as it plans this year
to join the  World Trade Organization , an international arbiter
of disputes among governments.  In order for U.S. companies to pay lower tariffs on trade
with Russia, Congress must alter the so-called Jackson-Vanik
amendment to 1974 trade law, which restricted trade with the
former  Soviet Union . Camp’s panel plans a hearing in June,
giving President Barack Obama’s administration several weeks to
push for improved status, he said.  Ending Jackson-Vanik is a key priority for the
administration, Andrea Mead, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, said in an e-mail. USTR is pleased that
the Ways and Means Committee will hold its hearing, she said.  “We look forward to working with Congress” on the issue,
she said.  Normal Trade Relations  The trade agency is working with lawmakers “to discuss how
terminating Jackson-Vanik, and extending permanent normal trade
relations to Russia, is in the interest of American businesses,
workers, farmers and ranchers,” Mead said.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a Washington-based group
representing business interests, and Russian officials in
 Washington , have been lobbying for stronger U.S.-Russia economic
ties.  Lawmakers are considering linking a human-rights bill to
legislation granting Russia improved trade status. Senator
Richard Lugar of  Indiana , the senior Republican on the Foreign
Relations Committee, has joined Democrats to endorse a
bipartisan bill to restrict travel and financial transactions
for human-rights violators in Russia.  The measure may be a part of, but not a condition of,
permanent normal trade relations with Russia, Camp said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  