-- Biden Says Romney Represents Return to Past Policies
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-26T15:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/obama-to-hold-first-formal-campaign-rally-aimed-at-romney.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney represents a
return to the past in foreign policy and is out of touch with
the time, setting out an Obama-campaign line of attack as the
general election race gets fully under way.  Romney is counting on “our collective amnesia” by
aligning himself with the “discredited” policies of former
President George W. Bush and promoting a Cold War mindset, Biden
said at  New York University , in the latest in a series of
speeches designed to frame the issues in the presidential
campaign between the former Massachusetts governor and President
 Barack Obama .  “But Americans know that we cannot afford to go back to
the future,” he said. The “bumper sticker” slogan to sum up
Obama’s record is, he said, “ Osama bin Laden  is dead and
 General Motors (GM)  is alive.”  The vice president’s speech comes as Obama is set to hold
his first official re-election campaign rallies on May 5 in the
battleground states of Ohio and Virginia, where he will formally
begin to take on Romney -- a role that thus far has been
reserved for Biden.  “Welcome to the general election,” campaign manager  Jim Messina  told reporters on a conference call last night. “Over
the coming months, the choice between President Obama and Mitt
Romney will become clearer and clearer.”  First lady  Michelle Obama  will join the president for the
back-to-back rallies at  Ohio State University  in Columbus and at
 Virginia  Commonwealth University in Richmond, the campaign said.  Romney Strategy  Romney declared himself the Republican presidential nominee
on April 24 with wins in five primary contests. In a victory
speech that night, Romney outlined a strategy of seeking to turn
the president’s own promises against him and capitalize on
voters’ disaffection with the economy.  The former Massachusetts governor vowed to use his business
experience to “lead us out of this stagnant Obama economy and
into a job-creating recovery,” declaring “the beginning of the
end of the disappointments of the Obama years.”  The Romney campaign dispatched his advisers in advance of
Biden’s speech to rebut his arguments and criticize the Obama
administration’s foreign policy.  ‘Fantasy Narrative’  Dan Senor, who served as a top aide to former President
 George W. Bush ’s Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad,
said Biden’s was a “fantasy narrative, if you will, about the
Obama administration’s record” and the direction Romney would
take the country as president.  In a conference call with reporters, Senor said Obama has
left U.S. allies, including  Israel  and dissidents in Syria and
 Iran , “exposed and isolated.”  Biden said the former Massachusetts governor would
institute policies that would be a throwback to Bush, “back to
a foreign policy that would have America go it alone” and would
lead to an isolation of the U.S. and a “waste of hundreds of
billions of dollars and risk thousands of American lives on an
unnecessary war.”  Looking ahead to next week’s rallies, Obama’s senior
strategist,  David Axelrod , called the events an “inflection
point” and said the campaign is eager to have a debate about
Romney’s business background. He said Romney, a co-founder of
the private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, has “hung his hat”
on his business record.  Job Creation  “His business career was not about job creation,” Axelrod
said. “It was about wealth creation for himself and his
partners, and often it came through vehicles like outsourcing,
leveraging companies with debt, bankrupting companies and making
money off of those bankruptcies.”  The Romney campaign released a statement saying that Obama
was trying to distract from his administration’s economic
record.  “Americans shouldn’t be surprised that President Obama’s
campaign will attack  Mitt Romney  for his experience in creating
jobs,” said Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign spokeswoman.
“Unfortunately, voters will have to expect that the Obama
campaign will be running a campaign based on personal attacks to
divert, distract and distort.”  Messina and Axelrod said Obama would be gradually phasing
in regular campaign appearances. They said there were no
additional campaign rallies to announce, noting that Obama has
the challenge of running for president and holding the office
simultaneously.  “The monologue is over,” Messina said. “Now Romney has
to put his record and his agenda up against the president’s and
we look forward to that debate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  