-- Obama’s Vow to Tax Rich Alarms Some Business-Friendly Democrats
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-26T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/obama-s-vow-to-tax-rich-alarms-some-business-friendly-democrats.html
Four years ago, the country was
falling to pieces and Democrats were, electorally speaking,
thrilled about it. For many, winning was as easy as not being
associated with a deeply unpopular president,  George W. Bush ,
and his party.  Today, the economy has only marginally improved, and now
it’s the Democrats who will be held culpable. If voters base
their decision on the proverbial question -- “Am I better off
than I was four years ago?” -- President  Barack Obama  might not
win another term.  The central question for his campaign, and his party, is
what should they talk about instead? In recent weeks, they seem
to have settled on an answer: Taxing the rich, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its April 30 issue.  Though Senate Republicans blocked Democrats’ efforts to
pass the Buffett Rule, which would have required the highest
earners to pay a minimum  tax rate  of 30 percent, Democratic
leaders haven’t let the subject drop. The president continues to
argue for tax increases on the wealthy at every turn.  Most Democrats are on board, yet the issue has inflamed old
divisions between liberal and moderate Democrats. They disagree
on why raising taxes is important --- is it about fairness or
about reducing  deficits ? --- and over how the president should
make his case for them with the public.  “Without a doubt, the old debate is re-emerging,” says
 Jonathan Cowan , president of the Democratic research group Third
Way. “It’s like locusts; it always comes back.”  Matter of Justice  Liberals view a highly progressive tax rate as a matter of
social justice necessary for the government to fulfill its
commitment to programs like Medicare, Social Security and
education.  “ Tax policy  will define whether the country is run on
behalf of the 99 percent or the 1 percent,” says Damon Silvers,
policy director for the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation. “As long as we have the essentially corrupt tax
system we have today, where people with power and influence get
away with paying so much less as a percentage of their incomes
than the rest of us do, there’s not enough money in the system
to do what we need to as a country to be competitive.”  The AFL-CIO advocates repealing the high-end Bush-era tax
cuts, eliminating lower rates for  capital gains , and imposing a
financial-transactions tax.  Traumatizing Tax Talk  That kind of language alarms business-friendly Democrats,
many of whom remain traumatized by Democratic losses going back
a generation that they attribute to cavalier talk about tax
increases.  “Never start off a political conversation with the T-word,”
warns Democratic Representative Jim Cooper of  Tennessee . “ Walter Mondale  tried that against  Ronald Reagan , and it didn’t work.
America is an aspirational society. Every labor union member is
a would-be yacht owner.”  An April 9 Third Way poll found that independent voters, on
whom the election will likely turn, are most receptive to higher
taxes when paired with a desirable policy outcome like deficit
reduction.  “If the rationale is fairness,” Cowan says, “it’s much less
compelling than if the rationale is fiscal responsibility and
growth. On the traditional left, ‘fairness’ has become shorthand
for raising taxes to solve the  fiscal crisis  without cutting
spending.”  Choose a Side  One reason for the tension is that Obama will have to
choose a side, and his decision will frame the public debate and
could inform what happens after the election.  Lately, he has emphasized fairness, hammering home the
theme in the run-up to Tax Day, when income-tax returns are due
to the federal government. Polls show he’s on the winning side
of the issue: A recent  CNN/ORC International poll  showed 67
percent of independents agreeing that the tax system “benefits
the rich and is unfair to the ordinary working man or woman.”  That doesn’t necessarily make it a winning electoral
strategy. Voters could agree that the current system is
unbalanced yet fail to be persuaded that Obama’s prescription
for fixing it would produce jobs or do enough to lift the
economy.  Recent polls suggest that this might be the greatest threat
to Obama’s chances of winning a second term: Though voters
generally endorse his critique of the tax system, they say  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, is the
better choice to manage the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  