-- Mobistar Sees Tougher Roaming Impact as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-04-26T07:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/mobistar-sees-tougher-roaming-impact-as-profit-misses-estimates.html
Mobistar SA (MOBB) ,  Belgium ’s second-
biggest mobile-phone company, reported profit that missed
analyst estimates as payroll costs and network depreciation rose
and forecast a larger impact from roaming regulation.  First-quarter  net income  fell 28 percent to 38.2 million
euros ($50.5 million) from 53.1 million euros a year earlier,
the Brussels-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected profit of 46.6 million euros, the median of six
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Service revenue, which excludes
handset sales, fell 3.1 percent to 358.4 million euros.  An additional cut in the rate Mobistar charges other
operators to handle calls on its network and the introduction by
Belgacom SA of free fixed-to-mobile calls after 5 p.m. reduced
voice revenue, while costs rose due to salary indexation and
hiring. Mobistar also said it suffered from customer defections
in the prepaid segment and suspended commercial efforts to win
clients for its  TV offer . Regulation will erase 32 million euros
from earnings this year, 10 million euros more than initially
estimated.  “The most recent roaming regulation issued by the European
Commission is somewhat more aggressive than Mobistar mentioned
during its full-year results presentation,”  Nico Melsens , an
analyst at KBC Securities NV in Brussels, wrote in a preview
note this week. “Regulatory factors, competitive pressure and
investments once again squeeze the numbers.”  Mobistar  shares  fell as much as 2.26 euros, or 6.7 percent,
to 31.75 euros. The stock traded at 32.21 euros, or 5.3 percent
lower, at 9:11 a.m. local time.  Mobistar, which is  controlled  by  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,
maintained its guidance, forecasting a drop in full-year revenue
of as much as 2 percent and net income of 170 million euros to
195 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  