-- Lockheed Martin Profit Rises 20% as Stevens to Retire
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-04-26T20:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/lockheed-martin-profit-rises-20-on-jets-electronics.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company, reported first-quarter profit rose 20
percent as Robert Stevens, the chairman and chief executive
officer, announced plans to retire.  Stevens, 60, will step down as CEO in January and be
replaced by Chris Kubasik, 51, currently the president and chief
operating officer, Lockheed said today in a statement after the
financial results were announced. Stevens intends to remain
chairman until 2014. Marillyn Hewson, 58, will succeed Kubasik,
the company said.  A former U.S. Marine Corps corporal, Stevens came to
Lockheed when the defense contractor acquired Loral Systems
Manufacturing Co. in 1996. He had been at Loral since 1987.
Stevens succeeded Lockheed CEO Vance Coffman in August 2004.  Stevens’ tenure as the CEO has been marked by the
challenges of designing and building the F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter, Lockheed’s single largest program and, at about $382
billion, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapon system. The jet’s
development has been delayed, costs have risen and the Defense
Department now plans to reduce its purchases of the planes.  “I did not learn about leadership in business school,”
Stevens told the Marine Corps Heritage Foundation in May 2010
after receiving a leadership award.  “I learned about
leadership when I was 18 years old” in the Marines. Stevens
holds a graduate degree from  Columbia University  in New York.  Kubasik said today that developing international markets
for the F-35, continued building of the U.S. Navy’s Littoral
Combat Ship and winning a new U.S. Air Force bomber will drive
the company’s growth.  Lockheed also sees health care and energy as “adjacent
markets” that offer potential for growth as new starts in the
U.S. defense industry are squeezed by demands to cut the  U.S.
budget deficit , Kubasik said in an interview.  Quarterly Results  The company said today in a statement that first-quarter
net income from continuing operations rose to $665 million, or
$2.02 a share, from $556 million, or $1.57 a share, a year
earlier. The average estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a profit of $1.71 a share. Sales increased 6.3
percent to $11.3 billion aided by sales of jet fighters, cargo
planes and electronic systems.  The company reaffirmed its 2012 forecast made in January of
profit of $7.70 to $7.90 a share.  Lockheed rose 72 cents to $91.70 at the close in  New York 
trading, the highest price since Oct. 20, 2008, and has gained
13 percent this year.  The threat of automatic cuts in the U.S. defense budget of
$500 billion over 10 years, which would take effect starting in
January unless Congress and the president reverse them, is
likely to affect the F-35 program.  F-35 Sales  The Pentagon already has proposed reducing its budget by
about $490 billion over a decade, a proposal that includes
buying 13 fewer F-35 jets than previously planned in fiscal
2013. Purchase of as many as 179 planes may be pushed off beyond
2017, the Pentagon has said.  Even with the proposed long-term cuts to the F-35 program,
U.S. orders for trial production lots of the jet drove sales and
profit at Lockheed’s Aeronautics unit.  More than half of the increase in sales at the unit during
the quarter came from F-35 orders, Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed said in the statement today. Aeronautics sales rose 18
percent to $3.71 billion and unit profit increased 17 percent,
the company said. Sales of F-16 jets and C-130 cargo planes also
contributed to the revenue increase, the company said.  A union strike at the company’s Fort Worth, Texas, plant
where F-35 and F-16 jets are assembled, hasn’t “brought us to
our knees,” Kubasik told reporters on a conference call today.  Fort Worth Strike  The International Association of Machinists began striking
on April 23 in protest against Lockheed’s proposal to switch
employees’ pension plans to a defined contribution system from a
defined benefit plan, Stevens and Kubasik said.  “I was personally surprised that the union chose to strike
on this matter,” Stevens said.  Jennifer Whitlow , a Lockheed spokeswoman said in an e-mail
that “we are willing to meet with the union at any time to
continue discussions, but at this time, neither party has
requested a meeting.” Lockheed has sufficient components to
meet immediate needs and is using salaried employees to continue
operations, she said.  Katrina White at the Fort Worth chapter of the
International Machinists Union said she would seek a comment
from the union officers.  Unit Results  Sales at Lockheed’s Electronics Systems unit, which makes
anti-missile systems and oversees the Navy’s Littoral Combat
Ship program, rose 3.6 percent to $3.6 billion because of ship
and aviation programs.  Profit increased 25 percent due to lower
risk in rocket launch systems and the Joint Air-to-Surface
Standoff Missile, the company said.  Space Systems sales increased 2.4 percent to $1.89 billion,
Lockheed said. Unit profit rose 4.1 percent.  Sales at the Information Systems & Global Solutions unit
fell 2.7 percent to $2.1 billion. Profit at the unit, which
provides information-technology services to U.S. agencies
including the Pentagon, fell 3.1 percent.  Lockheed’s discontinued operations included the Pacific
Architects & Engineers unit that was sold in April 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  