-- Logitech Stock Jumps on Earnings Growth, Job Reductions
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-04-26T16:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/logitech-quarterly-net-grows-ninefold-beats-estimates-on-costs.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN)  jumped
the most in more than four years as earnings beat estimates and
the world’s biggest maker of computer mice announced measures
including job cuts to save about $80 million a year.  Logitech shares rose 17 percent to 8.28 Swiss francs at the
close of trading in Zurich, the biggest increase since October
2007. The stock has advanced 13 percent this year, beating a 3.1
percent gain for the  Swiss Market Index. (SMI)   “Results are better due to a good gross margin and
slightly higher sales, while expenses were as expected,” said
 Michael Foeth , an analyst at  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  in Zurich.
“The main problem for Logitech remains the lack of growth, and
that issue is not yet solved.”  Net income in the fiscal fourth quarter through March
surged 10-fold to $28.3 million, Morges, Switzerland-based
Logitech said in a statement today. Profit was more than double
the $12.4 million average of eight  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The gross margin widened to 36.4 percent of revenue
from 32.8 percent a year earlier. Sales fell 3 percent to $532
million.  The company also cut a layer of management as leaders of
business groups and sales regions will report directly to
President Bracken P. Darrell, Logitech said. The restructuring,
which will reduce operating costs, is expected to be completed
by the end of this quarter, Darrell said in the statement.  ‘Material’ Job Cuts  “We’re going to reduce the number of people across the
board,” Chairman Guerrino De Luca said in an interview. “We
don’t know how many positions will be affected yet, but the job
reduction program is material.”  Logitech currently has about 3,500  employees , De Luca said.
The figure excludes factory workers in  China .  Darrell, who joined the company this month from  Whirlpool
Corp. (WHR) , restructured executive ranks to simplify and speed up
product development and revive sales growth. The proliferation
of tablet computers that don’t need mice has eroded the
traditional desktop and notebook business of Logitech, which
hasn’t been able to exceed the sales record set in 2008.  “Our product portfolio has a level of strength that we
haven’t seen in a long time,” Darrell said in an interview.
“We’re going to slim down and be leaner and consolidate our
marketing organization.” De Luca added that the company “is
focusing on fewer, stronger products.”  Reduced Forecasts  In January, Logitech cut full-year forecasts for the third
time. The company reduced its sales forecast for the year
through March 2012 to about $2.3 billion, with operating income
predicted at about $60 million. Full-year revenue was $2.32
billion and operating profit fell 50 percent to $72 million, the
company said today.  Logitech isn’t providing an outlook for the current fiscal
year as “there are lots of variables involved, such as the
impact of new products and the cost-reduction program,”  De Luca 
said. “Also, we haven’t been particularly good at promising.”  Darrell will succeed De Luca as chief executive officer in
2013 as the company revamps products, Logitech said last month.  The company is continuing a stock-buyback program and in
the fourth quarter it repurchased almost 10 million shares. De
Luca said Logitech will propose that investors at the annual
meeting in September agree to cancel the stock bought back in
the fourth quarter, in the current period and the next three
months to “dramatically improve earnings per share.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  