-- Oil Near Highest in a Week as Fed Says Ready to Protect Growth
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-26T12:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/oil-near-highest-in-a-week-as-fed-says-ready-to-protect-growth.html
Oil traded near the highest level
in more than a week after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said that while further stimulus is unlikely, central
banks “remain prepared to do more” to protect the economy.  Futures were little changed, paring an earlier gain after
more Americans than forecast filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week. Economic growth is expected to “remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up gradually,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement.  U.S.
crude supplies gained  more than estimated last week, and Iran’s
envoy in Moscow said his country may halt the expansion of its
atomic program to avert new Western sanctions.  “Bernanke will do something if things don’t get better,”
said Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, chief investment officer at
Archbridge Capital in Zug,  Switzerland . “And when Bernanke says
he’ll do whatever it takes to get the economic growth rate
improving, that means the economic trajectory rises and oil
demand increases over time. And his methods for doing something
increase money supply, causing the dollar to depreciate and that
lifts all commodities.”  Crude for June delivery was at $103.89 a barrel, down 23
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 1:38 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday rose 57 cents
to $104.12, the highest close since April 17. Front-month
futures climbed for the past four days, the most in two months.
Prices are 5.1 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for June settlement was at $119.32 a barrel, up
20 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s front month  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was at $15.46, up from $15 yesterday.  Initial Jobless Claims  Jobless claims fell by 1,000 to 388,000 in the week ended
April 21 from a revised 389,000 the prior period that was higher
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a drop to 375,000. Another report
showed economic confidence in the euro region declined more than
economists forecast in April.  A Commerce Department report tomorrow may show that U.S.
growth slowed in the first quarter, fueling speculation that the
Fed will consider additional stimulus.  U.S. first-quarter gross domestic product, the value of all
goods and services the nation produced, rose at a 2.5 percent
annual rate after advancing 3 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  No ‘Collapse Scenario’  Oil’s gain in New York is stalling as futures approach
technical resistance along the top of a downtrend channel going
back about two months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This level is around $104.23 a barrel today. Sell orders tend to
be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Prices will stay above $100 a barrel even as economic
growth slows, according to  Mirae Asset  Securities Ltd.  “While we still expect  oil prices  to soften, we don’t see
a collapse scenario,”  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset in  Hong Kong , said in a report e-mailed
today. “Mirae continues to believe that the $100 a barrel oil
price is here to stay.”  Crude has climbed this year amid speculation that tension
with Iran over its nuclear program may disrupt Middle East
supplies. The Islamic Republic is considering a Russian proposal
to stop building centrifuges, or machines used to enrich
uranium, and mothball ones that haven’t been put into use yet,
Iranian Ambassador Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi said in Moscow
yesterday.  Japan Crude Imports  Efforts to resolve the dispute will be complicated if the
European Union goes ahead with an embargo on the nation’s
petroleum exports from July 1, Sajjadi said.  Separately,  Japan  said its crude imports from  Iran  fell 6.3
percent in March from a year ago. Purchases were 1.8 million
kiloliters, compared with 1.9 million kiloliters in March 2011,
according to data today from the Ministry of Finance. Imports
climbed from 1.2 million kiloliters in February.  U.S. crude inventories rose 3.98 million barrels to 373
million last week as output climbed to a 12-year high, according
to the Energy Department. They were projected to increase  2.8
million barrels , according to the median of 11 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  Stockpiles of gasoline decreased 2.2 million barrels,
Energy Department data showed. They were forecast to fall 1.5
million barrels, the survey shows. Distillate supplies, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, dropped 3.1
million compared with an estimated 500,000 barrel gain.  Gasoline slid for the eighth time in nine days after the
report showed deliveries to wholesalers dropped 3.2 percent to a
five-week low. Prices for May delivery fell 0.36 cent to $3.1557
a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  