-- Hollande Says He Disagrees With Draghi’s Method for Growth
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-26T09:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/hollande-says-he-disagrees-with-draghi-s-method-for-growth-1-.html
French Socialist presidential
frontrunner  Francois Hollande  said he disagrees with European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s methods for fueling
economic growth in the region.  The ECB president yesterday called for a “growth compact”
alongside the fiscal treaty agreed to by the 17 nations sharing
the euro. The proposal was endorsed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who said she supports Draghi’s growth push “in the form
of structural reform.” While Hollande welcomed Draghi’s remarks
as evidence of the need for treaty changes to boost growth, he
questioned the means of getting there.  “It’s not the same idea of growth,” he said today in an
interview on France Info radio. Draghi is “adding even stronger
competition, liberalization and privatization.”  Euro leaders have struggled to find a way to promote
economic growth even as they have demanded budget cuts to
satisfy German priorities and settle markets. At a March 2011
summit, the leaders, including French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
endorsed Merkel’s so-called competitiveness pact that set
targets on issues including cutting labor costs and raising the
 retirement age .  Hollande said yesterday that France won’t ratify the fiscal
pact in its current form if he is elected, putting him on a
collision course with Merkel, who has championed debt reduction
as the key to ending the region’s fiscal crisis.  Hollande’s Approach  The Socialist candidate, who got 28.6 percent in the first
round of the election on April 22, and Sarkozy, who won 27.4
percent, will square off in the decisive second round on May 6.
Hollande is supported in his re-election bid by Communist Party-
backed, anti-austerity candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon, who got
11.1 percent of the vote in the first round.  Hollande will beat Sarkozy by 56 percent to 44 percent in
the final round, according to surveys by the polling companies
CSA and  Harris Interactive .  Hollande said while he would advocate a different path for
growth, Draghi’s comments yesterday were a step in the right
direction.  “There is a very big change in the mindset,” Hollande
said. “He has realized that we can’t reach deficit-reduction
targets and debt control if there isn’t growth so he is talking
about a growth pact.”  The French Socialist reiterated his call for fueling growth
through existing funds and new sources that would be generated
from measures such as eurobonds and financial-transaction taxes.  Hollande has said he’ll seek to add growth and investment
measures to the fiscal treaty.  Sarkozy’s Response  At home, Hollande, 57, has promised to slash  France ’s
budget deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year
and to eliminate it by the end of the next presidential mandate
in 2017.  He wants to hire 60,000 teachers and public school
employees and 5,000 police officers over the next five years and
pull back the retirement age to 60 from 62 for some people.  In a separate interview on France Inter radio, Sarkozy said
there will be “no turning back” on targets to cut budget
deficits.  He said the government should focus on increased job
training and industrial innovation to boost growth, not higher
spending. Sarkozy said France has managed to cut its state
deficit faster than targeted without austerity measures such as
cutting civil servant pay or pension payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  