-- Hollande Criticism Shows He Doesn’t Get It: Merkel Ally
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-27T10:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/hollande-says-germany-can-t-make-decisions-for-all-of-europe.html
Francois Hollande ’s stepped-up
attacks on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s belt-tightening solution
to  Europe ’s crisis show he doesn’t understand his country’s
economic shortcomings, an aide to the German leader said.  The intensifying war of words between the French
presidential race frontrunner and Merkel is putting the two
politicians from Europe’s two largest economies on a collision
course over ending the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “It’s not for Germany to decide for the rest of Europe,”
Hollande said late yesterday on France 2 television, prompting
Michael Meister, the deputy caucus chairman of Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats , to say in a phone interview today that
“Herr Hollande has misunderstood the problems in his country
and in other euro area countries.”  The French Socialist candidate wants to renegotiate the
fiscal pact agreed to by leaders of 25 European nations, and has
said if he’s elected France won’t ratify it without a component
on spurring growth. For her part, Merkel has reiterated her
budget-cutting message in the face of rising criticism of
Germany’s focus on austerity.  Since beating President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the first round
of France’s presidential election on April 22, Hollande has
stepped up his push against austerity in favor of growth.
Although Hollande has said he will balance the budget by 2017,
he wants to hire 60,000 teachers and public school employees and
5,000 police officers over the next five years and pull back the
 retirement age  to 60 from 62 for some people.  Pumping Money  “If one throws money into a country with structural
problems that won’t solve those structural problems,” Meister
said today. “In fact, one makes the problems worse.”  Merkel’s government “strictly” opposes “pumping more
money into economies,” he said. “It would more likely make the
implementation of the fiscal compact more difficult. The aim is
to gain control over excessive debt, not increase it.’’  While European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  this
week called for a “growth compact” to follow the fiscal pact,
he made clear he wants structural changes and competitiveness,
not additional spending. Hollande said yesterday that he
disagrees with Draghi’s methods for fueling economic growth.  Spain , whose sovereign credit rating was yesterday cut for
the second time this year by Standard & Poor’s, is sticking to
its line that austerity should be the main driver of policy as
it tries to quash concern that it will be pushed to follow
Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece  into a bailout.  Spanish Resolve  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said in an
interview yesterday that Europe can’t afford to twin the fiscal
treaty with stimulus measures.  “A growth pact has to be focused on structural reforms,”
he said. “I do not see that the growth pact should involve any
sort of fiscal boost or stimulus.”  Merkel said again yesterday that excessive debt robs
countries of their independence. Too much debt “harms
countries’ ability to make their own decisions, so that they’re
more and more dependent on the markets, and have to step up
savings and make harsher cuts,” Merkel said in Flensburg,
northern  Germany .  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, has championed debt
reduction as the key to ending the region’s more than two-year-
old financial crisis.  The national debt burden in Germany will fall to 78.9
percent of gross domestic product this year, while it will climb
to 89 percent in France, the  International Monetary Fund  says.  German Strength  Germany has an unemployment rate of 6.7 percent, compared
with 9.8 percent in France, the region’s No. 2 economy.  The French government will stick to its target of balancing
its budget by 2016 if he’s re-elected, Sarkozy said yesterday.  “Do you think it’s by hiring 60,000 civil servants that we
will create growth?” Sarkozy said on  France  2 television last
night. “Do you think we can keep spending money we don’t
have?”  Even so, Hollande is counting on the support of the French
electorate to boost his bargaining power on the European stage.  “The debate is shifting,” Hollande said today on RTL
radio. “Not only has the ECB president addressed this but the
president of the European Council has said he’s ready to
prepare” for changes, he said.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said yesterday
that he might help prepare for a June 28-29 summit of the bloc’s
leaders with an invitation to an “informal” dinner at an
earlier date.  ‘Not Any Country’  Speaking yesterday in Brussels,  Van Rompuy  also said that
the EU has “hardly any room for fiscal stimulus” and that
“structural reforms remain the main lever at our disposal.”  Meanwhile, polls consistently show Hollande leading Sarkozy
in the final days before the decisive round of the nation’s May
6 election. The Socialist lawmaker got 28.6 percent in the first
round of the election, while Sarkozy won 27.2 percent.  Hollande will beat Sarkozy by 56 percent to 44 percent in
the final round, according to surveys by polling companies CSA
and  Harris Interactive. (HPOL)   “We’re not just any country,” Hollande said. “We can
change the situation in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  