-- Hollande Pledges to Stop Wave of Job Cuts Seen After French Vote
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-04-26T08:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/hollande-pledges-to-stop-wave-of-job-cuts-seen-after-french-vote.html
Francois Hollande , the Socialist
frontrunner in  France ’s presidential race, pledged to block
corporate job cuts that may start soon after the May 6 vote.  Companies such as  Peugeot SA (UG)  have announced plans to cut
thousands of job in the months ahead. Others have held off
unveiling restructuring projects until after the election,
Hollande said. Last month, French telecommunications regulator
Arcep said phone companies may eliminate as many as 10,000 jobs
to cut spending as they adapt to increased competition from
 Iliad SA (ILD) ’s new mobile service.  “I won’t allow a parade of firings that have been
postponed,” he said on  France 2 television  yesterday. “There
needs to be a sense of responsibility in executive suites at
companies. The day after the election, before irrevocable
decisions are taken, I will have to intervene.”  France’s jobless rate is at a 12-year high, with 2.9
million  people out of work . That has prompted Hollande and
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to tour several distressed factories,
promising they’ll do whatever it takes to prevent job losses.  Hollande has led Sarkozy in all run-off polls published
since the April 22 first round he won. Ifop’s daily tracking for
Paris Match magazine poll showed yesterday  he may win 55 percent
of the votes  on May 6 against 45 percent for Sarkozy.  “Hollande may have pledged to protect these jobs, but his
position will be very difficult to maintain,” Pierre-Yves Gauthier of Alphavalue SAS in Paris said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on April 19. “It’s a political stand
before the election, then business takes over.”  Top Priority  Employment ranks first in French voters’ concerns, a
 Viavoice poll  for  Les Echos  daily showed March 28 as 52 percent
of the respondents questioned said it should be a priority for a
presidential candidate.  Hollande, who said last year that he would deter profitable
companies from cutting jobs, has watered down his stance in
recent months. He said in a letter to the lawyers for a social
rights association that the current legislation for jobs cuts
wouldn’t be modified.  Hollande’s proposals include  an obligation
for profit-making companies who want to close their business to
find an investor to take over the business and the jobs.  The flood of job cuts Hollande sees stem from
restructurings companies have announced.  Air France-KLM (AF) ’s restructuring plan has studiously avoided
mentioning job cuts, although unions say there will be
reductions.  Vivendi SA (VIV)  may eliminate hundreds of marketing and
administrative positions to offset a projected slump in earnings
as its phone unit SFR competes with Iliad, unions said.  Sarkozy Efforts  Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said at the end of the
year that there would be no firings at companies in which the
government has a stake. That came after unions at nuclear
reactor builder  Areva SA (AREVA)  leaked a plan for job cuts.  Sarkozy has scrambled to find buyers for distressed
companies that were threatening to throw more people out of
work. For example, his government brokered a deal to get LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA to buy parts of lingerie maker
Lejaby.  His Industry Minister Eric Besson said he will meet on
April 30 with unions of Technicolor SA, the French producer of
film-making products and technology, that’s looking to get rid
of its unprofitable factory in Angers.  His office also said today that it’s working on trying to
save 5,000 jobs at Neo Security after the security company said
it may be forced to shut down and file for bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  