-- Homebuilder Shares Climb After Orders for New Houses Rise
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-04-26T21:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/homebuilder-shares-climb-after-orders-for-new-houses-rise.html
U.S. homebuilders rallied to the
highest in almost two years after four companies reported an
increase in orders and contracts to buy existing homes climbed
more than forecast, signs that the housing market may be
reaching bottom.  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , based in  Westlake Village ,  California ,
had the biggest gain among builders after reporting a 46 percent
increase in orders. Its shares rose 14 percent to $21.62 at the
close in  New York , the largest gain in three years. The Standard
& Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding Index of 11 companies climbed 4.8
percent to the highest level since May 2010 after  PulteGroup
Inc. (PHM) ,  M/I Homes Inc. (MHO)  and  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH)  also reported
increases in orders.  The rising demand for new homes is an indication that
housing is finding a low amid improving U.S. employment. The
index of pending home purchases rose 4.1 percent to the highest
level since April 2010, the National Association of Realtors
reported today. The median forecast of 43 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 1 percent gain.  “The momentum is building for the homebuilding industry,
and the numbers speak for themselves,”  Brad Hunter , chief
economist for Metrostudy, a Houston-based firm that tracks
housing starts, said in a telephone interview today. “All
around the country, traffic is improving and the quality of
traffic is improving. When somebody comes into the sales office,
they’re more likely to pull the trigger and sign a contract.”  New Home Sales  New homes sold at an annual pace of 328,000 in the U.S. in
March, up 7.5 percent from a year earlier, the Commerce
Department reported April 24. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey forecast a rate of 319,000. The U.S. unemployment
rate was 8.2 percent last month, down from 8.9 percent a year
earlier, according to Labor Department data.  Publicly traded homebuilders may be taking market share
from private firms because they have better access to financing
and are able to buy land and build in the best locations, said
Robert Curran, a managing director at Fitch Ratings Ltd.  “We’re seeing for the public builders, pretty broadly,
some pretty healthy improvement,” he said. “It’s clear
nationally that we are having a more normal-type spring selling
season.”  Ryland’s backlog, an indication of future sales, rose 44
percent, and revenue increased 29 percent, the company reported
yesterday after the close of regular U.S. trading. Its net loss
narrowed to $5.1 million from $19.5 million a year earlier.  M/I Homes  M/I Homes, based in Columbus,  Ohio , reported a 15 percent
increase in deliveries and a 17 percent increase in new
contracts. Its shares gained 8.6 percent today.  PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
had a narrower first-quarter loss as it reduced costs and sold
houses at higher prices. Orders rose 15 percent and the
company’s backlog climbed 12 percent. Shares of the  Bloomfield
Hills , Michigan-based company rose 10 percent today.  D.R. Horton Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by volume,
earlier this week reported earnings that beat analysts’
estimates, its fifth straight quarter of profitability.  “It was the first quarter in several years that
fundamental demand came in stronger than expected, allowing us
to beat our forecast for the period,” Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Dugas  said in a conference call with analysts. “We are
pleased with how the year has started off, including a
continuation of better sales activity thus far in April.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  