-- London’s Furtive Nut, Donmar Trio, Gay Don Giovanni
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/london-s-furtive-nut-donmar-trio-gay-don-giovanni.html
Sometimes interesting ideas and
good performances combine into a big theatrical yawn. It’s a
mystery that  London ’s theater seems happy to be exploring.  Enda Walsh’s one-man play “Misterman” at the  National
Theatre  deals with a day in the life of small-town religious
obsessive Thomas Magill (Cillian Murphy).  He lives in a decrepit warehouse surrounded by tape
machines which play the voices of his mother and his neighbors.
He speaks to an angel called Edel.  Eventually he reveals the terrible secret which has
unhinged his mind.  Isn’t it nice that madmen of this literary type always seem
to have a terrible secret which neatly explains their behavior?
And they’re always lucid enough to reveal it?  Murphy’s 90-minute performance is a tour de force. He’s
funny one minute and savage the next. It’s not enough to rescue
a plodding, repetitive piece.  Rating: **.  ‘Making Noise Quietly’  Robert Holman , 60, is sometimes called a writers’ writer.
That usually means “his plays don’t sell any tickets”.  I’m not sure his cause will be helped by this 1987 triptych
“Making Noise Quietly” at the  Donmar Warehouse .  His three short plays examine the effects of war. In the
first, a young homosexual meets a conscientious objector over a
picnic in 1944.  In the second, a naval officer tells a mother that her
estranged son has died in the Falklands War. In the final play,
set in 1986, a holocaust survivor befriends a violent British
soldier stationed in  Germany .  Nothing much happens in any of them. People chat in
question-and-answer format, like therapist and patient.  In the final play, the thuggish soldier has improbable
flashes of insight. “How do I stop myself from enjoying hurting
people?” he wails to Helene, the all-wise survivor. “I hurt
myself to prove I’m not a coward, maybe.”  The acting is all good, Peter Gill’s direction unforced and
straightforward.  Rating: **.  ‘Don Giovanni’  A gay “ Don Giovanni ,” staged in  Heaven  nightclub, is
providing provocative insights and laughs.  In Dominic Gray’s promenade opera production, set in 1987,
Giovanni’s conquests are closeted Alan, businessman Eddie and
recently-engaged Zac (two tenors and a baritone).  In Duncan Rock’s warmly-sung performance, Giovanni’s
character represents all the fun, danger and selfish hedonism of
the Thatcher boom years.  Giovanni  accidentally murders Alan’s mother Petra (a
mezzo). She comes back as a ghost and drags him to hell, which
turns out to be a lonely old age in an underfunded hospital.  The translation by Ranjit Bolt and David Collier is whip-
smart, and gets plenty of laughs.  It’s musically witty too. The singers perform their
character’s arias up or down an octave. Then in the ensembles,
they revert to singing the line originally suited to soprano, or
tenor, and so on, so that Mozart’s textures are preserved.  The score is cut down to two hours, and it all feels
seamless.  It’s not flawless. Once or twice the direction is too
static, and not all the singing is top drawer. If you can put up
with that, then there are plenty of other pleasures in this
thoughtful, funny, and oddly engaging production.  Rating: **.  ENO Season  English National Opera has just announced its new season,
and there are some intriguing curiosities there too.  Philip Glass ’s new opera “The Perfect American” about
 Walt Disney  has its U.K. premiere. Two rarities will be seen:
Vaughan Williams’s “The Pilgrim’s Progress” and Charpentier’s
“Medea.” The world premiere of Michel van der Aa’s “The
Sunken Garden” promises to be the first opera ever to employ 3D
film.  Star directors Richard Jones and  David McVicar  both get
productions. The bizarre German director Peter Konwitschny
tackles “La Traviata.”  If a gay “Don Giovanni” can work, maybe this will too.  “Don Giovanni’’ runs until April 30 at Heaven nightclub:
 http://www.dongiovannitheopera.com   For information about ENO:  http://www.eno.org   “Misterman’’ is in repertoire at the National Theatre:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000  “Making Noise Quietly’’ is at the Donmar
 http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  +44-833-871-7624  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Lewis Lapham  on  history ,
Jeremy Gerard on  New York theater .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 