-- Monster Worldwide Profit Beats Estimates With New Clients
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-26T20:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/monster-worldwide-profit-beats-estimates-with-new-clients.html
Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) , the online
recruiting service that’s exploring a sale of the company,
reported profit that beat estimates after a deal with the U.K.’s
Department for Work and Pensions bolstered use of the site.  First-quarter profit excluding some items was 4 cents a
share, Monster said today in a statement. That’s more than the
2-cent average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Bookings
increased 5 percent after the New York-based company signed a
four-year contract with DWP in February.  Monster is pushing its semantic search technology, which
digs through contextual terms to bring up more relevant results,
to keep users from defecting to companies such as  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) 
that offer alternatives to employee recruitment. Chief Executive
Officer Sal Iannuzzi said last month that he would consider
selling the company as a whole or in parts and hired Stone Key
Partners LLC and  Bank of America  Corp.’s Merrill Lynch to help.  “The major move in the stock is going to be driven by
anything that helps further the potential of the company being
sold,” Eric Handler, an analyst at MKM Partners LLC in
Greenwich,  Connecticut . “Anything that furthers the strategic
alternatives process takes precedence. They said at their
investor conference that they’ve received inquiries from a
number of companies in a number of different areas.”  Bookings Forecast  Bookings may drop as much as 5 percent or increase as much
as 1 percent in the current quarter from $251 million a year
earlier, the company said. Revenue will decline 4 percent to 8
percent from $259 million in last year’s second quarter, Monster
said.  Sales in the first quarter fell 5.9 percent to $246.1
million from $261.4 million a year earlier. Net income climbed
to $3.74 million, or 3 cents a share, from $78,000, or 0 cents.  Monster’s shares increased 9.7 percent to $8.95 at the
close in  New York , for the biggest gain since March 6. The stock
has climbed 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  