-- Syria Opposition Wants Tougher Steps as Cease-Fire Fails
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-04-26T17:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/opposition-wants-tougher-steps-as-syria-cease-fire-fails.html
Syria ’s opposition is pushing for
tougher United Nations measures against the government of
President Bashar al-Assad as a cease-fire brokered by UN envoy
Kofi Annan crumbles.  At least 20 people were killed today across Syria, the
Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mail. Syria’s state-
run SANA news agency said an armed group shot and killed four
members of the same family in Erbin, outside Damascus. The LCC,
an opposition group, reported 100 deaths yesterday, including
women and children.  Burhan Ghalioun, head of the Syrian National Council, told
 Al Jazeera  yesterday that “it has become obvious today that
Annan’s mission is in grave danger.”  Annan has called for more unarmed UN observers to monitor
the April 12 cease-fire between government forces and the
opposition. An advance contingent of 12 UN monitors is in Syria,
and the plan is to increase their number to 100 by the end of
May. The UN  Security Council  authorized 300 observers.  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi told a meeting
of Arab foreign ministers today that he has sent a letter to UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon “stressing the importance of the
quick deployment of the observers.” El-Arabi suggested sending
UN observers who are already in the region to Syria to avoid
delays, he said.  “What matters here is a cease-fire. This will not happen
unless there’s enough observers,” El-Arabi said.  ‘Acts of Violence and Murder’  Ghalioun, whose group is the main opposition organization
in the country, said increasing the number of monitors isn’t
enough. “We have to go to the Security Council and extract a
resolution that will enable us to use force,” he said.  The Arab League’s meeting in Cairo is expected to call on
the Syrian government to “immediately stop all acts of violence
and murder,” to protect civilians and to guarantee the freedom
to peaceful protests,  Egypt ’s Middle East News Agency reported,
citing a copy of meeting’s draft resolution to be issued later
today.  The statement is expected to call on the Security Council
to “expedite the deployment of the monitors” in Syria, MENA
said. It also asks the Syrian government not to obstruct their
work, not to punish anyone who contacts them and to allow the
observers to reach different parts of the country at a time they
determine, it reported.  9,000 Dead  El-Arabi said today that “efforts were going on to unite
the ranks” of the Syrian opposition and that there’s an
agreement in principle to hold a meeting of the groups at the
league’s Cairo headquarters on May 16.  Assad’s crackdown on anti-government protests that began in
March 2011 has claimed more than 9,000 lives, the UN estimates.  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said yesterday that
 France  may pursue UN involvement under a provision that allows
for military action. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has said
the U.S. is considering more measures if the Syrian government
doesn’t stop the crackdown, without elaborating.  Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for Russia’s Foreign
Ministry, said today that armed opposition groups have started
to resort to “regional mass-terror tactics” in comments
broadcast on state television.  The trend toward improving security in Syria is “very,
very fragile,” Lukashevich said, adding that Russia considers
as counterproductive any unilateral sanctions by the European
Union against Syria.  The U.S. and EU governments stiffened sanctions against
Syria on April 23. The EU sought to crimp the lifestyle of Assad
and his family by banning the export of  luxury goods  to Syria.
EU foreign ministers also put more products on a list of banned
technologies that could be used by the government to suppress
dissent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  