-- Optus Loses Legal Fight With Sports Leagues Over Matches
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-27T06:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/optus-loses-legal-fight-with-sports-leagues-over-matches.html
Singtel Optus Ltd. lost a legal
dispute with Australian sports leagues over the showing of
football and rugby matches on computers and mobile devices soon
after they are broadcast live on free-to-air television.  An Australian federal court appeal panel in Sydney today
overturned a lower court ruling, which said Optus’s “TV Now”
service doesn’t infringe copyright laws.  Had the appeal panel allowed the lower court ruling to
stand, investment in Australian sports would have been diluted,
Craig Middleton, a spokesman for  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  which owns
exclusive rights to show the matches on multiple devices, said
following the ruling. The decision will provide certainty to
providers of content on their copyrights, he said.  “It’s important for fans, players and Australian sport,”
Middleton said. Broadcast rights “are an important source of
investment.”  The  Australian Football League , the most popular spectator
sport in the country, and the  National Rugby League  sought to
protect broadcasting rights valued at more than $2 billion. The
main point of dispute was who creates the electronic files that
are sent to the customer for viewing.  The AFL, NRL and Telstra,  Australia ’s biggest phone
company, said Optus’s service infringed their copyrights because
it makes the recordings, stores them on its servers, and passes
them on to customers.  The three-judge appeal panel agreed with Telstra and
overruled Judge Steven Rares, who’d said that Optus customers
record the broadcasts for personal use, much as people use video
cassette or digital video recorders, which Australian copyright
allows.  ‘Different Conclusion’  “Ours is a different conclusion,” Justices Arthur Emmett,
Annabelle Bennett and Paul Finn said in a summary of their
ruling. “The maker was Optus, or in the alternative, it was
Optus and the subscriber.”  Australia’s Attorney General Nicola Roxon said her
government welcomed the appeal court’s ruling.  “The process that Optus had been using has been found to
breach the Copyright Act,” Roxon told reporters in Adelaide
today. “It takes us back to the position that really people had
presumed was the status quo.”  Considering an Appeal  Optus will review the decision and consider all its
options, including an appeal to the country’s top court, company
spokeswoman Clare Gill told reporters after the ruling. She
declined to comment further.  The AFL signed a five-year, A$1.25 billion ($1.3 billion)
agreement last year with  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ’s Seven Network,
Foxtel, Australia’s biggest pay television operator, and Telstra
for exclusive broadcast rights to its games. The NRL is in talks
with broadcasters on a new deal that would run from 2013 to
2017. The Sydney Morning Herald  reported  earlier this month that
the rugby league was guaranteed a A$1.2 billion deal after Fox
Sports declared it won’t be beaten for the rights.  “It’s a win for all sports in this country,” Andrew Demetriou, chief executive of the AFL, said in a televised news
conference.  He said Optus’s behaviour in supplying the service without
discussions with the sports leagues was unethical.  “It’ll be a long time before we speak to Optus,” he said.  Optus had argued customers create the recordings of the
sports matches by ordering to view them.  ‘Self Serving’  “The customer operates Optus’s equipment,” Richard
Cobden, the company’s lawyer, told the appeal panel at a March
15 hearing in Sydney. “The last human intervention is the
maker.”  Neil Murray , the NRL’s lawyer, called Optus’s argument
“self-serving.”  A customer who orders a pizza online didn’t make the pie,
Murray said at the appeal hearing.  “There’s no doubt who the maker is,” he said. “It’s
 Pizza Hut .”  The case is National Rugby League Investments Ltd. v.
SingTel Optus Ltd. NSD201/2012 Federal Court of Australia, Full
Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  