-- Cooling Job Market Takes Toll on U.S. Confidence: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-26T20:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/more-americans-than-projected-filed-jobless-claims-last-week.html
More Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week and  consumer
confidence  declined by the most in a year, signaling that a
cooling labor market may restrain household spending.  Jobless  claims  fell to 388,000 from a revised 389,000 the
prior week that was the highest since early January, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index declined to minus 35.8 from minus 31.4
the previous week.  “There has been some slowdown in the labor market,” said
Yelena Shulyatyeva, a U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New York ,
who correctly projected the level of jobless claims. “That
makes consumers feel less confident, and makes them more
cautious about their spending. We could see some weakness in
April payrolls.”  Fewer firings are needed to lay the groundwork for more
hiring and support consumer demand, which makes up 70 percent of
the economy. Another report today showed that signed  contracts 
to buy homes rose more than forecast in March, more evidence of
a stabilizing housing market that may boost confidence.  Stocks climbed for a third day after the housing data and
as technology companies rallied on better-than-estimated
earnings. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.7 percent to
1,399.98 at the close of trading in in New York. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.94 percent at 4:21
p.m. from 1.98 percent late yesterday.  Confidence is also slipping in the euro region, a report
today showed.  Europe Index  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 92.8 from a revised 94.5 in March, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had
forecast a drop to 94.2 from a previously reported 94.4, the
median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  U.S. jobless claims were forecast to decline to 375,000,
according to the median of 48 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The Labor Department revised the previous
week’s figure from 386,000. Claims in the week ended April 14
were the highest since Jan. 7.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Among companies cutting positions is  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines , which said last week it will eliminate 1,200 airport
agent, baggage and cargo jobs. The cuts come as part of a
bankruptcy restructuring plan to trim annual labor spending by
$1.25 billion.  Stable Headcount  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest U.S. eastern railroad, is hiring
people mainly to keep headcount stable.  “Last year, you may recall we hired 4,000 people --roughly
3,000 was attrition, the other 1,000 was evenly split between
train and engine crews to move the products” and others to
install safety systems to comply with regulations, Michael Ward,
chief executive officer at CSX, said in an April 18 interview.
“So those people were hired. This year the 3,000 will be
largely attrition.”  A report from the Labor Department on April 6 showed hiring
cooled in March. Employers added 120,000 jobs, the fewest in
five months. The jobless rate fell to 8.2 percent from 8.3
percent the prior month.  The figures help explain why Federal Reserve policy makers
yesterday stuck to a plan to hold borrowing costs close to zero
through 2014. Central bankers said that while labor-market
conditions have improved, unemployment “remains elevated.”  Buying Climate  Slower job growth may weigh on consumer moods. The
Bloomberg comfort data showed the buying climate index decreased
to minus 41.5 last week from minus 36.8 the prior week. A
measure of Americans’ views of the  state of the economy  dropped
to minus 66.4 from minus 64.3, and a gauge of  personal finances 
slid to 0.4 from 6.8 the prior week.  Men and young Americans, those from 18 to 34 years old,
showed the biggest declines in sentiment during the latest week.
The gauge for men declined after reaching a four-year high the
prior week. Sentiment among the young fell last week to the
lowest level since January.  Among  independents , a key swing group during this year’s
presidential election, the comfort gauge fell to a two-month low
of minus 37.7 from minus 29 the prior week. The measure also
worsened for Democrats while holding at the prior week’s level
for Republicans.  Jobs and the economy are a central theme in political
sparring between President Barack Obama and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney .  Job Recovery  The former Massachusetts governor and co-founder of the
private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC this week vowed to use his
business experience to “lead us out of this stagnant Obama
economy and into a job-creating recovery.”  Obama’s senior strategist,  David Axelrod , said Romney’s
“business career was not about  job creation .” Rather, “It was
about wealth creation for himself and his partners.”  Consumers may get a boost from today’s housing data, which
added to evidence this week that the industry at the heart of
the financial crisis is bottoming.  New homes sold at an annual pace of 328,000 in March, up
7.5 percent from a year earlier, Commerce Department data
showed. Values in 20 U.S. cities fell 3.5 percent in February,
the smallest 12-month drop since February 2011, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller index.  Signed contracts to buy previously owned properties jumped
4.1 percent in March to 101.4, the highest level since April
2010, today’s data from the National Association of Realtors
showed.  Leading Indicator  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator of
progress in real estate because they track contract signings.
Purchases of existing homes are tabulated when a contract
closes, typically a month or two later, and made up about 93
percent of the housing market last year.  Compared with a  year earlier , March pending home sales
climbed 10.8 percent after a 14.9 percent surge in February. Two
of four regions saw an increase in pending home sales from the
prior month, led by an 8.7 percent jump in the West, while the
South posted a 5.9 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net 
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  