-- Morgan Stanley Said to Hire Asia Head of Electronic Trading
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-04-26T03:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/morgan-stanley-said-to-hire-asia-head-of-electronic-trading-1-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  hired  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s Gabriel Butler as head of electronic trading for
Asia excluding Japan, according to two people familiar with the
move.  Butler, who was head of electronic trading sales at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch where he worked until last week, will
start at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong by August, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the move hadn’t been
announced. Butler replaces Joseph Sarcona, who was promoted to
global co-head of listed derivatives for the electronic trading
team in  New York , the people said.  The equities trading division at Morgan Stanley, owner of
the world’s largest brokerage, increased revenue 6 percent from
a year earlier, the company said on April 19. Morgan Stanley’s
electronic trading unit manages areas including algorithmic
trading, direct market access and dark pools.  Butler and Sarcona declined to comment when reached by
telephone.  Nick Footitt , a spokesman for Morgan Stanley in Hong
Kong, and Mark Tsang, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch spokesman,
also declined to comment.  At Morgan Stanley, Butler will report to Zach Tuckwell,
Asia head of electronic trading, listed derivatives and program
trading. Oliver Farrant, based in  London , will run the global
listed derivatives unit with Sarcona at the New York-based
brokerage. They will report to Andrew Silverman and Bill Neuberger, global co-heads of electronic trading.  Bank of America  hired two senior executives from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in electronic trading within the past year.
Ryan Holsheimer, joined in May as head of Asia Pacific equity
execution services in  Hong Kong , after 10 years at Goldman in a
similar role.  Kim Man Li, former head of Asian electronic
trading sales at Goldman, joined as a director and head of
product development for Asia-Pacific equity execution services
in Hong Kong in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  