-- Morgan Stanley Downgrade May Hurt Debt Unit, Hintz Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/morgan-stanley-downgrade-may-hurt-debt-unit-hintz-says.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s fixed-income
trading unit will struggle if Moody’s Investors Service follows
through with a potential three-level downgrade, according to
Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Such a reduction may slice 30 percent off revenue from
fixed-income derivatives, which account for 15 percent of total
fixed-income  revenue , Hintz estimated in a research note
yesterday. Equity-derivatives revenue, which is about 20 percent
of total equities revenue, could fall 10 percent, according to
the note. Based on 2011 trading results, those declines would
mean  losing  about $400 million of annual trading revenue.  “Equity investors should assume this potential downgrade
is likely to occur,” wrote Hintz, a former Morgan Stanley
 treasurer . “The potential downgrade makes it more difficult for
MS’s fixed-income business to sustainably  outperform ,” he
added, referring to the New York-based firm by its stock symbol.  Morgan Stanley faces the largest credit downgrade among
U.S. lenders by Moody’s, which will take  ratings  actions on the
largest global investment banks by the end of June. Morgan
Stanley’s  rating  may drop to Baa2, two levels above junk, from
A2. That could force the firm to post more collateral on
derivatives trades and pay more to borrow.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  and Chief Financial
Officer Ruth Porat said last week that they’ve taken steps to
ensure any fallout from a downgrade would be manageable.  Risk Management  “MS claims they have numerous alternatives to offset
this,” Hintz wrote. “But Bernstein is skeptical.” Mark Lake,
a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to comment.  The bank’s ability to execute trades through its triple-A
rated subsidiary will be limited by “onerous hedging and risk-
management rules and  collateral charges  that make its use
problematic,” Hintz wrote. “This subsidiary’s complex
structure did not economically work in the 1990s when it was set
up and it probably won’t work economically today.”  Hintz continues to rate Morgan Stanley “outperform,” the
same rating he’s had on the stock since August 2007, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Moody’s cited new challenges for the industry such as
increased regulation and “fragile” funding conditions when it
announced the review of 17 firms with capital markets operations
in February. It also noted “inherent vulnerabilities” such as
the dependence on confidence in the markets and a lack of
transparency on risks.  BlackRock’s View  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, said
last week that it may be forced to reduce business with some
banks if their credit ratings are lowered.  “I don’t think there’s any possibility we’re not going to
be doing business with BlackRock,” Gorman said later in the
week in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “It’s only
certain individual contracts and we’ve created a number of
workaround situations where we can deal with this.”  Analysts including Edward Jones & Co.’s Shannon Stemm have
said they don’t expect the Moody’s downgrade would have a
meaningful impact on Morgan Stanley’s trading business.  “Clients not bound by technical requirements, if they had
concerns around facing off with Morgan Stanley as a
counterparty, would already have reduced or currently be moving
to reduce exposures,”  Roger Freeman , an analyst at Barclays
Plc’s investment bank, wrote in an April 20 report. “Judging
from 1Q results, however, market share within FICC appears to be
accruing to Morgan Stanley, not heading in the other
direction.”  Ed Najarian, an analyst at International Strategy &
Investment Group Inc., wrote in a research note that he doesn’t
expect Moody’s to go through with the maximum downgrades it has
threatened because of strong opposition from the banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 