-- Toronto, Vancouver Housing Vulnerable, Economists Warn
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-04-26T17:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/toronto-vancouver-housing-vulnerable-economists-warn.html
Toronto’s condominium market is
showing signs of overbuilding, says an economist at the city’s
largest university, while  Royal Bank of Canada  says Vancouver
housing is vulnerable to a “marked correction.”  Construction of new units in Toronto has accelerated
compared with  population growth , said Peter Dungan, an associate
economics professor at the  University of Toronto . Dungan made
the comments in a forecast of the Ontario and Canadian
economies.  Ontario multiple-unit housing starts jumped at annualized
rate of 50 percent in March, the federal housing agency said
April 11, taking the pace of  national  construction to the
highest since 2008. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said
yesterday near-record consumer debt is the economy’s biggest
domestic risk and some housing markets have “firm” valuations.  “You just wonder at some point if you aren’t
overbuilding,” Dungan said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Even more than at the national level, the Ontario housing
numbers are really starting to concern us,” he said in his
report, adding Toronto condo starts were “off the charts.”  Residential construction in Ontario will grow 5.7 percent
this year, then decline at rates of 1.3 percent in 2013 and 0.9
percent in 2014, according to Dungan’s forecast. The province’s
 economic growth  will accelerate from 2 percent this year to 2.2
percent next year and 2.9 percent in 2014.  ‘Doom and Gloom’  “Some of the gloom and doom about housing we think is
overdone but there is a certainty a lot of smoke even if there
isn’t fire,” Dungan said.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  introduced
legislation legislation today that creates a registry for
companies that sell covered bonds and prohibits sellers from
using insured mortgages as collateral.  Any corrections in housing markets “will be localized as
opposed to something universal,” Dungan said.  Young families who haven’t lived through a period of high
 interest rates  could be at the most risk, he said.  “The warning signals have been going out,” Dungan said.
“It’s hard to know how that message is getting through to
people.”  While resales and prices have declined in the greater
Vancouver area,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  said the country’s priciest
housing market remains vulnerable to a correction.  “With affordability, or rather unaffordability, having
moved off the scale in the past three to four years, the
historically volatile Vancouver-area market is undoubtedly under
substantial stress,” Robert Hogue, a Toronto-based senior
economist at Royal said in a note to clients. “It is vulnerable
to a marked correction.”  Measured Decline  The most likely scenario is for prices to decline 7 percent
to 12 percent from their quarterly peak to trough over the
medium term, which Royal said would be “taken in stride by the
market.”  Hogue forecast a measured decline because previous strong
gains were overstated by average price data, there are few signs
of imbalance between demand and supply and he expects the market
to remain well supported by a fairly favorable economic
environment and strong demographic fundamentals.  Still, risks remain, such as a possible reversal of
investment from abroad, including  China , Hogue said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  