-- Motor Sports Seek to Protect U.S. Tax Breaks From Cuts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-26T16:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/motorsports-seek-to-protect-u-s-tax-breaks-from-cuts.html
Dan Houser, the chief financial
officer of  International Speedway Corp. (ISCA) , knows his industry is a
potential target for lawmakers scrubbing the tax code for narrow
breaks they can eliminate.  The one with the “sexy tag” of a NASCAR tax break, he
said, can be twisted and criticized unfairly. The provision lets
track owners depreciate  capital costs  over seven years instead
of the usual 15 or 39 years.  “It just would be unfortunate for something that I think
is really a plus to kind of end up on the cutting floor just to
have something that’s going to sound nice in the headline,”
said Houser, who said the provision encourages his company and
others to make investments.  A House Ways and Means subcommittee today is scrutinizing
dozens of tax breaks, including for motor sports, producing wind
energy, maintaining short-line railroad tracks and making
investments in the  District of Columbia . The beneficiaries of
such breaks are lobbying to avoid becoming casualties of a
winnowing effort.  “For too long Congress has simply rubber-stamped the
extenders package without any review, without any oversight,”
said Representative Patrick Tiberi, an Ohio Republican who is
chairing the hearing.  Tiberi and five other members then proceeded to list the
tax breaks they want to extend without identifying any they
would eliminate.  Year-End Deal  Lawmakers haven’t decided what to do about the motor sports
provision and others that expired in 2011 or are set to expire
at the end of 2012.  Some of the breaks may be part of an end-of-year deal that
includes extensions of expiring income-tax rate cuts. Some may
be jettisoned. They could be extended in anticipation of a
future  tax-code  overhaul that would trade breaks for lower
rates. They also might be paired with spending cuts or tax
increases to reduce the effect on the  U.S. budget deficit .  Representatives Rick Berg of  North Dakota  and Aaron Schock
of  Illinois , Republicans on the Ways and Means Committee, said
that until the president and Senate are willing to work with the
House on overhauling the tax code, many expired provisions
should be revived to prevent tax increases.  “We should not effectively raise taxes on small businesses
and families in our current economy,” Berg said.  No Automatic Extension  What’s clear is that automatic extension of all of these
tax breaks may no longer an option.  House Republicans , who are
holding the hearing, are prompting interest groups and lobbyists
to explain the reasons for the provisions and demonstrate
whether they are working as intended.  “House Republicans in particular and maybe Senate
Republicans and others think that at some point we shouldn’t all
blindly be extending all this stuff,” said Kenneth Kies, a
Republican tax lobbyist whose clients include Pfizer Inc. and
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc.  Kies said that Congress allowed many provisions created by
the 2009 stimulus law to expire at the end of 2010. Republicans
have circulated a list of 73 lapsed items as proof that
lawmakers can allow tax breaks to end.  The list of expired and expiring provisions includes those
affecting a swath of multinational corporations, such as the
research and development tax credit used by companies including
 Intel Corp . and the ability to defer active international
finance income used by General Electric Co. and Caterpillar Inc.  More targeted business breaks are on the list, too,
including the motor sports benefit and tax credits for energy-
efficient appliances made by companies such as Whirlpool Corp.  Targeted to Individuals  Also being examined are provisions that affect individuals,
such as the ability to deduct teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses
and a deduction for state sales taxes.  “Like everything else in Congress, it’s hard to get
anything done right now,” said  Steve Elmendorf , a Democratic
lobbyist whose tax clients include the Managed Funds
Association. “There certainly, though, are people on both sides
of the aisle who’d like to get them done.”  The rules for the hearing limit which tax breaks can be
considered, excluding the big-picture fiscal questions on income
tax rates that Congress will consider later in the year.  Only members of Congress who have introduced bills on the
specific breaks are allowed to testify. Twenty-seven of them are
on a witness list. Away from the witness table, lobbyists are
trying to build support among the lawmakers who champion their
issues.  ‘Own These Things’  “I assume why they’re doing it is they want people to own
these things,” Elmendorf said. “Most of them, somebody does.”  The Council on Foundations wants Congress to extend a tax
break that lets taxpayers send mandatory distributions from
their individual retirement accounts directly to charities. The
tax code’s lack of certainty makes it tough for people to plan,
said Andrew Schulz, vice president for legal and government
relations at the group, based in Arlington, Virginia.  “You can’t go into something like this and take it for
granted,” Schulz said. “We’re hoping that if everyone had a
chance to make their case, we’ve got a really strong case.”  Schulz said he welcomed the chance for the provision to
gain attention.  “We’re not some secret back-room dealings that evolved
over time,” he said. “We’re always pleased to talk about what
we do and how it changes our communities.”  Negative Publicity  Kies said negative publicity about renewable-energy
incentives will make it more complicated for those provisions to
be extended.  Denise Bode , chief executive officer of the American  Wind
Energy  Association, told reporters on a conference call
yesterday that thousands of jobs hang on the fate of the
production tax credit. That tax break, which doesn’t lapse until
the end of 2012, is affecting jobs now because turbines must be
in place and producing energy by Dec. 31 to qualify.  “Obviously, with the tremendous lack of coordination
across the aisle, it is very difficult to do anything, to see
anything happening,” she said. “But I guess we’re heartened by
the fact that they’re holding this hearing” and that House and
Senate leaders are discussing the provisions.  Houser, of the speedway company, said motor sports
advocates will rely on lawmakers from districts with racetracks
who can discuss the economic benefits they provide. ISC has
tracks across the country, including Daytona International
Speedway and Michigan International Speedway.  And, like many of the other tax-break advocates, he ties
his item to the top issue for politicians: job growth.  “It’s really private-sector stimulus money,” Houser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  