-- House Panel Backs Littoral Ship Funding, Criticizing Navy
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-27T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/house-panel-backs-littoral-ship-funding-criticizing-navy.html
A House panel backed Navy plans for
four added  Littoral Combat Ships  even as lawmakers chided the
Navy for a failure to better communicate about the program’s
cost, schedule and performance.  The Navy requested $2.24 billion for the ships, including
$429.4 million in development funds. The Littoral Combat Ship is
intended to clear mines, hunt for submarines and provide
humanitarian relief in shallow coastal waters. The Navy may have
55 ships in the class, about 17 percent of a fleet with aircraft
carriers, destroyers and amphibious assault ships.  The House Armed Services seapower panel yesterday approved
the funding, part of a $37 billion program, while adopting an
amendment demanding a complete briefing 30 days after the annual
defense authorization measure is signed into law.  “The committee believes that the Navy has not adequately
informed Congress to the full extent possible on program
deficiencies, including mechanical and structural failures,”
according to the amendment by Representative Duncan Hunter, a
California Republican. The full committee will review the
amendment next week when it considers action on the entire
 defense budget .  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is leading the construction of one of
two ship models. The other is built by a team led by  Austal Ltd. (ASB) 
and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   The amendment “is connected to the recurring problems that
have been well known for quite some time” in the program, Joe
Kaspar, a spokesman for Hunter, said yesterday in an e-mail.
Hunter previously requested a Government Accountability Office
report on the project’s difficulties.  Cracks, Corrosion  The Project on Government Oversight, a nonpartisan
government oversight group, issued a report this week based on
year-old Navy documents that provided additional details on
cracks, flooding and corrosion with the first vessel, built by
Lockheed’s team. The Navy said those flaws have been corrected.  “There are still serious problems with the LCS, and if the
Navy’s truly committed to the plan, then all this needs to be
straightened out,” Kaspar said. “Otherwise, the LCS remains an
acquisition headache.”  Navy spokeswoman Captain Cate Mueller declined to comment
on Hunter’s amendment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  