-- How U.S. Students Can Work Off Their Trillion-Dollar Debt
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/how-college-students-can-work-off-their-1-trillion-debt.html
If your child is one of the  1.5
million  high school students eagerly awaiting acceptance letters
from colleges this month, he or she is probably entertaining
dreams of high scholarship, intellectual ferment, new friends,
raging keggers.  You probably have a few other things on your mind. For
starters, you may be thinking that the average annual cost of a
four-year institution now  exceeds $20,000 . Or that outstanding
student-loan debt  surpasses $1 trillion . Or that defaults are
rising, economic growth is sluggish, and unemployment for those
ages 20 to 24 is  about 13 percent .  And your little one, bless her heart, wants to major in
peace-and-justice studies.  This calculus troubles a lot of parents.  Mitt Romney  and
President  Barack Obama  spent the past week agreeing that they
would like to prevent the federal student-loan interest rate
from doubling as scheduled on July 1, but their polarized plans
for paying for it -- and the maddening paralysis in Congress --
inspire little confidence. Meanwhile, whispers of a bubble in
education loans grow louder.  Easing the Burden  Although we shouldn’t exaggerate the risks of student debt,
there are a few steps we can take to ease the burden -- and
possibly improve higher education in the process.  Keep in mind that much of that $1 trillion is “good debt.”
Most borrowers have manageable loans, and workers with a
bachelor’s degree  earn 84 percent more  over their lifetimes on
average than those with only a high school diploma. They also
face much  lower unemployment rates . So a college loan remains a
very smart investment for many people.  But not for everyone. Some students take on more debt than
they can expect to repay. Some borrow on ruinous terms. Some
drop out, make poor career choices or attend for-profit schools
that provide little education. Partly for such reasons, more
than 5 million borrowers  are past due  on a loan account.  So the first step should be increasing transparency in a
dreadfully complicated market. According to  NERA Economic
Consulting , about two-thirds of private-loan borrowers don’t
understand the differences between federal loans (fixed  interest
rates , income-based repayment options, robust consumer
protections) and private ones (variable and sometimes usurious
rates, inscrutable terminology, few borrower protections).  That’s symptomatic of a larger problem: Many high school
students have a poor understanding of how the loan system works,
what help they’re eligible for and how much they’ll eventually
owe.  Legislation recently introduced in the Senate, the Know
Before You Owe Act, would require private lenders to confirm
that borrowers are enrolled, give them regular updates on their
loans and their accruing interest, and report annually to the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. It would require colleges
to counsel students about their aid options and their rights as
borrowers. Similar transparency should be demanded of schools
offering financial-aid packages and of debt-collection
companies: Documentation should be clear and standardized
throughout the process.  The second crucial step is to mitigate the burdens of
already distressed borrowers. The Obama administration has made
progress, for instance by proposing an initiative that would let
some students limit their loan repayments to 10 percent of their
discretionary incomes next year and would forgive balances after
two decades. Private lenders should be given incentives to offer
more modifications and flexible payment options.  Salaries Matter  Finally, moving toward a more widespread income-based
repayment model, in which debtors pay more as their salaries
increase, would make economic sense and could help rationalize
the student-loan system.  This could be done partly through the  bankruptcy code .
Student debt is generally nondischargeable in bankruptcy. This
helps assure lenders that if they take a risk in giving a loan
to someone with no immediate earning power or collateral, the
borrower won’t declare bankruptcy to clear his debt after
graduating. But it also has a distorting effect: Lenders are
encouraged to take credit risks -- for example, by extending
loans to students who attend an expensive school with a low job-
placement rate.  Tying dischargeability to the average salary of graduates
of a given school could offer a useful corrective. For instance,
loan payments in excess of 10 percent of the average annual
salary of an institution’s graduates could be discharged in
bankruptcy. This way, lenders would start to avoid schools that
aren’t increasing students’ earning power. Such a market
solution could help weed out fraudulent schools, and it could
push students away from expensive institutions that underdeliver
educationally and toward schools that offer more value.  Loans with co-signers or those on which parents borrow for
their children against current assets or income should also be
dischargeable.  More controversially, a “progressive discharge” system tied
to the average salary of specific career fields might encourage
lenders to tighten their standards and take into account what
borrowers plan to study. This could have drawbacks, such as
discouraging students from following their intellectual passions
or from going into socially valuable but relatively low-paying
work. But it’s worth considering: If structured right, it could
 better align student majors  with the demands of the modern
workplace.  Ultimately, all these changes -- while helpful in the short
term -- would only be first steps. As college costs continue to
soar, and taxpayers continue to foot more of the bill, we’ll
need to consider more far-ranging reforms. Should we move toward
expanding the government’s income-based repayment system, or
start  reducing  the federal role altogether? Perhaps move away
from the debt-financing model and toward an  equity-financing
model , in which schools would get a fixed percentage of
students’ future earnings? Invest in overhauling the classroom
for the digital age? These will be questions for the next
generation of college applicants.  For now, kids, enjoy your time in school. It will only get
harder from here.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  Europe ’s growth pact;
 Michael Kinsley  on  toll roads and income inequality ; Stephen L.
Carter on  toll roads and budget deficits ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 community-college shortcomings ;  Jonathan Weil  on  ratings firms ;
Elizabeth Samet on  ambition in the military .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 