-- Pakistan’s Gilani Guilty of Contempt, Spared Jail Term
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-04-26T12:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/pakistan-s-gilani-guilty-of-contempt-supreme-court-says.html
Pakistan Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  will file a review appeal against today’s contempt of
court conviction and parliament’s speaker will decide whether he
stays in office while that challenge is heard, his lawyer said.  “I don’t think the prime minister should resign after this
verdict,” the lawyer, Aitzaz Ahsan, said in a press conference
in Islamabad, Pakistan’s capital. “There’s no automatic or
immediate disqualification. It’s now up to the speaker of the
National Assembly to decide.”  The Supreme Court ruled Gilani guilty of contempt for not
obeying its earlier order to reopen corruption cases against
President Asif Ali Zardari, while sparing him a prison term. In
deciding to oppose the judgment, Gilani is likely to drag out
legal proceedings for months.  Today’s verdict, which follows a year of political turmoil
involving the government, judiciary and military, could distract
the ruling coalition as the economy stumbles and the U.S. bids
to mend a strained relationship with  Pakistan  that’s central to
efforts to stabilize neighboring Afghanistan.  Gilani’s conviction “will add to the already charged
political environment, and prolong the legal crisis,” Mehdi
Hasan, a political analyst and dean of the School of
Communications at the Lahore-based  Beaconhouse National
University , said by phone. “The best course for this government
now is to resign and announce new elections.”  Symbolic Sentence  After convicting Gilani, the court symbolically sentenced
him to detention for the few minutes until judges adjourned the
hearing. The court said Gilani was guilty of “willful
flouting” of an earlier order to pursue graft investigations in
Swiss courts against his party colleague Zardari.  Flanked by ministers and coalition partners, Gilani waved
to supporters after becoming the first serving Pakistani prime
minister to be convicted by the top court. His immediate
political future now rests with the country’s parliamentary
speaker, Fehmida Mirza, who is a close aide of Zardari.  Even if Gilani were to be removed, the alliance headed by
his Pakistan People’s Party would have the parliamentary
majority needed to elect its favored successor. Parliamentary
elections are scheduled for early next year.  During hearings that lasted for about three months, Ahsan
failed to convince judges that the constitution grants the
president immunity from prosecution while in office.  The leader of Pakistan’s main opposition party,  Nawaz Sharif , said in an interview with the Geo television channel
that Gilani must resign as he had lost the right to govern.  Slow Growth  Economic growth sank to 2.4 percent in the last fiscal
year, one of the lowest expansions in the past decade, as
militant attacks, record monsoon floods and the nation’s worst
energy crisis deterred investment. The government cut its growth
forecast for the year that ends in June to 4 percent.  Pakistan is also bidding to reset its ties with the U.S.
after closing its border for the resupply of U.S. forces
fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan and suspending much military
and intelligence cooperation after American helicopters attacked
two Pakistani border posts on Nov. 26, killing 24 soldiers.  The U.S. special envoy for  Afghanistan  and Pakistan,  Marc Grossman , met with Pakistan’s army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani
today in Islamabad.  Zardari and his party may try to gain political mileage
from today’s verdict ahead of parliamentary elections,
presenting it as a judicial witch-hunt against an elected
government, according to analysts including  Rashid Khan , a
professor of international relations at the University of
Sargodha in central Pakistan.  Musharraf Amnesty  That may pay off in a nation where military interventions
have ended the terms of elected prime ministers early.  Pakistan’s army, which has ruled the country for half its
independent history, has backed a separate Supreme Court probe
into claims Zardari sent a memo to top U.S. military officials
seeking help to prevent a coup following last year’s killing of
 Osama bin Laden .  Judges issued a contempt notice to Gilani on Jan. 16 after
saying he violated his oath of office by failing to re-open
graft probes against Zardari and others that former military
ruler  Pervez Musharraf  suspended in 2007.  “Writing a letter to Swiss authorities will be just like
stabbing my president in the back,” Gilani told supporters at a
political rally in March. “I would prefer going to jail rather
than violating the constitution.”  Bribes  Negotiating with political parties to stay on as a civilian
president, Musharraf decreed an amnesty to halt corruption
probes against 8,000 politicians and officials, including
Zardari and his wife, former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto .  The  Supreme Court  in 2009 ordered the government to
formally ask Swiss authorities to revive cases there against
Zardari and Bhutto, who was assassinated at a political rally.  Bhutto and Zardari collected and laundered bribes totaling
$11.7 million for awarding customs inspection contracts to Swiss
companies in 1994, an investigating magistrate in Geneva
recorded in 2003.  The couple received six-month suspended prison sentences
the same year from a Swiss judge. The punishments were canceled
by a Swiss tribunal in 2004 after Bhutto appealed. New bribery
charges were then brought, the Swiss newspaper Le Temps
reported. Zardari has denied all charges against him, saying
they were politically motivated.  The New York Times reported today that it would be
“virtually impossible” to revive the cases against Zardari in
 Switzerland  due to his claimed immunity and the European
country’s 15-year statute of limitations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  