-- Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Increased 4.1% in March
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-26T15:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-increased-4-1-in-march.html
Signed contracts to buy U.S. homes
rose more than forecast in March as low  interest rates  drew
buyers back into the market.  The index of  pending home purchases  rose 4.1 percent to
101.4, the highest level since April 2010, after a 0.4 percent
gain in February that was revised from a previously estimated
0.5 percent drop, the National Association of Realtors reported
today in Washington. The median forecast of 43 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1 percent rise in the
measure, which tracks contracts on previously owned homes.  An improved labor market and mortgage rates near historic
lows are helping to stabilize housing. At the same time, the
industry remains the economy’s weakest link, depressed by the
threat of more foreclosures, stricter lending standards, and
lower property values.  “It’s good news,” said Sean Incremona, senior economist
at 4Cast Inc. in  New York . “It does suggest that improvement in
the housing market is continuing.”  Estimates for March pending sales ranged from a drop of 3.7
percent to an increase of 4 percent in the Bloomberg survey.  Stocks climbed after the figure, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rising 0.1 percent to 1,392.57 at 11:33 a.m. in New
York. The S&P Supercomposite  Homebuilders (S15HOME)  Index increased 2.1
percent. PulteGroup Inc. rallied 5.1 percent after the
homebuilder’s loss was less than forecast.  Leading Indicator  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator of
progress in real estate because they track contract signings.
Purchases of existing homes are tabulated when a contract
closes, typically a month or two later, and made up about 93
percent of the housing market last year.  Compared with a year earlier, March pending home sales
climbed 10.8 percent after a 14.9 percent surge in February.  Two of four regions saw an increase in pending home sales
from the prior month, led by an 8.7 percent jump in the West,
today’s report showed, while the South posted a 5.9 percent
gain.  Housing is showing uneven signs of progress. This week, the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , which regulates  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , reported a February increase in home prices, up 0.4
percent from a year earlier, the first annual gain since July
2007.  Home Prices  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values fell 3.5
percent for the year ended in February.  Sales of previously owned houses in March fell for the
third time in four months, from a 4.6 million annual rate to
4.48 million, the National Association of Realtors reported
earlier this month.  Demand for new homes also dipped in March. Homes sold at a
328,000 annual rate, down from an upwardly revised 353,000 in
February, which was the highest in almost two years, the
Commerce Department reported.  To hold down  borrowing  costs, Federal Reserve policy makers
say they will continue to swap $400 billion in short-term
securities with long-term debt to lengthen the average maturity
of the central bank’s holdings, a move dubbed Operation Twist.  ‘Depressed’  “Despite some signs of improvement, the housing sector
remains depressed,” Federal Reserve officials said in a policy
statement yesterday.  Underlying the uneven housing numbers is an overall
improvement in  consumer confidence , said Farooq Kathwari, chief
executive officer of  Ethan Allen Interiors Inc. (ETH)   “I would go mad, crazy,” looking at housing data every
day, Kathwari said in an April 24 earnings call. “So I don’t
look at them every day because I’ve got to plan three, six
months, a year from now,”  The home furnishings company, based in Danbury,
 Connecticut , reported an 8 percent year-over-year increase in
net sales for the quarter ended March 31, to $175.9 million.
“Three, four years back we decided to build a 240,000 square
foot plant in  Mexico . If we had not done it, we would not be
able to deliver the products we have,” Kathwari said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lorraine Woellert in
 Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  