-- PepsiCo Profit Tops Estimates on Latin American Sales
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-04-26T20:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/pepsico-profit-tops-estimates-on-latin-american-sales.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest
snack-food maker, reported first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as sales gained in  Latin America .  Profit excluding some items was 69 cents a share, Purchase,
New York-based PepsiCo said today in a statement. That exceeded
the 67-cent average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income in the quarter fell 1.4 percent to $1.13
billion, or 71 cents a share, from $1.14 billion, or 71 cents, a
year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  is increasing
distribution of snacks and introducing new flavors in  emerging
markets  to boost sales. The company also is cutting 8,700 jobs
and raising marketing spending by $600 million this year to
increase U.S. beverage sales and regain market share from leader
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   “While we don’t think that most skeptics will be convinced
yet, numbers are slightly better than expected on both the top
and bottom lines,” John Faucher, a New York-based analyst for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said today in a note. Faucher rates the
shares overweight, the equivalent of a buy.  PepsiCo, also the world’s second-largest soft-drink maker,
fell 0.5 percent to $66.37 at the close in  New York . The  shares 
are little changed this year.  First-quarter sales rose 4.1 percent to $12.4 billion. Net
revenue in the company’s Latin America Foods unit rose 11
percent after it boosted pricing by the same amount. Beverage
sales volumes in Mexico grew at a double-digit percentage rate.  Pricing increased 5.5 percent globally, helping to recoup
some of the $300 million in higher commodity costs.  Pricing Gains  Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today that he doesn’t anticipate additional
pricing gains this year.  PepsiCo also reiterated its forecast that earnings per
share excluding some costs and foreign-currency effects would
decline 5 percent this year and grow at a high-single digit
percentage rate starting next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  