-- Pfizer Says Animal Unit May Be Divested in IPO, Share Swap
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-26T20:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/pfizer-animal-unit-likely-to-be-ipo-and-share-exchange-ceo-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  is likely to divest its
animal health unit through a combination of an initial public
offering and an exchange of shares with current stockholders,
Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  said.  “We’re probably going to exchange, part of it will be sold
for stock in the open market, part of it will be swapped for
Pfizer shares,” Read said today at the company’s annual
investor meeting in Morristown,  New Jersey . He said that no
final decision has been made on how to shed the business.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, is divesting the
animal health unit, with $4.18 billion in  revenue  last year, as
part of Read’s plan to focus the New York-based company on
developing new drugs. On April 23, the company announced an
agreement to sell its infant nutrition business to Vevey,
Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN)  for $11.9 billion.  A public offering of as much as 20 percent of the value of
the animal health business would let Pfizer take cash from the
unit without triggering a large tax penalty, said  Erik Gordon , a
business professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor .
The company could then exchange Pfizer stock for shares in the
new animal health company.  Reducing Shares  “That reduces the Pfizer share count, and that helps
Pfizer on EPS and dividend coverage,” Gordon said in an e-mail.
Read has said share buybacks are the first priority for using
the company’s spare cash. A share exchange would achieve a
similar result in cutting the amount of stock outstanding.  Pfizer gained less than 1 percent to $23.06 at the close in
 New York .  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, declined to provide
more details on the exact timing of a transaction, only saying
that the company plans to make an announcement this year and
complete any change by July 2013.  Pfizer needs new products as it enters an era without
Lipitor, the cholesterol pill that lost patent protection in
2011 after generating $9.58 billion in revenue. The company
doesn’t have a medicine in its pipeline that will replace all of
Lipitor’s sales by itself. Instead, Pfizer is trying to fill the
hole with several  products , including two under review by U.S.
regulators for possible approval this year.  Along with cutting units, Pfizer is shrinking expenses.
Read has said he plans to eliminate another $1 billion from the
company’s costs this year, focusing on what the drugmaker
describes as selling, informational and administrative costs.
Severance packages for workers who are fired are to be cut in
May, as part of that plan.  The drugmaker is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings
on May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.ne  