-- Philippine Air to Order 100 Planes After San Miguel Deal
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-04-27T10:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/philippine-air-to-order-100-planes-after-san-miguel-deal.html
Philippine Airlines Inc. plans to
order at least 100 new planes, resume flights to  Europe  and
bolster U.S. services after selling a stake to  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)   The carrier’s two main owners will provide $1 billion to
help fund the fleet plan, Ramon Ang, president of the airline
and of San Miguel, said in an interview in Manila yesterday. San
Miguel will inject $750 million in PAL and affiliate  Air
Philippines Corp. , including a $500 million stake purchase,
while billionaire Lucio Tan will deliver the rest, he said.  “PAL will institute more improvement, offer a better
service and fly newer planes,” said Ang, who’s a qualified
pilot. “PAL is a good company -- despite the problems, it’s
always been above water.”  The carrier wants to join a global alliance, Ang said, to
spread its international reach and to help compete with
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Emirates Airline on long-haul
routes. San Miguel may also build an airport near Manila to help
the airline improve services and to extend its own push away
from a traditional focus on food and beverages, Ang said.  The 100 new planes, including single-aisle and twin-aisle
models, will be divided across PAL and Air Philippines. Ang
didn’t say how many aircraft the carriers would retire. The
group will do more business with  Boeing Co. (BA)  than previously, he
said, without elaboration.  “Philippine Airlines has problems, but once they fix it,
they could enhance” market share, said  Jomar Lacson , an analyst
at Campos Lanuza & Co. The brand is a “powerful asset.”  PAL Holdings Inc. (PAL) , the carrier’s holding company, fell 1.1
percent to 7.45 pesos at close in Manila trading. San Miguel
slid 0.3 percent, while the benchmark index declined 1 percent.  Safety Standards  Philippine Air’s long-haul expansion plans depend upon the
Philippines improving safety standards, Ang said. The country is
 blacklisted  by the European Union and has a Category 2 rating
from the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, meaning it
doesn’t meet international regulations.  PAL will “immediately” resume flights to Europe once
Philippine carriers are allowed in, Ang said, listing Paris,
 London  and Spain as possible destinations. In the U.S., the
carrier is looking at  New York , Chicago and Florida, he said. It
already  flies  to  San Francisco ,  Los Angeles , Las Vegas and
Vancouver in North America.  PAL has 37 aircraft, according to its  website . The fleet
includes seven Boeing jets and 30 made by Airbus SAS.  PAL Losses  San Miguel started looking at an investment in PAL, then
controlled by Tan, about a year ago, Ang said. The 71-year-old
carrier was seeking new funds after losing market share to
budget airline Cebu Pacific. PAL reported losses in the first
three quarters of the fiscal year that started April 2011.  The carrier, which cut 2,400 jobs when it outsourced
catering and other ground services, will add workers as it
expands, Ang said. PAL may also hand domestic and short regional
flights to  Air Philippines (CEB) , while it focuses on long-haul, full-
service trips, Ang said.  “Today in Manila, you are competing with low-cost
carriers,” he said. ‘Therefore, you should also be a low-cost
carrier to compete.’’  San Miguel may pitch plans for the new four-runway airport
to the government in the “near future,” Ang said. Construction
of the facility, able to handle 100 million passengers annually,
could begin this year, he said.  The  company , founded as a brewery more than a century ago,
is already set to open a new airport on the resort island of
Boracay within two years, Ang said. San Miguel has also invested
in railways, roads and energy companies to bolster margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net 
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  