-- Photo Shoot Wrecked $300,000 Sculpture, Collector Alleges
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/photo-shoot-wrecked-300-000-sculpture-collector-alleges.html
Art + Auction  magazine was blamed
in a lawsuit for shattering a 2,630-year-old Nigerian terracotta
sculpture beyond repair during a photo shoot last May at a
Manhattan collector’s residence.  The shoot was in the Tribeca home of Corice Arman, the
widow of the French-born artist Arman, who died in 2005.  “They were setting up the shoot and I heard this enormous
crash,” Arman said in a telephone interview.  Charles Rosenzweig, her lawyer, said the piece, described
in the complaint as a Nok figure, had been appraised after the
accident at $300,000. Arman is seeking that amount, plus
interest, from  Louise Blouin Media Inc. , owner of Art + Auction,
according to the complaint filed April 24 in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  While Arman was in another room of the converted pickle
factory during the accident, she said she believes the sculpture
was being moved from its home next to a fireplace.  Ben Hartley, president of Louise Blouin Media, said the
company hadn’t received the complaint and declined to comment on
it or the accident. Arman and later Rosenzweig negotiated with
Blouin’s insurer, Rosenzweig said.  “There was not a reasonable offer,” the lawyer said,
adding that Arman’s insurance didn’t cover the sculpture’s full
value.  Arman and her husband acquired the sculpture in the early
1990s, she said in the interview. She declined to say how much
they paid. A photographer, assistant and art director at the
shoot “were beside themselves with grief,” she said.  An avid collector, Arman said the accident was a first of
its kind for her.  “My cat has jumped on a shelf and knocked something
over,” she said. “But it wasn’t as valuable.”  The case is Arman v. Louise Blouin Media Inc., 152078/2012,
 New York  State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 