-- Pigeons’ Brain Cells Sense Earth’s Magnetic Field to Find Home
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/pigeons-brain-cells-found-that-interpret-earth-s-magnetic-field.html
Homing pigeons , the earliest form
of e-mail, can find places thousands of miles away because of
nerve cells in their brain stems that react to magnetic sensors
that may be located elsewhere around their head, a study finds.  Scientists have long known that the birds navigate using
the earth’s magnetic field. The latest research, reported
yesterday in the journal  Science , has uncovered subtle mechanics
in the brain that allow pigeons to find their way home even when
the sky’s directional markers are hidden by clouds.  Pigeons were released in a black room with an artificial
magnetic field that was manipulated by scientists, who used
electrodes to determine which neurons were firing. They found
that different neurons in the brain stem became active,
depending on the direction of the magnetic field. That’s what
helps the birds determine latitude, half the information needed
to navigate, said  J. David Dickman , at the Baylor College of
Medicine in Houston.  “They’ve been used for centuries to carry news home,”
said Dickman, a study author, in a telephone interview. Pigeons
brought from Central Park in New York to  Texas  would find their
way back home, he said, adding, “It might take them a while,
but they’d get there.”  It’s still not clear how pigeons determine longitude,
though the experiments show the birds have limited access to
cardinal directions, according to Dickman. There may be
intensity gradients to the earth’s magnetic fields, he said. The
magnetic field is located at different angles to the earth
depending on the latitude, with a 0 degree angle at the magnetic
equator and 90 degree angles at the poles, Dickman said.  The research was inspired by previous work suggesting that
magnetic fields may be detected by a part of the birds’ ears.
Dickman’s research didn’t look directly at how the birds sense
the magnetic fields, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 