-- Polish Central Bank Missed Rates Opportunity, Filar Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2012-04-26T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/polish-central-bank-missed-rates-opportunity-filar-says.html
Polish former central banker
central banker Dariusz Filar comments on  interest rates  after
core inflation slowed more than expected in March.  Filar, who spoke in an interview in Warsaw on April 24, was
a member of the Monetary Policy Council from 2004-2010. He is a
member of Prime Minister’s Donald Tusk Economic Council.  On the Monetary Policy Council decision to keep rate at 4.5%:  “The  central bank ’s March projections didn’t point to a
radical fall in CPI over the next six or seven quarters, while
inflation expectations remained high. The circumstances were
perfect for a rate increase that would bolster the Monetary
Policy Council’s inflation-fighting credentials and curb
inflation expectations. Instead of that, they chose verbal
intervention - ‘we’ll seriously consider a rate increase’ -
probably because there was no clear majority for tightening.  “The MPC missed a perfect opportunity for a rate increase
that would have given them scope to cut rates in the future, if
that kind of stimulus is needed, while at the same time curbing
inflation expectations. That opportunity is gone, because the
fall in CPI and inflationary expectations has become more
evident and tightening under these circumstances would flummox a
wide spectrum of market participants. On top of that,  core
inflation  is slowing more than expected.”  On rates outlook:  “There’s no room for rate cuts with the economy growing at
close to 2.5 percent and until inflation slows to the upper end
of the tolerance range, say 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent, for at
least a quarter. I don’t see this happening before the third or
even the fourth quarter. At the same time, zero or even slightly
negative real wage growth and slowing output aren’t exerting any
pressure to raise rates.  “In this situation, there’s only one way for the MPC to
preserve its credibility after its comments in April. They have
to say that they’re waiting for more core inflation data and the
July inflation projection before making a final decision. If
core inflation remains stable or slows (which is probable, since
I see it at 2.4 percent or even 2.3 percent in April and at
about 2 percent in May), and the projection turns out to be
reassuring, then the rate-increase warning can be withdrawn.”  On policy orientation:  “A monetary ‘hawk’ is somebody who puts sustained, low
inflation ahead of short-term efforts to stimulate economic
growth. However, you can operate this way only when the
financial system is stable and functioning normally, a situation
that happily still applies to  Poland .  “If the financial system is “melting down,” which is
what we’ve seen in the U.S. and  Europe , then the distinction
between ‘hawks’ and ‘doves’ becomes meaningless, because the top
priority is avoiding a collapse. Whether this comes at the price
of sustained high rates of global inflation is something we’ll
find out in a few years, because the impact of  money supply  on
inflation comes with a substantial and unpredictable time lag.
The return to conventional monetary policy distinctions will be
possible in the U.S. and western Europe only after financial
markets recover from the results of the crisis that erupted in
2007 and had its roots in the 1990s.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  