-- Polish Central Bank Is Right to Hold Rate, Grabowski Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2012-04-26T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/polish-central-bank-is-right-to-hold-rate-grabowski-says.html
Polish former central banker
central banker Boguslaw Grabowski comments on next month’s
interest-rate decision in the context of weakening economic
growth and high inflation.  Grabowski, who spoke in an interview in Warsaw on April 24,
was a member of the Monetary Policy Council from 1998 to 2004
and now oversees the equivalent of $1.5 billion of assets as
chief executive officer of Skarbiec Investment Management in
Warsaw. He’s also a member of Prime Minister’s Donald Tusk
Economic Council.  On inflation:  “It’s true inflation has been above the target for 18
months and the MPC can’t be comfortable with that. How long can
they tolerate above-target inflation when  Poland ’s monetary
policy is based on a direct inflation target? What needs to be
stressed here is that we find ourselves in a situation where the
factors driving inflation are out of the reach of monetary
policy tools.  “If this situation persists, while domestic demand slows
and external demand stays weak, then the Council should just say
it’s prepared to wait longer for inflation to return to the
target.”  On monetary policy:  “The MPC is doing the right thing by not raising  interest
rates . There’s no danger that this will allow expectations of
high inflation to take root in the economy. This is no time to
be ashamed of above-target inflation, since it’s helping the
economy. Under current conditions, the problem isn’t to suppress
inflation expectations and restore price equilibrium, but to
steer the economy through a global crisis and sustain decent
growth through EU funds.  “Once policy tools become more effective and the costs to
economic growth decrease, policy makers should immediately send
a signal and start acting to curb inflation.  “Right now you’d have to apply monetary tightening in very
large doses to bring inflation back to the target, which would
be very damaging to growth. The credit channel isn’t fuelling
inflation because lending growth is at a very low level, while
deposits are very high.”  “As for the exchange-rate channel, the zloty is being
viewed in terms of risk and not interest-rate disparity. To
correct that also requires very big rate increases, which would
be dangerous for the economy.”  On MPC communication with markets:  “It looks like MPC members aren’t on the same page and
they haven’t figured out how to tell the markets what they’re
doing - which is to accept a longer period of higher inflation
because they realize monetary tools aren’t effective at
suppressing price growth but are very good at curbing economic
growth. If I were in their shoes, I’d avoid spooking the market
by signaling the possibility of rate increases.  “What I’d say is that we won’t tolerate a bigger overshoot
of the target, but we will accept a longer period of above-
target inflation if the rapid disinflation would inflict too
much damage on economic growth. Given the external risks, global
commodity prices, and weak domestic and foreign demand, we’ll
just wait and see for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  