-- Potash Corp. Cuts Forecast as Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-04-26T20:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/potash-corp-cuts-forecast-as-earnings-miss-estimates.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer, cut its profit forecast
and posted earnings and revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates
after demand recovered more slowly than expected.  First-quarter net income dropped to 56 cents a share,
compared with the 64-cent average of 26  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales of $1.75 billion missed the $1.79 billion
average of 16 estimates. Profit in 2012 will be $3.20 to $3.60 a
share, the company said today in a statement, down from its
January projection of $3.40 to $4.  Potash Corp. lowered its forecasts for its full-year potash
production and global demand for the mineral, which is used to
strengthen plant roots and defend against drought. Some U.S. and
Canadian fertilizer distributors deferred purchases in the first
quarter in anticipation of further prices declines, spurring the
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company to cut output at its
mines.  “Although we anticipated that an increase in global
fertilizer purchasing would not take hold until the latter half
of the first quarter, it took longer than we expected for demand
to emerge,” Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle said in the
statement.  Potash Corp. declined 3.2 percent to close at C$42.25 in
Toronto.  The shares  have gained less than 1 percent this year.  ‘Difficult Market’  First-quarter net income fell 33 percent to $491 million
from $732 million a year earlier as sales declined 21 percent.
The company plans to ship 8.8 million to 9.2 million tons of
potash this year, down from a January forecast of 9.2 million to
10 million tons. Potash Corp. sees global demand of 53 million
to 56 million tons, compared with 55 million to 58 million tons
in a previous projection.  “The weakness in the the potash market was more pervasive
than many people had feared,” Spencer Churchill, a Toronto-
based analyst at Paradigm Capital Inc., said today in an
interview. “The shares are reacting as they should given the
reduction in the full-year profit forecast.”  Retail potash prices in the U.S. Midwest advanced 10
percent to $702 a ton in the first quarter, up from an average
of $638 a year earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Nitrogen Prices  Potash Corp. said second-quarter earnings will be 90 cents
to $1.10 a share. That compares with the $1.06 average of 23
analysts’ estimates.  Doyle said potash demand began to accelerate at the end of
the first quarter and that will continue, underpinning purchases
in the rest of 2012. The company said it may be on track for
record second-quarter potash sales volumes.  Potash represented 46 percent of the company’s 2011
 revenue , with phosphate and nitrogen fertilizers accounting for
the rest. The company said today that purchases of phosphate
products accelerated as it entered the second quarter while
“strong” demand helped raise benchmark nitrogen prices.  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , a potash producer and  North America ’s largest
maker of phosphate nutrients, yesterday said sales volumes for
potash and phosphate fertilizers in the three months through May
will be at the upper end of a previous forecast because of a
“rapid acceleration in demand.”  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , a U.S.-based commodity trader and fertilizer
distributor, said today in a statement that its profit margins
on crop nutrients were “pressured” by falling international
prices during the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  