-- Profumo Seeks to Boost Paschi Confidence in Banking Return
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-04-27T14:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/profumo-seeks-to-boost-monte-paschi-confidence-in-banking-return.html
Alessandro Profumo’s main role as
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA’s new chairman will be liaising
with investors and trying to restore confidence in the world’s
oldest bank. That’s a challenge that cost him the top job at
 Italy ’s biggest lender 19 months ago.  Profumo, 55, was approved in the position at the bank’s
annual meeting today following his nomination by the lender’s
largest investor, Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di Siena. He
replaces Giuseppe Mussari, who stepped down from the Siena-based
bank, Italy’s third largest.  “Monte Paschi needs a strong leader able to challenge
local powers and restore confidence with investors,” said
Giorgio Mascherone, who manages 36 billion euros ($48 billion)
as chief investment officer at Deutsche Bank Italy. “Profumo
has the authority to confront the challenge.”  Profumo, who made $60 billion of acquisitions as part of
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s expansion into central and eastern  Europe , faces
a different mission at  Monte Paschi. (BMPS)  He must help General
Manager Fabrizio Viola shore up capital and scale back the
bank’s business after it paid more than its own market value to
buy Banca Antonveneta SpA in 2007, just before the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a financial crisis.  “Alessandro’s comeback with an active role in the banking
industry is good news for the sector, which will benefit from
his experience,” said  Federico Ghizzoni , who replaced him as
UniCredit chief executive officer in 2010.  Record Loss  Monte Paschi, which reported a record loss of 5 billion
euros last year because of writedowns related to acquisitions,
has a capital shortfall of 3.3 billion euros, according to the
European Banking Authority. The bank must repay 1.9 billion
euros of state aid provided in 2009, and plans to sell assets
and convert hybrid securities to bolster finances.  The lender’s capital shortfall has deepened during the
European debt crisis, hurt by holdings in Italian sovereign
debt. Monte Paschi owned 26 billion euros of  Italian government
bonds  as of Dec. 31, according to figures on the bank’s website.  “Monte Paschi results were disappointing,” Gabriello Mancini, chairman of Fondazione Monte Paschi, said at the
shareholders meeting today. “A return to higher profitability
and stability is a task that cannot be postponed,” he said,
adding “the bank must urgently approve a new business plan.”  New Investors  To help raise funds, the bank is seeking to sell its
Biverbanca unit and some assets of Padua-based Antonveneta,
which it bought for 9 billion euros. That purchase led to 4.5
billion euros of writedowns last year. The lender has ruled out
a share sale or an additional request for state aid to meet
 capital requirements  set by the EBA.  Monte Paschi, which has a market value of about 3.1 billion
euros, has dropped 1 percent this year, compared with the 3
percent increase of the Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services
Index. Shares were up 3.5 percent at 25.4 cents as of 4:30 p.m.
in Milan trading.  Profumo, who tapped UniCredit’s shareholders for 7 billion
euros from 2008 to 2010, may need to find new investors to
recapitalize the bank. “His main challenge will be finding new
investors available to put money in the bank, as Fondazione
cannot do anymore,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of Milan
brokerage Alisei Sim.  Profumo’s Challenge  Fondazione Monte Paschi, one of Italy’s non-profit
foundations, sold a 12 percent stake in the lender last month to
repay loans to finance Monte Paschi’s acquisition of
Antonveneta. The foundation, which now  owns 36.4 percent , spent
almost 4 billion euros to buy shares in two Monte Paschi rights
offers that raised about 7 billion euros from 2008 to 2011.  The foundation is partially run by the Tuscan city of
Siena, and local politicians sit on its board. “Profumo must
deal with local interests and make compromises, a mission in
which he failed at UniCredit,” Mrowetz said.  In addition, Profumo is taking a position without executive
powers. The top manager at Monte Paschi is Viola. “We will work
well together,” Viola said March 29 at the bank’s 2011 earnings
presentation.  Monte Paschi is working on a new “stand-alone” business
plan that will be presented by the end of May, Viola said. It
will include asset disposals, possible joint ventures and job
reductions.  Profumo became CEO of  Credito Italiano  in 1997, and
transformed the lender into UniCredit, a bank with operations
stretching from the U.S. to  Kazakhstan . After leaving the bank,
he started a Milan consulting firm and was hired by OAO
Sberbank,  Russia ’s biggest lender, to advise on its expansion in
the region.  Profumo stepped down as UniCredit CEO in September 2010,
ending his 13-year tenure as head of Italy’s largest bank, after
clashing with shareholders over Libyan investments in the
company. Some of UniCredit’s biggest shareholders asked him to
resign after he failed to tell them about the intention of
Libyan investors to raise their stakes in the bank.  Asked to comment about his role at Monte Paschi, Profumo
said in an e-mailed response, “I’m very happy about this
appointment that’s coming at a time when the bank is facing a
big challenge. It’s aiming for a distribution model focused on a
national retail network.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  