-- Providence Said Selling Hulu Stake at $2 Billion Value
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-04-26T20:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/providence-said-selling-hulu-stake-at-2-billion-value.html
Hulu.com owners  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
Comcast Corp. and  News Corp. (NWSA)  are close to buying out Providence
Equity Partners Inc.’s stake at a price valuing the company at
about $2 billion, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Providence is selling its 10 percent share in Los Angeles-
based Hulu for about $200 million after investing $100 million
when the venture began in 2007, according to the people, who
weren’t authorized to talk publicly.  “This would be the optimal outcome,”  David Bank , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, said in an
interview. “The real value of Hulu will be discovered on a
longer time frame than what’s likely optimal for Providence.”  The companies will let employees of Hulu, including Chief
Executive Officer  Jason Kilar , sell shares of the closely held
online TV service, the people said. This month, Hulu said its
$8-a-month Hulu Plus service, which lets users view an expanded
library of shows on game consoles and mobile devices, had more
than 2 million subscribers.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal, which relinquished its Hulu
board seat and oversight as part of  federal approval  of its
acquisition by the cable company, hasn’t been involved in the
talks, they said. That complicates its role in the purchase.  Elisa Schreiber, a Hulu spokeswoman, declined to comment,
as did Andrew Cole, an outside spokesman for the Providence,
Rhode Island-based private equity group.  Owners’ Stakes  Disney, News Corp. and NBC Universal each hold Hulu stakes
of about 27 percent, while employees own about 10 percent, the
people said. Disney and News Corp. have representatives on
Hulu’s  board .  The owners canceled a sale last year after previously
putting off plans for an initial public offering.  Exclusive programs will help the service compete with
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online and mail-order film and TV subscription
service.  Hulu LLC is building a roster of original programs to
persuade advertisers to make bigger commitments and attract new
ones. The site is offering ad buyers the ability to target
viewers by demographics, geography and by viewing device.
Earlier this week Hulu said advertisers would only pay for ads
that had been viewed start to finish.  The service announced four new original series this month
in meetings with advertisers.  Exclusive Shows  “We Got Next” and “The Awesomes,” an animated series by
“Saturday Night Live” member  Seth Meyers , will start this year
and in 2013, Hulu said. Release times for “Don’t Quit Your
Daydream,” from “Entourage” star Adrian Grenier, and “Flow”
weren’t provided.  Hulu plans to spend $500 million on TV shows and films in
2012, Kilar wrote Jan. 12 on the company’s website. That’s up
from $300 million projected a year ago, according to an April
2011 post.  Providence this week acquired a $200 million stake in the
Chernin Group, the entertainment company founded by former News
Corp. Chief Operating Officer  Peter Chernin . The private equity
firm’s media  portfolio  also includes Univision Communications
Inc. and Yankees Entertainment and Sports Network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  