-- PulteGroup Reports Narrower Loss as Homebuilder Lowers Costs
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-04-26T20:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/pultegroup-reports-narrower-loss-as-homebuilder-reduces-costs.html
PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, rose the most in four months after
reporting a narrower first-quarter loss as it reduced costs and
sold houses at higher prices.  The loss was $11.7 million, or 3 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $39.5 million, or 10 cents, a year earlier, the
 Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based company said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for a loss of 3 cents a share.  PulteGroup, which has reported a loss in six of the last
seven quarters, has been focused about cutting costs after the
acquisition of Centex Corp. in August 2009. It has been reducing
overhead and staff, combining divisions, and concentrating on
selling out of older, less profitable communities without being
“overly aggressive” in opening new ones, said Megan McGrath,
an analyst with MKM Partners LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “The results top to bottom are solid and put PHM in good
position for the rest of the year,” Stephen East, an analyst
with International Strategy & Investment Group LLC, wrote in a
note to clients.  PulteGroup climbed 10 percent to $9.58 at the close of
trading in  New York , the most since Dec. 20.  The company’s first-quarter revenue from home sales rose 4
percent from a year earlier to $814 million, driven by an
increase in prices. The average selling price climbed 5 percent
to $261,000, representing a shift toward sales of move-up houses
that are more expensive. Closings fell 1 percent to 3,117 homes.  Higher Orders  Orders rose 15 percent to 4,991 homes. The company’s
backlog, a sign of future revenue, increased 12 percent to 5,798
homes with a value of $1.6 billion.  “It was the first quarter in several years that
fundamental demand came in stronger than expected, allowing us
to beat our forecast for the period,” Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Dugas  said during a conference call with analysts. “We
are pleased with how the year has started off, including a
continuation of better sales activity thus far in April.”  The housing market has showed signs of stabilization in
recent months as  employment  improves. Contracts to buy
previously owned homes climbed 4.1 percent last month from
February to the highest level in two years, the National
Association of Realtors said today. New homes in the U.S. sold
at an annual pace of 328,000 in March, up 7.5 percent from a
year earlier, the Commerce Department said April 24. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was a rate of 319,000.  D.R. Horton  D.R. Horton  Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by volume,
this week reported earnings that beat analyst estimates, its
fifth straight quarter of profitability.  “It feels like the builders have hit bottom and now it’s a
question of the trajectory of the slope upward,”  David Goldberg , an analyst with  UBS AG (UBSN)  in New York, said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “We have been relatively consistent in
predicting a gradual recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  