-- Putin’s Agency Seeks Steps to Halt Degradation of Russia Exports
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-04-26T04:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/putin-s-agency-seeks-steps-to-halt-degradation-of-russia-exports.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  must
take active steps to reverse the “degradation” of Russia’s
exports, which are heavily skewed toward commodities, according
to an advisory body set up by the president-elect.  The world’s biggest energy producer should give aid to help
domestic companies regain market share and compete by providing
export insurance and state subsidies, assisting them in hedging
risks and lifting visa regimes with other countries, a working
group of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives, established by
Putin in the run-up to the March 4 presidential vote, said in an
e-mailed report yesterday.  Putin will next month discuss the recommendations made by
the group, which is led by Pyotr Fradkov, head of Russia’s
Export Insurance Agency. It’s one of four initiatives crafting
proposals for improving the investment climate in the country.  Russia , which Putin says must grow at least 6 percent
annually to become one of the world’s five largest economies in
terms of purchasing power, has an “export diversification
coefficient” comparable with Zambia, Bahrain and  Nigeria ,
according to the report. Oil, refined products and natural gas
accounted for 67 percent of all exports last year, from 49
percent in 2000, when Putin won his first presidential term.  Rising prices and output during the past decade meant oil
and gas were contributing 4 percentage points to the average 7
percent growth, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said
earlier this month. Given forecasts of stagnant oil production
and “modest” increases in gas output and exports, the industry
can now only provide 1.5 to 2 percentage points of growth, the
ministry estimates.  ‘New Industrialization’  Putin, who will return to the Kremlin next month for a six-
year stint, has called for a “new industrialization” to wean
Russia off its reliance on commodities. Russia depends on energy
exports for half of budget revenues. The economy, the world’s
ninth largest, expanded 4.3 percent last year, the same pace as
in 2010. The government predicts growth will slow to 3.4 percent
this year.  Russia’s high-technology exports make up 3 percent of the
total, consisting almost entirely of weapons and equipment for
nuclear  power plants , the working group said. Only one of 200
companies registered in the country ships goods abroad.
Government outlays for guarantees and risk insurance for
exporters in 2009 and 2010 amounted to 0.5 percent of the state
support extended by  China  and about 1 percent in  Germany ,
according to the report.  Doubling Exports, Exporters  The Russian government should implement steps to more than
double non-energy exports and almost double the number of
exporters by 2020, the group said. Its proposals range from
procedural “liberalization” for refunding value-added tax
payments to the provision of new financial products for
exporters. The authorities need to eliminate a visa regime with
at least two countries annually, it said.  “Russia’s positions on growing world markets are very weak
and have a tendency to worsen,” the group said. “The lack of
effective government support, high customs, administrative and
fiscal barriers for exports sharply diminish opportunities for
starting export business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  