-- Rand Declines First Day in Three as Data Damps Risk Appetite
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-04-26T14:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/rand-rises-to-three-week-high-as-bonds-gain-on-fed-statement.html
The rand declined for the first
time in three days, retreating from a three-week high, and bonds
gained as data in the U.S. and  Europe  fueled concern about the
global economy and producer inflation in  South Africa  slowed.  South  Africa ’s currency slipped 0.4 percent to 7.7779 per
dollar as of 3:39 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its gain this
week to 1 percent. The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds
due 2021 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 7.67 percent.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro region slid more than economists’ estimates in
March, while U.S. jobless claims fell less than expectations,
boosting demand for the safety of the dollar. South Africa
producer price inflation slowed for a fifth consecutive month,
easing pressure on the central bank to lift borrowing costs from
a three-decade low.  “I didn’t see anything today that was risk-positive,”
William van Rijn, a currency trader at Nedbank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said by phone. “Given the rand’s move over recent
trading sessions, we have seen some profit-taking ahead of the
long weekend. Importers are seeing good value at these levels
and we’ve seen heavy demand from that quarter.”  The rand strengthened as much as 0.3 percent in earlier
trading, climbing to its highest level since April 4, after the
 Federal Reserve  reiterated it will keep interest rates low until
at least late 2014 as the U.S. economic recovery gathers pace.
South Africa’s markets are closed tomorrow for the Freedom Day
public holiday.  Policy Rate  The cost of goods leaving factories and mines in Africa’s
biggest economy increased 7.2 percent, compared with 8.3 percent
in February, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website today. The median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 8 percent.  The South African Reserve Bank has kept its key policy rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent since November 2010 to help stimulate
the economy. Consumer-price inflation slowed to 6 percent in
March, the top end of the bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target,
adding to expectations rates will remain unchanged this year.  Forward-rate agreements starting in a year dropped six
basis points to 5.95 percent, the lowest since February 17.  “With a softer inflation trajectory expected, this should
give the SARB room to leave  interest rates  unchanged this year,
with a tightening cycle likely to start in only in the second
half of 2012,” Tebogo Mosepele, an analyst at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 dropped 18 basis points to 4.09 percent, the lowest since
the notes were first sold on Jan. 17. The extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed by
six basis points to 213 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  