-- Raytheon Raises Forecast After Profit Increases 17%
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-04-26T20:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/raytheon-raises-forecast-after-profit-increases-17-.html
Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the world’s largest
missile maker, raised its full-year profit forecast after first-
quarter net income increased 17 percent.  Profit from continuing operations will be $5 to $5.15 a
share for the year compared with an earlier forecast of $4.90 to
$5.05, the company said today in a statement.  Net income from continuing operations increased to $448
million, or $1.33 a share, compared with $384 million, or $1.06
a share, a year earlier, Raytheon, based in Waltham,
Massachussetts said. Excluding certain items, profit was $1.46 a
share, exceeding the $1.16-a-share  average estimate  of 19
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales declined 1.9 percent to
$5.94 billion.  Raytheon rose 1.9 percent to $53.93 at the close in New
York trading and has gained 11 percent this year.  Bill Swanson, the company’s chairman and chief executive
officer, is focusing on cost-cutting and international sales in
the face of projected declines in U.S. defense spending.  Raytheon is well-prepared to deal with consequences of
automatic defense budget cuts of as much as $500 billion over
the next decade that may take effect starting in January, Chief
Financial Officer Dave Wajsgras said in a phone interview.  ‘Tremendous Flexibility’  “We have implemented global IT systems on how we operate
factories, how we design and engineer products and how we
operate the supplier base that gives us tremendous flexibility
that other large defense companies don’t have,” Wajsgras said.  The company has been planning for the consequences of a so-
called sequestration in which U.S. defense budgets would be
reduced beyond the $490 billion in cuts the Pentagon already has
projected, Wajsgras said. “We are prepared to operate in any
type of environment.”  The quarter’s results were aided by improved performance at
its missile and integrated-systems units as well as
international orders.  About 27 percent of the bookings during the quarter and 40
percent of the backlog is from non-U.S. customers, Wajsgras
said. At the end of the first quarter Raytheon had a funded
backlog of $23 billion in orders.  Operating income at the company’s Integrated Defense
Systems and Missile Systems units rose 12 percent and 16 percent
respectively during the quarter compared with a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  