-- Treasuries Snap Decline Before GDP as Fed Ready to Act
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-04-26T21:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/treasuries-snap-decline-on-forecasts-for-slowing-growth.html
Treasuries gained for the first
time in three days as the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep
borrowing rates low through 2014 pushed the yield down to a
record level at an auction of $29 billion in seven-year notes.  The 10-year note yield fell toward the lowest level in two
months as higher-than-forecast weekly jobless claims added to
speculation from investors including Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  that the Fed is far from pulling
back on monetary stimulus. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday he is prepared to do more if needed.  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered Spain’s credit rating on debt concerns.  “There’s continued angst about  Europe ,” said Ira Jersey,
an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group
AG, one of 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at the
auctions. “If you do wind up getting more of a global slowdown,
that’s going to impact the U.S. You have to imagine the Fed
might help things by doing one of the few easing policies that
they can do.”  The yield on the current seven-year note fell four basis
point, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.32 percent at 5 p.m. in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The
benchmark 10-year  yield  traded at 1.94 percent and dropped as
low as 1.93 percent after reaching 1.91 percent on April 23, the
lowest since Feb. 28.  The seven-year notes sold today yielded 1.347 percent,
versus 1.59 percent at the previous offering on March 29. The
previous low was 1.359 percent in January.  Spain Downgraded  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 38.2 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 39.7 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 17.6 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 13.1 percent at the last
10 auctions.  S&P downgraded  Spain ’s long-term sovereign credit rating
two notches, to  “BBB+” from “A,” with a negative outlook,
as the country’s recession is undermining efforts to cut the
 budget deficit . Bond yields remained at almost 6 percent amid
concern bank losses will force the government to bail out the
financial system.  Spain’s budget trajectory “will likely deteriorate against
a background of economic contraction,” S&P said in statement.  Gross’s View  While more monetary stimulus isn’t likely at the moment, a
third round of asset purchases, known as quantitative easing,
remain an option for the Fed if employment growth is sluggish,
Gross said during a Bloomberg Television “Street Smart”
interview with  Trish Regan .  “The chairman has not ruled it out,” said Gross, who runs
the world’s biggest bond fund. “If we see some weak employment
reports over the next few months, then QE3 is back on.”  Treasuries maturing in seven years have returned 0.7
percent this year after returning 14 percent in 2011, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The overall Treasury
market has fallen 0.05 percent this year after gaining 9.8
percent in 2011.  Today’s offering was the third of three U.S. note auctions
this week totaling $99 billion. The Treasury sold $35 billion of
five-year debt yesterday at a yield of 0.887 percent and $35
billion of two-year securities on April 24 at 0.27 percent.  Jobless claims fell by 1,000 to 388,000 in the week ended
April 21 from a revised 389,000 the prior period that was higher
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a drop to 375,000.  ‘They’re Obligated’  The Federal Open Market Committee yesterday said “labor
market conditions have improved in recent months; the
 unemployment rate  has declined but remains elevated.”  “Bernanke said it quite plainly: he’s prepared to do more,
and it will depend on the trajectory of unemployment,” said
 Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.9 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “They’re obligated to do more if the labor market recedes
from here.”  The 10-year yield has fallen from an intraday high of 2.04
percent reached yesterday after the Fed released the revised
economic forecasts showing their consensus expectation is for
the unemployment rate to fall at a faster rate than seen in
January.  ‘Moderate’ Growth  The Fed released the expectations of the five Fed board
members and 12 district bank presidents after the FOMC yesterday
said it expects “economic growth to remain moderate over coming
quarters and then to pick up gradually.” The previous statement
on March 13 only said the committee foresaw “moderate” growth.  The 10-year yield fell below 2 percent as Bernanke’s
announced during his press conference that he is “prepared to
do more as needed,” and it hasn’t climbed above since.  “People are pretty bearish, and price action certainly
trades like there are shorts that are under pressure,” said
 John Briggs , a U.S. government-bond strategist in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc unit RBS
Securities Inc., a primary dealer. “The market continues to
over-analyze every little movement, every little blip. But
listen to the chairman, and in that case it’s still lower for
longer.”  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2.5 percent
annual rate in the first quarter after rising 3 percent in the
previous three months, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce
Department report tomorrow.  Fed’s Buying  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011.  The central bank bought $1.833 billion of Treasuries due
from February 2036 to February 2042 today as part of its program
to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term maturities in an effort to reduce borrowing costs
further and counter rising risks of a recession.  The  difference  between 10- and 30-year yields was 1.18
percentage points, heading for the widest closing level since
Feb. 7.  The 30-year yield dropped three basis points to 3.12
percent. The so-called long-bond  yield  is rebounding from 3.06
percent on April 23, the lowest since Feb. 29, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A break above the 100-day moving average at 3.12 percent
may be followed be an increase to the 200-day moving average at
3.21 percent, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  