-- Treasury-Bund Yield Gap May Narrow, CRT Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-26T17:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/treasury-bund-yield-gap-may-narrow-crt-says-technical-analysis.html
Investors should bet the  yield gap 
between Treasury 10-year notes and comparable German bunds will
narrow amid mixed U.S. economic data and an accommodative
 Federal Reserve , according to CRT Capital Group LLC.  A head-and-shoulders pattern formed on a chart by the
spread indicates it may narrow to 12.5 basis points, or 0.125
percentage point, and might decline to zero,  David Ader , head of
government-bond strategy at Stamford, Connecticut-based CRT,
said in a telephone interview. The gap contracted to 26 basis
points today, from 29 basis points on April 23.  “Fed policy and the reasonable risk of some further
accommodation lend itself to this trade,” Ader said. “The data
and the Fed all lend themselves to a continuation of the
Treasury market, the 10-year specifically, doing well.”  The benchmark U.S. note’s  yield  dropped four basis points
today to 1.95 percent after Labor Department data showed more
Americans than forecast filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday he’s prepared
to do more to spur economic expansion if needed, and the central
bank repeated a plan to keep the key  interest rate 
“exceptionally low” until at least late 2014. It’s been at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  ‘Bullish Performance’  “It’s a trade that is following through on the bullish
performance of Treasuries,” Ader said, adding that investors
should buy the spread between 26 basis points and 30 basis
points.  The  10-year bund  yield fell six basis points to 1.68
percent today as euro-area economic confidence slid and  Spain ’s
prime minister said his country’s ability to fund itself is at
risk. The yield reached a record low 1.63 percent April 23.  “Bunds are rich, and I do have ongoing concerns with
 Europe ,” Ader said. “I don’t see tremendous risk that this
spread should move the other way, given what we know is going on
with Europe’s economy.”  A head-and-shoulders pattern is formed by three consecutive
peaks on a chart, with the middle being the highest. A breach of
a neckline connecting the base of the three peaks may signal the
reversal of a trend.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  