-- Recession-Wracked Greece Nears Vote That May Decide Fate in Euro
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-04-26T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/recession-wracked-greece-nears-vote-that-may-decide-fate-in-euro.html
Greece  is entering the home stretch
of its first election campaign since becoming a global financial
pariah and the polls show no party gaining a mandate to enforce
the austerity policies needed to stay in the euro.  The final surveys, published on April 20, showed as many as
10 parties with a chance of winning seats in the May 6 vote. The
two biggest, traditional rivals  New Democracy  and socialist
Pasok, may be forced into a coalition. The country needs a
functioning government to ensure that it continues to receive
rescue funds to keep its economy afloat.  Greece has been in recession since 2008, the year before it
last elected a prime minister. It has received two bailouts and
negotiated the biggest debt restructuring ever, a writeoff of
about 100 billion euros ($132 billion). To keep aid flowing, the
next government must make cuts equivalent to 5.5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2013 and 2014, recapitalize banks and
persuade voters that open-ended austerity is a price worth
paying to stay in the euro.  “There are two worries,” said  Sarah Hewin , senior
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in  London . “It may take
time for the two main parties to negotiate a coalition after the
election. Second, without a clear mandate from the electorate,
the new government is likely to face ongoing parliamentary
opposition to austerity and reform.”  Coalition Building  New Democracy, led by Antonis Samaras, will win 104 to 112
seats in Greece’s 300-member assembly, according to a poll by
Public Issue SA for Athens-based Skai TV. Pasok, led by former
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, will take 34 to 42 seats.
Provided the two agree to work together, they may have a
majority.  The survey predicted that 10 parties could get more than
the 3 percent needed to get into parliament. These include the
Golden Dawn party, which wants to expel all illegal immigrants;
the Communist Party, which wants Greece to leave the European
Union; and the newly formed Independent Greeks, which wants
 Germany  to pay Greece compensation for World War II.  Under Greek rules, no polls can be published in the two
weeks before election day.  “The key message is that there will be a hung
parliament,” said Lefteris Farmakis, a strategist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “The formation of a coalition
government between ND and Pasok remains the most likely
outcome.”  ‘Tough Economic Measures’  While a coalition seems possible, “to have legitimacy for
ongoing tough economic measures, the margin of support needs to
be solid,” Hewin said. “Opinion polls suggest that voting is
likely to be close, however, with support for minority anti-
bailout parties holding up.”  The last elected premier, Socialist  George Papandreou , quit
in November, stepping aside for former central bank governor
 Lucas Papademos  to secure the second rescue, a 130 billion-euro
lifeline to stave off financial collapse.  Campaigning has been muted, dominated by television
interviews, rather than the open-air rallies that were common in
past elections, to prevent a repeat of the violence that scarred
the capital when Papandreou and then Papademos pushed through
austerity measures in parliament.  Bank of Greece  Governor  George Provopoulos  said on April 24
that the economy would shrink in 2012 by almost 5 percent, more
than the 4.5 percent contraction the bank projected last month
and the European Commission’s 4.4 percent forecast on Feb. 23.
It would be Greece’s fifth straight year of contraction. Gross
domestic product has shriveled almost 14 percent since 2009.  Voters’ Wrath  Unemployment this year may exceed 19 percent. More than one
in two young Greeks are unemployed.  That’s making politicians reluctant to risk voters’ wrath
by saying that more cuts may be needed in return for aid.  “Of course the deficit must be cut,” Samaras said April
22. “But by clamping down on wasteful public spending, not with
across-the-board cuts in pensions that deepen the recession.”  Samaras vowed to “right the wrongs” of austerity measures
that have contributed to the economic slump.  Venizelos, who negotiated the international rescue that was
granted last month by the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund , must rebuild support for Pasok, which fell
earlier this year to as low as 8 percent. The socialists took
power in 2009 with 44 percent.  ‘Painstaking Effort’  Polls show Greeks clinging to the euro while rejecting the
measures dictated by the EU and IMF.  Support for the Independent Greeks party, set up on Feb. 24
by New Democracy rebel Panos Kammenos, increased to 8.5 percent
from 6.5 percent, according to a poll on April 1. He wants to
cancel the agreement with the EU and IMF.  Provopoulos says the election may hold the key to the
country’s euro membership.  The country must choose between “an organized and
painstaking effort to reconstruct the economy within the euro
area” with the help of its European partners, or “regressing
decades socially and economically, which would eventually lead
the country out of the euro area and the European Union,” he
said on April 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  