-- Redford Slams Cameron, Praises Charles at Sundance London
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-26T21:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/redford-showcases-prince-charles-movie-at-sundance-london.html
Robert Redford , the Hollywood actor
whose  Sundance Film Festival  promotes independent cinema,
praised Prince Charles and criticized U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  as he brought the event to London for the first time.  Sundance London, which runs through April 29, will feature
public screenings of 14 full-length films -- including
“Harmony,” a documentary on Prince Charles’s longstanding
ecological engagement. “Harmony” gets its world premiere on
April 28, in the presence of Charles, the narrator.  At a news conference, Redford said he shared Charles’s
environmental concerns, and differed with Cameron’s recent
remarks indicating that subsidies should go to films that are
likely to draw a wide audience.  “That may be why he’s in trouble -- one reason,” said
Redford, a reference to the Cameron cabinet’s negative coverage
in the past few weeks. “I won’t get into the other reasons,
that’s not my business.”  “That view is a very narrow one, and doesn’t speak to the
broad category of filmmakers and artists in the business,”
Redford said, as he sat on a movie-theater stage in a tan-
colored blazer, flanked by the Sundance Festival director of
programming and two others.  “We don’t have the subsidies that other countries have,
like you do, and I think it’s a tragedy,” he said.  Concert Arena  The festival was started in 1978 as a springboard for
alternative moviemaking, and takes place every January in snowy
Park City, Utah. The  London  venue could not be more different:
It’s  the O2 , a giant concert arena with cinemas, bars,
restaurants and exhibition spaces.  Movies screening at the London festival include “Under
African Skies,” where  Paul Simon  tours South Africa recalling
the making of his album “Graceland;” “Luv,” the story of an
11-year-old orphan boy who discovers an ugly truth about his
uncle; and “The Queen of Versailles,” a documentary about a
couple whose plan to build America’s biggest house is thwarted
by the financial meltdown.  Simon made a surprise appearance after the screening of the
“Graceland” documentary, and talked about the criticism he faced
for recording the album in Apartheid-era South Africa, in spite
of a United Nations cultural boycott.  “I don’t have any regrets, because it’s a happy ending,” he
said on stage after the screening.  Boycott Knowledge  The singer-songwriter said he was unaware of the boycott
when he went to  South Africa  in 1985 to record with South
African musicians, and in any event, recording was different
from performing in front of a segregated audience.  “It was never specifically declared to be something that
shouldn’t be done,” he said.  Special events at the festival include a performance by
Rufus and Martha Wainwright, and a Redford talk with T Bone
Burnett, who composed music for the Sundance documentary
“Finding North” about hunger in present-day America.  Redford said he brought the event to the U.K. capital
because the managers of the O2 invited him, and also “to
inspire support of that same type of creativity in London.”  He originally started Sundance in  Utah  because he could
only afford to host it in his own property in the mountains, he
said.  “I’ve been fortunate to work both sides of the aisle, so
to speak,” said Redford. He recalled his early career “in
large Hollywood films, most of which were fun and great,” and
his “need” for “something maybe a little bit more risky,
therefore more low-budget and independent.”  Mainstream Thinking  “When we started Sundance, it was basically to enlarge the
category of film to include those people that might be shut out
of the mainstream thinking,” he said. “There’s hunger for
other kinds of films as well, and that’s what we represent.”  Asked about the royal presence at his festival, Redford
said Sundance’s longstanding emphasis on the environment and
sustainability brought him into contact with the prince, who
“was working on the same topic.”  “It seemed like a natural fit that we could support his
film in his country,” he said.  For more information:  http://www.sundance-london.com .  Today’s Muse highlights include: Martin Gayford reviews
Ron Mueck’s  art show  in London;  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  Kindle ;
 Jason Harper  on the  Ford Taurus SHO .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 