-- Remington Financial Founder Accused of $10 Million Fraud
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-26T20:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/remington-financial-founder-accused-of-10-million-fraud-scheme.html
Andrew Bogdanoff, the founder of
Remington Financial Group, was accused of taking part in a
$10 million “advance fee” fraud scheme targeting victims
looking for investors.  Bogdanoff and five other people were charged in a 33-count
indictment announced today by federal prosecutors in
Philadelphia. Bogdanoff was charged with  money laundering ,
conspiracy and filing false tax returns.  From 2005 to 2011, Bogdanoff and the five other defendants
allegedly persuaded more than 800 people to pay fees of more
than $10,000 each to Remington by issuing fake letters of
interest stating the investment bank had a lender or vendor
seeking to finance a project, prosecutors said in a statement.  The defendants and other Remington employees also told
victims that they would get funding once the advance fee was
paid. The company would cite problems with the project when
financing didn’t materialize, prosecutors said.  The scheme “targeted those victims who were desperate for
any type of financing alternatives that would help keep their
businesses and their business projects solvent,” George C.
Venizelos, an agent with the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation,
said in the statement.  Prison Possible  All the defendants face prison terms under nonbinding
federal sentencing guidelines if convicted, prosecutors said.
None of the six is in custody, and no initial court date has
been set, according to prosecutors.  Michael Kimerer, a Phoenix-based lawyer for Bogdanoff,
didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking comment on the
charges.  “Those who engage in financial fraud strike at the very
heart of our nation’s economic system,” Philadelphia U.S.
Attorney Zane Memeger said in the statement. “It is incumbent
on federal prosecutors to root out and prosecute this illegal
activity so that innocent people do not suffer traumatic
financial losses.”  The case is U.S. v. Bogdanoff, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  