-- Rihanna to Join Jay-Z, Stephen Fry in Olympics Festival
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-26T10:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/rihanna-to-join-jay-z-stephen-fry-in-olympics-festival.html
Rihanna and Jay-Z will be the two
headline acts in the popular music lineup for the  London  2012
 Olympic Games .  The pair will star in the  BBC Radio 1 Hackney Weekend 2012 
(June 23-24) a month before the Games, said organizers of the
Olympics cultural festival, releasing the program at a news
conference today. Comedians Stephen Fry and Tim Minchin will be
among other entertainers cropping up in venues across Britain.  “There will be absolutely something for everyone: from
Beethoven to Jay-Z, from Shakespeare to  Mike Leigh ,” Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said at the news conference in the Tower
of London. Leigh is a film director.  The festival organizers conveyed the size and scope of the
event.  “The London 2012 Festival will be the biggest cultural
celebration in our lifetime,” said Royal Opera House Chief
Executive Tony Hall, who chairs the Cultural Olympiad board.  Hall said more than 18 million people had already taken
part in 9,000 performances and almost as many workshops.  The U.K. is rolling out dozens of arts events around the
Games, which run from July 27 to Aug. 12. Some have been long
planned and some commissioned as part of a four-year, 97 million
pound ($157 million) cultural program.  Other headliners of Hackney Weekend -- set to draw an
estimated 100,000 fans -- are Florence + the Machine, Jack White, David Guetta and  Tinie Tempah .  Opening Bells  On the opening day of the Games,  Martin Creed  (the artist
who in 2008 had runners sprint through Tate Britain) will set
athletics aside and have people in the U.K.  ring a bell  -- a
bicycle bell, cowbell, church bell, or ringtone -- at 8 a.m.  “The Navy has just signed up,” said Ruth McKenzie, director
of the Cultural Olympiad and 2012 London Festival. “They’re all
going to ring ships’ bells.”  That evening,  Daniel Barenboim  will conduct the West
Eastern Divan Orchestra in a performance of Beethoven’s Ninth
Symphony, the final concert in a complete Beethoven cycle.  Artist Jeremy Deller has created a life-sized inflatable
model of Stonehenge that people of all ages can bounce on. It
will be deployed all around the U.K.  In the two days before the Games, the London Symphony
Orchestra conducted by  Simon Rattle  and the Jazz at Lincoln
Center Orchestra play Wynton Marsalis’s “Swing Symphony,” a
tribute to jazz legends (July 25-26).  Dudamel's Orchestra  Scottish classical-music aficionados won’t be left out: On
June 21, Gustavo Dudamel and his 200-strong Simon Bolivar
Symphony Orchestra of Venezuela will play outside Stirling
Castle, joined by a group of young Scottish players from
deprived areas.  “Jerusalem” actor Mark Rylance will approach London’s
pedestrians using Shakespearean verse. He’ll ask the time, then
lapse into “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?”  The  World Shakespeare Festival , which just started, will be
the most extensive event of its kind ever held. More than 50
arts organizations worldwide -- including the Iraqi Theatre
Company and  Brazil ’s Companhia BufoMecanica, which fuses
Shakespeare with circus acts and multimedia -- will give their
interpretation of the plays.  In visual arts, the  Serpentine  Gallery will stage an
exhibition of  Yoko Ono  (June 19 - Sept. 9). Ono will show film
and performance work and create an installation called ‘Smile’
that will invite all to upload a smiling photograph of
themselves, or have one taken in a purpose-built booth outside
the gallery.  Dance Lovers  Dance lovers will get a month-long season of Pina Bausch:
10 works performed back to back by her Tanztheater Wuppertal
which were created for the Olympics and inspired by the cities
she traveled to (“World Cities 2012,” June 6-July 9).  And in “Metamorphosis,” seven choreographers including
Wayne McGregor and  Christopher Wheeldon  will produce works
inspired by Titian for the Royal Ballet to perform. Sets will be
designed by artists including  Chris Ofili  and  Mark Wallinger .  Today’s Muse highlights include: Martin Gayford reviews
Ron Mueck’s  art show  in London:  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  Kindle ;
 Jason Harper  on the  Ford Taurus SHO .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 