-- Tripled Rents Dent Olympic Bonus for London’s Landlords
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-04-26T12:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/tripled-rents-mute-olympic-windfall-for-london-s-small-landlords.html
Visitors to  London ’s Olympic Games
can stay in a three-bedroom duplex with a steam room near the
city’s exclusive Russell Square for 9,995 pounds ($16,000) a
week. It’s one of more than 30 offerings by property broker
Hurford Salvi Carr Ltd. that haven’t attracted any takers.  Londoners are trying to rent their homes to sports fans
during the games for more than three times the typical rate,
according to brokers and website listings. With 92 days left
before the opening ceremony, they’re struggling to draw guests
willing to pay that much.  “We’re still waiting for the demand to emerge,” said
Angela Kelly, who helped set up two Olympic contracts as Hurford
Salvi’s rental manager. “Maybe there will be a last-minute
scramble.”  About 320,000 visitors will converge on the U.K. capital
during the Olympic and Paralympic games from the end of July to
early September, where they will compete for about 140,000 hotel
rooms, according to state-funded tourism website VisitBritain.
London homeowners began listing properties for the Olympics as
early as 2010 as a recession and the biggest government budget
cuts since World War II led to job losses and falling disposable
income.  The cost of a typical London hotel room during the Olympics
has more than doubled, according to travel website Hotels.com.
The city will attract more visitors than previous games in
 Europe , such as Athens and Barcelona, a study by Oxford
Economics found.  Fivefold Increases  Londoners, sensing a squeeze on accommodation, increased
rental prices by as much as five times the typical rates,
according to Jane Ingram, head of the rental unit at broker
Savills Plc. People offering low-budget alternatives may have
more success during the games, she said.  The number of journeys on the city’s subway, bus and train
network will rise by 25 percent to 15 million a day during the
games, according to Transport for London. It urged commuters to
the Canary Wharf financial district, less than 3 miles (5
kilometers) from the Olympic stadium, to choose earlier or later
travel times.  Hundreds of homeowners are circumventing real-estate
brokers by advertising on  websites  like campinmygarden.com,
Gumtree.com and Craiglist’s London to advertise space on couches
and in backyard campsites to Olympic tourists only to find
demand lacking.  Extra Tickets  Andy Crawford, a sales trader for Cantor Fitzgerald Europe,
has had no success helping a friend rent three properties that
overlook the Olympic Park. The properties include a two-bedroom
residence offered for 11,280 pounds for 30 nights.  “I’ve had nothing back,” Crawford said by telephone. “He
believes that there’s going to be a very late rush of people
trying to get properties because people aren’t sure of what
events they are going to get.”  London Olympic officials are releasing about 1 million more
tickets early next month for events such as the  U.S.-North Korea 
and Great Britain-Brazil women’s soccer games, according to
London 2012’s website.  Interest in house and apartment rentals during the Olympics
is “fairly non-existent,” said Matthew Lawrence of broker
Spencer Thomas Estate Agents Ltd. The company is advertising a
three-bedroom house in a former  Victorian stable block  on its
website for 6,000 pounds a week.  Hamptons International, a London based broker trying to find tenants for
more than 500 landlords during the games, recommends that owners
limit increases to three times typical weekly rents, said
rentals director Glen Ford. Hamptons wouldn’t disclose the
number of Olympic rentals it has arranged.  “Demand is reasonably slow,” Ford said by telephone.
“We’re entering a stage now where I thought there would be a
lot more interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 