-- Romania’s Three-Month Old Cabinet Faces First No-Confidence Vote
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-04-26T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/romania-s-three-month-old-cabinet-faces-first-no-confidence-vote.html
Romanian lawmakers will hold the
first no-confidence vote since Premier Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu’s
Cabinet took office less than three months ago.  The opposition  Social Democrats  and Liberals, who formed an
alliance before this year’s elections, filed the motion for
today’s vote, accusing Ungureanu’s government of a lack of
transparency in the sale of state-owned assets and in approving
money transfers to local authorities. Coalition lawmakers said
they will boycott the vote.  The vote takes place as the  International Monetary Fund 
reviews progress under a precautionary accord. Ungureanu, who is
backed by the same parties that helped former Prime Minister
Emil Boc survive 10 motions, is counting on the backing of
231 lawmakers in the 460-member Parliament after defections from
the coalition during the past week narrowed the majority to just
one vote.  “The recent defections have boosted the ranks of the
opposition alliance to 224 lawmakers, according to one of its
high officials,” Vlad Muscalu, an economist at the ING Bank
 Romania  SA, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “This leaves
the alliance seven votes short of ousting the executive,
suggesting the chances of this initiative look much brighter
than about a week ago, when it was filed.”  Opposition Strength  The opposition now holds 219 seats in Parliament and needs
231 votes to oust the Cabinet, according to the data from
Parliament’s website. The government is backed by the Democrat-
Liberal Party, the ethnic Hungarians, known as UDMR, the
independents’ party and the minorities.  Voter support for the current coalition was cut by more
than half in the past two years to about 18 percent after Boc’s
government slashed public wages 25 percent and increased taxes
to meet international pledges. Boc resigned on Feb. 6 after
protests over austerity turned violent.  **6** Democrat-Liberal lawmakers switched sides to join the
opposition in the past week. The country plans to hold local
elections on June 10 and general elections later this year.  Public Wage Restoration  President Traian Basescu reiterated on April 25 that the
government must restore public wages beginning in the middle of
the year, while Ungureanu said the Cabinet will discuss the
issue with the IMF and the European Union during a review that
started on April 24 and will end on May 7.  “I am not nervous about the no-confidence vote, but I am
nervous about finding the budgetary resources to restore public
wages,” Ungureanu told reporters in Bucharest on April. 25.  The motion also criticizes a law establishing a Hungarian
teaching faculty at the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in
the city of Targu-Mures, citing political pressures from the
junior coalition member UDMR.  “I am convinced that the motion won’t pass if the
coalition remains united and all its members respect the
discipline and there are no more betrayals,” Hunor Kelemen, the
head of UDMR, said in a speech in Bucharest yesterday.  Romania, which secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.61 billion)
precautionary loan from the IMF and the EU in 2011 to protect it
from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, is trying to reassure
investors it will keep fiscal discipline and cut the  budget
deficit  to 1.9 percent of gross domestic product this year after
4.4 percent in 2011. It hasn’t drawn any funds so far.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 Isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  