-- Romney Shunning Federal Funds in Post-Watergate Election
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-04-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/romney-shunning-federal-funds-in-post-watergate-election.html
With  Mitt Romney  raising private
funds for the fall campaign, this year’s presidential election
will be the first since the Watergate scandal in which neither
major party’s nominee accepts federal funding.  Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, will raise
money from private donors at an event in Arlington, Virginia,
next week, soliciting contributions for the general election.  The former Massachusetts governor has set up a joint
fundraising committee with the Republican National Committee and
four state parties to solicit individual contributions of as
much as $75,000 to be divided among the campaign, national party
and state organizations, an invitation to the May 2 fundraiser
at a suburban Washington hotel shows.  “Our campaign is raising private funds for the general
election,” said  Ryan Williams , a campaign spokesman.  This will permit Romney to raise much more than the $91.2
million he would collect under the federal election funding
program initiated after the Watergate scandal. President Barack Obama also is raising re-election funding privately.  “We have come full circle to the Watergate era when
presidential candidates were totally beholden to special
interests and the wealthy,” said  Craig Holman  of Public
Citizen, a Washington-based advocacy group that supports
stronger campaign finance laws. “The presidential public
financing system had worked so well, and it is major loss to the
integrity of our elections to have no one participate.”  Obama’s Example  All the money Romney has reported raising through March 31
was for the Republican primary contest, which has effectively
ended with the withdrawals of rivals  Rick Santorum  on April 10
and  Newt Gingrich  next week from the party’s contest. Texas
Representative  Ron Paul  remains as a candidate who has won none
of the party’s state primaries or caucuses.  Sticking with private fundraising, Romney joins Obama, who
didn’t collect federal money for his election campaign four
years ago, in declining taxpayer support for the presidential
election. Until now, at least one major-party nominee had taken
federal funds and agreed to spending limits in every election
since the 1976 contest.  Public financing was enacted by Congress after President
 Richard Nixon  resigned in 1974 amid revelations about his role
in covering up a 1972 break-in at Democratic National Committee
headquarters at the Watergate hotel and office complex in
Washington. The investigation uncovered illegal activities
funded by some of the unregulated private donations to Nixon’s
re-election campaign.  Moving Off Sidelines  The campaign is aiming to raise $800 million for the fall
election campaign, including donations to the  Republican
National Committee  and the state parties, said former U.S.
Ambassador Mel Sembler, who is raising money for Romney.  “Now that we know who the candidate is, a lot of people
who were sitting on the sidelines are no longer sitting on the
sidelines,” said Sembler, a shopping center developer in  St.
Petersburg , Florida. “People are enthusiastic. We have a
candidate and they’re ready to go.”  Then-Vice President  Al Gore  in 2000 became the last major-
party nominee to take federal funds for the primary campaigns,
in which the government matches small donations.  Arizona Senator  John McCain , the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, was the last to take federal money for the
general election, in which the government finances the entire
campaign and the candidate raises no private money except to pay
legal and accounting expenses.  House Republicans have voted to eliminate public financing
for elections, while proponents have introduced legislation to
increase the amount of federal dollars for campaigns and remove
restrictions on spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  