-- Ron Paul Loyalists Stepping Up to Fill Campaign Agenda
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-04-26T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ron-paul-loyalists-stepping-up-to-fill-campaign-agenda.html
Karen Kwiatkowski, a Republican
candidate for Congress in  Virginia , rarely passes up an
opportunity to scold Washington politicians about runaway
defense spending, which she says is an egregious waste of
taxpayer dollars that does little to make Americans safer.  Halfway across the country, Tisha Casida, a Colorado
independent, says she’ll push to end the drug war and legalize
marijuana if she’s elected to the  House of Representatives . In
 Florida , Calen Fretts, a Libertarian seeking to unseat a veteran
Republican congressman, promises that if he’s elected he’ll
begin working to abolish the U.S. Federal Reserve.  “As people increase the size and scope of government,”
Fretts says, “there’s got to be a few of us to resist it.”  These candidates have two things in common: All are long-
shots seeking office for the first time. And all were inspired
to run by the same man, Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 30 issue.  After 12 terms in the House, Paul, 76, says he’ll retire at
year’s end. Though he insists he can still defeat former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  and capture the Republican
nomination, his presidential runs have always been about forcing
other candidates and the public to pay attention to his
libertarian arguments for eliminating most  taxes , closing
federal agencies, bringing U.S. troops home from overseas,
legalizing drugs, outlawing official secrecy, dismantling the
Fed, returning to the gold standard, and generally getting the
government to get out of the way.  Talking Points  If forcing his philosophy into the mainstream is the
benchmark, Paul can claim victory. Listening to his rivals in
the Republican debates demand that the Fed be audited and the
Departments of Energy and Education be shuttered, it’s clear
that many of Paul’s positions, once considered extreme, are now
Republican talking points. Paul’s influence outweighs his low
poll rankings and back-of-the-pack primary returns.  “Our time has come,” says Paul, tempering the display of
optimism. “It’s still going to be a knock-down, dragged-out
fight.”  Paul leaves behind a small army of brawlers itching to take
up the battle in his name. This election year, at least 65 of
his supporters are campaigning for local, state, or national
office in 23 states. They join more than a dozen Paul acolytes
who won elections in 2010, including Republican Representative
Justin Amash of  Michigan , who is seeking a second term -- not to
mention Paul’s son Rand, who was elected to the Senate as a
Republican in  Kentucky .  Party Platforms  Other Paul followers and former aides have maneuvered their
way into Republican Party leadership positions in  Nevada ,  Iowa ,
 Nebraska ,  Texas , and  Maine , where they are attempting to rewrite
party platforms and keep establishment Republicans from giving
Paul’s 70-plus primary delegates to Mitt Romney.  Usually, “when a candidate drops out, the followers go
too,” says Aaron Libby, a 29-year-old Maine blueberry farmer and
Paul die-hard who was elected to the state legislature in 2010.
“They were following a candidate; we are following a movement.”  This kind of fervor is common among Paul candidates, many
of whom date their interest in politics to the moment they first
saw him speak. Kwiatkowski, a 51-year-old cattle farmer and
retired Air Force lieutenant colonel, was raised by Goldwater
Republicans.  Disillusioned With Reagan  “I voted for Reagan,” she says. “But he grew government, he
didn’t reduce it.” Disillusioned, Kwiatkowski left the
 Republican Party . Then, in 2003, she read about Paul’s staunch
opposition to the  Iraq war , which she thought was an
irresponsible use of troops and money, and his shrink-the-
government philosophy. She was hooked, and started attending
Paul rallies. Eventually, she rejoined the Republican Party.  “I came back because Ron Paul is a Republican,” she says.
“If he became independent or a Libertarian, I would follow.”  Kwiatkowski has nothing good to say about Mitt Romney -- “a
big-government socialist running as a Republican“ -- and feels
the same about her own Republican congressman, nine-term
incumbent Bob Goodlatte, whom she faults for voting to raise the
debt ceiling, among a litany of other grievances.  Instead of grousing, she decided to challenge him in the
primary. She’s unconcerned that she has almost no chance of
unseating him. The point is to show voters that mainstream
Republicans have lost sight of what the party once stood for.  Response to Ideas  “People are really responsive to the ideas,” she says.
“They don’t care if they come from Karen Kwiatkowski,  Ron Paul ,
or  Thomas Jefferson .”  Other Paul-inspired candidates tell similar stories of
their political awakening. Casida, a 30-year-old graphic
designer running as an independent in a sprawling Colorado
district, says she had little interest in becoming a politician
until 2008, when she read End the Fed, perhaps Paul’s best-known
manifesto.  “It opened my eyes,” she says. She read everything she
could about him and went to see Paul speak. Casida decided to
run for office herself after she tried to start a farmer’s
market but discovered it would mean paying thousands of dollars
in fees -- evidence, she says, of government run amok.  “So many of our problems stem from unconstitutional acts at
the federal level,” she says.  Outspent  Casida has little chance of defeating the Republican
incumbent Scott Tipton. She’ll be outspent by hundreds of
thousands of dollars, though she’s managed to raise $20,000,
much of it from Paul supporters around the country.  The candidates quote liberally from Paul on their websites
and in their speeches. Few receive his personal endorsement --
he won’t back one Republican running to unseat another.  One thing the Paul hopefuls don’t try to emulate: their
mentor’s circular sentences and slide-whistle speaking voice.  “There are many examples in Ron Paul’s career where he
didn’t phrase things in the best way he could,” says Amash,
diplomatically. “If he’s in a debate, he might stray from
answering the direct point of the question -- but he’s Ron
Paul.”  Jim Forsythe, a Paul protégé who won a seat in  New
Hampshire ’s legislature in 2010 and is seeking a second term
this year, says he tries to distill Paul’s complex ideas for
voters.  ‘People Cringe’  “He’ll give an answer that I agree with and people cringe,”
Forsythe says. “I think, how could I say that differently?”  Rand Paul  provides a model. Instead of demanding, like his father,
that marijuana be legalized, he has sponsored a bill that would
end minimum mandatory sentencing for pot convictions. The
difference, Rand Paul says, is one “of degrees.”  To encourage more Paul followers to enter the arena, Gigi
Bowman, a Long Island real estate agent, started
LibertyCandidates.org, which runs meet-ups for Paul supporters
and candidates and offers advice on running for office. It may
take years for some of the greener hopefuls to get their acts
together.  “Eventually,” she says, “they’ll win seats.  Paul himself already seems to be looking toward the exit.  “It’s sort of human nature to key around one person who is
the spokesman,” he says. “But I think it’s much bigger than
that. I don’t think that what we are doing is going to go away,
regardless of what happens in the election. An army can’t stop
an idea whose time has come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in  Washington  at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  