-- Ronaldo Matches Messi’s Penalty Miss as Bayern Reaches Final
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-04-26T11:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ronaldo-matches-messi-s-penalty-miss-as-bayern-reaches-final.html
Cristiano Ronaldo and  Lionel Messi ,
who amassed a combined 112 goals this season, messed up just
when the pressure was on in their Champions League semifinals.  Ronaldo had his penalty shootout kick saved as Real Madrid
was eliminated by  Bayern Munich , a day after Messi fired a spot
kick against the crossbar in Barcelona’s ousting by Chelsea.  Bayern won the penalty shootout 3-1 to advance to the May
19 final at its own Allianz Arena against Chelsea. Ronaldo
scored twice in the first 14 minutes before  Arjen Robben  got a
goal to make it 3-3 over the two-game semifinal. Madrid’s
players lacked energy after that, coach  Jose Mourinho  told
reporters. Real’s Kaka and  Sergio Ramos  also didn’t score with
their shootout kicks.  “The best tennis players in the world make a mistake on
match ball and in Formula One the drivers make errors when there
are just a couple of laps to go,” Mourinho said. “These
players have been running like animals for two hours.”  Madrid paid 80 million pounds ($129 million) for Ronaldo in
2009, making him the most expensive player in the world, while
Messi is the record-tying three-time World Player of the Year.
He hit a penalty kick against the crossbar for Barcelona two
nights ago.  Bayern, a four-time European champion, will become the
first team to play a final at its home stadium since the
tournament changed to the Champions League format in 1992.  “This is something to go absolutely crazy about,” Bayern
coach Jupp Heynckes, dressed in a suit and tie, told reporters
at Santiago Bernabeu stadium in Madrid.  Suspended Players  Heynckes said his only regret was that three of his players
will be suspended after getting yellow cards last night: David
Alaba, Holger Badstuber and Luiz Gustavo. Chelsea will be
without  John Terry , who was red-carded against Barcelona, as
well as Ramires,  Raul Meireles  and Branislav Ivanovic.  “It’s a shame the best players won’t be playing the final
-- for Bayern Munich and Chelsea,” Heynckes said. “The rules
should be changed.”  Ronaldo did score with his first penalty kick. With Real
Madrid trailing 2-1 from last week’s first game in Munich, he
converted his spot kick in the sixth minute after a handball
against Alaba. The Portuguese added his second goal eight
minutes later to give Real the lead in the series.  Robben then scored with a penalty kick in the 27th minute,
after Gomez was taken down by Pepe, to leave the teams tied 3-3
on aggregate.  Madrid created fewer chances as the game progressed. The
team had faced off against Barcelona in the Spanish league’s El
Clasico on April 21, which proved a disadvantage against a more
energized Bayern team, Mourinho said.  La Liga Lead  Real won 2-1 at Barcelona to take a seven-point lead in the
domestic league with four games left.  “If we hadn’t been going for the championship we would
have rested players,” Mourinho said, adding his players lacked
“physical freshness.”  After both teams failed to score during extra time, Bayern
goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  dived to his right to block penalty
kicks by Ronaldo and Kaka. Sergio Ramos blasted his kick over
the crossbar.  After Alaba and  Mario Gomez  scored for Bayern, Bastian Schweinsteiger smashed in his kick to clinch victory before
removing his jersey and sprinting to the corner of the field
near where Bayern’s fans were celebrating.  As Spaniards digest a second La Liga team losing in the
semifinals, the focus shouldn’t be on Ronaldo or Messi missing
penalty kicks, Mourinho said.  “It saddens me that you won’t forget Messi missed a
penalty,” Mourinho told reporters. “The people who speak about
that live on the second floor and are exhausted when they get
there -- or take the lift.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  