-- Rubenstein Said to Tell Investors Carlyle Is a Discount
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/rubenstein-said-to-tell-investors-carlyle-is-a-discount.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  co-founder  David Rubenstein  told investors he agreed to seek an initial public
offering at a discount to rivals, to prove that shares in
private-equity firms can rise, according to a person present at
the meeting.  Rubenstein, speaking yesterday at a meeting in New York
where the founders were trying to win over prospective
shareholders for the company’s planned IPO next month, said
investors come first at Carlyle and the firm considers
shareholders investors as well, said the person, who asked not
to be named because the information was private.  Christopher Ullman, a Carlyle spokesman, declined to
comment.  Carlyle, the world’s second-biggest buyout firm by assets
under management, is seeking to raise as much as $762.5 million
in its IPO, valuing the firm at as much as $7.6 billion, about
half the $14.9 billion market capitalization of  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , the biggest private-equity company, and below the $9.6
billion value of  KKR & Co. (KKR)  Washington-based Carlyle, which has
considered an IPO since at least 2007, is the last of the three
firms to go public.  Most of the biggest firms have lost money for shareholders.
Blackstone, which sold stock just before the financial crisis
froze credit markets in 2007, has declined more than half from
its IPO price of $31, falling 1.3 percent yesterday to $13.20.
 Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , which went public at $43 a share this
month, has since lost 8.5 percent to $39.35.  Carlyle’s Pitch  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , which went public in March of
last year, has declined 30 percent.  Leon Black , the firm’s chief
executive officer, said earlier this year that Apollo had a
“miserable” timing for its initial public offering as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis fueled market volatility.  Carlyle is seeking a valuation of about 10 times after-tax
distributable earnings, Rubenstein said. That’s about a third
lower than the typical multiple for competitors, he said.  The firm, which is offering 30.5 million shares at $23 to
$25 each, was trying to convince analysts as recently as last
year that it’s worth at least as much as Blackstone, a person
briefed on the matter said at the time.  Carlyle’s founders are traveling from Montreal to Milan in
a 14-day world tour to pitch potential investors on the firm’s
IPO. Rubenstein,  William Conway  and  Daniel D’Aniello  are each
leading teams of Carlyle’s top executives, according to a copy
of the roadshow schedule obtained by Bloomberg News.  “By many measures, we are the largest and most diversified
alternative-asset manager in the world with 1,300 professionals
in 33 offices on six continents,” D’Aniello said in a video of
its pre-IPO marketing presentation posted on RetailRoadShow.com.
“We live and invest in both developed and developing markets
and, in both, local market presence really matters.”  Carlyle is scheduled to price its IPO on May 2, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  