-- Murdoch Blames Underlings, Lawyers for Hacking Cover-up
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-26T18:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/rupert-murdoch-says-he-failed-to-stop-news-corp-hacking-scandal.html
Rupert Murdoch told a U.K. media-
ethics inquiry that he “failed” to prevent the phone-hacking
scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid and blamed
employees and lawyers for covering up the crime.  Senior executives at News Corp. were never told by lower-
ranking officials at the company’s U.K. unit about the extent to
which reporters intercepted voice mails for stories, the 81-
year-old chief executive officer told the inquiry today.  “The senior executives were misinformed and shielded from
anything that was going on,” Murdoch said on his second and
final day of testimony in London. “Maybe even the editor, but
certainly below that, someone took charge of a cover-up which we
were victim to.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  ordered the inquiry last
year after evidence emerged that voice-mail interceptions at
Murdoch’s News of the World tabloid were rampant and police
opened probes into bribery and computer hacking by journalists
at his other U.K. titles. During testimony this week, Murdoch’s
son, News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch,
also blamed underlings for failing to contain the scandal.  “I also have to say that I failed,” Rupert Murdoch said.
News Corp. didn’t believe 2009 media reports that hacking went
beyond a News of the World reporter and a private detective who
were jailed in 2007, he said.  Rogue Reporter  The company wrongly accepted conclusions from the
Metropolitan Police in London and two outside law firms that the
case was resolved, Murdoch said. The Met denied Murdoch’s
characterization and one  law firm , Harbottle & Lewis LLP, has
said its work was limited to an unfair dismissal claim filed by
the reporter jailed over hacking in 2007.  Murdoch said that in hindsight he should have interviewed
the reporter,  Clive Goodman , himself and decided what to do with
the News of the World.  “I should have gone down there and thrown all the damn
lawyers out of the place,” Murdoch said.  Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing the inquiry, told
Murdoch that his responses don’t “quite answer the question of
whether you really did try to understand what was going on.”  ‘Shameful Lie’  Tom Crone, the former legal manager for the U.K. unit, News
International, denied he helped cover up the scandal, calling
Murdoch’s claim a “shameful lie.”  “The same applies to his assertions that I misinformed
senior executives about what was going on and that I forbade
people from reporting” the scandal to  James Murdoch  and Rebekah Brooks, the unit’s ex-chief executive officer who was arrested
last year in police probes of phone hacking and bribery, Crone
said in a statement.  After James Murdoch testified about the scandal before a
parliamentary committee in July, Crone and the tabloid’s former
editor  Colin Myler  contradicted his claims that neither man
informed him of evidence phone hacking might be widespread.  The phone-hacking scandal is a “huge blow” to Murdoch’s
reputation,  Mort Zuckerman , the billionaire owner of the New
York Daily News, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with Betty Liu.  The scandal has caused less harm in the U.S., though that
could change “if there are criminal charges in  England ,”
Zuckerman said.  James Murdoch said he never read an e-mail sent by Myler on
a Saturday that contained details about the scandal.  Myler didn’t return a call to his office at Zuckerman’s
Daily News, where he now works. Ken Frydman of Source
Communications, a spokesman for Myler, declined to comment.  Shares Rise  News Corp. rose 9 cents to $19.36 in New York trading at
12:09 p.m. New York time. They’ve  risen  2 percent since James
Murdoch testified on April 24.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The phone-hacking revelations, including the fact that the
News of the World hacked the phone of a murdered school girl,
ended the company’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid for
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , he said.  About 45 people have been arrested, including former News
Corp. journalists, and the company closed the News of the World
in July in response to public outrage. Murdoch said the decision
to shutter the newspaper was made in a panic.  Glad He ‘Panicked’  “I panicked, but I’m glad I did,” Murdoch said. “I
should have closed it years ago and replaced it with a Sunday
Sun. The thing that stopped us was the News of the World
readers.”  Earlier today, Murdoch said he never discussed the proposed
BSkyB takeover with the U.K. Cabinet members tasked with
approving the deal. He said he never talked about the bid with
Business Secretary Vince Cable or Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt ,
who took over responsibility for the government’s decision after
Cable’s opposition was exposed by undercover reporters.  “I don’t remember my exact feelings then,” Murdoch said
when asked about the perceived delay in approving the deal.
“This was a very big move for our company, but I was a lot more
concerned in 2011 about the unfolding hacking scandal.”  Murdoch also told the inquiry the company had been
disrespectful to Parliament when lawmakers concluded after a
2009 probe of the scandal that executives at the News
International unit had “collective amnesia” about phone
hacking.  “Our response to that was far too defensive and what’s
worse, disrespectful to Parliament,” Murdoch said.  Murdoch told the inquiry yesterday that he had never sought
favors from any prime ministers and that News Corp. doesn’t
consider business needs when deciding which politicians to
support in its newspapers.  Three Days of the Murdochs  The testimony capped three days of evidence from  Rupert
Murdoch  and his son James on how they managed the phone-hacking
scandal. The Leveson inquiry is only one of several pending
reviews of the scandal.  Media regulator Ofcom, which today said it asked for civil
litigation documents involving News Corp., is investigating
whether BSkyB is “fit and proper” to hold a broadcasting
license. Lawmakers will issue their own report May 1.  Rupert and James “have to share in their responsibility
for the culture of the company,”  Tom Watson , an opposition
 Labour Party  lawmaker who has been critical of News Corp., said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “In any other major
trans-global corporation it would be the chief executive that
takes responsibility.”  James Murdoch’s testimony on April 24 led to the
resignation of  Adam Smith , an adviser to Hunt. E-mails released
by the inquiry showed Smith leaked information about the
government’s deliberations on the BSkyB bid to News
International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  