-- Rupiah Weakens as Fuel-Subsidy Concern Outweighs Fed Outlook
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-04-26T09:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/rupiah-bonds-steady-as-subsidy-concern-offsets-fed-outlook.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped as
concern the government’s plan to restrict fuel subsidies will
stoke inflation outweighed optimism the U.S. economic recovery
is on track.  Government bonds  were steady.  Indonesia is ready to start limiting sales of subsidized
fuel in May, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said in Jakarta
today. Consumer prices may rise by 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent
next year, compared with 3.97 percent in March, Finance Minister
 Agus Martowardojo  said today. The U.S. economy will expand as
much as 2.9 percent this year, compared with a previous estimate
of 2.7 percent, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday.  “The rupiah should be quite stable at the current level,”
said Wiwig Santoso, the Jakarta-based head of treasury and
markets at PT DBS  Bank Indonesia . “The market is still watching
the potential impact from possible gasoline-subsidy alteration.
The market is more convinced that the U.S. is doing better.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,198 per dollar as of 4:15
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 12 basis
points to 5.63 percent, the lowest level since August.  Bank Indonesia has eased the intensity of its intervention
to stabilize the rupiah, Perry Warjiyo, director for economic
and monetary policy research, said in Jakarta yesterday. The
central bank prefers the currency to strengthen, he said.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.90
percent, according to final prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association. It climbed two basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 