-- Ryan Says Catholics Can Disagree Over Cuts in Aid to Poor
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-27T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ryan-says-catholics-can-disagree-over-cuts-in-aid-to-poor.html
House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan  defended his call for cuts in U.S. assistance to the
poor against criticism from some fellow Catholics, saying that
his position is consistent with the church’s teachings.  In a speech yesterday at  Georgetown University , a Catholic
institution in Washington, Ryan said his budget plan complies
with the church’s admonishments to care for the needy.  “The work I do as a Catholic holding office conforms to
the social doctrine as best as I can make of it,” said Ryan, a
Wisconsin Republican.  Ryan was denounced by some Catholics after he told the
Christian Broadcasting Network this month that his Catholic
upbringing was reflected in his budget plan, which calls for
substantial cuts in  food stamps , the Medicaid health-care
program and other types of assistance to the needy.  The criticism illustrates the political risk Republicans
face with their proposal for reducing the government’s $1.2
trillion budget deficit. Much of the spotlight is on Ryan, the
plan’s primary author, who has been cited as a potential running
mate for Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney .  Senate Democrats aren’t writing a budget resolution this
year, which may help spare them from election-year
confrontations over how to close the fiscal gap.  As Ryan spoke at the university yesterday, a group of
protesters silently raised a banner that read, “Stop the war on
the poor” and “no social justice in Ryan’s budget.”  Outside
the hall where he spoke, another group held a sign that said:
“Were you there when they crucified the poor?”  Ayn Rand  Almost 90 members of Georgetown’s faculty and
administrators signed a letter to Ryan accusing him of misusing
the Catholic faith.  “Your budget appears to reflect the values of your
favorite philosopher,  Ayn Rand , rather than the gospel of  Jesus
Christ ,” the letter said.  “We would be remiss in our duty to you and our students if
we did not challenge your continuing misuse of Catholic teaching
to defend a budget plan that decimates food programs for
struggling families, radically weakens protections for the
elderly and sick, and gives more tax breaks to the wealthiest
few,” the faculty members’ letter said.  They sent him a copy of the Vatican’s Compendium of the
Social Doctrine of the Church to “help deepen your
understanding of Catholic social teaching.” Ryan acknowledged
receiving it, saying, “you gave me a fresh copy --I’ve got an
old dog-eared one.”  ‘Circle of Protection’  The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops wrote to lawmakers
last week urging them to reject the food stamp cuts proposed in
Ryan’s budget plan.  “We join other Christian leaders in insisting ‘a circle of
protection’ be drawn around essential programs that serve poor
and vulnerable people,” the bishops’ letter said.  During his speech, Ryan said that “there can be
differences among faithful Catholics on this” issue.  “If there was ever a time for serious but respectful
discussion among Catholics as well as those who don’t share our
faith, that time is now,” he said.  Ryan said the proposed cuts are “hardly draconian,”
noting federal spending under his plan would still increase each
year by an average of more than 3 percent. He also defended
plans to cut Pell college tuition grants, telling students that
recent funding increases may have spurred universities to
increase costs.  Avoid Debt Crisis  “We need to look at tuition inflation and when you take a
look at the spending on these programs, you’ll see a direct
correlation with higher increases in inflation,” Ryan said.
“Rather than have taxpayers subsidize faster tuition, let’s
look at why is tuition growing at such a fast pace.”  He said the cuts would help reduce the government’s  budget
deficit  and avoid a debt crisis that would require lawmakers to
make much more drastic cuts in aid to the poor.  “The Holy Father himself,  Pope Benedict , has charged
governments, communities and individuals running up high debt
levels are ‘living at the expense of future generations,’” said
Ryan. He said those unwilling to reduce the debt “are complicit
in our acceleration toward a debt crisis in which the poor would
be hurt the first and the worst.”  The House Republicans’ budget proposal would boost growth
and “you can’t lift people out of poverty if you don’t have a
growing economy,” Ryan said. “You can’t help America’s poor by
making America poor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  