-- Samsung Net Beats Estimates as Phone Sales Surpass Apple
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-04-27T10:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/samsung-profit-beats-estimates-on-galaxy-phones-demand-for-tvs.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
world’s biggest maker of mobile phones, computer-memory chips
and TVs, posted its highest profit in at least two years after
beating  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Nokia Oyj in smartphone sales.  Net income  jumped 81 percent from a year earlier to 5.05
trillion won ($4.4 billion), the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in a statement today, beating the 4.24 trillion-won
 average  of 29  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung shares rose to a record in Seoul as earnings at the
mobile-phone business almost tripled in the quarter, with new
models such as the Galaxy Note taking on Apple’s iPhone and
iPad. Samsung, which overtook Nokia Oyj as the world’s biggest
handset maker in the first quarter, said momentum in the $219
billion smartphone market will continue with “remarkable”
demand in  emerging markets , helping mask a drop in chip profits.  “The biggest driver now is smartphones,” Park Jong Min, a
portfolio manager at ING Investment Management Korea Ltd., which
oversees about $17 billion, said by phone today. “It will stay
good in the second quarter as new models are released.”  Samsung shares  rose 2.5 percent to 1,374,000 won in Seoul,
extending the gains this year to 30 percent. Apple has surged 50
percent in  New York , compared with a 28 percent slump for  Nokia (NOK1V) 
in Helsinki trading.  Smartphones  Samsung’s profit is the highest since the first quarter of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Operating profit at Samsung’s mobile business in the
quarter was 4.27 trillion won, the company said in the
statement, beating the 4.01 trillion-won median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of four analysts. Samsung overtook Nokia
as the world’s biggest handset seller for the first time in the
three months ended March 31, market researcher Strategy
Analytics said in a statement today.  Samsung shipped  93.5 million phones in the first quarter,
compared with Nokia’s 82.7 million. Samsung also regained the
lead from Apple as the world’s biggest vendor of smartphones in
the first quarter,  Strategy Analytics  said.  Samsung plans to double sales of smartphones and tablet
computers this year, helped by new products, the company said in
February. Including basic phones, Samsung expects to sell about
380 million handsets this year after shipping a record 300
million units last year.  “Growth is especially remarkable in emerging markets led
by China,  Southeast Asia  and the  Middle East ,” Kim Hyun Joon, a
vice president at the mobile-phone business, said during a
conference call.  Apple’s Siri  Samsung, which plans to unveil a successor in  London  next
month for the Galaxy phone, last year announced it will make the
first mobile phone to run on Google Inc.’s Ice Cream Sandwich
operating system. The Samsung Galaxy Nexus has “talk-to-type”
technology, image-editing tools, offline search for e-mails and
facial-recognition technology to counter the iPhone’s  “Siri” 
voice-recognition software.  Samsung and Apple sued each other in the past year on four
continents regarding patent-infringement claims related to
mobile technology and design. Apple is Samsung’s biggest
 customer , buying chips and displays from the South Korean
company and  accounting  for 7.6 percent of its revenue, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Operating profit at the chip business in the first quarter
was 760 billion won, down 54 percent from a year earlier, the
company said in the statement. That lagged behind the analysts’
estimate for 1.31 trillion won.  Chip Business  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM closed at
$1.02 on April 26, compared with $1.95 a year earlier, according
to data from Taipei-based DRAMeXchange, operator of  Asia ’s
largest spot market for semiconductors. The Dynamic Random
Access Memory, or DRAM, chip is the most common memory in
laptops and computers.  Falling chip prices pushed smaller Japanese competitor
Elpida Memory Inc. into bankruptcy earlier this year, while
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  reported a third consecutive quarterly
loss in March.  Demand for memory chips slowed in the first quarter as
hard-disk drive output didn’t recover as fast as expected after
floods in  Thailand , a key production site, Choi Sung Jae, a
Seoul-based analyst at SK Securities Co., said in a March 30
report. Elpida’s bankruptcy will probably prompt major chip
buyers, including Apple, Dell Inc. and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , to
seek alternative suppliers, helping boost prices in the second
quarter, Choi wrote.  Samsung, the exclusive manufacturer of processors powering
the iPhone and iPad, will benefit from rising sales of chips
used in mobile devices, said Ahn Seong Ho, a Seoul-based analyst
at Hanwha Securities Co.  TV Shipments  Samsung plans to invest $7 billion to build a factory in
 China  producing NAND flash, a different type of memory widely
used in smartphones and tablet computers.  Profit at Samsung’s display unit in the quarter was 280
billion won, compared with a loss of 230 billion won last year.
Operating profit at the consumer-electronics unit, which
includes TVs, was 530 billion won, compared with a profit of 8
billion won a year earlier, Samsung said.  Last year, global TV shipments fell for the first time
since 2004, according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Flat-
screen TV shipments in the U.S. may fall for the first time this
year, to 37.1 million units from 39.1 million in 2011, according
to iSuppli.  Samsung had a record market share in the U.S. LCD TV market
in the fourth quarter, accounting for about 25 percent of total
shipments, helped by a wide range of models and features,
iSuppli said this month.  “The most notable result in the first quarter was sales of
the premium TV business,” Kim Dae Hyun, a vice president at the
TV business, said during the call. “This led to a significant
improvement in our profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  