-- Santander CEO Derides Surge in Spain Defaults: Mortgages
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-04-27T12:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/santander-ceo-derides-surge-in-spain-defaults-mortgages.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the world’s
largest bond underwriter, predicts that Spanish mortgage arrears
will surge as  unemployment  rises. That’s also the view from the
international  debt market , which has driven up yields on Spain’s
bonds in a bet the country will have to bail out banks.  In Spain,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chief Executive Officer
Alfredo Saenz said yesterday that’s nonsense. “Mortgages get
paid in good times and in bad,” he said in a news conference at
the bank’s headquarters outside  Madrid . “Anyone raising this
problem as one of the issues for the Spanish financial system is
saying something stupid.”  There’s more at stake than the credibility of the CEO of
the country’s largest lender. If he’s right, investors betting
against his bank and the country will lose. If he’s wrong and
delinquencies rise, that will weaken the nation’s banks as
Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  seeks to restore the
recession-hit economy. Concern about Spanish lenders already has
helped push the country’s 10-year borrowing costs to about 6
percent, adding to concern that borrowing costs may reach levels
that prompted bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Saenz’s comments underscore a growing gap between Spanish
banks’ statements about the mortgages they hold and forecasts
such as those by the JPMorgan analysts for further losses as
unemployment exceeds 24 percent. Santander said the ratio of
defaults on its home loans fell in the first quarter, while the
Bank of Spain said it’s still below 3 percent nationally.  ‘Strange Contrast’  “There does seem to be a strange contrast between the high
level of unemployment and the surprisingly low level of
delinquencies on mortgages,” said Georg Grodzki, who helps
oversee $515 billion as head of credit research at Legal &
General Plc in  London . “This raises the issue of whether loans
have been amended to make them look current when in fact they
are distressed.”  The more than 600 billion euros ($792 billion) of
outstanding home loans on the books of lenders may be the “next
elephant” for  Spain  as unemployment spurs defaults, JPMorgan
analysts including Roberto Henriques and Gareth Davies wrote in
a report published April 26. Spain’s jobless rate rose to 24.4
percent in the first quarter, the highest level in 18 years,
from 22.9 percent in the previous three months, the National
Statistics Institute said today.  Even so, the ratio of home loan defaults dropped to 2.74
percent in December, down from 3 percent in 2009, according to
Bank of Spain data. That compares with the 7.6 percent  late
payment rate  in the U.S. where  unemployment  is 8.2 percent. In
Ireland, joblessness is 14.3 percent and the delinquency rate is
9.2 percent.  Jobless Ratio  Spain’s jobless ratio is at the highest level in almost two
decades, with the economy mired in a recession that the
 International Monetary Fund  predicts will cause it to shrink by
1.8 percent in 2012. Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut the
country’s credit rating to BBB+ from A, on concern the nation
will need to provide further fiscal support to the banking
sector as the economy contracts. The yield on Spain’s 10-year
benchmark bonds rose 13 basis points to 5.96 percent at 11:31
a.m. in London.  Economists at JPMorgan forecast Spanish unemployment will
reach 30 percent, and mortgages may be the “next leg downward
in a prolonged banking crisis where sector solvency remains a
risk,” the analysts said.  “At a minimum we would expect arrears to increase
significantly from the current levels,” they wrote, adding that
they “run into vocal objections” when they associate Spain’s
housing market with Ireland’s. Davies declined to comment on
Saenz’s comments.  Spanish Culture  Saenz said Spanish culture is part of the reason why
default rates remain low.  Spaniards tend to keep up their  mortgage loans  because
borrowers respond with all their assets and not just their
property if they default, Lorena Mullor, manager of the Spanish
mortgage association, said in an interview. Many treat the
purchase of their home as a valuable asset that will help fund
their retirement and can rely on the support of their families
to help them keep up payments if they lose their jobs, she said.  “It’s a sociological thing and that’s how it is,” said
Saenz.  Santander had 59.4 billion euros of loans made to Spanish
households to buy homes at the end of 2011 out of a total loan
book in Spain of about 200 billion euros. The default ratio was
2.6 percent in March, down from 2.7 percent at the end of 2011,
the bank said.  “The data is good so let’s not start debating the quality
of the information,” said Saenz. “Mortgage arrears are not a
problem and are not going to be a problem.”  Defending Loan Quality  Santander isn’t the only Spanish bank defending its
mortgage loan quality.  People “tend to look at the negative side, the unemployed
that we have here,” said Manuel Gonzalez Cid, chief financial
officer of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-
biggest lender, in an April 25 webcast for analysts. “But we
don’t look at all the people who are working, who are paying
their mortgages and paying their loans in a very normal
fashion.”  Of BBVA’s 79 billion euros of residential mortgage loans in
Spain, 2.37 billion euros, or 3 percent, were impaired at the
end of 2011, according to the bank’s annual report.  While default rates for Spanish mortgages remain broadly
stable, wider data on bad loans point to a worsening asset
quality problem for Spanish lenders that’s hitting bank stocks
and stirring concern that the task of supporting ailing lenders
may pile up costs for the government. Non-performing loans as a
proportion of total lending jumped to 8.16 percent in February,
the highest level since 1994, according to Bank of Spain data.  Calling The Peak  Calling a peak for Spanish loan defaults has proved a
tricky exercise for bankers including Saenz.  As recently as October last year, Saenz admitted he’d “got
it wrong” when he gave a forecast three months earlier that the
bad loans ratio would “plateau” from the start of 2012. Saenz
yesterday said bad loans would keep rising into the first half
of 2013.  Credit default swaps tied to  Banco Santander  rose to 409
basis points yesterday from 406 basis points a day earlier,
according to Bloomberg data. The contracts that protect
investors from a default on the Spanish lender’s senior debt had
risen this year from as low as 232 basis points on Feb. 7,
signaling a deterioration of the creditworthiness.  Bondholder Confidence  Bondholder confidence in bonds tied to Spanish residential-
mortgage backed securities deteriorated this month by the most
of any major European country. Investors demand 565 basis
points, or 5.65 percentage points, above the euro interbank
offered rate, or euribor, to buy senior bonds backed by Spanish
mortgages, according to JPMorgan. That’s 65 basis points higher
than in March and 225 basis points more than a year ago. Similar
debt pooling British home loans pays a spread of 138 basis
points.  Mortgage lending in Spain ballooned from 2000 to 2010,
expanding more than four-fold as banks funded a housing boom.
The more than 600 billion euros of home loans compares with
about 300 billion euros in lending linked to property
development.  “People have been focused on the commercial real estate
but if the problem spreads to the residential mortgage side as
it has in Ireland, then that’s a major problem,” said Olly Burrows, a credit analyst at Rabobank International in London.
“Because of the size of the mortgage book, even a small impact
in non-performing loans would have a big impact.”  House Prices  Concern about the default data for mortgages also reflects
concern that  house prices  still have further to decline, said
Burrows. Price declines would damage the value of collateral
backing mortgage loans and lead to further losses for banks, he
said.  Home prices  have fallen 21.7 percent from the market’s peak
in 2007, according to the government’s statistics institute.
They may decline another 20 percent over the next four to five
years, according to R.R. de Acuna & Asociados, a property
consultancy company. House prices in Ireland have almost halved
since their 2007 peak and some investors may assume that Spanish
prices will eventually follow that path, said Burrows.  Based on Irish default levels, a similar trend in Spain
would lead to losses of 59 billion euros for the banks there,
according to the JPMorgan analysts.  The picture is clouded by the increasing willingness of
banks to change the terms of loans to help customers keep up
loan payments.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , Spain’s third-biggest bank, said April
24 that it’s making 110 changes to loan terms a day and that
mortgages made up 45 percent of the 7,300 term adjustments it
carried out in the first quarter.  “Mortgages for individuals in all markets, including the
U.S. and the U.K., normally are very resilient and resistant
when the situation changes,” said Saenz. “That’s because
mortgages get paid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 