-- Sean Egan’s Mistake Was Seeking U.S. Government Blessing
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/sean-egan-s-big-mistake-was-seeking-u-s-government-halo.html
The first time I wrote about  Sean Egan  and his small, independent credit-research firm, Egan-Jones
Ratings Co., was in December 2007 for a column about the bond
insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  And man, did he nail it.  The three big credit raters -- Moody’s Investors Service,
 Standard & Poor’s , and  Fitch Ratings  -- all had AAA ratings on
MBIA’s insurance unit, their highest grade. Egan said it
deserved much lower. Anyone reading MBIA’s financial reports
could see the company was losing money and needed billions of
dollars of fresh capital.  By mid-2008, the Big Three had cut their ratings. Once
again, Egan, a lonely voice of reason who saw the financial
crisis  coming , had shown his larger competitors to be
incompetent or compromised. It was one of many great calls to
come for  Egan-Jones . As for MBIA, which had no  revenue  last
quarter, it’s still struggling.  So if you had told me back then that the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s enforcement division more than four years
later would be  accusing  Egan, and his firm, of securities-law
violations -- but not any of the big rating companies -- there’s
no way I would have believed you. That’s what happened this
week, though.  Getting a Pass  Life isn’t fair, as they say. The big raters, which are
paid by the issuers of securities they grade, so far have gotten
a pass, even after helping cause the financial crisis by
slapping AAA scores on countless tranches of subprime-mortgage
dreck. Egan-Jones, with fewer than 20 employees, makes its money
by selling subscriptions to investors, meaning it’s not beholden
to issuers. Yet Egan and his firm are getting pinched, although
nothing in the SEC’s administrative  complaint  indicates
investors were harmed.  None of this is to excuse any infractions Egan-Jones might
have committed. We will have to wait and see if the agency’s
claims stick in court. That said, it seems Egan-Jones’s big
mistake was to seek formal recognition from the SEC at all.  The allegations mainly concern the  application  Egan-Jones
filed with the agency in 2008 to expand its license as a so-
called nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
The firm, based in Haverford,  Pennsylvania , first received that
designation in 2007 for rating corporate debt, insurance
companies and banks. Its 2008 application, which the SEC
approved, sought recognition as a rater of asset-backed
securities and  government bonds .  Egan-Jones at the time said it had about 150 ratings on
issuers of asset-backed securities and about 50 on government-
debt issuers. The complaint said those numbers were overstated
and that the firm hadn’t made any such ratings publicly
available. Attorneys for Egan, 54, and the firm say their
clients filled out the SEC’s application in good faith based on
their understanding of what the form required.  Additionally, the complaint accused Egan-Jones of
committing numerous book-and-record violations, such as failing
to maintain a system for retaining employee e-mails. It also
said the firm let two analysts participate in determining
ratings for companies in which they owned securities, in
violation of agency rules. An attorney for the defendants,  Alan
Futerfas , said the claims are without merit and that “the
hypertechnical complaints that the SEC has alleged in no way
justify an enforcement proceeding.”  What about the big rating companies? McGraw-Hill Cos.,
S&P’s parent, in September said the SEC’s staff had issued S&P a
“Wells notice” warning that the agency may seek penalties over
its rating of a $1.6 billion collateralized debt obligation in
2007. S&P received its letter the month before Egan got its
Wells notice. There’s no telling if the SEC will follow through.  Join the Club  In 2010, the SEC issued an investigative report that said a
Moody’s rating committee in 2007 knowingly decided to keep
inflated ratings on about $1 billion of complex notes after
discovering an error in one of the firm’s models. Later in 2007,
Moody’s applied to the SEC for national recognition, under the
same 2006 federal law on credit raters that Egan-Jones saw as
its chance to join the same club as the Big Three.  The rating process used by Moody’s in that instance
violated the policies described in the company’s application,
the SEC said. However, the  report  said the agency decided not to
accuse Moody’s of violating any laws, because some of the
conduct occurred outside the U.S., presenting jurisdictional
hurdles. Lucky break, I guess.  Egan-Jones isn’t the only credit rater where the SEC has
identified problems related to employees’ investments. In a
 report  last September, the SEC’s staff said it found that “each
of the three larger NRSROs and four of the smaller NRSROs
appeared to have some weaknesses with respect to their employee
securities ownership policies and procedures.” (In September
2010, the SEC reached a  settlement  with another small credit-
ratings company, Lace Financial Corp., over allegations of
misstatements in its application for SEC recognition.)  The way Congress and the SEC have rigged this game,
nationally recognized credit raters are a unique species of
opinion merchants, endowed with sweeping  authority  and special
privileges. Institutional money managers often are required by
law to abide by their judgments. The better approach would be to
scrap the designation, so investors are encouraged to do their
own homework, rather than use credit ratings mindlessly.  Egan-Jones, which has been in business since 1992, could
have continued operating as an independent publisher of ratings
and analysis, not subject to government oversight or control.
Instead it chose to play within the Big Three’s system, exposing
itself to regulation and the whims of the SEC in exchange for
the government’s imprimatur. Now it’s paying the price.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  easing student debt  and
 Europe’s growth pact ;  Michael Kinsley  on  toll roads and income
inequality ; Stephen L. Carter on  toll roads and budget deficits ;
 Jonathan Alter  on  community-college shortcomings ; Elizabeth
Samet on  ambition in the military .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  