-- Seeing the Silly in Dodd-Frank Wins Democrat Wall Street’s Love
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-04-26T21:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/seeing-the-silly-in-dodd-frank-wins-democrat-wall-street-s-love.html
Wall Street doesn’t have many
friends in Washington these days — especially among Democrats on
 Capitol Hill . They pushed through the massive Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul and are scrutinizing derivatives trading and
similar high-risk practices.  There is one House Democrat who has taken pity on the 1
percent: Jim Himes. A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  investment
banker who represents Greenwich, Westport, and other affluent
Connecticut towns where many bankers rest their heads at night,
he isn’t shy about defending the industry or decrying Wall
Street bashing, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 30
issue. Banking policy has devolved into a “morality play that
is good versus evil, Democrat versus Republican, which is
absurd,” he says. The Dodd-Frank Act “contains some very, very
good things and very important things. And it contains some
silly things.”  From his seat on the  House Financial Services Committee ,
Himes has sided with Democrats in resisting Republican calls to
repeal Dodd-Frank — which he helped to write and voted to pass —
but he’s also joined with Republicans who argue the law puts the
industry on too short a leash. This year, he has authored
legislation to limit the ability of regulators to oversee
international swaps trades, and worked out a deal between the
parties to water down requirements that financial firms keep
their derivatives deals separate from their federally insured
banks. He has also leaned on regulators to ease restrictions on
the speculative trading banks do for their own accounts.  ‘Real-World Experience’  No surprise that Himes’s efforts win him kind words from
 Wall Street . “He brings real-world experience to the table,”
says Scott Talbott, chief lobbyist for the Financial Services
Roundtable, an industry trade association. “He’s somebody we
can work with.” Of the $1.7 million in campaign contributions
Himes has amassed to fund his campaign for re-election, nearly
$219,000 has come from the securities and investment industry,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  He may need all the cash he can get: Republicans have put
Himes on their hit list of potentially vulnerable  House
Democrats  targeted for defeat in November. “We plan to hold Jim
Himes accountable for his record supporting the president’s big
government tax-and-spend agenda,” says Nat Sillin, a spokesman
for the  National Republican Congressional Committee .  Himes’s Wall Street cred isn’t enough to make Republicans
forget that he is otherwise a reliable Democrat who backs
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care reform law, favors tough
environmental regulations, and believes his GOP colleagues are
kidding themselves if they think they can reduce the deficit
without raising revenue.  Twitter Rules  It probably doesn’t help that Himes can’t seem to keep his
thoughts to himself. An avid Twitter user, @jahimes rarely
misses a chance to poke Republicans in the ribs, including House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  — a politician not noted for his
sense of humor. “So you can support Cantor’s bill or you can be
serious about taming the deficit. But you can’t do both,” Himes
posted on April 20. (He says his staff has laid down the law: no
mention of body parts, and no Twitter comments after more than
two drinks or less than four hours of sleep.)  Himes, who won his seat four years ago by defeating a
veteran Republican, knew he’d have to fight to keep it. Though
he’s personally popular and his district leans Democratic, it’s
expected to be a close race. “I gotta be at Rotary clubs, I
gotta be at American Legions, I gotta be at people’s events,”
he says. “I look at the lifestyle of someone who has a safe
seat and I crave that lifestyle, but it’s not good. The country
would be a lot better off if everyone’s district looked like
mine. I always have to be on my toes.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Pollock at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net  