-- Senate Postal Service Overhaul Shifts Attention to House
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-04-26T14:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/senate-postal-service-overhaul-shifts-attention-to-house.html
Senate passage of an overhaul of
the U.S.  Postal Service  shifts pressure to the House to beat a
May 15 deadline, when the organization said it may start closing
thousands of post offices and hundreds of mail processing sites.  “I hope it puts a little pressure on the House to act,”
Connecticut independent  Joe Lieberman , the Senate bill’s
sponsor, said after passage yesterday. He said House
consideration of the bill as late as July would be “too late.”  The cash-strapped Postal Service agreed in December to a
five-month moratorium on its plan to close as many as 3,700 post
offices and more than 220 mail processing plants. The Senate
bill would further delay the closures and set additional
requirements for justifying them.  The Postal Service’s board of governors, in an e-mailed
statement, called it “totally inappropriate in these economic
times to keep unneeded facilities open.”  “If this bill were to become law, the Postal Service would
be back before the Congress within a few years requesting
additional reform” as “losses would continue in both the short
and long term,” Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said in the
statement. He cited daily losses of $25 million and a debt of
more than $13 billion.  ‘Spending Binge’  The sponsor of the House’s Postal Service legislation,
California Republican  Darrell Issa , issued a statement calling
the Senate measure “a special interest spending binge that
would actually make things worse.” The “wholly unacceptable”
bill would keep more than 100 “excess” facilities open, he
said.  Issa’s proposal would create a board modeled after the
Defense Department’s base-closing commissions to oversee postal
closures.  Under the Senate bill, states that conduct vote-by-mail
procedures would be exempt from closures through the November
election. Rural post office closures would be delayed for at
least one year, with some exceptions. The bill also contains an
expanded appeal process for customers to protest potential
closures.  Maine Republican Susan Collins, a co-sponsor of the Senate
legislation, said yesterday that she encouraged Issa to get his
version to the House floor “as quickly as possible” so the
chambers can negotiate in a conference committee.  Areas of Compromise  Lieberman declined to predict what a compromise with the
House might contain.  “When the House passes a bill, we’ll find out where the
areas of compromise are,” Lieberman said.  The Senate bill, passed 62-37, would authorize the Postal
Service to provide non-postal products and services, revise
payments to two federal funds that provide worker retirement
benefits, offer retirement incentives and install an innovation
officer to create new business practices.  The bill would delay, for at least two years, a move to
mail delivery five days a week instead of six. The Postal
Service said the “vast majority of the American people” favor
switching to five-day service.  The vote on the bill, S. 1789, followed more than five
months of negotiations among senators, led by Vermont
independent  Bernie Sanders , who were concerned about how post-
office closings would affect their constituents.  Debt Ceiling  The Postal Service has estimated it may reach its $15
billion debt ceiling as soon as this year if scheduled payments
to its retiree health benefits fund aren’t deferred or if there
was a major interruption in service, such as an anthrax scare.  The Senate bill would adjust health benefit costs,
canceling a 10-year payment schedule enacted in 2006 that
required the Postal Service to set aside about $5.5 billion a
year for future retirees. Instead, the bill would require the
organization to pre-fund 80 percent, rather than 100 percent, of
its projected liabilities on a 40-year payment schedule.  The Postal Service, which reported losses of $3.3 billion
in the quarter that ended Dec. 31, attributed $3.1 billion of
that to required payments into the retiree health-care fund.  The Postal Service has estimated the Senate bill could save
it $19 billion a year starting in 2016, Lieberman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  