-- Senate Farm Panel Approves Spending Cuts 60 Years in Making
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-04-26T21:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/senate-farm-panel-approves-u-s-spending-cuts-60-years-in-making.html
The Senate Agriculture Committee
approved a farm bill that would save $24.7 billion over 10 years
and which represents one of the biggest policy changes in
generations.  The plan, based on income protection ideas six decades in
the making, would replace a direct-payment program for major
crops with a revenue guarantee, while reducing conservation and
food-assistance spending. The  bill , approved in a 12-4 vote,
includes the first broad subsidy cuts in 16 years.  “The era of direct payments is over,” ChairwomanDebbie Stabenow said, referring to a subsidy that is paid to farmers
regardless of crop prices. “We have put together a bipartisan
farm bill that’s focused on farmers,” the Michigan Democrat
said at a committee meeting before the vote.  Record U.S. farm profits, along with the highest-ever
expenditures on  food stamps , are making the five-year
reauthorization of Department of Agriculture programs a target
for budget cutters.  House Republicans  voted for a $33 billion
cut in farm programs over 10 years last month, and President
 Barack Obama  proposed a $32 billion reduction in his fiscal year
2013 budget.  Net  farm income  reached an all-time high of $98.1 billion
in 2011 and this year will be $91.7 billion, the second-highest
level, the USDA said in February.  Truman-Era Plan  The notion of establishing an income floor for farmers, the
centerpiece of the Senate committee plan, was first proposed by
President  Harry Truman  in the 1940s. Critics say the move will
effectively lock in  farm subsidies  at levels tied to today’s
record income and could trigger higher costs when crop prices
fall.  The committee’s consideration of the farm bill had been
delayed by one day after organizations mostly representing
growers in the U.S. South and West raised concerns about the
fairness of program changes in the original 900-plus-page draft.
The approved bill backtracks from that proposal by continuing
price supports for rice and peanuts grown mostly in the South.  Senator  Pat Roberts  of Kansas, the committee’s top
Republican, said panel members aren’t “picking winners and
losers” in the revised measure.  “Money is shifting among commodities because farmers are
farming differently,” with varying crop patterns and assistance
needs, said Roberts, who in the 1996 farm bill created the
direct-payment program that’s now being eliminated.  Sugar Program Extended  The bill also would extend the U.S. sugar-support program,
which includes domestic marketing quotas and import
restrictions. Critics including the Coalition for Sugar Reform
say the measures artificially inflate costs for U.S. consumers
and companies that use the sweetener.  The legislation approved today will advance to the full
Senate. Meanwhile, the House Agriculture Committee is drafting
its own version of the legislation in a series of hearings that
will extend into May.  Senate passage is possible while House approval may not
happen this year, said Senator Jerry Moran, a first-term
Republican from  Kansas  who served on the House Agriculture
Committee during reauthorizations of USDA programs, in 2002 and
2008.  Delay Possible  “I do not see a path by which the  House of Representatives 
takes it up before November,” he said. “I know everyone uses
the elections as an excuse, but there are policy differences as
well” on spending amounts and the shape of farm programs, Moran
said. Many rural lawmakers would like to see direct payments at
least phased out rather than eliminated, he said.  The current farm bill is scheduled to expire Sept. 30,
making an extension probable, Moran said.  Representative  Collin Peterson , the senior Democrat on the
House Agriculture Committee, said that may not be necessary.
“The strong bipartisan tone” set by the Senate panel “makes
me more confident that we can get past some of the recent
partisanship and get a farm bill done this year,” Peterson, of
 Minnesota , said in an e-mailed statement.  Farm subsidies, which may reach $11 billion this year, aid
agribusinesses such as  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and Cargill
Inc. by lowering the costs of their raw materials. Farm groups
including the National Corn Growers Association and the American
Soybean Association support the Senate panel’s plan, saying it
helps farmers while lowering the federal  budget deficit .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  