-- Shell Profit Beats Estimates as Asset Sales Target Raised
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-04-26T16:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/shell-net-little-changed-projects-offset-lower-output.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, reported first-quarter earnings that beat
estimates, and raised a target for asset sales this year.  Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell
posted profit of $7.28 billion, compared with the $6.7 billion
average  estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
shares rose the most since November in London trading.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said asset sales this
year will probably be in excess of $4 billion, compared with
earlier expectations of $2 billion to $3 billion. The company
generated additional  cash  in the quarter from new projects in
Canada’s Athabasca oil sands and Qatar as  Brent crude  traded 12
percent higher than a year earlier.  “The record result in upstream was driven by volumes from
the growth projects,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at
Investec Securities Ltd. in  London .  Shell’s Class A shares gained 3.2 percent to 2,195.5 pence
in London. The stock is down 7.4 percent this year.  Net income of $8.72 billion compared with profit of $8.78
billion a year earlier, The Hague-based Shell said today in a
statement. About $2.4 billion of assets were sold during the
quarter.  The company is the first of Europe’s biggest oil producers
to publish earnings; Total SA and BP Plc release results on
April 27 and May 1, respectively. The U.S.’s Exxon Mobil Corp.
will report today.  Brent Gains  Brent crude averaged $118.45 a barrel in the first quarter,
compared with $105.52 a year earlier. That helped counter a
decline in U.S. natural-gas prices, which sank to their lowest
quarterly average in 10 years.  “Energy demand fundamentals are robust, but with near-term
volatility in energy prices as a result of economic and
political events,” Voser said.  Shell agreed to sell 15 percent of its Prelude LNG venture
off  Australia  to  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  and CPC Corp. of Taiwan, on top
of the 17.5 percent offered to Japan’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  The combined
32.5 percent interest was worth about $500 million at the end of
March, Shell said.  It also completed sales of liquefied petroleum gas
operations in the Asia-Pacific region and filling stations in
 North America  and  Africa .  Higher Output  Oil and gas production rose to 3.55 million barrels a day
from 3.50 million barrels a year earlier. Shell plans to raise
output to about 4 million barrels a day as soon as 2017.  Voser agreed in February to raise the dividend this year
for the first time since 2009 on a forecast for a 50 percent
increase in  cash flow  from operations through 2015.  The company has boosted output at its oil-sands project in
 Canada ’s Alberta region and expects its  Pearl gas-to-liquids 
venture in Qatar to reach full capacity by the middle of the
year. Shell is also expanding in East Africa, where it agreed to
buy Cove Energy Plc this week for about $1.8 billion.  Cove has a stake in a gas block off Mozambique, which may
connect to a proposed liquefied natural gas plant that would
process the fuel for Asian markets. Shell, the world’s largest
LNG supplier, has interests in about a quarter of the LNG ships
in operation.  Shell forecast global LNG supply would rise to more than
500 million tons a year, up from 240 million tons now, Chief
Financial Officer Simon Henry told investors. The company plans
to maintain its market share, which is about 8.8 percent.  LNG prices have been supported by an increase in Asian
imports as  Japan  shut down nuclear reactors in the wake of the
Fukushima disaster last year. Shell increased LNG sales 17
percent to 5.2 million tons in the quarter from last year.  “The refining activities still made losses of about $200
million, while trading and chemicals performed like last year,”
Jean-Charles Lacoste, an analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux
SA, wrote in an e-mailed report.  Of the 29  analysts  that cover Shell, 17 recommend buying
the shares, 11 have hold ratings and one advises selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  