-- Sierra Vows to Block Dominion’s LNG Exports From Cove Point
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-04-26T16:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/sierra-will-block-dominion-from-exporting-gas-from-cove-point.html
Sierra Club  will seek to block
 Dominion Resources Inc. (D) ’s export of liquefied natural gas at
Maryland’s Cove Point terminal, the executive director said, as
the company signed deals for shippers to use the plant.  The environmental organization said Dominion’s gas plan
would encourage hydraulic fracturing, a process the group said
harms natural resources and people. It would also raise gas and
electricity prices, and damage ecologically sensitive lands, the
group said today in an e-mailed statement.  Sierra Club sued to block construction of the terminal in
the 1970s, and settled the case in return for gaining the right
to approve plans for expansion. The group said today it won’t
grant such permission.  “Sierra Club cannot and will not support LNG exports from
Cove Point,” Michael Brune,  executive director  of the San
Francisco-based group, said on a conference call. “If Dominion
still seeks to move forward, we will insist that they stand by
the agreement they have made with us.”  Dominion is confident it will be able to build and operate
a liquefaction plant at Cove Point, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Farrell  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Dominion, based in Richmond, Virginia, rose the most in
four months after announcing binding agreements with  Sumitomo
Corp. (8053)  and an unidentified shipper to handle all the capacity at
the terminal.  Dominion rose 35 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $51.59 at 12:42
p.m. in New York, and earlier today climbed the most since Dec.
20.  The U.S. Energy Department hasn’t acted on the company’s
application to export one billion cubic feet of gas a day to any
nation. The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  must also
approve the facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  