-- Singapore Girl’s Charms Fade as Airline Battle Heats Up
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-27T10:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/singapore-girl-s-charms-fade-as-airline-battle-heats-up.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  is missing
the party in its own home. Tourist spending in the city jumped
by half since 2008, aided by two new casinos and a 23 percent
rise in passenger  traffic  through Changi Airport.  That growth hasn’t been reflected in the carrier’s
passenger numbers, which are down by 2.2 million in the period.
The 12 percent drop is the largest of the 12 biggest publicly
traded full-service airlines in the  Asia  Pacific, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Persian Gulf rivals are vying for premium
passengers and low-cost operators are poaching budget travelers.  Singapore  Air’s slide contrasts with  Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. (293) , whose passenger numbers have risen 11 percent since 2008
because its Hong Kong base and a tie-up with Air  China  Ltd. help
it sell tickets in the world’s most populous nation. Singapore
Air, overtaken by Air China in 2009 as the biggest airline by
market value, will probably report a sixth straight decline in
quarterly profit when it announces fiscal full-year earnings May
9, according to  analyst  estimates.  “The fact is that they’re hurting,” said  Peter Harbison ,
executive chairman of CAPA Center for Aviation, a Sydney-based
company that advises airlines in the Asia Pacific. “There’s
good cause for a fundamental review of Singapore’s strategy.”  Adversity is an unfamiliar experience for Singapore Air. In
an industry that has suffered almost 200  bankruptcies  since 1979
in the U.S. alone, it can boast of having never made a full-year
loss since it first  sold shares  to the public in 1985. Like the
iconic, demurely smiling “Singapore Girl” stewardess who
adorns the carrier’s marketing material, its performance harks
back to an age when aviation was more glamorous -- and even
profitable.  Good Times, Bad Times  “The economic downturn slowed some of our growth plans but
we take a long-term approach,” said  Nicholas Ionides , a
Singapore-based spokesman for the airline. “We invest in both
good and bad times.”  The carrier, controlled by Singapore state-investment
company Temasek Holdings Pte., may report a profit of S$108
million ($87 million) for the quarter ended March 31, based on
the average of 23 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
quarterly prediction was derived by subtracting results for the
first nine months from full-year forecasts. That compares with
S$171 million a year earlier, as rising fuel costs and
competition eat away at profits.  Shrinking Margins  The analysts’ forecasts suggest a net margin this year of
3.25 percent. In the airline’s first decade as a public company
its average net margin was 16 percent, sliding to 12 percent in
the following 10 years and 5.8 percent in the past three years.  The  price  of  jet fuel  in Singapore has risen 38 percent
since April 26, 2010, to $132.75 a barrel. Fuel now accounts for
40 percent of Singapore Air’s costs, compared to an  average  of
27 percent since 2004.  The  carrier , which also owns regional airline SilkAir,
closed little changed at S$10.65 in Singapore trading today. It
has tumbled 25 percent in the past year. Cathay Pacific has
dropped 33 percent in the period in Hong Kong, while AirAsia
Bhd., the region’s biggest discount carrier, has jumped 23
percent in  Kuala Lumpur .  Singapore Air faces greater competition on Europe-Asia
routes as Emirates Airline and Qatar Airways Ltd. leverage more
convenient hubs and win premium passengers with improved service
standards. Regional and economy travelers are being targeted by
low-fare airlines such as AirAsia and Qantas Airways Ltd.’s
Jetstar.  “They’re being squeezed at both ends of the plane,” said
Andrew Orchard, an analyst with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  Hong Kong  who rates the stock a sell. “They have less growth
now and a lot more competition.”  World’s Best Airline  Qatar was last year named the world’s best airline by
rating group Skytrax, an award that Singapore Air received in
three years out of five until 2008, and has not won since.
Singapore Air’s neighbors Thai Airways International Pcl and
 Malaysian Airline System Bhd.  will also both add Airbus SAS
A380s this year, rivaling the carrier’s flagship plane.  “Clearly the competition in some areas has got a lot
better,” Skytrax London-based spokesman Peter Miller said by e-
mail, citing Qatar and Seoul-based Asiana Airlines Inc. “We are
seeing a more level playing field in product standards as many
carriers seek to match Singapore.”  The change has been noted by Singapore Air’s regular flyers.  “They have this arrogant attitude that they’re the best so
people will continue to use them no matter what,” said  Mark
Roberts , 48, a mining metallurgist from  Melbourne  who flies
business class to Asia and  Europe  about 15 times a year.  Thai Air, Emirates  Having flown exclusively with Singapore Air since 1998, in
recent years he has increasingly chosen Thai Air and Emirates.
“I felt like I was being taken for a fool” by changes in
Singapore Air’s loyalty program and the last-minute swapping of
older aircraft on premium-priced routes.  “It’s almost a lucky dip whether I get the product I paid
for,” he said.  The Boeing Co. 747s that occasionally flew the Melbourne-
Singapore route were retired from the fleet earlier this month,
Singapore Air’s Ionides said.  At Changi Airport, Emirates and Qatar alone now operate 74
flights a week. Low-cost carriers including Tiger Airways
Holdings Pte., part-owned by Singapore Air, have boosted their
share of passengers to 26 percent last year, from 5.6 percent in
2005, helped by the opening of a budget terminal.  Tourism Push  Singapore Air now accounts for about a third of Changi’s
passengers, from more than half in 2008. The decline reflects
the government’s move to boost tourism and limit dependence on
manufacturing. Visitor spending since 2008 has risen to S$22.2
billion, and the two casino resorts alone have increased sales
from $6.6 million to $2.5 billion.  “If more airlines fly into Changi that makes Singapore
more international,” said Khee Giap Tan, an economist who has
consulted on trade, tourism and economic policy for Singapore’s
government and is an associate professor with the Lee Kuan Yew
School of Public Policy at the  National University  of Singapore.
“We need more airlines.”  Singapore Air’s management is moving to increase their
presence in the low-cost market. The carrier already owns 33
percent of  Tiger Air (TGR)  and it’s setting up a long-haul operator
called Scoot. That new unit will start budget flights to Tianjin
in China, Bangkok, Sydney, and  Australia ’s Gold Coast  this year .  That may be timely as the business travel market, long the
backbone of Singapore Air’s profitability, is trading down.
First and business class growth  peaked  in May 2010 and has been
 lagging  behind the overall market since October, according to
the  International Air Transport Association .  Crisis Survivor  Rohit Deshpande, a professor of marketing at  Harvard
Business School  who has studied the airline, cautioned against
writing off a carrier that survived the 1997 Asian financial
crisis, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the 2002-03
SARS epidemic.  “I’m extremely bullish not only about their business model
but about how smart they are in difficult times,” he said.  On Singapore Air’s main routes the focus is on contraction,
rather than expansion. The carrier has cut flights since 2008 to
cope with the more competitive market, and is offering pilots
unpaid leave to seek work with other carriers.  Available seat kilometers -- the standard measure of
capacity in the  airline industry  -- have  fallen  by 5.1 percent
since 2008 to 108 billion kilometers. The number of seats
occupied by paying passengers has dropped even further, sinking
7.3 percent over the period.  “The world has changed for them,” says CAPA’s Harbison.
“The days of being able to rely on the Singapore Girl to pull
people in are gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  