-- Small Business Limps to Olympics as London Sets Ad Rules: Retail
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-04-27T15:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/small-business-limps-to-olympics-as-london-sets-ad-rules-retail.html
London organizers and the
 International Olympic Committee  are policing everything from
dogs to body paint in an effort to protect their 53 sponsors and
Olympic partners from unauthorized advertising.  Ad agencies say the move is to enforce the strictest rules
they’ve seen for any event. London 2012 has raised about 1.4
billion pounds ($2.2 billion) from sponsors including  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  Businesses that didn’t pay for
sponsorships ranging from 5 million pounds to 100 million
pounds, according to consulting firm Deloitte, are having a hard
time finding ways to associate themselves with the Olympics
without provoking officials.  Merely combining the words “games” or “2012” with other
words including London, summer, sponsors, medals, gold, silver
or bronze would breach the rules, which carry fines of as much
as 20,000 pounds. Non-sponsors also can’t refer to athletic
images, mottoes and logos, including the Olympic rings and
mascots, said  Adam Glass , a partner at U.K. law firm  Davenport
Lyons , who advises retailers on advertising around the Olympics.  “It’s quite draconian,” Glass said. “Someone running
with the flame of the torch could fall on the wrong side of the
law,” because it suggests a link with the Olympics, he said.  Usain Bolt  Some companies are finding smart ways to get around the
rules. Virgin Media Inc., which competes with sponsor BT Group
Plc, said April 25 that its campaign with Jamaican sprinter
Usain Bolt helped it gain the most customers in two years.
Marketing spending soared 49 percent for the ads, in which Bolt
appears with Virgin founder  Richard Branson  sporting a goatee
similar to Branson’s. Bolt, the Olympic 100-meter champion and
world record holder, also bolstered sales at Puma SE, which
competes with official sponsor  Adidas AG (ADS)  and makes 100 euro
Usain Bolt running shoes.  Others are responding by building generic summer campaigns
around Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee in June. More than
300 retailers from London’s West End shopping district met this
week to get advice from lawyers on Olympic advertising and
promotions they can offer.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) ’s television ad campaign “On
your Marks for a summer to remember” features celebrity models
including Twiggy enjoying an outdoor picnic. The U.K.’s largest
clothing retailer is offering “patriotic homeware” such as a
15-pound Union Jack-printed cushion, a 29.50-pound two-tier cake
stand and a red and blue beach towel with a British crown print.  ‘Restrictive Area’  “The usage of Olympics in terms of logos et cetera is a
very restricted area, and we’re not in that category, but we’ll
certainly be part of the strong celebrations,”  Marc Bolland ,
chief executive officer of Marks & Spencer, said this month.  Small businesses such as  Caribbean Scene , with three
restaurants near the cycling, boxing and aquatics venues in east
London, do not have as many options. During the games, Patrick
Marche won’t be allowed to hand out flyers opposite one
restaurant because it borders on the 200-hectare  Olympic Park .
The city also planted 19 birch trees directly in front of the
restaurant amid the area’s Olympic redesign, blocking a sign for
the place. He says he’s not allowed to put up another one across
the street.  “I call it limping to the Olympics,” said Marche, adding
that he might put flyers in hotels, theaters and cinemas to
reach visitors. “What they talked about was winning the Olympic
bid based on diversity, support for the local area and support
for the local businesses, but we’ve been shut out.”  Sponsors’ Investments  The  London  organizers say the rules are necessary.  “Without our sponsors the games simply wouldn’t happen,”
the group said in a statement. “They provide funding, products,
services and expertise to help us stage the games. We therefore
protect their investment and prevent other organizations from
making unauthorized associations with the games.”  About 250 enforcement officers will patrol the areas close
to Olympic events to make sure groups that haven’t paid for a
sponsorship don’t advertise. The rules cover everything from
animals and body paint to ads that people carry and any display
of a business’s name.  “It’s the first time I’ve seen any of the Olympics with
such harsh rules,” Hot Cow Managing Director Sally Durcan said
in an interview. “I can totally understand why they’re doing
it. Sponsors have spent a lot of money to have the privilege of
being associated with the Olympics.”  Ambush Marketing  The organizers are also trying to prevent so-called ambush
and guerilla marketing campaigns like the one used by Dutch
brewer Bavaria NV during the 2006  Soccer World Cup  in  Germany .
Bavaria encouraged fans to wear “ Leeuwenhosen ,” orange
lederhosen with a tail and the brewer’s logo on it. Orange is
the official color of the Dutch team.  The Olympics were nearly bankrupt in the 1980s due to
waning interest from sponsors, forcing governments to finance
almost all costs and fighting unauthorized marketing is
therefore crucial, said  Michael Payne , who was the International
Olympic Committee’s first marketing and broadcast-rights
director from 1983 to 2004.  “If you are not supporting the games or the teams, why
should you be allowed to benefit commercially from associating
yourself?” Payne, who oversaw the development and
implementation of the marketing programs for 15 Olympic Summer
and  Winter Games , said in an interview. “The rules are tough
and deliberately so.”  In the Beijing Olympics in 2008, Speedo International
Ltd.’s racing swimsuits were worn by several medal winners,
resulting in the brand being identified as a sponsor by more
than a third of the audience and cluttering the market, said
 Mark Evans , the managing director of London-based advertising
firm Kommando.  Evans says while he advises clients to refrain from ambush
marketing, local businesses still have the right to benefit from
the Olympics.  “You’ve got to protect yourself from this sort of
authoritarian legislation,” he said. “You only have to be a
bit more imaginative about how you want to use the Olympics to
your benefit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net 
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net 
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  