-- TSMC Forecasts Record Sales, Spending on Demand for Chips
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-26T08:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/tsmc-net-income-beats-estimates-amid-mobile-chip-demand.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330) , the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips,
forecast record sales and spending driven by demand for mobile-
device components.  Second-quarter revenue will be as much as NT$128 billion
($4.4 billion), beating the NT$118 billion average of 18 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital spending  in 2012 will
be $8 billion to $8.5 billion, higher than the $6 billion
budgeted earlier, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said.  TSMC’s 28-nanometer technology, its most advanced, was
fully booked for the quarter with client  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  saying it
cannot get enough  supply  of chips. That demand, spurred by the
popularity of mobile devices including Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy, prompted Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Morris Chang  to raise his spending plan by as
much as 42 percent this year to add capacity.  “We see very strong growth for the company for the next
few years,” Chang, 80, told investors today announcing the
record spending budget. “For some things, you just have to do
it despite all the surprised expressions around you.”  ‘Roaring Success’  The company’s 28-nanometer technology is a “roaring
success” with orders coming in stronger than expected and
surpassing both the company’s and clients own forecasts, Chang
said. Demand is driven by mobile products with TSMC planning to
rollout its next 20-nanometer node at the end of 2012, he said.  “Everyone who makes chips for smartphones doesn’t have
their own factories, which means they need TSMC,” Steven Pelayo, who rates the stock overweight at HSBC Holdings Plc,
said before the earnings. “If you’re spending so much then
you’re confident on future growth, yet the higher spending also
means higher depreciation costs which impacts profit margins.”  TSMC today reported first-quarter  net income  of NT$33.5
billion, surpassing the NT$29.9 billion average of 16 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross margin  and operating
margin also exceeded estimates.  Smaller rival  United Microelectronics Corp. (2303) , also based in
Hsinchu, said yesterday it won’t raise capex from $2 billion to
meet demand. Its 28-nanometer facility will commence volume
production in the second half, it said, a year later than TSMC.  One nanometer, equal to one-billionth of a meter, measures
the size of connections within a chip. A lower number implies
more advanced technology, allowing semiconductors to be smaller
and more powerful.  Gross Margin Impact  Higher electricity prices and costs for boosting output at
28-nanometer capacity will cut gross margin this quarter, to be
offset by improvements in productivity and economies of scale
benefits, Chief Financial Officer Lora Ho said today. Higher
depreciations costs from the increased spending will also affect
gross margin throughout the year, she said.  “There will be some short-term impact to this year’s
profitability,” Ho said.  The shortfall in chip output reflects heavy demand and not
manufacturing glitches Qualcomm Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said last week. The company is adding suppliers, which
will ease the supply shortage by the fourth quarter, he said.  Apple, the world’s largest smartphone maker, on April 24
 posted profit and revenue  that surpassed estimates as it sold
more iPhones than analysts had estimated amid strong Asia
growth. TSMC supplies chips used in handsets by Apple, Samsung
and  HTC Corp. (2498)   Chip market growth this year will exceed the 2 percent
estimate made in January, with TSMC likely to outpace that,
Chang said, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  