-- Solar Trust of America Gets Funding, More Time to Entertain Bids
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-04-26T22:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/solar-trust-of-america-gets-funding-more-time-to-entertain-bids.html
Solar Trust of America LLC, a U.S.
company developing what would be the world’s largest solar power
plant, was approved for new loans in its bankruptcy proceeding
as it seeks more time to sell its assets.  The company, based in Oakland,  California , and other U.S.
units will receive financing arranged by Mason Capital
Management LLC that includes $25 million in working capital
loans and $18.3 million in letters of credit, according to an
order filed today in  bankruptcy court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The funding will replace $3.9 million in interim financing
approved by the court April 3, the day after Solar Trust and
other units filed Chapter 11 papers. NextEra Energy Resources
LLC, the largest wind and solar power operator in the U.S., was
to provide the interim funding, according to today’s court
order.  The Mason Capital funding “is going to allow us to conduct
a more well-paced sales process that will get more participation
and maximize asset value,” Ned Kleinschmidt, co-founder of
financial advisory firm RPA Advisors LLC and Solar Trust’s chief
restructuring officer, said today by telephone. NextEra’s
funding commitment would have allowed only about 30 days in
which to complete a sale of assets, he said. “Now with the
larger financing, we have a longer runway.”  The court hasn’t set a due date for bids from interested
buyers, though the entire sale process may take about 90 days,
Kleinschmidt said.  Solar-Thermal Plants  Solar Trust is developing solar-thermal  power plants  in
several western U.S. states, including its 1,000-megawatt Blythe
project, located in Riverside County, California, that would be
the world’s largest. The company is a joint venture of
Ferrostaal AG and  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , which is undergoing its
own insolvency proceedings in  Germany .  While bids haven’t been received by the court yet, NextEra
has said it is a potential buyer.  “NextEra may be interested in purchasing the debtors’
assets,” including the interconnection agreement for Blythe, it
said April 3 in a court filing. That contract “is the single
most valuable asset possessed by any of the debtors’ estates,”
NextEra said.  The agreement, with the California Independent System
Operator, will enable Blythe to interconnect with and transmit
power over the grid. Similar contracts potentially can take
years to complete, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance
analyst  Anthony Kim .  There are 76 energy projects, representing 9,200 megawatts
of potential generating capacity, in queue for interconnection
in the service territory of  Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern
California Edison utility, according to a BNEF note published
April 16.  ’Partial Termination Rights’  The Blythe agreement has special conditions, or “partial
termination rights,” that would enable Solar Trust, or “its
successor-in-interest,” to maintain their place in the
interconnection queue even if no more than a 250-megawatt
project were built, according to NextEra’s filing.  Solar Trust’s power sales contract for Blythe, with
Southern California Edison, will need to be renegotiated if the
company, or a buyer, moves forward with a previously announced
plan to switch technology for least half of the plant to less-
expensive photovoltaic panels, according to Marc Ulrich, the
utility’s vice president of alternative and renewable power.  “The contract we signed was for solar-thermal, and that
was approved” by the California Public Utilities Commission,
Ulrich said by telephone. “They did not have the right to just
change the technology,” he said. “It absolutely would require
them to renegotiate the terms with us.”  Steve Stengel, a NextEra spokesman, wouldn’t comment about
the company’s potential to bid for Solar Trust’s assets.  The case is In re Solar Trust of America LLC, 12-11136,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  