-- Son of Bo Xilai Says Father’s Ouster ‘Destroyed My Life’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-27T08:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/son-of-bo-xilai-says-father-s-ouster-destroyed-my-life-.html
Li Wangzhi, the eldest son of
ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai, rejected suggestions he used
his father’s position for personal gain and said the downfall of
a man he hasn’t seen in five years had destroyed his life.  Li, 34, said in a telephone interview yesterday that the
last time he saw his father was at the funeral of his
grandfather, Bo Yibo, in early 2007, and he hasn’t had any
contact with him since. The former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  banker, who
later went into private equity, said he was in  China  and not
under detention.  Li’s comments seek to dispel speculation he profited from
the position of his father, who was suspended earlier this month
from the ruling Politburo. The ouster of Bo and the arrest of
his wife on suspicion of murder have heightened scrutiny of the
family’s business interests and sparked China’s deepest
political crisis since the 1989 Tiananmen uprising.  “This incident has destroyed my life,” said Li, who also
goes by the name Brendan Li. “I have no way to control how
others think, but I have no desire to bask in his glow,” he
said, referring to his father.  Bo Xilai’s wife, Gu Kailai, was taken into custody for
involvement in the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood,
Xinhua News Agency reported April 10. The state-run agency said
Gu and Heywood had “a conflict over economic interests.” Bo,
62, who was suspended as Communist Party chief of the
municipality of Chongqing last month, has been accused of
“serious violations of discipline,” the agency said.  Not a Spy  Heywood wasn’t a British spy and “was not an employee of
the British government in any capacity,” U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  wrote in a letter yesterday to the House of
Commons Foreign Affairs Committee in  London .  Li said he didn’t know Heywood or the relationship between
Heywood and the Bo family, and said his mother, Li Danyu, has
not had any contact with her ex-husband in three decades. Li
Danyu and Bo divorced when Li Wangzhi was a child. Li said he
left the Bo family “a long time ago.”  Since Bo’s ouster from his posts, details of his extended
family’s wealth and business dealings have emerged that show
businesses from China to the Caribbean, the U.S. and U.K.  “The spouses and children of some cadres have taken
advantage of their power to seek personal gains, disregarding
the law, thus stirring public outcry,” state-run Xinhua News
Agency said in an April 14 commentary, four days after reporting
that Bo had been suspended from the Politburo.  “It’s an obvious fact that my family name isn’t Bo,” Li
said when contacted on his mobile phone number.  Guagua, Xiyong  Bo Xilai’s removal has altered the lives of his extended
family, including that of Li’s half-brother and Harvard
University student Bo Guagua, 24, and their uncle Bo Xiyong. The
uncle on April 25 resigned from Hong Kong-listed alternative
energy company  China Everbright International Ltd. (257) , where he
served as vice chairman. Li said he hasn’t had any contact with
other Bo family members since the funeral.  Bo Guagua denied reports in newspapers including the Wall
Street Journal and  Daily Telegraph  that he led a lavish
lifestyle, which included driving a red Ferrari and expensive
schooling beyond the means of his father’s salary as a party
official. He made the comments in a statement published April 24
in the Harvard Crimson, the student newspaper.  Bo Guagua received three traffic citations in  Massachusetts 
while driving a black 2011 Porsche Panamera, the Wall Street
Journal  reported yesterday , citing Massachusetts Department of
Transportation records and people it didn’t identify. The report
said the vehicle was registered to a man named James Jun Cui.  Eight Immortals  The grandfather of Bo Guagua and Li Wangzhi is a former
vice premier of China who died in 2007. The family patriarch was
one of the so-called eight immortals who helped steer China
after the 1966-1976 Cultural Revolution.  After graduating from Columbia University’s School of
International and Public Affairs in  New York  in 2003 with a
master’s degree, Li worked for Citigroup. He wouldn’t comment
about his time at the New York-based bank, saying he had signed
a confidentiality agreement.  After leaving Citigroup he began a career in private
equity. He said investments he made in Dalian, where his father
was mayor for much of the 1990s, were not very successful.  Li, who said he hasn’t worked since February, is linked to
Chong’er Investment & Consultancy Co. by office and e-mail
addresses. Chong’er was a Chinese prince in the seventh century
B.C. who fled his home in the ancient state of Jin, modern-day
Shanxi province and the ancestral home of the Bo, Li and Gu
families, because his father made his half-brother the crown
prince. Chong’er eventually fought back and took the crown.  Referring to Bo Xilai, he said: “I also want to know if
he’s safe.  ‘‘I look forward to seeing a fair conclusion to this
case,’’ Li said. ‘‘My country’s government will make the correct
judgment.’’  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  