-- South Korea’s Current-Account Surplus Widens in March
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-26T23:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/south-korea-s-current-account-surplus-widens-in-march.html
South  Korea ’s current-account
surplus widened in March to a four-month high as overseas
shipments of cars, electronics and oil products rose while the
European debt crisis weighed on global demand.  The  surplus  was $3 billion, compared with a revised surplus
of $557 million in February, the Bank of Korea said in a
statement in Seoul today. The current account is the broadest
measure of trade, tracking goods, services and investment
income.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, which expanded at the
fastest pace in a year in the first quarter, faces downside
risks from the European debt crisis and high  oil prices , the
central bank said this month. It left borrowing costs unchanged
for a 10th straight month on April 13 as it forecast a
“moderate recovery” in domestic demand.  “We’re passing a bottom but global demand will likely
remain weak, which bodes ill for exporters,” Yoon Yeo Sam, a
fixed-income analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul , said
before the release. “With moderate growth and persistent
inflation pressures, policy makers seem to have limited room for
moving  interest rates  in either direction.”  The won rose 0.4 percent to close at 1,136.32 per dollar in
Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi Index advanced 0.1 percent.  Exports  The surplus on traded goods was $3 billion last month
compared with a revised $1.3 billion surplus in February,
today’s report showed.  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose to $47.4
billion in March from $46.4 billion in February, according to
today’s statement. Imports totaled $44.9 billion, little changed
from February.  Overseas shipments may fall 1.5 percent in April from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate of nine
economists in a Bloomberg News survey as of April 26.  The  Bank of Korea  reduced its economic growth forecast for
this year to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent on April 16, citing
risks from  Europe ’s debt woes and oil prices.  The current-account surplus is expected to narrow to $12.5
billion in 2013 from an estimated $14.5 billion this year,
according to the central bank’s latest projection. The excess
was $26.5 billion in 2011.  South Korea ’s gross domestic product rose 0.9 percent in
the first quarter from the previous three months, the fastest
pace in a year, according to a central bank report yesterday.  The nation is “very well prepared” to resist or face any
unexpected shock arising from uncertainty in the world economy,
 Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, told reporters in Seoul yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  