-- Spain Cut by S&P for 2nd Time This Year on Banks, Economy
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-27T06:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/spain-cut-by-s-p-for-2nd-time-this-year-on-banks-economy.html
Spain ’s sovereign credit rating was
cut for the second time this year by  Standard & Poor’s  on
concern that the country will have to provide further fiscal
support to banks as the economy contracts.  S&P lowered Spain to BBB+ from A, with a negative outlook.
Spain’s short-term rating was reduced to A-2 from A-1,  New York- 
based S&P said in a statement yesterday. The yield on Spain’s
10-year bond rose 16 basis points to 5.99 percent.  The nation’s 10-year borrowing costs have climbed about 70
basis points this year as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles
to convince investors he can control public finances amid
soaring unemployment and a contracting economy. Banks threaten
to disrupt the premier’s efforts as bad loans reach the highest
levels in almost two decades.  “Spain’s budget trajectory will likely deteriorate against
a background of economic contraction,” S&P wrote in the
statement yesterday. “At the same time, we see an increasing
likelihood that Spain’s government will need to provide further
fiscal support to the banking sector. As a consequence, we
believe there are heightened risks that Spain’s net general
government debt could rise further.”  No Bailout  Spanish banks won’t need external aid, nor will Spain need
a bailout from its European Union partners, Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos said.  “Nobody has asked Spain, either officially or unofficially”
to turn to  Europe ’s bailout mechanisms, he said in an interview
in  Madrid  late yesterday. “We don’t need it.”  S&P first cut Spain this year along with France and other
European nations on Jan. 13. Since then, the  yield  on Spain’s
10-year bonds have risen to 5.99 percent from 5.22 percent,
while borrowing costs for France are little changed at 2.98
percent. Spain’s yields are up from about 4.13 percent in
January 2009, when S&P stripped it of its top AAA rating.  The rate cut won’t necessarily lead to higher yields. In
the aftermath of S&P’s decision in August of last year to strip
the U.S. of its AAA rating 10-year Treasury rates declined,
falling to a record 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  Spanish Bonds  Yields on 10-year Spanish bonds surpassed 6 percent on
seven trading days this month, boosting concern that borrowing
costs may reach levels that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal . The rate was 5.83 percent.  The Bank of Spain said April 23 that gross domestic product
contracted 0.4 percent in the first quarter, tipping the nation
into its second recession since 2009. Rajoy said March 2 that
the nation would miss its 4.4 percent deficit target and then
agreed 10 days later with euro-region finance ministers to a new
goal of 5.3 percent.  Spain’s budget shortfall will reach 6 percent this year and
5.7 percent in 2013, as the government pushes through the
deepest budget cuts in at least three decades, according to
forecasts from the International Monetary Fund published April
17. Debt will reach 84 percent of GDP next year. While that’s
less than  France  and  Italy , it’s up from 40 percent in 2008,
when a real estate boom started to collapse.  Political Support  “We could also consider a downgrade if political support
for the current reform agenda were to wane,” the S&P statement
said. “Moreover, we could lower the ratings if we see that
Spain’s external position worsens or its competitiveness does
not continue to approach that of its trading partners, a key
factor for Spain to return to sustainable economic and
employment growth.”  Spanish banks probably need 50 billion euros of additional
capital, Morgan Stanley analysts estimate. The figure may rise
to as much as 160 billion euros in a worst-case scenario, said
Elaine Lin, a strategist at Morgan Stanley in  London . The banks
could try to raise the capital themselves or get it from either
the Spanish government or the European Financial Stability
Facility, she said.  Governments committed more than $430 billion in fresh
money to the  International Monetary Fund  to help it protect the
world economy against deepening debt turmoil in Europe. The
near-doubling of the fund’s firepower was announced after Group
of 20 finance ministers and central bankers met April 20 in
 Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  