-- Spain’s Ratings Cut by S&P on Deficit, Bank Bailout Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-04-26T21:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/spain-s-ratings-cut-by-s-p-on-deficit-bank-bailout-concern.html
Spain ’s sovereign credit rating
was cut to BBB+ from A by  Standard & Poor’s  on concern the
nation will have to provide further fiscal support to the
banking sector as the economy contracts.  Spain’s short-term rating was lowered to A-2 from A-1,
while the outlook on the long-term rating is negative,  New York- 
based S&P said in a statement today.  The nation’s 10-year borrowing costs have climbed about 70
basis points this year as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles
to convince investors he can control public finances amid
soaring unemployment and a contracting economy. Banks threaten
to disrupt the premier’s efforts as bad loans reach the highest
levels in almost two decades.  “Spain’s budget trajectory will likely deteriorate against
a background of economic contraction,” S&P wrote in the
statement. “At the same time, we see an increasing likelihood
that Spain’s government will need to provide further fiscal
support to the banking sector. As a consequence, we believe
there are heightened risks that Spain’s net general govern debt
could rise further.”  Yields on 10-year Spanish bonds surpassed 6 percent on
seven trading days this month, boosting concern that borrowing
costs may reach levels that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal . The rate was 5.83 percent.  Budget Shortfall  The Bank of Spain said April 23 that gross domestic product
contracted 0.4 percent in the first quarter, tipping the nation
into its second recession since 2009. Rajoy said March 2 that
that nation would miss its 4.4 percent deficit target and then
agreed 10 days later with euro-region finance ministers to a new
goal of 5.3 percent.  Spain’s budget shortfall will reach 6 percent this year and
5.7 percent in 2013, as the government pushes through the
deepest budget cuts in at least three decades, according to
forecasts from the  International Monetary Fund  published April
17. Debt will reach 84 percent of GDP next year. While that’s
less than France and  Italy , it’s up from 40 percent in 2008,
when a real estate boom started to collapse.  “We could also consider a downgrade if political support
for the current reform agenda were to wane,” the S&P statement
said.“ Moreover, we could lower the ratings if we see that
Spain’s external position worsens or its competitiveness does
not continue to approach that of its trading partners, a key
factor for Spain to return to sustainable economic and
employment growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  