-- Spain Yields at 6% Show Bank, Economy Risk: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-04-26T08:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/spain-yields-at-6-show-bank-economy-risk-euro-credit.html
As  Spain ’s recession undermines
efforts to cut the deficit, the risk of bank losses is keeping
10-year yields at almost 6 percent as investors speculate the
government will be forced to bail out the financial system.  The nation’s 10-year borrowing costs have climbed about 70
basis points this year as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles
to convince investors he can control public finances amid
soaring unemployment and a contracting economy. Banks threaten
to disrupt the premier’s efforts as bad loans reach the highest
levels in almost two decades.  “Spain is likely to need support in both the banking and
government sectors,” said Jamie Stuttard, head of international
bond portfolio management at  Fidelity Investments , which has
$1.2 trillion of assets. “Government bond market developments
hold the key.”  Yields on 10-year Spanish bonds surpassed 6 percent on
seven trading days this month, boosting concern that borrowing
costs may reach levels that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal . The rate was 5.77 percent at 9:03 a.m.
London time.  Investors lost 1.2 percent, including reinvested interest,
on Spanish debt repayable in one year or more over the past
three months, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The bonds
are the worst performers in  Europe  after Greece.  Economic Contraction  The Bank of Spain said April 23 that  gross domestic product 
contracted 0.4 percent in the first quarter, tipping the nation
into its second recession since 2009. Rajoy said March 2 that
that nation would miss its 4.4 percent  deficit  target and then
agreed 10 days later with euro-region finance ministers to a new
goal of 5.3 percent.  Spain’s budget shortfall will reach 6 percent this year and
5.7 percent in 2013, as the government pushes through the
deepest budget cuts in at least three decades, according to
forecasts from the  International Monetary Fund  published April
17. Debt will reach 84 percent of GDP next year. While that’s
less than France and Italy, it’s up from 40 percent in 2008,
when a real estate boom started to collapse.  “The debt load is still relatively low, but the dynamics
behind it are worsening,” said Piet Lammens, head of research
at KBC Bank NV in Brussels. “They have no growth and low
employment. Spain is the next in line for the market as it
doesn’t believe the country can keep up its austerity measures.
What is needed is a separation between the banking risk and the
government risk. The combination of the two is really lethal.”  Bad Loans  For Spanish banks, non-performing loans as a proportion of
total lending jumped to 8.16 percent in February, the highest
level since 1994, from less than 1 percent in 2007, according to
Bank of Spain data published April 18.  The ratio rose from 7.91 percent in January as 3.8 billion
euros ($5 billion) of loans soured in February, a 110 percent
increase from the same month a year ago. That pushed the total
credit that the regulator lists as “doubtful” to 143.8 billion
euros, or about 10 percent of GDP.  Ireland was forced to seek a 67.5 billion-euro
international rescue in November 2010, as costs to save its
banks and finance the  budget deficit  became too big. The Spanish
government has repeatedly said it doesn’t plan to use taxpayers
funds to bail out banks.  “Spain is quite comparable, to a certain extent, with
Ireland,” said Elaine Lin, a strategist at Morgan Stanley in
London. “But problems are not obvious. No-one knows how much
the banks will need. With the economy not growing for the next
year and a half, even if the banks get bailed out, there are
still a lot of risks and the market pricing reflects this.”  Capital Needs  Spanish banks probably need 50 billion euros of additional
capital, Morgan Stanley analysts estimate. The figure may rise
to as much as 160 billion euros in a worst-case scenario, Lin
said. The banks could try to raise the capital themselves or get
it from either the Spanish government or the European Financial
Stability Facility, she said.  “It isn’t clear whether all of that can come from the
private sector,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-
rate strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “I would guess they will need some help. Overall, it’s
not going to be fun. Countries like Spain have effectively
binged on their credit cards and stopping that is difficult.
There are tough choices to make.”  Less than three months after changing the banking law to
force lenders to recognize deeper real estate losses, Spain’s
government is seeking more ways to restore confidence in its
financial industry.  Market Credibility  Spanish banks may pool property in jointly owned companies
under a proposal designed to get assets off lenders’ books, an
official at the  Economy Ministry  said April 23.  Rajoy’s government has time to implement more austerity
measures and gain market credibility, said Nicola Marinelli, who
oversees $153 million at Glendevon King Asset Management. The
nation can cope with bond yields at current levels, he said.  “Spain will probably be given the benefit of the doubt”
and retain its ability to borrow in financial markets, London-
based Marinelli said by phone. “There is still time before
things get to the worst. A lot of effort has been put in by the
government and the banks and this takes time to work.”  Credit-default swaps insuring Spanish debt have risen to
468 basis points from 380 at the start of the year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They reached a euro-era record of
511 basis points on April 16. That compares with 440 basis
points for  Italy , down from 484 basis points at the start of the
year. Swaps on German debt are 86 basis points.  “It’s hard to avoid assistance altogether at this stage,”
said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in London. “It’s very unlikely Spain
will be able to dig its way out of this hole. Some form of
external assistance will be needed, perhaps a bailout of the
banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  