-- Spotify Said Developing Pandora-Like Online Radio Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-26T20:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/spotify-said-developing-pandora-like-online-radio-service.html
(Corrects name of investor in final paragraph.)  Spotify Ltd., the London-based
online music provider, is developing a U.S. Internet radio
service that would directly challenge  Pandora Media Inc. (P) , said
two people with knowledge of the situation.  Spotify’s current service functions like a music
collection, allowing users to create playlists from specific
albums and tracks. The new format would be similar to Pandora’s,
which operates like radio and is cheaper to operate because
royalty rates are lower and set by Congress.  The new service would start by year-end and be supported by
advertising, said the people, who weren’t authorized to talk
publicly. The company has begun notifying some content partners
of its plans, they said.  “We have no announcements to share at this time,” Graham
James, a spokesman for Spotify in New York, said in an
interview. He declined to comment further.  An online radio offering would advance Spotify’s strategy
of attracting users with free, ad-supported services who can be
converted later into paying  subscribers . About one-third of
Spotify users have signed up for paid plans offering unlimited,
commercial-free music on computers and mobile devices.  Still, its audience is smaller. Closely held Spotify,
founded in 2006, had 10 million registered users worldwide, and
3 million paying  subscribers , it said in November. Pandora,
started in 2005, has 150 million registered users, with 49
million logging in within the last 30 days, according to the
company. The Oakland, California-based company doesn’t operate
outside the U.S.  Music Access  In addition to drawing more potential listeners, a Pandora-
like radio service would give Spotify users access to artists
who are now withholding their music.  Spotify has content deals with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony Music,
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music, EMI Group and Warner Music Group.
Under those agreements, artists, record companies and publishers
receive a cut of ad sales and subscriber fees.  Spotify lacks the rights to play some artists, such as The
Beatles. Others, including The Black Keys and Adele, have
withheld new releases citing threats to music sales over
services such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes.  Radio Rules  While Pandora users can’t choose specific songs, they have
access to any artist whose music has been published, because the
service operates under federal rules. Royalties paid by Pandora
and other online radio companies are set by the Copyright
Royalty Board, a division of the Library of Congress.  Pandora users  create  radio stations that play songs by a
specific artist and related performers, with display and audio
ads mixed in. The company, whose investors include former  News
Corp. (NWSA)  Chief Operating Officer Peter Chernin, was little changed
at $8.57 at the close in New York. The stock has fallen 14
percent this year.  Spotify raised $100 million last year from venture capital
investors including DST Global, Accel Partners and Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, achieving a valuation of about $1
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  