-- Spreadtrum Boosts Index Gains on Chips Shipment: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-04-26T21:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/spreadtrum-boosts-index-gains-on-chips-shipment-china-overnight.html
Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) 
jumped to the highest level in more than a week, boosting an
index of Chinese stocks traded in the U.S., after announcing
plans to ship new types of smartphone chips.  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based phone chip designer, climbed
for a fourth day, the fifth-biggest gainer on the  Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the
U.S. The gauge climbed 1.6 percent to 103.32 at the close of
trading in New York, bringing its advance over the past two days
to 2.7 percent, the most since April 12.  Shanghai-based Spreadtrum said yesterday that it will start
shipping 1 million new chips in the second quarter for Android
and other smartphones. The devices, which allow users to access
the Internet and run software as well as make calls, may
constitute 30 percent of  China ’s mobile-phone market this year,
from less than 10 percent in the past 12 months, Carl Yeung,
chief financial officer of Sky-Mobi Ltd., a mobile applications
developer, said in a March interview.  “Spreadtrum’s new products showed it was on schedule to
produce chips enabling low-priced smartphones, as the feature
phone market is shrinking,” T  Michael Walkley , a technology
stock analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in Minneapolis, said by
phone yesterday. “People are moving to smartphones. The start
of shipment will boost Spreadtrum’s earnings in the second half
while some contributions will start from the second quarter.”  Spreadtrum  advanced  4.7 percent to $14.79 in U.S. trading,
the highest close since April 17. The increase pushed
Spreadtrum’s four-day rally to 12 percent.  Geithner Urges China  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed for a third straight
day, adding 0.6 percent to $37.74. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  rose 0.7 percent to 1,399.98, extending a rally to three
days after data showed contracts to buy U.S. homes increased
more than economists predicted in March.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called on China
to loosen state control of its financial system and to raise the
ceiling on deposit interest rates.  “Financial sector reforms are critical to China’s
continued growth -- and that growth in turn represents
tremendous opportunity for American companies and workers,”
Geithner said in remarks prepared for a speech in San Francisco
yesterday. “Financial reform in China will help reduce one of
the main advantages China’s state-owned enterprises have in
competing with U.S. companies.”  Geithner was speaking ahead of his trip to China next week
to meet with officials of the world’s second-largest economy.
The U.S. will raise longstanding issues from the value of
China’s currency to intellectual property protection.  Monetary Policy  Speculation that Chinese policy makers will undertake more
easing of monetary policy has been bolstering the nation’s
equities, said Michael Gayed, chief investment strategist in New
York at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on more than $150
million in assets.  “Markets price on hope and the rumor is that China is
going to stimulate to counter slower growth given Brazil and
India have already lowered rates,” Gayed said by phone
yesterday. “China is the last one to start really actively
doing that.”  China Unicom Earnings  China has cut  reserve requirements  for banks twice since
November, though it has kept benchmark rates on hold since July
at the highest level since 2008. India reduced its repurchase
rate by 50 basis points on April 18, while Brazil’s Selic rate
has been decreased six times since August.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU) , the nation’s second-largest
mobile phone company and the first to offer service contracts
for Apple Inc’s iPhones, jumped 5.2 percent to $17.53 in New
York, the biggest one-day surge since November.  First-quarter net income at the Beijing-based wireless
carrier increased sixfold to 1 billion yuan ($159 million), from
a restated 145 million yuan a year earlier, according to a
company statement released on April 25. Revenue rose 25 percent
to 61.2 billion yuan in the first quarter, from 49 billion yuan,
beating the median analyst estimate of 56.8 billion yuan in a
Bloomberg survey.  Unicom’s American depositary receipts, each representing 10
common shares, traded 0.5 percent above its  Hong Kong  stock, the
first time it registered a  premium  in five days. The shares
climbed 4 percent yesterday to HK$13.54 in Hong Kong, the
equivalent of $1.74 per share.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.1 percent to 2,404.70
yesterday, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong climbed 0.9 percent to
10,911.55.  Dangdang  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the nation’s biggest
Internet bookseller, added 1.3 percent to $8.34 in New York
yesterday. Shares have advanced 90 percent this year.  PetroChina Co. (PTR)  gained 3.3 percent to $148.47 as the
country’s biggest oil producer reported that first-quarter
profit rose after it ramped up oil and gas production.  Net
income (857)  increased 5.8 percent from a year earlier to 39.2 billion
yuan, PetroChina reported yesterday, beating the 34.8 billion
yuan mean estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (SNP) , known as Sinopec, slipped
0.1 percent to $105.14 as earnings slumped on losses from
selling fuels at state-controlled prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  