-- Starbucks Falls 5% After Same-Store Sales Trail Estimates
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-04-27T13:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/starbucks-falls-after-same-store-sales-trail-estimates.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s
largest coffee-shop chain, fell the most in more than eight
months after reporting second-quarter same-store sales that
trailed analysts’ estimates amid weaker demand in  Europe .  The  shares  dropped 6 percent to $57 at 9:55 a.m. in  New
York , after falling 6.7 percent for the biggest intraday decline
since Aug. 18. The Seattle-based company’s stock gained 32
percent this year before today.  Sales at stores open at least 13 months rose 7 percent
globally in the quarter, Starbucks said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts projected a gain of 8.2 percent, the average
of 17 estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. Such sales fell 1
percent in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  amid “slight
decreases” in transactions and average check, Starbucks said.  Customers in Europe “are just cautious, as you would
expect, not unlike what they were like in the U.S. three and
four years ago,” Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said in
an interview. Starbucks “is not immune from that,” he said.  Second-quarter  net income  advanced 18 percent to $309.9
million, or 40 cents a share, from $261.6 million, or 34 cents,
a year earlier, the company said. Analysts projected 39 cents,
the average of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Starbucks raised its  forecast  for fiscal 2012 profit
excluding certain items to as much as $1.84 a share, compared
with a previous estimate of up to $1.82. Analysts estimate
$1.86, on average. Full-year revenue growth will be in the “low
teens,” Starbucks said in the statement.  Turnaround Effort  Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  recently has sought
to boost the company’s flagging business in Europe by increasing
advertising and changing its drink recipes there. Schultz, 58,
returned to the CEO position in 2008 amid declining sales to
engineer a U.S. turnaround after the company opened stores too
quickly.  Starbucks is “optimistic” that Europe can be a profitable
market for the company, Schultz said yesterday on a conference
call. Still, the rebound “won’t happen overnight,” he said.  The company has raised menu prices in some markets this
year because of higher costs for coffee beans. Commodities will
add about $230 million to costs in fiscal 2012, the company said
yesterday.  Same-store sales climbed 18 percent in  China  and  Asia 
Pacific, matching analysts’ estimates, according to a survey by
Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based
Kaul Advisory Group. Comparable or same-store sales are
considered an indicator of a retailer’s growth because they
include only established locations.  Starbucks is accelerating unit growth in China and Asia,
where it has more than 3,000 cafes, and will open 400 stores
there this year, it said in the statement.  Revenue advanced 15 percent to $3.2 billion during the
quarter ended April 1, compared with analysts’ average estimate
of $3.19 billion.  Starbucks has about 17,400 locations worldwide and plans to
open about 1,000 net new stores this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  