-- Starwood First Quarter-Profit Surges on Vacation Unit Sales
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-26T11:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/starwood-first-quarter-profit-surges-on-vacation-unit-sales.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, said first-
quarter earnings rose more than fourfold, driven by sales of
vacation units at the company’s new resort in south Florida.  Net income increased to $128 million, or 65 cents a share,
from $28 million, or 14 cents, a year earlier, the Stamford,
Connecticut-based company said in a statement today. Revenue
fell 2 percent to $402 million.  Earnings were buoyed by deals at  Miami Beach ’s St. Regis
Bal Harbour Resort, which started selling units at the end of
last year and opened in January. Starwood’s hotel operations
were hurt by slower demand in Europe, according to Nikhil Bhalla, senior lodging analyst at FBR & Co. in Arlington,
Virginia.  “A majority of the increase in profit is from the
vacation-ownership side,” he said in an interview before
earnings were announced. “On the hotel side,  Europe  likely held
them back because of the currency impact and the weak economic
situation there.”  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancy and rates, climbed 5.8 percent in the first quarter
for hotels open worldwide at least a year. It rose 7.1 percent
in  North America  and fell 1.9 percent in Europe. Demand in
Europe, which accounts for 12 percent of the company’s room
count, is likely to remain weak this year, Chief Executive
Officer Frits van Paasschen said in February.  Global Growth  Starwood said in February it expects global revpar to grow
5 percent to 7 percent for this year.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, last week surged the most in almost five
months after reporting an increase in earnings and raising its
2012 forecast amid climbing business-group demand.  Occupancies this year through March at luxury hotels in the
U.S. climbed to 71 percent from 68 percent a year earlier,
according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,
 Tennessee . That compares to an increase to 65 percent from 63
percent among all hotel types in the top 25 U.S. markets.  Separately, Starwood today said it signed an agreement to
manage three hotels in Dubai being built by closely held Al
Habtoor Group LLC. The hotel complex will have one million
square feet (93,000 square meters) of space, the companies said
in a joint statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  