-- State Street Begins Asset-Allocation ETFs in Active Push
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-04-26T19:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/state-street-opens-three-asset-allocation-etfs-in-active-push.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the second-
largest manager of exchange-traded funds, opened three products
that can spread money across a range of asset classes in a push
into actively managed ETFs.  The funds will use tactical asset-allocation strategies and
invest in ETFs including those run by State Street,  James Ross ,
senior managing director of  State Street Global Advisors , the
Boston-based company’s money-management unit, said today at a
conference in New York. The mix of underlying investments will
include stocks, bonds, commodities and other asset classes.  “I can see active ETFs being a larger part of the ETF
landscape,” Ross said. “We obviously plan to participate in
that growing market.”  State Street, which introduced the industry’s oldest ETF in
1993, manages about $307 billion in the products, entirely in
passive strategies. The firm’s active ETFs come about two months
after  Bill Gross  became the most prominent fund manager to push
into the industry. Gross’s Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded
Fund, which has beaten the  bond market  with a 3.3 percent return
since it started on March 1, has gathered $540 million in
assets.  State Street joins Pacific Investment Management Co.,
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and at least two dozen money managers that are
vying for a slice of the active ETF business, which accounts for
less than 0.5 percent of the $1.06 trillion in U.S.-registered
ETF assets as of Feb. 29, according to the  Investment Company
Institute .  ETF Expenses  The new asset-allocation ETFs are the Multi-Asset Real
Return ETF, which has an annual expense ratio of 0.7 percent,
the Income Allocation ETF, which also charges 0.7 percent, and
the Global Allocation ETF, which costs 0.35 percent. The funds
will be managed by State Street’s investment solutions group,
which runs more than $160 billion in strategies that allocate
money across a range of assets.  ETFs typically hold baskets of securities while trading
throughout the day like stocks, instead of being priced once a
day like most mutual funds. Active versions seek to combine the
skill of fund managers in selecting securities with the lower
fees, market trading and tax advantages of ETFs. Passive
products, which seek to closely track market benchmarks such as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, dominate the business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  