-- Europe Pushed to ‘Suicide’ on Austerity, Stiglitz Says
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/stiglitz-says-europe-is-headed-to-suicide-on-austerity.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph Stiglitz  said  Europe  is in a “dire” situation as a
focus on austerity pushes the continent toward “suicide.”  “There has never been any successful austerity program in
any large country,” Stiglitz, 69, told reporters in Vienna
yesterday. “The European approach definitely is the least
promising. I think Europe is headed to a suicide. ”  Politicians across the 27  European Union members  are
implementing austerity measures totaling about 450 billion euros
($600 billion) amid a sovereign-debt crisis. At the same time
the debt of the euro region rose last year to the highest since
the start of the single currency as governments increased
borrowing to plug budget deficits and fund bailouts of fellow
nations crippled by the fiscal crisis.  If  Greece  was the only part of Europe that was having
austerity, authorities could ignore it, Stiglitz said, “but if
you have U.K., France, you know all the countries having
austerity, it’s like a joint austerity and the economic
consequences of that are going to be dire.”  While euro-area leaders “realized that austerity itself
won’t work and that we need growth,” no actions have followed
and “what they agreed to do last December is a recipe to ensure
that it dies,” he said, referring to the euro.  ‘Lethal Combination’  “The problem is that with the euro, you’ve separated out
the government from the central bank and the printing presses
and you’ve created a big problem,” Stiglitz said, adding that
“austerity combined with the constraints of the euro are a
lethal combination.”  The economist said he sees a core euro area of “one or two
countries” made up of  Germany  and possibly the Netherlands or
Finland as the “likely scenario if Europe maintains the
austerity approach,” he said. “The austerity approach will
lead to high levels of unemployment that will be politically
unacceptable and will make deficits get worse.”  Youth unemployment in Spain has been at 50 percent since
the crisis in 2008 with “no hope of things getting better
anytime soon,” said Stiglitz, who is a professor for economics
at  Columbia University . “What you are doing is destroying the
human capital, you are creating alienated young people.”  To push for growth, European leaders could refocus
 government spending  to “fully utilize” institutions like the
 European Investment Bank , introduce taxes to improve economic
performance and use balanced budget multipliers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  