-- Suburban to Buy Inergy Propane Unit for $1.8 Billion
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-04-26T16:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/suburban-to-buy-inergy-propane-unit-for-1-8-billion.html
Suburban Propane Partners LP (SPH) , the
New Jersey-based fuel distributor, agreed to buy the retail
propane business of  Inergy LP (NRGY)  for $1.8 billion in stock, cash
and debt, doubling its customer base.  Suburban will pay $200 million in cash and $600 million in
common units as well as offer to exchange as much as $1 billion
in senior notes, Kansas City, Missouri-based Inergy said in a
statement today. The propane unit has 600,000 customers in 33
states, Whippany, New Jersey-based Suburban said in a separate
statement.  The acquisition will make Suburban the third-largest U.S.
propane distributor by volume, according to the company’s
statement, expanding sales into 11 new states. The deal,
expected to close in the second half, will increase Suburban’s
annual investor payments by 2.6 percent to $3.50 a unit. The
company will issue about $250 million in units to fund the
purchase.  “The combined operations will be a larger and more
geographically diverse company,” Inergy Chief Executive Officer
John Sherman said in the statement. The sale accelerates the
company’s conversion into a natural-gas gatherer and processor,
he said.  It will take about three years to fully integrate Inergy’s
operations, and the company expects annual savings of $50
million once that’s complete, Suburban’s Chief Financial Officer
Michael A. Stivala said today on a conference call with
analysts.  Inergy, which had declined 31 percent this year through
yesterday, rose 17 percent to $19.69 at 12:25 p.m. in  New York .
Suburban gained 0.2 percent to $43.71. The propane company has a
market value of $1.54 billion and has dropped 8.5 percent this
year.  Propane Uses  Propane is a heating and cooking gas that’s easily
pressurized into a liquid for transportation and storage. It
accounts for about 4 percent of U.S. energy use, according to
the National Propane Gas Association.  Inergy plans to distribute the 13.7 million Suburban common
units it will receive to its unitholders.  Greenhill & Co. and Credit Suisse Group AG advised Inergy
on the transaction.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  advised Suburban.  AmeriGas Partners LP (APU) , based in King of Prussia,
Pennsylvania, and  Ferrellgas Partners LP (FGP) , based in  Overland
Park ,  Kansas , are the largest U.S. propane distributors by
volume, Stivala said on the call.  (Inergy will hold an investor call to discuss the agreement
and financial results for the quarter ended March 31 at 2 p.m.
New York time.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  