-- Sunoco Closing to Leave 2 Refiners With 86% of East Coast Market
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-04-26T18:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/sunoco-closing-to-leave-2-refiners-with-86-of-east-coast-market.html
Gasoline prices from  Florida  to
Maine will probably rise after  Sunoco Inc. (SUN) ’s planned closing of
a Philadelphia refinery this year makes the market less
competitive, the American Antitrust Institute said.  Sunoco’s inability to find a buyer, which may lead to a
shutdown, would give  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF)  of Parsippany,  New Jersey ,
and Houston-based ConocoPhillips control of 86 percent of the
region’s refining capacity, Diana Moss, an American Antitrust
Institute director, said today in a testimony for a hearing of
the Joint Economic Committee of Congress.  Scarce supplies and constraints on pipelines and storage
capacity probably will cause refined-product prices to climb
along the U.S. East Coast more quickly than elsewhere, she said.  “Such circumstances can create incentives for firms to
exercise market power through unilateral or coordinated conduct,
and are therefore important to monitor,” Moss said.  The Obama administration was criticized by Republicans as
gasoline prices at the pump climbed to a 2012 high of $3.936 on
April 4.  Regular gasoline , averaged nationwide, fell 1 cent to
$3.83 a gallon yesterday, the lowest since March 14, according
to travel adviser AAA.  Sunoco is selling its  Philadelphia refinery , the world’s
oldest continuously operating petroleum facility, which may be
closed by July if the sale fails. The company closed its Marcus
Hook,  Pennsylvania , plant, last year, and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  has
also idled its Trainer plant in the state.  The Philadelphia and Marcus Hook facilities accounted for
about 50 percent of East Coast  refining capacity .  -- Editors: Steve Geimann, Jon Morgan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  