-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Stayed Lower in April on Fiscal Squeeze
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/u-k-consumer-confidence-stayed-lower-in-april-on-fiscal-squeeze.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  was
unchanged this month and is unlikely to improve after data this
week showed the economy slid into its first double-dip recession
since 1975, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  An index of sentiment held at minus 31 from March, the
London-based research group said in an e-mailed report today.
The median estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 20 economists
was for an increase to minus 30. GfK surveyed 1,998 people from
March 30 to April 15.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said on April 25 he was “very
disappointed” with data showing the  economy shrank  in the first
quarter. He said his government won’t backtrack on plans for the
biggest fiscal tightening since World War II, even as consumers
are squeezed by wage growth that’s lagging behind inflation and
unemployment close to a 16-year high.  “The figures this month will not offer the government any
relief in light of the news that the economy has slipped back
into recession,” Nick Moon, GfK Social Research managing
director, said in the report. “There are no signs either within
the survey or in the recent economic figures to suggest any
immediate improvement.”  A measure of shoppers’ assessment of their personal
finances over the past 12 months rose 2 points to minus 23 this
month, and an index of their views on the economy over the
period rose 2 points to minus 57, GfK said. Their views on the
climate for making major purchases rose 1 point to minus 30.  Consumers’ assessment of their financial situation in the
coming 12 months fell 3 points to minus 13, and a measure of
their outlook for the economy fell to minus 33 from minus 30.  The 0.2 percent first-quarter contraction has left output
4.3 percent below its peak in early 2008, before the financial
crisis struck. Consumers are under strain with  inflation  at 3.5
percent and wage growth of 1.1 percent.  The Bank of England’s next policy decision will be
announced on May 10, when officials will have new quarterly
economic forecasts. Policy maker  Martin Weale  said yesterday the
case for extending stimulus “is stronger” after the GDP data.
The matter is “a decision I’ll come to” next month, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  