-- S&P 500 Caps Biggest Three-Day Advance Since February
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-26T21:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-before-jobless-claims-data.html
U.S. stocks gained, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest three-day advance since
February, after better-than-estimated housing data overshadowed
disappointing earnings at United Parcel Service Inc.  A measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes rose 4.8 percent
as PulteGroup Inc. rallied 10 percent amid a narrower loss.
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  advanced 2.3 percent as the energy company lifted
its dividend.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest Internet retailer,
surged 12 percent at 4:57 p.m. New York time as revenue beat
estimates.  UPS (UPS) , the biggest package-delivery company that is
considered a proxy for the economy, retreated 1.8 percent.  The S&P 500 increased 0.7 percent to 1,399.98 at 4 p.m. New
York time. It has advanced 2.4 percent in three days. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  climbed 113.90 points, or 0.9 percent,
to 13,204.62 today. About 6.7 billion shares changed hands on
U.S. exchanges, almost in line with the three-month average.  “Things are better,” said Michelle Gibley, director of
international research at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab
Corp. Her firm has $1.83 trillion in client assets. “We did get
several months of better-than-expected economic data. The
earnings season has been pretty good.”  Equities rose as data showed that signed contracts to buy
U.S. homes  increased  more than forecast in March. The Federal
Reserve yesterday upgraded its estimates for growth and
unemployment this year. Policy makers are holding off on
additional steps to boost the economy amid signs that the more
than two-year expansion is gaining strength. Yet earlier today,
data signaled a cooling labor market as more Americans than
forecast filed applications for unemployment benefits.  Earnings Season  Investors also watched earnings data as profits have topped
forecasts at  75 percent  of  S&P 500  companies reporting since
April 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Per-share
profits are forecast to have grown 3.3 percent in the first-
quarter, Bloomberg data show. That’s up from the 0.8 percent
growth projection before the earnings season started.  “The most recent concern of the bears was that earnings
this quarter were going to disappoint and take the market
lower,” Birinyi Associates Inc., the Westport, Connecticut-
based firm founded by  Laszlo Birinyi , said in a note to clients.
“That this was a concern last quarter, as well, was
conveniently forgotten.”  Today’s gain extended this year’s advance in the S&P 500 to
11 percent and the benchmark gauge for American equities trimmed
its  monthly decline  to 0.6 percent. If the S&P 500 erases its
April drop, it will cap the fifth straight month of gains, the
longest winning streak since 2009. Financials and energy shares
had the biggest losses in April, while telephone companies rose.  Homebuilders Rally  All 11 stocks in a measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes
gained.  PulteGroup (PHM)  jumped 10 percent to $9.58. The largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, which has reported a loss in six of the
last seven quarters, has been focused on cutting costs after the
acquisition of Centex Corp. in August 2009.  Chevron rose 2.3 percent to $106.22. The second-largest
U.S. energy company boosted its quarterly  dividend  to 90 cents a
share from 81 cents.  More S&P 500 companies are paying  dividends  than at any
time since 2000 after Apple Inc., Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and six
other corporations initiated payouts this year. The number has
risen to 401, according to  Howard Silverblatt , S&P’s senior
index analyst. His estimate for total payouts this year, which
Silverblatt said is under review, is a record $279 billion.  Companies are increasing shareholder returns in the form of
dividends and buybacks after the 2008 financial crisis led them
to hoard  cash  to a record $1 trillion by the end of 2011. The
rise in payouts coincides with a 13th quarter of  better-than-
estimated earnings .  Record High  “Given underlying fundamentals, low payouts and cash
reserves, 2012 should set a record high for cash dividend
payments,” Silverblatt wrote in an e-mail today.  Amazon surged 12 percent to $220 after the close of regular
trading. Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is looking to add
customers by pouring money into new versions of the Kindle and
warehouses that are equipped to send out products faster. The
Kindle Fire tablet is the best-selling item on Amazon’s site,
the company said.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  rallied 2.8 percent, the most in the
Dow, to $58.95. The world’s largest retailer rebounded after an
8.2 percent slump in three days, which was triggered by
allegations that executives in  Mexico  paid more than $24 million
in bribes to speed expansion.  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS)  surged 12 percent to $86.76. The
software maker  forecast  earnings in 2012 will be at least $2.75
a share, topping the average analyst estimate of $2.72.  UPS Slumps  The  Dow Jones Transportation Average (TRAN)  slid 1.1 percent. UPS
dropped 1.8 percent to $78.25. Package volume gains at UPS, an
economic bellwether because it carries goods from mobile devices
to pharmaceuticals, have slowed in recent quarters as Asian
economic growth cools. Average revenue per piece stagnated as
the company struggles to raise rates.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , which operates the world’s biggest cargo
airline, last month projected a profit range for this quarter
whose low end trailed analysts’ estimates as the company pared
its global growth forecast.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  slumped 4.5 percent to $57.90 after the
market close. The world’s largest coffee-shop chain reported
second-quarter same-store sales that trailed analysts’ estimates
amid weaker demand in  Europe .  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  declined 0.9 percent to $86.07. The
world’s largest energy company by market value said net income
fell 11 percent as its biggest first-quarter production decline
since 2008 wiped out most of the benefit of record oil prices.  Dow Chemical  Dow Chemical Co. slumped 3.4 percent to $34.85 after rising
costs for oil-based raw materials in  Europe (DOW)  and Asia cut
earnings in plastics.  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  plunged 14 percent, the most in
the S&P 500, to $33.15 after forecasting  profit  that missed
estimates. The company that helps businesses deliver data at
faster speeds over the Internet said Chief Executive Officer
Paul Sagan will leave by the end of 2013. Akamai’s sales more
than quadrupled during his leadership.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  plunged 8.2 percent to $45.31. The third-biggest
health insurer by sales reported first-quarter profit that
 missed  analyst estimates.  The S&P 500 may lose as much as  10 percent  from current
levels given the market’s tendency to give back some gains after
a “strong” rally, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Mary Ann Bartels.  ‘In a Correction’  “We’re in a correction,” Bartels, the New York-based head
of technical and market analysis at Bank of America, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “We’re starting to get sell signals
on our intermediate indicators.”  Industries such as consumer staples, telecommunications and
utilities have fallen too much as investors favor more
“defensive”  industries , Bartels said. Stocks driven by the
economy, including materials, energy and industrial shares, have
fallen out of favor, pointing to a potential “deeper pullback”
for the U.S. equity market, she said.  “The market is still staying away from commodity-sensitive
cyclicals,” Bartels said. “As long as that continues, that
means the market is more likely to go down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  