-- U.S. Army Should Embrace, Not Repress, Soldiers’ Ambition
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S a m e t
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/u-s-army-should-embrace-not-repress-soldiers-ambition.html
In his landmark 19th-century
treatise “On War,” Carl von Clausewitz asked “whether history
has ever known a great general who was not ambitious; whether,
indeed, such a figure is conceivable.”  Clausewitz knew that ambition had gotten a bum rap: “Other
emotions,” he explained, “may be more common and more
venerated -- patriotism, idealism, vengeance, enthusiasm of
every kind --but they are no substitute for a thirst for fame
and honor.”  Clausewitz said those other qualities could never produce
the comprehensive investment required of a commander-in-chief:
“They cannot give him, as can ambition, a personal, almost
proprietary interest in every aspect of fighting, so that he
turns each opportunity to best advantage.” He argued that only
ambition “for honor and renown,” at all levels of command,
could foster the “inventiveness, energy, and competitive
enthusiasm, which vitalizes an army and makes it victorious.”  Today,  enshrined  together with duty, integrity, loyalty,
personal courage, respect and selfless service as one of the
seven U.S. Army values, honor is defined as the capacity for
“living up to” the other six. Yet it has been decoupled from
the now suspect desire for fame.  Ambition, meanwhile, has become a dirty word. Promotion and
retirement ceremonies celebrate honorable military careers, but
there is only vitriol for perceived careerists and a collective
unease at the proposition that the success of military
enterprise might in fact hinge as much on the presence of
sufficiently ambitious individuals as on an army’s enthusiastic
embrace of a self-abnegating ethos of sacrifice.  ‘Fame and Honor’  Ambition and martial distinction have long been linked in
the Western imagination. What Clausewitz called “fame and
honor” the ancient Greeks named “kleos,” and they regarded a
hunger for it as the warrior’s chief motivation. The promise of
spoils certainly helped -- an enemy’s armor, perhaps, or a
captured concubine -- and the desire to avenge one’s comrades
galvanized soldiers in the midst of a fight. But in the end what
was the point of risking one’s life if not for the possibility
of doing something worthy of poetic remembrance? Plutarch
depicts Alexander the Great brooding before Achilles’ tomb,
envious of his predecessor’s good fortune in having Homer “the
great herald” to immortalize his exploits in epic song.  Like courage, ambition has a kind of moral neutrality;
nevertheless, it is more readily associated with a lack of
scruples. Remember Lady Macbeth’s complaint that her husband is
“not without ambition, but without / The illness should attend
it.” Shakespeare understood that a plot cannot do without
ambition. His contemporary, the statesman and philosopher
 Francis Bacon , proposed that, like drama, history itself could
not advance in the absence of the ambitious. It is ambition,
Bacon wrote, that drives men “forward,” but once their
progress is checked the ambitious become “secretly discontent
... and are best pleased when things go backward.”  Plutarch, whose work influenced Shakespeare and Bacon,
illuminated ambition’s inherent volatility and ambiguity.
According to Plutarch, ambition is an unavoidable hazard of
public life whose consequences are uniformly “misshapen and
unnatural.” The ambitious chase “glory,” which is but a poor
copy of virtue. Plutarch proposed that ambition at once explains
the past and enables the future because those possessed of it
are always chafing against the present. They collide with all
the force of planets in intercepting orbits, their energy
proving at once an organizing principle and an entropic force,
capable, as in the case of Alexander, of moving men and materiel
from Macedonia all the way to the banks of the Ganges, where the
forward march of conquest degenerated into the desultory retreat
of thwarted desire.  An Undemocratic Force  Plutarch’s Stoic mistrust of ambition was echoed by many of
his most devoted 18th century readers, including  John Adams , who
regarded this incendiary passion with the deepest suspicion
because he believed that “emulation next to self-preservation
will forever be the great spring of human actions.” For Adams,
ambition -- the catalyst that drives an individual to outdo
everyone else -- was a fundamentally undemocratic force. Only
“the balance of a well-ordered government,” he insisted, could
prevent “emulation from degenerating into dangerous ambition,”
the defender of liberty from turning tyrant.  Adams and many of his contemporaries were influenced by
Montesquieu’s claim that ambition was “pernicious in a
republic.” In “The Federalist,”  Alexander Hamilton , so often
accused of egregious ambition himself, concluded simply, “men
are ambitious, vindictive and rapacious.” Other contributors to
the constitutional debates, however, made an attempt to
distinguish what the pamphleteer John Stevens Jr. called the
“insatiate lust of domination and despotic sway” from “that
laudable desire of excelling in whatever we undertake, which is
the source of every excellence of which our nature is capable.”
Adams, too, contrasted “honorable” and “dishonorable”
ambition. Perhaps he brooded on the difference because he knew
so well the force of his own ambition, yet he also believed that
a civilian could never present the threat to republican
stability that an ambitious soldier could:  Julius Caesar ,
Napoleon, the proverbial man on horseback.  No ambition depicted in Plutarch’s “Lives” is more
extreme than that of Caesar, who sheds tears over his own
inadequacy while reading of Alexander’s accomplishments at the
same age. If it is true, however, that Caesar looked with envy
at Alexander’s achievements, ultimately his success led him
beyond the formula of comparing himself to others and into
something Plutarch describes as “a sort of emulous struggle
with himself, as if it had been with another, how he might outdo
his past actions by his future.” It is this solipsistic circuit
that destroys  Rome .  ‘Malign and Venomous’  In today’s military culture, ambition, no longer regarded
even as a vexing catalyst but rather as a distraction from
corporate success, has been forced underground -- precisely,
Bacon reminds us, where it is most “malign and venomous.”
Personal ambition is fundamentally at odds with perhaps the
thorniest Army value: selfless service. Doctrine exhorts
soldiers: “Put the welfare of the nation, the Army, and your
subordinates before your own.” If the only alternative is
selfishness, I’m all for a selfless service, but I think this is
a false dichotomy.  The Army notionally encourages the project of self-
development, but a thorough indoctrination in the value of
selflessness makes ordinary acts of self-cultivation --
especially intellectual pursuits without manifest, near-term
military application -- look like self-aggrandizement. To have
certain career targets -- battalion command, for example -- is
acceptable, but activities that reveal a desire for achievement
as well as service, which suggest a more particular investment
in the self with a strategic eye to the distant future, garner
suspicion in certain quarters. How dare you think of tomorrow
when there is so much to be done today?  Yet the totality, the all-or-nothing gambit, of
selflessness -- the denial of self as opposed to self-
development -- lacks the momentum necessary to propel the
soldier forward over the long haul. It might produce the
ephemeral zeal of the kamikaze or the suicide bomber, but it
cannot promote the sense of personal responsibility,
accountability or “proprietary interest” that Clausewitz
celebrated and that today’s Army leaders deem elemental to a
professional force.  The case of the present era’s most visible soldier, David Petraeus, illustrates the contemporary unease with ambition.
Supporters attribute to Petraeus the very inventiveness, energy,
competitiveness and capacity for investment Clausewitz
attributes to a “thirst for fame and honor.” But as Petraeus’s
biographer Paula Broadwell  notes , “Critics fault him for
ambition and self-promotion.” The news media, which have long
speculated about Petraeus’s political ambition, continue to
dissect the retired general’s motivations.  An Unselfish Quest  It is easy to accuse others of ambition, less easy perhaps
to link that ambition to particular ends. What do the ambitious
really want? Awards, medals, badges, advancement, victories:
These are the certifications of a soldier’s desire for
recognition. Nevertheless, military ambition -- like that of the
scientist, activist or political leader -- might also motivate
an unselfish quest in which personal accomplishment furthers a
more capacious goal: to minimize suffering, maximize the
potential of others, mobilize or transform an institution.  We derive the word ambition from the Latin “ambitio,”
denoting lawful campaigning for public office, literally “going
round” to garner support. The modern sense of striving for
recognition, popularity or fame was also alive to the Romans,
yet they never pretended they could do without it. For Bacon, a
sort of open and free market of ambition was essential to the
public weal: “He that seeketh to be eminent amongst able men
hath a great task, but that is ever good for the public. But he
that plots to be the only figure amongst ciphers is the decay of
an whole age.”  Montesquieu proposed that a “love of equality in a
democracy limits ambition to the sole desire, to the sole
happiness, of doing greater services to our country than the
rest of our fellow-citizens.” An ambition to serve prompts many
to a military career, yet over the course of that career,
superior service may periodically require pursuits that focus
exclusively on the self: personal experiences, conducted outside
the context of conventional military operational, training and
educational environments, that deepen competence, broaden
perspective, or unsettle preconceptions and biases. The Army
prizes uniformity, which it sometimes confuses with equity, and
shared experience, which if unleavened encourages a debilitating
groupthink rather than a productive esprit de corps.  Yet given sufficient avenues for exercise, personal
ambition might still be harnessed for good. A commander without
ambition, Bacon reminds us, is about as useful as a cavalryman
stripped of his spurs. Don’t expect to win a war, he admonished,
with a general like that.  (Elizabeth D. Samet is a professor of English at the U.S.
Military Academy and the author of “ Soldier’s Heart: Reading
Literature Through Peace and War at West Point .” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  easing student debt  and
 Europe’s growth pact ;  Michael Kinsley  on  toll roads and income
inequality ; Stephen L. Carter on  toll roads and budget deficits ;
 Jonathan Alter  on  community-college shortcomings ;  Jonathan Weil 
on  ratings firms .  To contact the writer of this article:
Elizabeth Samet at  eliz.samet@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at  fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 