-- U.S. Gas Export Limit of 10% Would Be ‘Smart,’ Dow CEO Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-04-26T18:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/u-s-gas-export-limit-of-10-would-be-smart-dow-ceo-says.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Liveris  said it would be “smart” for the U.S.
to limit natural-gas exports to 10 percent of output because
expansion plans in his industry are rooted in low gas prices.  Exporting more than 15 percent of the country’s gas
production would tighten markets too much and lead to higher
prices, Liveris said today in a telephone interview. Excessive
exports of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, could “kill”
chemical investments like the company’s $4 billion expansion in
 Texas  and  Louisiana , he said last week.  “We think 15 percent is about right,” Liveris, CEO of the
largest U.S. chemical company by revenue, said in the interview.
“Ten percent or less would probably be smart.”  Dow, which uses gas as a raw material and power source, is
among chemical makers expanding and building new U.S. factories
amid the lowest gas prices in a decade. Long-term U.S. gas
prices will stabilize around $4 per million British thermal
units, Liveris said today on a conference call. Gas futures
traded today at $2.11 per million British thermal units in  New
York  and dropped to less than $2 per million Btu for the first
time since 2002 on April 11.  Ethane, the component of natural gas that is most used to
make the plastics ingredient ethylene, is sometimes included in
LNG exports, Liveris said.  “That is one of the reasons we worry,” he said.  Propane, another gas component, is removed from gas
destined for LNG exports, Liveris said. That will keep prices
low for the company’s planned $1 billion propylene plant in
Freeport, Texas, regardless of how many LNG terminals are built,
he said.  Propylene is an ingredient in coatings, epoxies,
polyurethanes and other Dow products. Ethylene is the world’s
most used petrochemical, found primarily in polyethylene, the
plastic used to make garbage bags and packaging.  Dow, based in Midland,  Michigan , today reported first-
quarter net income fell to 35 cents a share from 54 cents a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  