-- U.S. Lawmakers Consider Phaseout of Wind Energy Tax Break
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-26T21:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/u-s-lawmakers-consider-phaseout-of-wind-energy-tax-break.html
U.S. lawmakers said they may
consider extending and then phasing out the main tax break for
producing  wind energy .  Representative Patrick Tiberi, an Ohio Republican, said
today he wanted to hear from the wind-energy industry about how
such a phase-out might work.  “Is it two years?” asked Tiberi, a senior member of the
tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. “Is it three years?
What is the magic number? And so this is the beginning of a
process, but I think it’s a helpful process.”  Tiberi spoke after a hearing that addressed the wind credit
and dozens of other expiring tax provisions. The wind tax credit
will lapse at the end of 2012, and industry advocates say the
pending expiration is causing job losses now.  During the hearing, lawmakers of both parties advocated an
extension of the wind tax credit.  “I really believe that’s important for our nation’s energy
future,” said Charles Bass, a New Hampshire Republican.  Tiberi said he thought a tax credit extension probably
wouldn’t become law before Congress leaves for its summer recess
in August. He said the Republican-led House may vote on some
expiring provisions before then.  ‘Vitally Important’  An extension of the production tax credit is “vitally
important,” said  Denise Bode , chief executive officer of the
 American Wind Energy Association .  “The wind industry would be receptive to working with
Congress” in considering a phase-down of the credit as
lawmakers reassess tax and energy policy, she said in a
statement.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who heads the
Finance Committee, said last month that a phase-out might be the
most realistic path to the credit’s extension.  “The industry needs a little boost, but that boost can’t
last forever,” he said.  Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, wouldn’t say whether he thought a resolution to
the issue was possible before the Nov. 6 election.  “We’re looking at all the options,” the Michigan
Republican said in a brief interview today.  The bill is H.R. 3307.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  