-- U.S. Senate Passes Aid to Victims of Domestic Violence
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/u-s-senate-republicans-support-domestic-violence-bill.html
U.S. Senate  Democrats are urging
lawmakers in the Republican-led House to quickly pass
legislation reauthorizing assistance to victims of domestic
violence.  Fifteen Senate Republicans joined all of the chamber’s
Democrats yesterday to pass a renewal of the 1994 Violence
Against Women Act and authorize $660 million through 2016 for
domestic violence shelters and police training. Democrats cast
the measure, passed 68-31, as a test of Republicans’ attitudes
toward women.  “Today’s strong bipartisan vote will give law enforcement
agencies the tools they need to prosecute and convict the
perpetrators of these heinous crimes, and will help victims get
the protection and support they need,” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said in a statement. “I urge my
colleagues in the House to quickly approve the Senate’s
bipartisan bill.”  Congressional Republicans have been trying to blunt
Democrats’ criticism that the party is hostile toward women.
 House Republicans  yesterday said they may vote as soon as the
week of May 14 on their version of a measure to reauthorize the
law.  “It has been the goal and the desire of Senate Republicans
to pass the Violence Against Women Act without procedural
impediment,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, told reporters before the vote.  Women Voters  Democrats say they hope their support for the bill will
shore up the party’s support among women voters. A Quinnipiac
University national poll conducted April 11-17 found that
President  Barack Obama  holds a 10-percentage-point advantage
among women in the poll. He was backed by 49 percent compared
with 39 percent for Romney. Obama trails slightly with men, with
43 percent supporting him compared with Romney’s 46 percent.  The funding authorized under the Senate bill is less than
the $682.5 million in the previous law, which expired Sept. 30.
First enacted as part of a broader violent-crime control bill,
the Violence Against Women Act was reauthorized in 2000 and
2005.  The legislation’s chief sponsor, Senator  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, said in an interview he hopes the Republican
votes in the Senate backing the bill would ease House passage of
the act.  “A strong vote here helps the people who want to do the
right thing over there,” he said.  The House’s legislation tracks closely with an alternative
put forth by Senate Republicans that would have stripped
language in the Senate bill expanding the number of visas
available to domestic violence victims who aid criminal
investigations.  ‘Great Victory’  “This is a great victory for women,” Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, said in an interview. “We were
pleased to get a number of Republican votes in the end, and this
is ready to move. Now it’s the House’s turn, and I’m very
hopeful we will be able to get it done.”  At Republicans’ urging, Democrats who control the Senate
allowed a vote on a proposal to give the Justice Department
funding to address an estimated 400,000 backlog of untested rape
kits. The chamber also voted on the Republican proposal that
would have deleted the visa language. Both amendments failed to
gain the 60 votes needed for adoption.  The White House strongly backed the Senate measure because
it provides services to victims and “improves the prosecution
of these crimes,”  Valerie Jarrett , senior adviser to Obama,
said yesterday in a conference call with reporters.  House Version  Jarrett wouldn’t say whether Obama would veto a House
version of the bill, adding that “all of our effort is going
into making sure” the Democratic measure passed the Senate.  According to the White House, incidents of domestic
violence have dropped by more than 50 percent since the law was
enacted in 1994. Even so, one in three women in the U.S. will
experience rape, physical violence or stalking by an intimate
partner at some time in their lives, the White House said,
citing the 2010 National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence
Survey.  The survey found that more than 12 million individuals
experienced domestic violence in the one-year period, and, while
women are disproportionately affected by domestic violence, men
also are victims.  The White House opposed the alternative proposed by
Republican Senators  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of  Texas , Jarrett said.  “We believe it takes us backwards,” she said. She said
the Republican measure would discourage local police departments
from arresting domestic violence offenders, delete provisions
for aiding gay men, lesbians and trans-gender people and weaken
proposals to confront high rates of violence on college
campuses.  Before yesterday’s vote, Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas
Republican, said Democrats are “making this harder than it
needs to be.” He said, “This should be simple.”  Leahy blamed Republicans, saying, “There should not have
been all this time to get to something that just makes sense.”  The bill is S. 1925.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  