-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 24 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-04-26T12:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-24-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/./   The Northeast and mid-Atlantic: A significant storm system
brought widespread rains (2-4 inches) to coastal areas of the
Northeast and mid-Atlantic region early this week, and generally
up to a foot of unusually late-season snow across the higher
terrain of west-central  Pennsylvania , western Maryland, extreme
eastern West Virginia, and portions of western  New York . Even
higher snowfall accumulations were reported over very localized
areas.  Towards the Atlantic coast, light to moderate rain fell
for a 24-36 hour period, with most of it going right into the
dry soils, and not as runoff into streams and rivers.  As a
result, stream flow gauges showed little rise overall, despite
the impressive precipitation amounts.  The precipitation
departures from normal (DNP) during the past 60- and 90-days
over this region are between 2-6 inches and 4-8 inches,
respectively.  Parts of the drought depiction in the Northeast
and mid-Atlantic were scaled back to highlight improvement,
especially along the coastal areas. In some cases, if the
offsetting 60- and 90-day DNPs were not too large, a 1-category
improvement was made.  The Southeast: During the past week, light to moderate rain
(less than 2 inches) fell across a large portion of the
Southeast, with heavy precipitation (2 inches or greater)
observed near the spine of the southern Appalachians, a few
locations over the coastal plain, and also over a significant
portion of  Florida .  Though rainfall coverage was good across
North Carolina, the stream flows apparently have not responded
in tandem, suggesting no modifications to the state’s drought
rendition. In South Carolina, showers and thunderstorms provided
much needed rainfall to crops and pastures. Soil moisture
conditions improved slightly to 9 percent very short, 39 percent
short, 51 percent adequate, and 1 percent surplus. The average
temperature for the state during this period was 3 degrees above
normal with 6 days suitable for field work. The drought
depiction was not altered. Minor trimming of the abnormal
dryness (D0) region in northeast Georgia was performed, due to
weekly rainfall amounts of 3 or more inches. The elimination of
D0 conditions was applied to the counties of Habersham, White,
Lumpkin, Union, Towns, and Rabun - all in far northeast  Georgia .  Recent rainfall has also warranted a 1-category upgrade to much
of southern Florida. One of the upgrades included removal of the
extreme drought (D3) area in Glades County (west side of Lake
Okeechobee). In northern Alabama, water demand from vegetation,
higher sun angle, and low stream flows (lowest tenth of
historical distribution) supported some southward expansion of
D0 conditions.  The Ohio and Tennessee Valleys: During the past week, light to
moderate rain (less than 2 inches) fell across the region.
However, these amounts are not nearly enough to offset short-
term deficits and increase the low stream flows. Accordingly,
abnormal dryness (D0) was expanded across western and central
sections of  Kentucky  and central  Tennessee .  Moderate drought
conditions (D1) were also expanded in western Kentucky to
include the Paducah area.  The Midwest/Northern Plains: A band of heavy precipitation (2
inches or greater) was observed from north-central Iowa into
southern Wisconsin. Widespread moderate precipitation (0.5 to 2
inches) was observed across most of the remainder of Iowa,
Wisconsin, and southern  Minnesota . One-category improvements
were made in southeast Minnesota, and the northeastern quarter
of Iowa. In southern Minnesota, the topsoil moisture situation
has improved, while the remaining drought concerns focus on
subsoil moisture and surface hydrology. The precipitation
deficits currently in place are primarily attributed to deficits
accrued from August through October of last year.  Therefore,
southern Minnesota’s drought impact designation has been changed
from short-term (S) to long-term (L).  In eastern  South Dakota , D0 conditions were removed from the
counties of Sanborn, Miner, and Hanson, which is consistent with
the recent precipitation. Elsewhere, in central South Dakota,
lingering D0 conditions were removed, while in the drier western
portion of the state, the D1 region was expanded and connected
to the D1 area in western  North Dakota . In west-central
 Illinois , little rainfall resulted in the merging of the D0 area
with neighboring southeastern Iowa, and D0 was expanded across
several counties in the southeastern corner of Iowa. These
expansions of abnormal dryness (D0) are supported by 60- day and
90-day DNP. D0 conditions were also extended eastward from
Illinois across northwestern  Indiana , based on similar
conditions to those in Illinois and southeastern Iowa. Stream
flows across northwestern Indiana are mostly within the lowest
ten percent of the historical distribution.  In northwest Missouri, recent dryness has been especially
pronounced around the Kansas City area, extending into
neighboring parts of eastern Kansas. Pending what rainfall
occurs this week, D0 may need to be introduced next week. The
same is true for portions of the Missouri Boot-heel (portions of
Mississippi, New Madrid and Pemiscot Counties) where less than
1-inch of rain has fallen so far this month. If this dryness
persists, it will likely impact regional cropland irrigation.
Temperatures during the past 7-days have averaged between 2
degrees below normal to 2 degrees above normal across the Corn
Belt region.  Central and Southern Plains: No alterations were made to the
drought depiction in Oklahoma this week, while the small sliver
of lingering D0 in extreme northwestern Louisiana was
eliminated.  Notable improvements were made in  Texas , especially
the Coastal Bend and far southern Texas. In addition, some of
the D0 in east Texas has retreated, while some trimming  of
extreme drought (D3) and exceptional drought (D4) areas was also
performed in the Panhandle. The dominant impacts across most of
the state are considered to be long-term (L). The small patch of
SL (both short- and long-term impacts) denotes where rice
farmers have had their water allocation curtailed. Insufficient
recharge so far this year (and inadequate rainfall in central
Texas in 2011) has led to drastic reduction in rice yield, with
no migratory waterfowl thriving in the rice patties as before.
This is a case where remote long-term drought leads to local
short-term drought impacts.  The West: Severe drought (D2) expansion appears warranted across
central portions of  Utah . The D2 areas in both eastern Nevada
and western Colorado were therefore merged across central Utah.
SNOTEL Snow Water Equivalent (SWE) values in this area generally
range from 10 to 35 percent of normal. In east-central  New
Mexico , D3 conditions were extended northward across Guadalupe
County. The drought depiction in south-central New Mexico was
degraded by one category (from D1 to D2 conditions) to better
reflect the unusually warm and dry conditions which have
prevailed across the region.  A slight improvement was made in
far western New Mexico (D2 to D1).  Additional degradation (from last week) was made across
northeastern  Arizona  and extreme northwestern New Mexico, with a
slight eastward extension of D2 across this area.  The situation
across northeastern Arizona justifies a D3 designation, and is
supported by longer-term deficits. Deteriorating drought
conditions across southeastern parts of the state support the
change from D1 to D2. In southwestern Colorado and nearby
southeastern Utah, moderate drought conditions (D1) were
expanded based upon 60-day SPI’s (ranging from -1 to -1.5) and
6-month SPI’s (near -1).  The rains that fell over  California 
several weeks ago have helped to alleviate drought conditions
across the Sacramento Valley, justifying removal of the D2 area.  Hawaii ,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico:  Windward locations of the
Hawaiian Islands generally received 1-3 inches of precipitation
during the past 7-days, while leeward locations reported little
if any rainfall. Stream flows across the state are currently
near to above normal. No changes to the drought depiction for
Hawaii were deemed necessary this week. There were no drought
conditions noted in Alaska or Puerto Rico.  Looking Ahead: Over the next five days (April 26-30), a cold
front will move across the Pacific Northwest and northern
Rockies, while a slowly meandering front is predicted to stretch
from the southern Great Plains eastward to the southern Atlantic
coast.  Heavy precipitation (2 inches or greater) is forecast
across portions of South Dakota,  Nebraska , and the middle Ohio
River Valley, which will help to alleviate drought conditions in
those areas. Moderate amounts of precipitation (0.5 to 2 inches)
are anticipated over parts of California, eastern Montana and
much of North Dakota, the middle Mississippi Valley, the mid-
Atlantic region, northern New York, northern New England, and
southeastern parts of Florida. Light precipitation (less than
0.5 inch) is predicted across most of the Southeast, Texas, the
central and southern Rockies and Colorado Plateau, and the Great
Lakes region, while most remaining areas are likely to receive
little if any precipitation.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (May 1-5) shows favorable odds for
above median precipitation over the Midwest, the Pacific
Northwest, extreme southern Florida, southeastern Alaska, and
the Alaska Panhandle. Odds for below median precipitation are
elevated over the Atlantic Coast states, the Southeast, the
Southwest as far north as Idaho and Wyoming, and west-central
Alaska. Warmer than normal temperatures are favored over most of
the lower 48 states, with the highest probabilities (60 percent)
centered over the Corn Belt region.  Cooler than normal
temperatures are favored over the Pacific Northwest and most of
Alaska.  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephen Rose in Washington
at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  