-- Hugo Boss First-Quarter Profit Rises on Gain in Retail Sales
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-04-26T07:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/hugo-boss-first-quarter-profit-rises-on-gain-in-retail-sales-1-.html
Hugo Boss AG (BOS) , the German luxury-
clothing maker controlled by Permira Advisers, said first-
quarter operating profit gained 13 percent as retail sales rose.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items climbed to 148.4 million euros ($196.2
million) from 131.6 million euros a year earlier, the Metzingen,
Germany-based company said in a statement today. The  average
estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 148.9
million euros. Revenue rose to 606.8 million euros from 539.2
million euros, beating estimates.  “We had a good start to the year again,” Chief Executive
Officer Claus-Dietrich Lahrs said in the statement. “The
results for the first quarter show that we are fully on track to
achieve our ambitious medium-term targets.”  Hugo Boss  confirmed a forecast for sales to gain 10 percent
this year and for Ebitda before special items to have a
“slightly higher increase” compared with sales.  Hugo Boss has forecast sales of 3 billion euros and Ebitda
of 750 million euros in 2015, with growth driven by expansion  in
Asia and the Americas . The clothier still gets almost two-thirds
of sales from the European market, which Lahrs said last month
will be more challenging in 2012. Euro-area  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly fell in April for the first time this year,
according to the European Commission, which will publish its
report on euro-region economic confidence today.  Retail growth helped boost the gross profit margin to 61
percent in the first quarter from 58.4 percent a year earlier,
beating the 59 percent average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Hugo Boss plans to increase its own retail operations to 55
percent of revenue by 2015 from 45 percent now. Retail sales on
a currency-adjusted basis rose 27 percent in the first quarter,
while wholesale revenue gained 1 percent. On a comparable store
sales basis, revenue gained 11 percent.  “I like the fact that  Germany  is still strong because it’s
still their biggest market,” said Mark Josefson, an analyst at
Silvia Quandt Research GmbH in Frankfurt. “There’s no real
issue with the sales numbers, which are generally in line with
expectations. Performance in retail was strong.”  Sales in  Europe  rose 9 percent, led by gains in the U.K.
and Germany, Hugo Boss said today. In Americas, revenue climbed
15 percent, boosted by U.S. sales, while the revenue increase in
 Asia  was led by  China .  Net debt declined to 141 million euros from 187 million
euros. The company may be able to eliminate net debt as soon as
next year, Chief Financial Officer Mark Langer said in February.  Hugo Boss shares fell 2.9 percent to 86.78 euros as of 9:10
a.m. in  Frankfurt  today. The stock has risen 57 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  