-- Hungary Faces Rising Credit-Crunch Risk, Central Bank Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-26T08:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/hungary-faces-rising-credit-crunch-risk-central-bank-says-1-.html
Hungary  faces the rising risk of a
credit crunch because of the withdrawal of external funds and
the high ratio of non-performing loans, the central bank said.  Lenders replacing external funding with “risky” foreign-
currency swaps may be another trigger for a credit crunch and
the Magyar Nemzeti Bank will consider regulating such
transactions, the rate-setting Monetary Council said in a
statement today.  A loan agreement with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund , which Hungary requested in
November, may help reduce the probability of a severe credit
crunch as it may include the commitment of foreign banks to
their Hungarian units, the central bank said. The European
Commission yesterday authorized Hungary to start bailout talks.  “The risk of a severe credit crunch, mainly in the
corporate segment, has increased recently, given the weakening
in the banking sector’s lending capacity, in addition to its
persistently low willingness to lend,” the Monetary Council
said.  The forint gained 0.4 percent to 287.08 per euro as of
10:20 a.m. in Budapest, extending its three-day rally to 4.2
percent, the biggest in three years. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s
largest lender, advanced 1.4 percent to 3,865 forint, pushing
its three-day gain to 14.7 percent.  International Lenders  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks
including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Bayerische Landesbank AG,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , and
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   The financial system is stable and has shown “strong
resilience” to shocks, while banks’ ability to support economic
growth is weakening, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank said.  The ratio of non-performing corporate loans reached 17
percent at the end of 2011, a 4 percentage point increase from a
year earlier, the central bank said. Including restructured
loans, about a quarter of corporate loans were impaired, the
bank said. The ratio will probably rise through 2013, the
central bank said.  The ratio of non-performing household loans rose to 13.1
percent in 2011 from 9.5 percent in 2010 and will probably peak
this year, according to the report  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  