-- Unilever Revenue Beats Estimates on Higher Selling Volume
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-04-26T09:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/unilever-revenue-beats-estimates-on-higher-selling-volume.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-
biggest consumer-goods company, reported first-quarter revenue
growth that beat estimates and outstripped competitors Danone
and  Nestle SA (NESN) , led by Dove skincare and Tresemme hair products.  Underlying sales, which exclude acquisitions, disposals and
currency fluctuations, rose 8.4 percent from a year earlier, the
maker of Hellmann’s mayonnaise said today in a statement. The
average  estimate  of 30 analysts surveyed by Unilever was for a
6.4 percent gain. Units sold increased 3.5 percent, more than
double the 1.6 percent gain analysts expected and the best
performance since the fourth quarter of 2010.  Unilever shares rose  the most  in eight months. While sales
growth was led by  emerging markets , developed regions such as
Europe and  North America  also contributed to the improvement as
consumers snapped up new products such as Axe Anarchy deodorant.
Revenue was also boosted by higher prices to counter soaring
costs of commodities such as edible oils, which Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Marc Huet said are “stubbornly high.”  “The quarter was pretty impressive and well ahead of
expectations,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein,
said in a note. “Volumes were very strong and mid-single-digit
growth in mature markets was a very pleasant surprise. The
quarter should be well received by investors.”  Developed Markets  Sales in developed markets, which make up 44 percent of the
total, rose 4.2 percent in the quarter, helped in part by an
earlier Easter holiday this year and an extra leap-year day of
sales. Emerging-market revenue increased 12 percent.  Unilever  shares  climbed as much as 5.4 percent in
Amsterdam, the steepest intraday advance since Aug. 4. The stock
pared some of its gains after the European Commission said
economic confidence in the euro region worsened this month,
trading up 3 percent at 26.39 euros as of 11:53 a.m.  Sales growth at London- and Rotterdam-based Unilever topped
that reported this month by  Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, and Nestle, the world’s largest food maker.  “Unilever is defying its detractors by delivering another
quarter of peer-beating results and market-share gains across
the portfolio,” Simon Marshall-Lockyer, an analyst at Jefferies
International, said in a note today.  Underlying sales rose 10 percent in the personal-care
segment, which accounts for one-third of total revenue, driven
by brands like Dove and Tresemme. Sales increased a similar
amount in the home-care unit, fueled by new products and the
introduction of Comfort fabric conditioner in  Australia ,  New
Zealand  and  South Africa . Food revenue increased 5.9 percent.  U.K. Recession  “Unilever’s home and personal-care business is firing on
all cylinders,” Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets,
said in an interview before results were posted.  CFO Huet said underlying sales advanced about 5 percent in
the U.K., where data yesterday showed the economy unexpectedly
contracted 0.2 percent in the first quarter, pushing Britain
into its first double-dip recession since the 1970s. Unilever
gets about 5 percent of its sales from the U.K.  “The U.K. has been a difficult market,” with a high level
of products sold at discounted prices, Huet said in a
teleconference with reporters.  Across  Europe , sales rose 5.1 percent, compared with a 2.7
percent decline in the year-ago quarter, Unilever said.  Huet said that 56 percent of Unilever’s  sales  come from
emerging markets like  India ,  Indonesia  and  Vietnam , compared
with about 47 percent when he arrived at the company in 2010.  Raw Materials Costs  Unilever’s costs for raw materials in 2012 will be
“slightly higher” than the mid-single-digit increase the
company forecast in February, the executive also said, citing
high prices for crude oil and vegetable oils.  “The volatility is pretty intense,” Huet told analysts on
a conference call.  Oil prices  are 5.6 percent higher this year,
and today oil futures traded near the highest in more than a
week after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that
while further stimulus is unlikely, central banks “remain
prepared to do more” to protect the economy.  Unilever’s total first-quarter sales advanced 12 percent to
12.1 billion euros. Analysts had estimated 11.9 billion euros.  “Our performance is pleasing given struggling economies,
continued fragile consumer confidence and competitor activity,”
Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said in the statement. “We
remain on track to deliver a modest improvement in full-year
core operating margin, weighted towards the second half.”  Unilever raised its quarterly  dividend  8 percent to 24.3
euro cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  