-- United Coffee Sees Coffee at About $1.80 a Pound in 2012
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-26T08:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/united-coffee-sees-coffee-at-about-1-80-a-pound-in-2012.html
Coffee will trade at about $1.80 a
pound until the end of 2012, a drop of 42 percent from a 14-year
high last year, according to United Coffee, a private-label
coffee maker and supplier to  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   Prices are likely to be $1.80 to $1.90 a pound until the
end of the year, said  Per Harkjaer , United Coffee’s chief
executive officer. Arabica coffee climbed to $3.089 in New York
on May 3, the highest since 1997, as rains cut output in
 Colombia , the second-biggest grower of the variety, and the crop
in top global producer  Brazil  entered the lower-yielding half of
a two-year cycle, reducing production.  “The arabica prices, when they were at their maximum, they
were not driven by coffee fundamentals,” Harkjaer, who is based
in Geneva, said in an interview yesterday in London. “They were
driven by investment speculation in commodities.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators held last year’s
biggest net-long position, or bets on higher prices, in the week
ended Jan. 14,  data  from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. Investors are currently net-short, or betting
on lower prices, by the most since January 2009. Arabica coffee
slid 20 percent in the first quarter, the biggest decline since
2000.  The price of robusta beans, traded in  London , may fall by 5
percent to 10 percent by the end of the year as supplies
increase, Harkjaer said. Robusta coffee prices have climbed 12
percent so far this year as farmers in  Vietnam , the biggest
producer of the variety, held back beans hoping for better
prices.  Robusta Demand  “The firmness now in robusta prices is more supply than
demand driven,” Harkjaer said. “I don’t think the robusta
price is because of increased demand. If it was demand driven,
the peak would have come much earlier, when arabica was at $3 a
pound.”  Vietnamese farmers are holding 20 percent to 25 percent of
the current crop, according to Volcafe, the coffee unit of ED&F
Man Holdings Ltd. The nation will harvest a record 22.1 million
bags in the 2011-12 season, the Winterthur, Switzerland-based
trader estimates. A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132
pounds).  Coffee demand in  Europe  will be stable this year, as a move
to single-serving portions reduces waste, Harkjaer said.
Globally, consumption will be driven by  developing countries ,
especially Brazil, he added. The South American nation could
overtake the U.S. as the world’s biggest coffee drinker in five
years, according to Rabobank International.  “When I grew up it was a big thermos on the table and half
always went to waste,” Harkjaer said. “If you use Nespresso,
for instance, you produce one cup at a time.”  Driving Demand  While  China  isn’t yet driving coffee demand, the Asian
country may at “some point” become more important as
consumption increases due to the expansion of coffee shops
there, he said.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  plans a bigger push into smaller
cities in China as the world’s largest coffee-shop operator
triples stores in the country that will become its second-
biggest market by 2014.  “We’ve just been bought by a Japanese company and  Japan 
was traditionally a tea country,” Harkjaer said. “Demand there
has been driven by the coffee companies,” he said, adding that
the same move would happen in China.  Kobe, Japan-based UCC Holdings Co. said this week it will
buy Geneva-based United Coffee for about 50 billion yen ($614
million), in the biggest acquisition the Japanese coffee maker
has made so far. The purchase will enable UCC to enter Europe
for the first time.  Coffee Sales  United Coffee’s sales grew by 5 percent to 62,000 metric
tons last year and an increase of another 5 percent is forecast
for this year, Harkjaer said. The company, which sources more
than 50 percent of its beans from Brazil and Vietnam, supplies
coffee to U.K. retailers  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)  and Waitrose Ltd., as well
as McDonald’s in the U.K., Ireland and countries in Eastern
Europe, he said.  “A lot of our growth comes from what we call out-of-home,
which is non-retail, so these are things like McDonald’s,” he
said, without providing a figure for how much coffee the company
supplies to the world’s largest restaurant chain.  Coffee prices will remain high and volatile in the “long-
term” as demand continues to increase, he said. The industry is
likely to see “big consolidation” in the next five to 10 years
as it becomes more difficult for small companies to manage price
swings and to negotiate rates with large buyers, he added.  Arabica coffee is grown mainly in  Latin America  and
favoured for specialty drinks such as those made by Starbucks.
Robusta beans, used in instant coffee and espresso, are
harvested mostly in  Asia  and parts of  Africa .  Arabica coffee for July delivery traded at $1.7695 a pound
on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  by 9:32 London time. Robusta
coffee for July delivery was at $2,024 a ton on NYSE Liffe in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 