-- United Declines Most in Month on April Revenue Forecast
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-04-26T20:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/united-loss-is-narrower-than-estimates-as-fares-mute-fuel.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
fell the most in a month after the world’s largest airline
forecast growth in a benchmark revenue measure that lagged
behind outlooks of U.S. peers.  Revenue for each seat flown a mile will rise 5 percent in
April, Chief Revenue Officer Jim Compton said on a conference
call today. He said weaker China demand and blending previously
separate airline units are keeping the carrier from reaping the
benefits of the 2010 merger that created the company.  The projection trailed forecasts yesterday for April gains
in so-called unit revenue of 11 percent at  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) 
and 9 percent at  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  United  slid  3.7 percent,
the most since March 30, to $22.12 at the close in  New York 
after paring an earlier decline.  “My concerns are how quickly we can innovate and chase the
synergies” of the merger, Compton said on the call, which
followed Chicago-based United’s first-quarter earnings release.
“We’re comfortable with where we’re at.”  The company was formed when United Airlines parent UAL
Corp. merged with Continental Airlines Inc. The United and
Continental units shifted to joint booking and revenue-
management systems last quarter.  United is preparing to change about 15 percent of flights
on its main jet operations this quarter to move some aircraft to
more-profitable routes and shuffle larger or smaller planes on
some other trips to match demand, Compton said.  The airline is also working on restoring some functions to
its website that were lost when United.com and Continental.com
were combined in March, such as the ability to buy day passes to
airport lounges or purchase seats with extra legroom for an
entire year for a one-time subscription fee.  Financial Results  United’s quarterly loss excluding certain items was $286
million, or 87 cents a share, according to a statement. Analysts
estimated a loss of $1.10 a share on that basis, the average of
15 projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 4.9 percent to $8.6 billion, matching
analysts’ estimates, as United was able to charge more for
tickets.  Including $162 million of integration-related charges, the
 net loss  widened to $448 million, or $1.36 a share, from $213
million, or 65 cents, a year earlier. A $3.2 billion fuel bill
was 21 percent more than a year earlier.  JetBlue Airways  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  also reported quarterly earnings
today, posting a 10-fold jump in net income to $30 million, or 9
cents a share. That exceeded an 8-cent average analyst  estimate 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares  rose 1 cent to $4.65.  The New York-based carrier forecast an increase of 8
percent to 9 percent in April unit revenue, and Chief Executive
Officer Dave Barger said the company is “encouraged as we look
at summer.”  JetBlue will face higher maintenance costs the rest of the
year as it tries to find a new maintenance provider following
the unexpected closing last month of  Aveos Fleet Performance
Inc.  in  Canada , Chief Financial Officer Mark Powers said.  The airline already was facing increased maintenance
spending because of its aging fleet of Airbus SAS A320 aircraft.
Costs linked to the Aveos shutdown may be $9 million to $11
million in 2012, Barger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  