-- UPS Profit Trails Estimates as Overseas Growth Slows
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-04-26T20:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/ups-quarterly-profit-trails-estimates-as-shipping-growth-slows.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s largest package-delivery company, fell the most in four
months after first-quarter profit trailed analysts’ estimates
amid slowing growth in overseas shipping.  Net income climbed to $1 a share, lagging behind the
average estimate of $1.01 in a Bloomberg survey of 23 analysts.
The  shares  slid 1.8 percent to $78.25 at the close in New York,
the most since Dec. 8.  Gains in overseas shipments at UPS, an economic bellwether
because it carries goods from mobile devices to pharmaceuticals,
have slowed in recent quarters as demand weakened for Asian
exports. Revenue per piece stagnated and the operating margin in
Atlanta-based UPS’s international package division declined to
13.8 percent from 15.6 percent a year ago.  “Margins were below expectations on the international
side, so that’s the negative,” said Benjamin Hartford, an
analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee  who called the
results a “mixed bag.”  Europe ’s debt crisis has crimped Asian exports, and the
U.K.’s sinking into its first double-dip recession since the
1970s highlights the potential threat to global demand from
developed nations cutting spending to improve their finances.  China’s economic growth slowed throughout last year to 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter, and economic confidence in the
euro region declined more than economists had forecast in April.  International Market  “We know the international environment is weak -- that
could strengthen,” Hartford said.  International average daily volume advanced 2.8 percent.
Those shipments grew at 4 percent or more in the first three
quarters of 2011 and the rate slowed to 2.6 percent in the
fourth quarter. European and U.S. demand for Asian products
began weakening in the middle of last year, prompting UPS to cut
air capacity for those shipments, the company has said.  While deliveries along those lanes were “relatively
flat,” UPS saw shipments between Asian countries advance during
the first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said in a
telephone interview.  “ Asia ’s trading with itself,” he said. “Even though the
western economies aren’t creating a lot of demand growth,
clearly the Asian economies are.”  UPS’s growth within Europe was strong as well, with
shipments between countries in the area up more than 5 percent
during the quarter, Kuehn said.  Domestic Margins  In the U.S. package unit, volume growth of 4.5 percent was
“better than expected,” Hartford said.  “The positive is that we’re seeing domestic margins expand
and trend above expectations, and volume growth in domestic, on
balance, is better than expected,” driven by deliveries between
businesses and consumers, he said.  U.S. retail sales rose more than three times as much as
forecast in March, climbing 0.8 percent, and an April 27
government report may show gross domestic product increased at a
2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter.  Net income climbed to $970 million from $915 million, or 91
cents a share, a year earlier. The company reiterated its 2012
full-year  profit forecast  of $4.75 to $5 a share.  UPS letter deliveries increased during the quarter for the
first time in several years, driven by climbing mortgage
refinancing, Kuehn said.  “Our next-day letter product had been frankly somewhat
besieged,” over the past few years, Kuehn said. “The increase
in mortgage refinancing at these incredibly low rates is
starting to show up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 