-- Murdoch ‘Back Scratching’ Shifts Blame to U.K. Politicians
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-27T14:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/murdoch-back-scratching-shifts-blame-to-british-politicians.html
As regulators expand a probe into
whether  News Corp. (NWSA)  should retain its stake in  British Sky
Broadcasting Group (BSY)  Plc,  Rupert Murdoch ’s testimony in a media-
ethics inquiry turned public attention to the amount of time
U.K. lawmakers have spent with the 81-year-old mogul, including
trips on private planes and a family yacht in Greece.  Murdoch, the chairman of News Corp., and his son James
spent three days in front of the U.K. panel this week blaming
their ignorance of corruption at company newspapers on police,
lawyers and subordinates. Police investigations of News Corp.
journalists have resulted in about 45 arrests in the scandal,
which spurred the inquiry by Judge Brian Leveson into
relationships between News Corp. employees and politicians.  Evidence released by the ethics inquiry showed the Murdochs
had dozens of meetings with the most powerful lawmakers in the
U.K. As a result, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is facing calls
from the opposition Labour party to resign after e-mails showed
one of his aides offered inside information on Hunt’s views to a
News Corp. lobbyist when the company was offering 7.8 billion
pounds ($12.6 billion) for the 61 percent of BSkyB it didn’t
already own.  “Going into an attacking mode rather than being in a
defensive mode was clearly very well planned,” Ajay Bhalla, a
professor at London’s Cass Business School, said of the Murdoch
strategy. “The focus now has shifted more to other levels,
whether it is Jeremy Hunt or  David Cameron  or  Gordon Brown , and
the public is likely to” hold News Corp. less accountable.  ‘Huge Power’  Murdoch testified he has never sought political favors or
asked a prime minister for anything in exchange for support in
the press.  Tom Watson , a member of the parliamentary committee
investigating phone hacking, said he thinks all British
lawmakers know Murdoch wields “huge power.”  “U.K. lawmakers are in no doubt where Rupert Murdoch’s
commercial and political interests lie,” Watson said. “With
control of 40 percent of Britain’s newspapers, he is the
ultimate floating voter and prime ministers know this.”  Prime Minister Cameron, who called for the review of media
ethics in July, met with Rupert Murdoch six times since he
became U.K. leader and on 15 occasions between 2006 and January
2010, when he was leader of the then-opposition Conservatives.
On the way to a holiday in  Turkey  before he became prime
minister, Cameron flew on Rupert’s son-in-law’s plane and
stopped off in Santorini,  Greece , to meet with the elder Murdoch
on a yacht, the executive said yesterday, though he couldn’t
recall if it was his yacht or his daughter’s.  Blair, Miliband  Tony Blair  met with the media mogul more than 30 times when
he was prime minister, according to the evidence released
yesterday.  Ed Miliband , head of the Labour party, went to the
company’s summer party in June, about a month before New York-
based News Corp. shut down its News of the World tabloid when
reporters were accused of hacking into a murdered teenager’s
voice mails for stories.  “That’s all part of the democratic process,” Rupert
Murdoch said April 25. “Politicians of all sides like to have
their views known by the editors of newspapers or publishers,
hoping that they will be put across, hoping that they will
succeed in impressing people. That’s the game.”  Murdoch also said that he doesn’t promote commercial
interests with his newspapers.  Parliament’s report on phone-hacking is scheduled to be
published next week and may conclude the Murdochs are
implausible witnesses after  James Murdoch ’s testimony was
challenged by other company executives. Britain’s Crown
Prosecution Service is also considering whether to bring the
first new criminal charges in the case.  Police Bribes  News Corp. rose 1.8 percent yesterday in New York trading.
They rose 2 cents to $19.63 at 10:23 a.m. today. Miranda Higham,
a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to comment.  The inquiry led byLeveson is investigating the state of
media ethics after reporters were found to have paid off police
and public officials and intercepted voice mails and e-mails for
stories. News Corp.’s newspapers became the center of the
political upheaval after the 168-year-old tabloid News of the
World was closed.  James Murdoch, News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer,
and his father both denied ever using political endorsements or
positive coverage in the company’s titles to smooth the way for
deals or gain favorable regulation. Rupert Murdoch said this
week he didn’t know very many politicians.  “It’s a common thing in life, which goes way beyond
journalism, to say ‘you scratch my back and I’ll scratch
yours,’” he told the inquiry in London yesterday.  ‘Scratch My Back’  However, when asked if that extended to his relationships
with officials, he answered, “I don’t ask any politician to
scratch my back.”  The Murdochs have said hacking was allowed to continue
under their noses for years because they relied on employees,
lawyers and police investigations that were faulty.  To help quell public outrage over phone hacking, Rebekah Brooks, head of the U.K. publishing unit News International, and
 Les Hinton , head of the  Dow Jones (IYR)  & Co. unit, stepped down over
their involvement in the scandal. Brooks is among those arrested
in the police probes. News Corp. also created the Management &
Standards Committee to assist police inquiries.  Murdoch said he was “greatly distressed that people who’ve
been with me 20, 30 years, fine, great journalists, friends of
mine” had been arrested, before going on to say he was “glad”
his company had handed over evidence about their actions to the
police.  Coulson, Mulcaire  Rupert Murdoch also blamed the Metropolitan police for not
informing the company that hacking was more extensive than first
believed. A 2006 e-mail from the paper’s lawyer Tom Crone to its
editor  Andy Coulson  said that Brooks was told by police there
were more than 100 victims of phone hacking, and suggested that
the private detective who hacked phones,  Glenn Mulcaire , had
“sequences of contacts” with the paper before and after his
hacking attempts.  The risk for the company now may be that Leveson concludes
that News Corp. has become too influential and shouldn’t be
allowed to expand, according to media analyst Claire Enders.
That could threaten plans to renew its takeover bid for BSkyB,
which it abandoned last year, she said in a note.  “We don’t expect either Rupert or James Murdoch to come
out of this process with any significant diminution in their
standing,” Enders said in a note. “However, there remains a
very substantial risk that one of Lord Leveson’s conclusions is
that the scale of News Corp.’s operations in the U.K. should
never be allowed to increase.”  Another threat may be British regulator Ofcom’s
investigation of whether News Corp. is fit to hold its BSkyB
stake. The regulator expanded its investigation to gather
evidence about civil cases involving phone hacking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  