-- Vehicle Sales Surge in U.S. as $4 Gas Makes Mileage Vital
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/vehicle-sales-surge-in-u-s-as-4-gas-makes-mileage-vital.html
As rising gasoline prices became a
 pain  in the pocketbook this year, Matt German decided it was
time to buy a new car. So he traded in his hot-rod Ford pickup
for a Ford Focus compact car and cut his fuel bill in half.  “I went from paying $80 every time I filled up to paying
less than $40 and getting just as much distance out of a tank,”
said German, 23, of Rochester,  New York . “As gas prices were
going up, I figured it was time to get out of that truck.”  Rising gasoline prices have gone from bane to boon for the
recovering U.S. auto industry. In 2008, U.S. gas prices hit a
record of $4.11 a gallon and contributed to Detroit’s downfall,
as truck and sport-utility vehicle sales collapsed. With
gasoline again approaching $4, buyers are returning to showrooms
to replace old guzzlers with new, fuel-efficient models.  “It’s really astounding that you’ve gone from $4-a-gallon
gasoline devastating sales to $4-a-gallon gasoline supporting
sales today,”  Mike Jackson , chief executive officer of
 AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S. car dealer, said in an
interview. “This is a real change in consumer behavior that
puts us in a much better place than where we were in 2008.”  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  this month each
raised their industrywide sales forecasts for 2012 following
first-quarter sales that surprised on the positive side even as
fuel prices rose to near-record levels. U.S. gasoline averaged
$3.90 a gallon April 17, according to AAA. Prices will reach
$4.01 in May, the U.S. Energy Department said on April 11.  Not ‘Paralyzing’  “The impact of $4-a-gallon gas on the sales rate is
neutral to a slight positive,” said  Brian Johnson , Chicago-
based auto analyst with  Barclays Capital . “It certainly doesn’t
seem to be paralyzing the consumer this time.”  Instead, it’s motivating consumers to return to dealerships
to trade in cars that average 11 years old, according to  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas.  “Four dollar-a-gallon gas is not as much of a shock as it
was four years ago,” Fields said at the New York auto show this
month. “People are doing the math and saying, ‘If I can get a
lot better fuel economy, I’ll go out and buy that new
vehicle.’”  This year, fuel mileage has become the most influential
reason for purchasing a new car, surpassing reliability, a good
deal and exterior styling, according to a survey by researcher
 J.D. Power  & Associates.  “That is practically unprecedented,” said Tim Dunne, an
analyst with J.D. Power in Troy,  Michigan . “For the last
decade, people have made vehicle dependability and reliability
their top priority.”  Widespread Progress  As buyers return to showrooms, they’re finding all models
are more fuel efficient. The average fuel economy of all 2012
cars and trucks is 24.5 miles (39 kilometers) per gallon, up
from 21 mpg in 2008, according to automotive researcher
Edmunds.com.  “That’s a 16 percent jump in fuel economy,” said Jessica Caldwell, director of industry analysis at Edmunds in  Santa
Monica ,  California . “So whatever you’re buying, it’s going to
be more fuel efficient.”  That across-the-board improvement has led to less
downsizing, Caldwell said. Sales of mid-size SUVs have held up
and large pickups still account for more than one in 10 vehicle
sales, she said.  “We still sell lots of crossovers and SUVs,”  Tetsuo Iwamura , president of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s U.S. unit, said in an
April 4 interview. “The last time it hit $4, everybody had the
reaction of no more big SUVs. I still remember the world
downsizing, downsizing. These days, we don’t see so much
downsizing, downsizing.”  Less Panic  This year’s run-up in fuel costs is setting off less panic
in showrooms than in 2008 and 2009, when car buyers swarmed to
small cars and sales of large vehicles fell. Compact cars, SUVs
and trucks peaked at 42 percent of the market in August 2009,
while large vehicles dropped to 16 percent that month, according
to Edmunds. Last month, compact models accounted for 34 percent
of U.S. sales, while large vehicles claimed 18 percent of the
market, Edmunds said.  Instead of shrinking their cars, buyers are downsizing
their engines. Cars and trucks with four-cylinder engines
accounted for more than half of U.S. auto sales in the first
quarter, the highest recorded by Troy, Michigan-based researcher
LMC Automotive.  In 2003, just 29 percent of car buyers chose a small, 4-
cylinder engine. That rose to 49 percent last year and reached
54 percent in the first three months of this year, according to
LMC.  Small-Engine Trucks  Ford now sells more F-150 pickups with V-6 engines than
with fuel-thirsty V-8s. Until the 2011 model year, Ford hadn’t
used a V-6 engine in the F-150 since 2008.  “Four years ago, the culture was that you couldn’t get a
manly pickup without a V-8 engine,” said AutoNation’s Jackson.
“Today, what matters is the performance it gets and the  fuel
efficiency , and they’re perfectly happy with a six-cylinder.”  While gasoline prices have moderated in the past two weeks,
they will probably top the $4.11 a gallon record by mid-summer,
said  Jesse Toprak , industry analyst for TrueCar.com in Santa
Monica, California.  “But we would need to get way above that for a major
consumer behavior change,” Toprak said. “We’re used to $4 gas.
It’s not a shock.”  So what would it take to keep car buyers out of the
showroom? The new “freak-out number,” is $5, Jackson said.  “If we see that this summer, it’s going to be a problem
for the economy and the consumer,” Jackson said. “But three
years from now, if we gradually get there, people will have
adjusted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in  Detroit  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  