-- Volkswagen Profit Beats Expectations on Higher Audi Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-04-26T09:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/volkswagen-quarterly-profit-beats-expectations-on-higher-sales.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the world’s second-
largest carmaker, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates on higher earnings at the Audi luxury brand.  Operating profit rose 10 percent to 3.21 billion euros
($4.26 billion) from 2.91 billion euros a year earlier, the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said today. The figure  beat  the
2.66 billion-euro average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales gained 26 percent to 47.3 billion euros. The
shares rose the most in five months.  Volkswagen is thriving despite  Europe ’s debt crisis and
stealing market share from rivals with a model lineup that runs
from the Up! subcompact to Lamborghini sports cars and 50-ton
trucks. The VW group, whose brands also include Skoda and Seat,
increased first-quarter deliveries 9.6 percent to 2.16 million
vehicles. The gains compare with revenue declines at  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  and  Renault SA. (RNO)   “It’s a very strong beat and flies in the face of the
bearish mass-market view,” said David Arnold, a sales
specialist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  London . “VW just keeps
printing money.”  VW  rose  as much as 8.90 euros, or 7.1 percent, to 135.10
euros, the biggest intraday gain since Nov. 28, and was up 5.6
percent as of 11:57 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The shares have increased
15 percent in 2012, valuing the carmaker at 58.3 billion euros.  Audi, MAN Boost  Profit at Audi, which passed Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz to
become the world’s second-largest luxury brand last year, surged
27 percent to 1.4 billion euros in the period, boosted by demand
for top-of-the-line A6 and A8 sedans.  VW earnings  also gained
following the inclusion of 223 million euros in profit from
German truckmaker  MAN SE (MAN) , which VW now controls.  Volkswagen stuck to its target of matching last year’s
record operating profit of 11.3 billion euros as higher revenue
and auto deliveries offset increased development spending.  “The outlook seems conservative after the first quarter,
which should have been the toughest this year,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Bankhaus Metzler analyst in Frankfurt. “The results
are very strong.”  The German automaker warned last week that the debt crisis
in Europe heightens risks for the auto industry this year.
Demand in the region dropped 7.3 percent in the first quarter,
while industrywide deliveries in  China  slipped 1.3 percent,
increasing stockpiles of unsold vehicles in the world’s biggest
car market. Volkswagen has so far been resistant to the woes in
its biggest markets.  China Gains  Earnings from VW’s Chinese joint ventures, which aren’t
included in group operating results, jumped 52 percent to 848
million euros. In Europe, deliveries edged up 0.5 percent,
boosting its market share to 23.7 percent from 21.9 percent.  Other European automakers have felt the brunt of the local
slump. Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, posted a 7.3
percent decline in first-quarter revenue and affirmed its
projection that the region’s auto market will fall 5 percent
this year. Renault reported a 9 percent drop in first-quarter
sales.  Uncertainty over market developments hasn’t stopped VW from
expanding as it seeks to overtake  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the
world’s largest carmaker. Last week, Audi agreed to acquire
Italian motorcycle maker Ducati. VW also announced plans last
week to build a new plant in western China as it seeks growth
beyond the country’s bustling coast and signed off on a new Audi
factory in  Mexico , the brand’s first in  North America .  Incomplete Expansion  Some other VW expansion efforts are incomplete. The
integration of Porsche SE’s carmaking unit continues to face
“some hurdles,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said
last week in Hamburg at the company’s annual meeting. Even with
delays caused by legal tangles, VW said that the combination
with the maker of the 911 sports car will be finalized.  After raising its stake in MAN to 73 percent earlier this
month, VW is continuing to pursue a combination with the Munich-
based truckmaker,  Scania AB (SCVB) , which the car manufacturer also
controls, and its own commercial-vehicle operations. Among the
options is a domination agreement of MAN, if VW accumulates a
holding of more than 75 percent, Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  