-- Wal-Mart Mexico Probe Is a Gift for Anti-Store Activists
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/wal-mart-mexico-probe-is-a-gift-for-anti-store-activists.html
Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  achieved
success in  Mexico  even as the company fought off activists and
officials who warned of the dangers of its encroaching
influence. A bribery probe into Wal-Mart’s store expansion is
giving those opponents new ammunition.  Mexico’s largest retailer and biggest private employer went
from one Wal-Mart store in 1991 to 2,138 locations this year,
including discount centers, grocery stores, restaurants and
bodegas. Until this week, it was an investor darling,  outpacing 
Mexico’s benchmark stock index with a more than sixfold return
over the past decade.  That changed after the New York Times reported April 21
that the retailer had bribed local officials to get stores
opened faster in the early 2000s, a revelation that sent shares
tumbling 13 percent by yesterday’s close. For some Mexicans, the
allegations confirm their fears that Wal-Mart’s rise would come
at a grave cost to their communities.  “We knew that Wal-Mart would bring consequences when it
opened in small towns,” said Emma Ortega Moreno, an activist
who lost a battle with the retailer over the opening of a store
near one of Mexico’s most historic sites, the pyramids of
Teotihuacan. “But we didn’t even suspect everything that has
come to light.”  Antonio Ocaranza, a spokesman for Wal-Mart de Mexico, said
the company benefits local communities.  “We not only generate direct employment where few
opportunities exists but also buy local produce and goods,
contribute with volunteers to local causes, generate traffic for
other local business, and foster new sources of economic
growth,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Relentless Growth  Before the scandal hit, Wal-Mart de Mexico was most famous
for its relentless growth. Sales reached 379 billion pesos
($28.8 billion) last year, up more than fivefold from a decade
ago, as Mexico’s economic growth led to the rise of middle-class
consumers. This year, the company plans to open 410 to 436
stores, increasing floor space by 12 percent in Mexico and 9
percent in Central America.  Wal-Mart de Mexico employed 238,128 workers at the end of
last year in Mexico and Central America, up 8.4 percent from
2010. That tops the 209,000  jobs  in the companies controlled by
Mexico’s  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest person according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Store Concepts  The retailer has store concepts for several classes of
Mexican consumers. Bodega Aurrera Express is stocked with
single-use boxes of cereal and small cartons of milk for
customers with limited resources who make their shopping
decisions based on their day-to-day needs. Superama supermarkets
offer organic spinach and imported beers in high-end residential
districts. Suburbia specializes in affordable apparel, and Vips
diners serve enchiladas and hamburgers.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  first entered Mexico two decades ago
in a partnership with a local retailer, Cifra SA. In 1997, the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company acquired a majority of
Cifra, creating a company that then had almost 400 locations.
The company changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico in 2000, and
it’s now 69 percent owned by  Wal-Mart Stores .  As Wal-Mart stores began popping up across the country,
opposition began to crystallize as local merchants found
themselves increasingly squeezed.  One opposition group, the Teotihuacan Valley Civic Defense
Front led by activist Ortega Moreno, waged one of the more high-
profile fights against a store opening in Mexico. The group
fought to stop the retailer from building a mere 3 kilometers
(1.9 miles) from the 2,000-year-old Pyramid of the Sun.  City Hall Demonstration  Protesters including Moreno organized a sit-in for 24 hours
in August 2004 that blocked the entrance to the construction
site, La Jornada newspaper reported that year. After asking the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
and the International Council on Monuments and Sites to
intervene, the group organized a demonstration in front of city
hall in September, demanding to see a copy of Wal-Mart’s
building permit.  The company never met with the protesters, Moreno said.
Wal-Mart opened its doors in Teotihuacan, an hour’s drive from
Mexico City, later that year.  Elena Poniatowska, the Mexican journalist and author, later
told La Jornada that the Wal-Mart opening in Teotihuacan
represented “the triumph of power and money over archaeological
heritage and Mexican history.” When the store’s cash register
system briefly failed on opening day, some people muttered that
it was the vengeance of the gods, the newspaper said.  Credit-Card Debt  Among the local business owners who felt the retail giant’s
impact was Silverio Hermosillo, 45. He said his shoe store’s
sales fell 70 percent as a result of Wal-Mart’s presence, even
as he offered discounts to keep up with his bigger rival’s
prices. The problem, he said, was that Wal-Mart offered credit
cards to its shoppers to help them load up on purchases, leaving
him unable to compete and pushing the town’s consumers into debt
from which they’ve struggled to recover.  “When a shopping plaza comes to town, it destroys local
commerce,” Hermosillo said. He now rents out most of his
building to other businesses.  The struggle to thwart Wal-Mart’s expansion has continued
over the years, though rarely with any results. In the colonial
city of Queretaro last month, about 400 vendors from public
markets protested in front of city hall after the local
government approved the opening of 20 Wal-Mart-owned bodegas
near their businesses, La Jornada newspaper  reported . In
Mexico’s public markets, created in the 1950s, butchers, fruit
sellers, florists and fishmongers crowd together to sell their
wares.  Rejected in Court  The one notable victory scored by the anti-Wal-Mart forces
occurred last year in Mexico City. The local government there
has taken action to protect local businesses, enacting an
ordinance to keep large retailers from opening near public
markets. A judge struck down Wal-Mart’s injunction against the
ordinance, the government  said  in November.  The ordinance echoes the opposition by the New York City
Council to allow Wal-Mart Stores to open locations there amid
union opposition. Just as it has in the U.S., Wal-Mart continues
to grow in Mexico even as community groups try to slow its
expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  