-- Two Bridges, Separate and Unequal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/two-bridges-separate-and-unequal.html
Two floating bridges across Lake
Washington connect  Seattle  with its eastern suburbs. The
roadbeds rest on huge pontoons and sway a bit as you drive
across them on a windy day.  One is the last gasp of  Interstate 90  as it finishes its
journey from  Boston  to the Puget Sound. The other is State Route
520 or “ the 520 ,” as it’s known.  Which bridge to take from where, at what time, using which
entrances and exits, has long been a major preoccupation of
Seattleites and a frequent icebreaker with strangers. Making the
wrong choice can cost you an hour or more sitting in traffic.
Everyone has a pet strategy. (“What I like to do is get off at
Montlake and then dismantle the car and carry the pieces up to
U-Village, where I can reassemble it and proceed up 15th Street.
… But you’ve gotta be on the road by 3 a.m. or you’re going to
get trapped.”)  All of this changed, though, in December, when the state
began collecting tolls on the 520 bridge. It’s  not cheap : as
much as $5 each way at rush hour. There’s already a  price
increase  in the works for this summer. The I-90 bridge remains
free.  Technologically, the system is a marvel. There are no toll
booths. Indeed, there is no sign at all that this is a toll road
except for actual signs that say so. The toll is collected in
myriad ways. You can sign up for an account and get a little
coded sticker for your windshield. Or you can wait until they
bill you, using your license plate to track you down.
Apparently, it works. Unless your commute is between 11 p.m. and
5 a.m., in which case it’s free, you can’t escape.  Except, of course, by taking I-90. That -- no surprise --
is what has happened. Now the I-90 bridge is  more jammed  than
ever, but if you have $7 to $10 a day to pay for the privilege,
you can sail on the 520 at any time.  Economists love this kind of thing. The money raised will
be used to rebuild the bridge. Thus this cost will be paid by
those who actually use the bridge, in direct proportion to how
much they use it, rather than sticking it to the general
taxpayer. The market will sort out those who value their time at
more than $10 per commute from those who do not and give both
drivers what they prefer.  And of course, it’s good for the environment: Some people
will reject both the toll and the increased congestion on the
free bridge, and use public transit or work from home.  Governments around the world are trying variations on this
approach. In  London , there’s  a daily fee  for every car driven
into the center of town. In Barcelona, there’s  a tunnel  that
speeds you past the worst congestion, if you’re willing to pay.
It’s not a terrible idea. Unlike taxes, these fees are tied to a
particular benefit, which makes them easier to swallow. So does
the fact that they are voluntary.  In Seattle, since the toll was imposed, traffic on the toll
bridge has dropped about 40 percent, while traffic on the free
bridge has risen 10 percent. Overall traffic from the east side
to and from the city has dropped about 6 percent.  Does this constitute success? That depends on your
definition of success. As with the cigarette tax, the more
effective a fee is in changing undesired behavior, the less
money it brings in. Toll revenue from the 520 bridge is supposed
to raise about $1 billion of the $4 billion-plus cost of the new
bridge.  But the big problem with the new toll is that it is another
small chipping way of our shared life as citizens, and another
area where money makes the difference. It used to be that no
matter how rich you were, there were some things you could not
buy your way out of. Rush-hour congestion was one of them. The
law, in its majesty, allowed rich and poor alike to get stuck in
traffic. I once heard  Steve Ballmer , chief executive of
Microsoft and worth many billions of dollars, talking about his
strategy for outfoxing the dread 520. (I tried it. It didn’t
work.)  As  explained  by philosopher Michael Walzer, and somewhat
 more entertainingly  by my friend Mickey Kaus, there are two ways
to deal with wealth and income inequality (if it  bothers you ,
that is). One is to reduce it, through the tax system. The other
is to make money less important. Create national parks, open to
everybody. Restore universal military service. And so on.  By this way of thinking, the two bridges side-by-side, one
costly to use and one free, constitute a small step backward,
toward making money more important. You might say: Wait a
minute. What if there already was a toll on both bridges, and it
was lifted on one so that people willing to put up with crowds
could go across free? That wouldn’t seem iniquitous, would it?
But it’s the same thing, really.  And I would say, Great point! Let’s continue this
discussion over a drink downtown. And you would look at your
watch and say, It’s too late. We’ll never make it across the
bridge before dinnertime.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  easing student debt  and
 Europe’s growth pact ; Stephen L. Carter on  toll roads and budget
deficits ;  Jonathan Alter  on  community-college shortcomings ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  ratings firms ; Elizabeth Samet on  ambition in
the military .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 