-- House Democrats Seek Hearing on Verizon Airwaves Purchase
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-26T15:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/two-house-democrats-seek-hearing-on-verizon-airwaves-purchase.html
Democrats in the U.S. House of
Representatives asked for a hearing on Verizon Wireless’s
proposed $3.6 billion purchase of airwaves from a group of cable
companies led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and Time Warner Cable Inc.  The airwaves sale and related cross-marketing agreements
may have implications for competition in the wireless industry,
California representatives Henry Waxman and Anna Eshoo said in a
letter today to  Fred Upton , the Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. Waxman and Eshoo
said they have taken no position on the purchase.  Verizon, the largest U.S. mobile provider, announced on
Dec. 2 the purchase of unused airwaves from Comcast,  Time Warner
Cable (TWC)  and closely held Bright House Networks LLC. The companies
pledged joint marketing. On Dec. 16 Verizon announced a $315
million airwaves purchase and marketing agreement with closely
held Cox Communications Inc.  “It is important that the Energy and Commerce Committee
examine the policy implications of these deals carefully,”
Waxman and Eshoo said in the letter.  The accords make allies of cable companies pushing into the
phone business and  Verizon Wireless , whose parent has entered
cable’s traditional video business. Waxman, the senior Democrat
on the Commerce Committee, and Eshoo, the top Democrat on the
Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, addressed their
letter to Upton and Greg Walden, the Oregon Republican who is
the committee chairman.  Competition Concern  Opponents have said the deals would result in reduced
competition and higher prices. Verizon said the spectrum
purchase will give it airwaves needed to meet soaring demand
from smartphones and data-hungry tablet computers such as Apple
Inc.’s iPad.  The deals are under review by the Federal Communications
Commission and  Justice Department . Opponents including the
 Communications Workers of America  have asked the FCC to delay
its consideration of the deal. Verizon has said no delay is
warranted.  Verizon has said consumers will benefit from purchasing
communications services in a bundle, and opponents have said the
deals will increase concentration and bring disincentives for
competition between mobile providers and companies supplying
service over wires, Eshoo and Waxman said.  Walden has said he plans to examine who owns airwaves and
their use, the lawmakers said.  “Any analysis of these important issues would be
incomplete without an examination of the proposed Verizon
spectrum purchases,” Waxman and Eshoo said.  License Sales  Debbee Keller, a spokeswoman for Republicans the Commerce
Committee, didn’t immediately return an e-mail and telephone
call seeking comment. Ed McFadden, a Washington-based spokesman
for Verizon, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and phone
call.  Verizon said on April 18 it will sell other spectrum
licenses it bought in 2008 if it can complete the purchase under
scrutiny. The timing of the sale announcement isn’t tied to the
progress of the spectrum purchase at the FCC,  Peter Thonis , a
Verizon spokesman, said in an e-mail that day.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge,  New Jersey , is 55
percent-owned by Verizon and 45 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury,  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  