-- Won Leads Gains in Asian Currencies on Fed, South Korean Growth
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-04-26T08:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/won-leads-gains-in-asian-currencies-on-fed-south-korean-growth.html
Asian currencies rose, led by  South
Korea ’s won, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
more U.S. stimulus will be provided if necessary, keeping
speculation alive it will have another round of asset purchases.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index advanced for a
third day and the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares climbed the
most in a week as Bernanke signaled the central bank stands
ready to add to its two rounds of monetary easing if needed.
South  Korea ’s  economy  expanded at the fastest pace in a year, a
central bank report showed today.  “The possibility of a third round of quantitative easing
is still very much on the cards,” said Chua Hak Bin, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Singapore . “This
is supportive of monetary conditions and global growth and will
support Asian currencies.”  The won advanced 0.4 percent to 1,136.32 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar
added 0.4 percent to NT$29.412 and the Philippine peso rose 0.3
percent to 42.525. The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most active currencies excluding the yen, touched a
one-week high of 116.76 and was up 0.1 percent to 116.72 as of
4:10 p.m. in  Hong Kong .  The Fed reiterated its view that borrowing costs are likely
to remain “exceptionally low” at least through late 2014. It
estimated the world’s largest economy will grow 2.4 percent to
2.9 percent, upgrading a previous prediction for an expansion of
2.2 percent to 2.7 percent.  Faster Growth  Europe  may add an annex to its budget treaty spelling out
how countries can boost growth as the bloc shifts its emphasis
on tackling the debt crisis, a German government official said.
The Chinese yuan was little changed at 6.3053 even after the
central bank set a record reference rate for the currency.  The won rose for the first time in three days after the
Bank of Korea said today gross domestic product rose 0.9 percent
in the first quarter from the previous three months, when it
gained 0.3 percent.  North Korea’s state media said this week that a special
action squad will turn South’s government into ashes within
three to four minutes using “unprecedented peculiar means and
methods of our own style.”  “External factors are favorable for the won today,” said
Kim Sung Soon, chief currency dealer at  Industrial Bank of Korea (024110) 
in Seoul. “Risks related to North Korea persist, but I expect
this issue to affect currency markets only if their action
really happens.”  Taiwan Dollar  Taiwan’s dollar rose to a three-week high as exchange data
showed global funds bought $104 million more local stocks than
they sold in the first three days of this week, boosting net
purchases this year to $3.8 billion.  “Bernanke’s comments spurred risk-taking,” said Samson
Tu, a Taipei-based  fund manager  at Uni-President Assets
Management Corp., who helps manage $1.6 billion of fixed-income
securities. “It’s boosting the  Taiwan dollar  and regional
currencies.”  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit added 0.3 percent to 3.0505
per dollar and Thailand’s baht rose 0.2 percent to 30.88.
Indonesia’s rupiah held steady at 9,191 and  India ’s rupee was
little changed at 52.55.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  