-- World Bank Assesses Myanmar’s Debt as Re-Engages Nation
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-27T03:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/world-bank-assesses-myanmar-s-debt-as-re-engages-nation.html
The  World Bank  is helping assess
Myanmar’s debt level as it rekindles relations with the country
25 years after stopping loans, an official at the lender said.  The Washington-based World Bank will open an office in
Myanmar in June, Pamela Cox, the bank’s vice president for  East
Asia , told reporters today. The lender and the  International
Monetary Fund  are gathering data about the nation’s debt
sustainability, she said.  “This is to see how much debt stress this country is going
to be under once it normalizes relations and how much debt
should be forgiven,” said Cox, who will travel to the country
in June to meet with authorities. “We’re not at the stage of
loans yet.”  The European Union and nations including the U.S. and
 Australia  have said they will ease sanctions against Myanmar,
where a new government took power in March 2011 and initiated
steps to liberalize after five decades of military rule.  Japan 
announced April 22 it would forgive 303.5 billion yen ($3.8
billion) in loans and interest and roll over 198.9 billion yen
of debt with a new loan.  Myanmar President Thein Sein is courting investment from
Japan amid a shift toward democracy over the past year that’s
encouraged re-engagement with developed nations. Honda Motor Co.
is among companies expressing interest in Myanmar, a nation of
64 million people formerly known as  Burma .  Overdue Debts  “Right now we actually don’t know clearly what they owe
everybody,” Cox said.  The bank is owed $393 million in arrears, according to Cox,
who said the World Bank stopped lending directly to Myanmar in
1987 and that the last loan projects ended in the early 1990s.
Other arrears include about $500 million to the  Asian
Development Bank , she said.  The ADB is preparing to offer Myanmar several hundred
million dollars per year in grants and loans if the government
clears overdue debts and Western nations give approval, Craig
Steffensen, who oversees the bank’s activities in the country,
said on April 11. The Treasury Department is bound by law to
block the ADB and World Bank from providing most assistance to
Myanmar as part of sanctions first imposed in 1988.  ‘Economic Plumbing’  The ADB is limited to fact-finding missions that cost less
than $1.5 million because board approval is needed for anything
more, Steffensen said. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
signed a waiver in February allowing the ADB, World Bank and IMF
to conduct “assessment missions and limited technical
assistance.”  The World Bank’s immediate focus in Myanmar is analytical
work, which Cox called “economic plumbing,” to understand
where the bank can help, she said.  That means, for instance, finding out whether the country
has strong enough financial and budget systems and a functioning
government, she said.  “What we want to focus on are issues also around poverty,
around creating jobs, around livelihoods,” to help “quick
start higher incomes for local people,” Cox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  