-- Wynn’s Massachusetts Casino Plan Runs Out of Aces Amid Protests
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-04-26T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/wynn-s-massachusetts-casino-plan-runs-out-of-aces-amid-protests.html
Gaming magnate  Steve Wynn  doesn’t
shy away from a fight. In Foxborough, Massachusetts, the founder
of Las Vegas-based  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  has been working hard to
get a $1 billion casino built. He’s sent a video pitch, bought
full-page newspaper ads, and sent canvassers door-to-door to
persuade residents to support the project.  Wynn faces plenty of obstacles,  Bloomberg Businessweek 
reports in its April 30 issue. Civic leaders won’t negotiate
with him, an opposition group has attracted 1,200 members, and
rival  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  wants to build its own Boston-
area casino. On April 16 a supporter of Wynn’s project was
arrested for allegedly threatening the life of a town selectman,
according to police.  “I don’t think Steve Wynn anticipated the negative feeling
in the community,” said Ray Poirier, executive editor of Gaming
Today. “He’s got to turn the town around.”  Massachusetts  Governor  Deval Patrick  signed legislation in
November authorizing three casinos and a slot machine parlor in
the commonwealth. The law divides the state into three regions,
allowing one casino in each.  The winning proposals will be picked by the Massachusetts
Gaming Commission based in part on their potential economic
contribution to the state. Before the commission can review an
application, however, the operator must negotiate an agreement
with the host community and win a local referendum. Licenses
aren’t expected to be awarded until mid-2013.  Boston is The Prize  The prize is the permit for the Boston region. With 4.5
million residents, it’s the 10th-largest metropolitan area in
the U.S.  Per capita income in  Boston , at $31,856, is 16 percent
above the national average. Clyde Barrow, a professor at the
University of Massachusetts Dartmouth who studies the New
England gambling market, estimates a Boston-area casino could
generate as much as $800 million in gaming revenue a year. The
state will be entitled to a 25 percent cut.  Wynn identified Foxborough, a town of 17,300 that lies 30
miles south of Boston, as his site of choice last year. He plans
to build the casino on land leased from New England Patriots
owner  Robert Kraft  and adjacent to Gillette Stadium. Neither
Wynn nor Kraft responded to requests for comment.  Previous Rejections  The Las Vegas billionaire shouldn’t be surprised that
Foxborough’s residents are digging in their heels. The town
twice rejected zoning changes that would have allowed gambling,
in 2004 and 2011, says Paul Mortenson, a former selectman. In a
December letter to government officials and Wynn, the board of
selectmen said Foxborough did not want to pursue casino
negotiations.  Yet the balance may shift after elections on May 7 in which
two of five seats are being contested. Two candidates oppose the
casino and two favor negotiating with Wynn, according to
Mortenson.  Residents are just as divided. Collin Earnst, a marketer at
a  software company , says he’s concerned about the effect the
project will have on traffic and property values.  “The zoning they applied for is the size of the Statue of
Liberty,” said Earnst, who has joined the No Foxboro Casino
group.  Real estate agent Millie Cetrone, who supports the casino
because it will bring in  tax revenue , points out that the
neighboring town of Walpole has a prison, “and the [property]
values there are a lot higher than Foxborough.”  ‘No-Brainer’  She calls the decision “a no-brainer.”  Wynn has said the casino would create 4,000 permanent  jobs 
and could generate as much as $15 million in revenue for schools
and other public services. The billionaire has funded a grass-
roots group called Jobs for Foxboro, which has organized three
town meetings to drum up support.  Barrow questions whether Wynn has chosen the right locale.
A casino north of Boston would have less competition and keep
more dollars in Massachusetts in the event that New Hampshire
legalizes gambling, according to the professor.  Las Vegas-based Caesars, Wynn’s longtime rival, has teamed
up with Suffolk Downs, a horse racing track in East Boston, to
pursue its competing bid.  On April 12, Boston Mayor Thomas Menino named an advisory
panel to pursue a deal with the Caesars/Suffolk Downs group, a
move he likened to firing the starting gun for the Boston
Marathon.  In a statement, Menino predicted the outcome of the race
“could be the largest economic development game changer in
Boston’s recent history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  