-- Hyundai Motor Profit Rises 31%, Beating Analyst Estimates
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-04-26T08:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/hyundai-motor-profit-rises-31-beating-analyst-estimates.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s
largest carmaker, reported first-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates, helped by sales of the Elantra sedan and
i20 subcompact in  Europe  and the U.S.  Net income  climbed 31 percent to 2.45 trillion won ($2.2
billion), compared with 1.88 trillion won a year earlier, the
Seoul-based company said in a statement today. Profit beat the
2.07 trillion won average of 25 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue increased 11 percent to 20.2 trillion won.  The Sonata and Accent sedans fueled a 15 percent increase
in U.S. deliveries in the quarter, while the i20 hatchback
helped drive a 13 percent rise in Europe, bucking the region’s
economic slump that pushed down demand for vehicles to a 14-year
low last month. The company has said since January that it
expects sales to climb 5.7 percent to 4.3 million units in 2012
and reach 7 million vehicles when combined with those of
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)   “The global  auto industry  is expected to improve in the
second half of this year, as U.S. demand remains strong and
 China ’s growth turns around,” said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst
at KB Investment and Securities Co. in  Seoul . “I expect other
major automakers to post improved operating profits.”  Operating profit , or sales minus the costs of goods sold
and administrative expenses, rose 25 percent to 2.28 trillion
won. That exceeded the 2.11 trillion won average analyst
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai, the first among major global carmakers to report
results for the latest quarter, gained 1.8 percent to 262,000
won at the close in Seoul trading, while the benchmark Kospi
index rose 0.1 percent.  U.S. Demand  The company raised its forecast for global auto market
growth in 2012 to 5.6 percent, helped by demand in the U.S., Lee Won Hee, Hyundai’s chief financial officer, said today. This is
bigger than the 3.6 percent increase it forecast at the
beginning of this year, he said.  “The increase in U.S. auto industry’s demand is more than
we had expected,” Lee said. “Our Elantra and Sonata supply is
not able to keep up with the demand in the U.S.”  Hyundai isn’t concerned about stiffer competition from
Japanese rivals such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,
which are rebounding from last year’s natural disaster, he said.
The South Korean carmaker plans to introduce five new models in
the U.S., including the new Santa Fe sport-utility vehicle and a
revamped Elantra.  China Plant  In China, the world’s largest automobile market, Hyundai’s
sales rose 6.8 percent in the first quarter, bucking a decline
in industry deliveries, fueled by demand for the Accent, whose
deliveries jumped 80 percent last quarter. To meet demand,
Hyundai plans to start production of its China-exclusive
Elantra, introduced as Langdong in the country, at the newly
completed third plant, the company said in an April 23 e-mail.  Production at Hyundai’s third plant in China will begin in
July, which will increase the automaker’s production capacity to
1 million units in the country, according to the company.  Rising gasoline prices have undermined demand in China,
where  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and BAIC Motor Corp. warned this week of
rising inventory levels in the industry.  Average prices of cars produced in China have fallen for
three straight months as  quarterly sales shrank  for the first
time since 2005 during the first three months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  