-- Zynga Earnings Beat Estimates as Game Site Lures Users
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-04-27T23:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-26/zynga-earnings-beat-estimates-as-game-site-lures-users.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  had its biggest decline
in two months after reporting that most of the gain in virtual
goods sales is coming from mobile players -- who, according to
analysts, tend to spend less on online games.  The majority of the growth in first-quarter bookings, or
the total value of virtual goods sold, came from mobile games,
San Francisco-based Zynga said in a statement yesterday. The
company also reported a net loss, compared with profit a year
earlier, amid rising expenses.  People who play Zynga’s games on their handsets rather than
traditional computers are less likely to splurge on so-called
virtual goods, such as crops and tractor equipment in
“FarmVille,” said  Arvind Bhatia , analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. in  Dallas .  “Mobile is fine, but it doesn’t monetize as well,”
Bhatia, who recommends selling Zynga shares and doesn’t own
them.  Mobile games generate about one-half to three-quarters as
much revenue per daily user as Web-based social games, according
to  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San
Francisco , who rates Zynga “neutral.”  Zynga fell 9.6 percent to $8.52 at the close in New York,
for the largest decline since Feb. 15. The stock has dropped 15
percent since it began trading on Dec. 16.  Zynga, which raised $1 billion in a December initial public
offering, has spent money expanding into new areas, such as
mobile games, including its $180 million purchase of OMGPop Inc.
in March. Operating costs almost doubled, surging 97 percent, to
$406.6 million.  Swinging to Loss  That helps explain why the company swung to a net loss of
$85.4 million, or 12 cents a share, from profit of $1.34
million, or break even, a year earlier.  Concerns over growth in mobile users outweighed evidence
that the company is exceeding analysts’ predictions in other
areas. Sales rose 32 percent to $321 million, topping the
average $315.9 million analyst estimate, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding some items was 6 cents a
share, more than the 5-cent estimate.  Players who pay money increased 21 percent to 2.9 million
from the fourth quarter, Zynga said.  “Only a small fraction of their user base pays them,”
said  Rich Greenfield , analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, who
recommends buying Zynga shares. This level of increase “in
paying players is pretty significant.”  Bookings were $329.2 million, up 15 percent from the first
quarter of 2011.  Mobile’s ‘Early Days’  Zynga’s mobile games, which include “Dream Heights” and
“Words With Friends” were responsible for “the majority of
bookings growth.” Zynga said in the statement.  “I wouldn’t say mobile is more difficult to monetize,”
Zynga Chief Operating Officer John Schappert said in an
interview. “I would say that we’re early days in mobile, and
it’s reminiscent of the early days of social gaming on the
Web.”  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  made $1.68 million in
salary, bonus, awards and other compensation in 2011, up from
$520,239 the previous year, Zynga said in a  regulatory filing 
today. Schappert, who was hired from  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  last
year, received $42.8 million in total compensation.  Zynga benefited last quarter from introducing six new
games, helping boost monthly users to 182 million, up 25 percent
from a year earlier.  Zynga raised its full-year 2012 bookings forecast to $1.43
billion to $1.5 billion, up from a February projection of $1.35
billion to $1.45 billion. Zynga also said it expects 2012
earnings, excluding some items of 23 cents to 29 cents a share,
compared with a prior range of 24 cents to 28 cents.  Dependent on Facebook  Zynga said on a conference call that it increased the
forecast because of the OMGPop acquisition.  Earlier this week, Facebook said 11 percent of its $1.06
billion in first-quarter revenue came from Zynga. Facebook,
which takes a 30 percent cut from purchases of virtual goods
within Zynga games, is expected to hold an IPO this year.  Zynga owns the six most popular games played on Facebook,
according to  AppData . CityVille, with 41.6 million monthly users
and Texas HoldEm Poker, with 37.3 million users, top the social
gaming charts. Draw Something, which Zynga acquired through its
March purchase of OMGPop, is in third with 36 million users.  The company expects to spend hundreds of millions of
dollars acquiring game developers over the next three to five
years, Pincus told Bloomberg in an interview this month.  Zynga sold 49.5 million shares in a secondary offering of
its shares on April 3. The terms of the share sale required the
sellers, including Pincus, to agree to a longer lockup period
that keeps them from unloading additional shares until as late
as August, according to a filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  New York  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  