-- Rudd Seeks Votes as Polls Signal Australia Election Loss
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-01T04:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/abbott-to-win-australia-election-with-clear-majority-poll-shows.html
Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd
says his  Labor Party  can win an election in less than a week
even as a fresh national poll signals voters are set to elect
Liberal-National leader  Tony Abbott  with a clear majority.  “We can prevail and we will prevail,” Rudd, 55, told
party faithful who packed the Brisbane Convention Center for a
nationally televised speech in which he promised tax breaks for
small business and legislation to ensure Australian companies
participate more in major expansion projects. “I’ve been in
tougher spots than this and I’ve come from behind before.”  A Galaxy poll published today in the  Sunday Telegraph  shows
voter support for Abbott’s coalition on a two-party-preferred
basis has jumped to 53 percent, ahead of Labor on 47 percent.
That would deliver the coalition 86 seats in the 150 seat lower
house of parliament if replicated at the Sept. 7 election,
Galaxy said.  Rudd was first elected prime minister in 2007, then ousted
by his parliamentary colleagues in 2010 in favor of  Julia Gillard . With Gillard trailing earlier this year in opinion
polls, Rudd was returned to power in a June leadership vote.
Gillard did not attend today’s party function. Former Labor
prime ministers  Bob Hawke  and  Paul Keating  did, both receiving
standing ovations.  Both parties have put management of the $1.5 trillion
economy at the center of their campaigns, amid slowing growth as
a China-led boom in mining investment wanes.  Resources Industry  Rudd, declaring today that Labor is “now engaged in the
fight of our lives,” vowed A$10,000 ($8,900) tax breaks for
small business, extra cash help for 70,000 trade apprentices and
to create a new agency to oversee  job creation  and training.  He also targeted the resources industry, saying he would
legislate to ensure they used local suppliers in projects worth
A$300 million or more, a move he claimed would generate A$624
million of extra work for Australian industry and jobs.  Rudd, who was introduced to the party faithful by his wife
Therese Rein, said the core of his vision for the 21st century
was that every Australian had the right to “a good job, with
fair wages and conditions.”  Today’s Labor policy announcements “won’t make the
slightest bit of difference” to the election outcome, said
 Malcolm Mackerras , a political analyst at the Australian
Catholic University in Canberra. “I never gave Labor any chance
of winning this election. For a while it looked as though  Kevin
Rudd  might save more seats. But it’s now simply swung back to
roughly the way it would have been if Gillard was still the
prime minister.”  Marginal Seats  Analysis of 20 marginal seats based on 11,500 Galaxy
interviews suggests the average swing to the coalition is 4.1
percent, the Sunday Telegraph reported. It did not give a margin
of error or interview dates for the Galaxy poll.  “I am ready for the responsibility of the highest
office,” Abbott, 55, said today on ABC TV’s Insiders program.
“We need a stable majority government.”  Rudd said yesterday that Abbott “thinks he has the
election in the bag.”  Today’s Galaxy poll follows a Newspoll published in
yesterday’s Weekend Australian that shows support for Labor has
collapsed on the east coast.  The opposition coalition may pick up 20 additional seats in
just the east coast states of New South  Wales  and Victoria, the
 Weekend Australian  reported when it published the Newspoll
surveys. Abbott’s coalition needs to win just four extra
electorates to claim power.  Bets Paid  Newspoll’s surveys were conducted in the past week in 13
marginal Labor-held seats. They show the coalition leads Labor
on a two-party-preferred basis 53 percent to 47 percent in five
coastal New South Wales electorates, 53 percent to 47 percent in
three Victorian seats and 57 percent to 43 percent in five
western Sydney divisions. The surveys have a margin of error of
3.5 percent.  A separate Newspoll published Aug. 26 showed Abbott’s
coalition leading Rudd’s Labor nationally by six percentage
points on a two-party-preferred basis. Online bookmaker
Sportsbet said last week it was already paying out bets on the
coalition winning the election, conceding it is convinced Labor
has no chance of victory.  Both sides’ ability to promise pre-election sweeteners has
been hit by falling government revenue as they each have put
management of the world’s 12th-largest economy at the center of
their campaigns. Labor is pressuring the coalition to release
details of the costs of its policies, including Abbott’s
proposed paid parental leave system.  Abbott Savings  Abbott told ABC TV today that details of yet to be
announced savings measures would be kept under wraps until
Thursday, two days before voters go to the polls. The coalition
unveiled A$31 billion in savings last week, a figure Labor
claimed was A$10 billion short.  Speaking in Queensland yesterday, Abbott downplayed the
latest polls. “This is a very close election,” he said in a
press conference broadcast on  Sky News . “ I think it’s
inevitable that the polls will tighten sharply in the last
week.”  Treasurer  Chris Bowen  and his predecessor  Wayne Swan  are
also at risk of losing their seats at the election, the
Australian Financial Review reported yesterday, citing JWS
Research polling of five Labor seats conducted on Aug. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  