-- American Riske Upsets Kvitova at U.S. Open as Azarenka Wins
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-31T22:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/american-riske-upsets-seventh-seeded-kvitova-at-u-s-open-1-.html
American wild-card invitee Alison
Riske upset seventh-seeded Petra Kvitova at the U.S. Open to
reach the fourth round of a Grand Slam tournament for the first
time, while No. 2 Victoria Azarenka needed three sets to
advance.  No. 2 men’s seed Rafael Nadal of Spain cruised past Ivan
Dodig of  Croatia  in straight sets at the National Tennis Center
in New York, where Christina McHale almost became the second
U.S. woman today to beat a former major winner, serving for the
match before falling to Ana Ivanovic of  Serbia .  Riske, 23, who was born in Pittsburgh and trains in College
Park,  Maryland , beat Kvitova 6-3, 6-0. Ranked 81st on the WTA
Tour, Riske was invited to play the event after failing to
qualify on her own. She won 85 percent of her first serves and
had seven unforced errors, compared to 27 for her Czech
opponent, the Wimbledon champion in 2011.  “It was really emotional for me,” Riske told reporters.
“I feel like I’m playing within myself. I’m not doing anything
crazy and it feels really comfortable, so it’s exciting.”  Kvitova, 23, said after the match she had a high fever
yesterday and was diagnosed with a virus, hampering her
performance.  “My body didn’t help me today,” she told reporters. “I
tried to play, I tried to fight, but my body wouldn’t let me.”  Riske next will play Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia, who
overcame four match points to beat Israeli qualifier Julia
Glushko 3-6, 7-5, 7-6 (7-4).  Azarenka, the two-time defending Australian Open winner and
2012 U.S. Open runner-up, dropped a first-set tiebreaker to
Alize Cornet of  France  before pulling out the match 6-7 (2-7),
6-3, 6-2.  Slow Start  Azarenka made 20 unforced errors in the opening set,
compared to 11 in the second and seven in the third.  “The first set Alize played really well and I wasn’t
patient enough,” she said in an on-court interview after her
match. “I had a lot of chances and I didn’t convert them.”  Azarenka next meets 13th-seeded Ivanovic after the 2008
French Open winner came from behind to beat McHale.  McHale, a 21-year-old ranked 114th on the WTA Tour, was
leading 6-4, 5-4 with a chance to serve out the match for her
first trip to a Grand Slam fourth round. Instead, her serve was
broken by Ivanovic, who took the set 7-5 and won the final set
6-4.  “I couldn’t find my rhythm in the beginning so I just
tried to keep my head down and tried to be aggressive,”
Ivanovic said in an on-court interview after the match in Arthur
Ashe Stadium. “It paid off, so I’m very pleased.”  Nadal’s 18-0  Nadal, whose 12 Grand Slam championships include the 2010
U.S. Open title, extended his undefeated record on hard courts
this year to 18-0 with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 defeat of Dodig on the
Ashe court.  The 27-year-old Nadal, who missed the 2012 tournament with
a knee injury, won points on 80 percent of his first serves and
74 percent of his second serves, not allowing a break.  “I started the match with the right intensity,” Nadal
said in a televised on-court interview after advancing. “I
think I played my best match this year.”  Nadal’s fourth-round opponent will be 22nd-seeded Philipp Kohlschreiber of  Germany , who won in four sets today against
American John Isner, the No. 13 seed.  It’s a cloudy day in Flushing Meadows, Queens, and there’s
a 50 percent chance of rain this afternoon and tonight,
according to the National Weather Service.  Ferrer Advances  Men’s No. 4 seed David Ferrer of Spain topped qualifier
Mikhail Kukushin of Kazakhstan and No. 10 Milos Raonic of  Canada 
beat 23rd-seeded Feliciano Lopez of Spain. No. 18 seed Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia defeated unseeded American Jack Sock in
four sets.  The losses by Sock and Isner left Tim Smyczek, a wild-card
entrant ranked 109th in the world, as the only American man left
in the tournament.  Caroline Wozniacki, the 2009 U.S. Open runner-up from
 Denmark , plays Italian qualifier Camila Giorgi to open evening
play in Arthur Ashe Stadium. That match will be followed by
Roger Federer of Switzerland, the five-time U.S. Open champion
whose 66-8 record at the tournament gives him the best winning
percentage (.892) among men, taking on Adrian Mannarino of
France.  Federer’s No. 7 seeding is his lowest for the tournament
since 2002. The 32-year-old has not dropped a set to Mannarino
in two previous meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  