-- Australia’s Rudd Faces Defeat in Marginal Seats, Newspoll Shows
-- B y   J o h n   M c C l u s k e y   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-08-31T02:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/australia-s-rudd-faces-defeat-in-marginal-seats-newspoll-shows.html
Support for  Australia ’s  Labor Party 
has collapsed on the east coast, according to a Newspoll that
signals Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  will be defeated at a Sept. 7
general election.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition
may pick up 20 additional seats in just the east coast states of
New South  Wales  and Victoria, the  Weekend Australian  reported
when it published Newspoll surveys today. Abbott’s coalition
needs to win just four extra electorates to claim power.  Rudd, campaigning today in Australia’s most northern city
of Darwin, said Abbott “thinks he has the election in the
bag.”  This week’s Newspoll surveys were conducted in 13 marginal
Labor-held seats. They show the coalition leads Labor on a two-party-preferred basis 53 percent to 47 percent in five coastal
New South Wales electorates, 53 percent to 47 percent in three
Victorian seats and 57 percent to 43 percent in five western
Sydney divisions. The surveys have a margin or error of 3.5
percent.  A separate Newspoll published Aug. 26 showed Abbott’s
coalition leading Rudd’s Labor nationally by six percentage
points on a two-party-preferred basis. Online bookmaker
Sportsbet said this week it was already paying out bets on the
coalition winning the election, conceding it is convinced Labor
has no chance of victory.  Both sides’ ability to promise pre-election sweeteners has
been hit by falling government revenue as they each have put
management of the world’s 12th-largest economy at the center of
their campaigns. Labor is pressuring the coalition to release
details of the costs of its policies, including Abbott’s
proposed paid parental leave system.  Under Wraps  Abbott, campaigning in Perth yesterday, said his complete
policy costings would be kept under wraps until “the end of
next week,” the Age newspaper reported.  “Abbott is treating the Australian people with contempt
because he believes he has the election in the bag,” Rudd said
today in an interview broadcast on Sky TV. “This election will
end up a little closer than people think.”  Speaking in Queensland today, Abbott downplayed the latest
polls. “This is a very close election,” he said in a press
conference broadcast on Sky TV. “ I think it’s inevitable that
the polls will tighten sharply in the last week.”  Treasurer  Chris Bowen  and his predecessor  Wayne Swan  are
also at risk of losing their seats at the election, the
Australian Financial Review reported today, citing JWS Research
polling of five Labor seats conducted on Aug. 28.  Rudd will officially launch Labor’s campaign in Brisbane
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCluskey in Sydney at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  