-- Berlusconi Threatens to Topple Letta If Expelled From Senate
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2013-08-31T11:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/berlusconi-threatens-to-topple-letta-if-expelled-from-senate.html
Silvio Berlusconi threatened to
bring down the Italian government if Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s Democratic Party votes to expel the three-time former
premier from the Senate.  “We’re not available to keep the government going if the
left decides to prevent the head of the People of Liberty from
remaining in politics,” Berlusconi told a rally organized by
the Army of Silvio supporters’ association late yesterday,
according to a  statement  released by the group.  Letta is struggling to contain tensions that have strained
his coalition government since  Italy ’s top court upheld
Berlusconi’s tax-fraud conviction on Aug. 1. The Democratic
Party, the biggest force in the coalition, has said Berlusconi’s
expulsion from the Senate is required by an anti-corruption law
enacted in December 2012.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, the second-biggest party,
claims the law is unconstitutional and shouldn’t be applied to
the former premier, whose conviction stems from tax fraud in
2002 and 2003. The Senate’s committee for immunity and elections
will start discussing the issue on Sept. 9.  Berlusconi softened his rhetoric today, saying he “didn’t
issue an ultimatum” and that he wants the government to
continue to govern. Yet in comments broadcast by SkyTG24, he
said it’s “absurd” to assume that the People of Liberty would
remain in Letta’s coalition if the Democratic Party forced his
removal from the Senate.  Letta’s government this week passed cuts to an unpopular
property tax, helping to ease tensions with Berlusconi, who had
opposed the levy.  ‘Dangerous Relations’  The prime minister tried yesterday to separate the
impeachment procedure against Berlusconi from the survival of
his coalition.  “Anyone who draws improper connections between the Senate
decision and the government will have to explain the meaning of
these dangerous relations to the citizens,” Letta said in
comments broadcast by SkyTG24.  The process to strip Berlusconi of his Senate seat may take
weeks or months before an eventual vote in the full chamber is
called.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  