-- Delhi Gang-Rape Teen Defendant Gets Three Years in Reformatory
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-31T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/delhi-gang-rape-teen-defendant-gets-three-years-in-reformatory.html
A teenager was found guilty of the
gang rape and murder of a student in New Delhi in December, the
first verdict in a case that reverberated around the world and
shone a spotlight on the scale of sexual violence in  India .  A tribunal in the nation’s capital yesterday handed down
the maximum punishment for a juvenile offender allowed under
India’s laws -- a three-year reformatory term -- according to 
Rajesh Tiwari, a lawyer for the accused, an 18-year-old who was
17 at time of the attack. Prosecutors have sought the death 
penalty for four men being tried for the same  crimes  in a 
separate, specially convened fast-track adult court.  The attack on the 23-year-old medical student aboard a
moving bus produced such revulsion and outrage that it quickly
became a symbol of the dangers faced by women in the world’s
second-most populous country. Amid demonstrations following the
attack and the woman’s death, the government passed laws
imposing stricter punishments for sexual assaults and the
setting up of fast-track courts.  “The three years in a reformatory facility will begin from
the date he was apprehended,” Tiwari said yesterday. “We will
read the judgment and decide soon on whether to go to the higher
court.”  The tougher laws have failed to stop the attacks. The gang
rape of a young photographer in Mumbai reignited concerns about
women’s safety and an outpouring of anger at the government and
police for failing to stop the violence.  `Heinous Crime’  The juvenile convicted yesterday comes from  Uttar Pradesh ,
one of the country’s poorest states, and moved to New Delhi at
the age of 11, according to the Hindustan Times. Police said he
was the most brutal attacker, allegedly sexually abusing the 
victim twice, once while she was unconscious, the  newspaper  
said.  “He has committed a heinous crime and this punishment is
nothing,” the victim’s mother told reporters after the verdict.
“We want all those who committed the crime, including this boy,
to be hanged.”  Media were barred from reporting the trial of the
adolescent, whose name can’t be revealed under Indian rules.  During the two-hour assault aboard the bus, the woman was
repeatedly raped before being dumped naked along with her male
companion near  New Delhi ’s airport. The couple had been tricked
into boarding the vehicle, which the accused were driving 
illegally.  In revelations that fueled public outrage, the victims were
ignored by passersby and police argued over where to take them
as they lay bleeding on the street, according to televised
comments by the man who survived the attack. Neither has been
officially named.  New Laws  Indian political leaders, including Home Minister Sushil
Kumar Shinde, and the victim’s family have been calling for
tougher sentences for criminals under the age of 18 in the wake
of the woman’s murder. India’s top court is currently hearing an
appeal seeking a new interpretation of laws on criminal
responsibility so longer sentences can be considered.  “India is one of few countries in the world which caps
sentences for juveniles regardless of the crime,” said Kamal
Kumar Pandey, a lawyer who petitioned the  Supreme Court  for the
law to be changed earlier this year. “It is totally irrational.
There is no justice for the victims.”  The trial of the four other defendants charged with
conspiracy to abduct the woman, sexually assault and murder her
is expected to finish in about a month. All the men have pleaded
not guilty.  Defendant's Suicide   In March, Ram Singh, the bus driver accused of leading the
group, killed himself in the capital’s biggest prison midway
through his trial. Another defendant, Vinay Sharma, was left in
critical condition in May after being attacked by his fellow
inmates. Sharma is now out of the hospital.  A woman was raped every 21 minutes last year in India,
according to police records. That figure probably understates 
the scale of the violence because many women are reluctant to 
report the crimes, said analysts including Ranjana Kumari, 
director for the New Delhi-based Centre for Social Research.  Protesters took to the streets again in April demanding the
resignation of New Delhi’s police chief after the rape of a 
5-year-old girl in the capital. An American woman was gang-raped
while hitchhiking back to her hotel in an Indian tourist town in
the Himalayas.  There have been 806 cases of rape in New Delhi in the first
six months of this year, according to Deepak Mishra, special
commissioner of the city's police force, up from 708 cases
throughout the whole of last year. The rise may reflect greater
confidence in reporting assaults, police said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  