-- Dollar Climbs on Taper Bets Amid Syria Tension; Rupee Tumbles
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/dollar-climbs-on-taper-bets-amid-syria-tension-rupee-tumbles.html
The dollar gained versus the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers this month as the  Federal
Reserve  reiterated its plan to start reducing as early as
September monthly bond purchases.  The greenback rebounded against the 17-nation euro after
falling the previous two months as the prospect of U.S. military
action against  Syria  deterred risk-taking.  India ’s rupee posted
its biggest monthly loss in 20 years on concern a deepening
economic slowdown will deter investors. A Sept. 6 Labor
Department report will show that U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose by
180,000 workers in August, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  The Fed “has generally kept the tapering calendar in
place, which has maintained the shift out of higher-yielding
markets back into Group of 10,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “People also might be buying dollars in anticipation
of a potential risk-off move related to a military strike in
Syria.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, increased 0.8 percent to
1,034.28 this month in  New York , the biggest gain since May.  The U.S. tender gained 0.6 percent to $1.3222 per euro,
touching $1.3174, its strongest level in more than a month, and
climbed 0.3 percent to 98.17 yen.  Japan ’s currency appreciated
0.3 percent to 129.80 per euro.  Winners, Losers  The British pound was the biggest winner this month among
the greenback’s major counterparts, with a 2.6 percent gain.
Mexico’s peso was the biggest loser, sliding 4.3 percent, while
the Brazilian real dropped 4 percent.  The euro has rallied 6.2 percent this year, the most among
10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, while the dollar rose 5.9 percent. The
Australian dollar dropped 11 percent and the yen slipped 7.7
percent to lead decliners.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7  Volatility Index  increased to
10.13 percent after touching 10.19 percent on Aug. 27, the
highest intraday level since July 17.  The JPMorgan  Emerging Markets  Currency Index fell 3.1
percent in August, the biggest drop since May. The gauge
declined on Aug. 28 to its lowest level since March 2009.  Traders increased bets the yen will weaken, according to
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the currency compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 78,353 on Aug.
27, compared with 71,721 a week earlier.  Syria Situation  The dollar advanced as demand for safer assets increased
following a U.S. intelligence assessment that concluded with
“high confidence” that the Syrian regime carried out a
chemical attack that killed 1,429 people earlier this month in a
Damascus suburb, Secretary of State  John Kerry  said at the State
Department as the four-page report was released.  The Syrian attack is “a challenge to the world,”
President  Barack Obama  said in brief remarks at the White House.
He added that he hasn’t made a final decision on his response,
and that “in no event” will it involve U.S. troops on the
ground in Syria.  “This week has been obviously risk-off, calibrated by a
stern speech in regards to Syria,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of
U.S. currency sales in New York at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
said yesterday in a phone interview.  Rupee, Lira  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  triggered a plunge in
emerging-market assets when he signaled May 22 that the central
bank was preparing to reduce its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases, which may debase the currency. The minutes of the
Fed’s July meeting, released on Aug. 21, showed Fed policy
makers were “broadly comfortable” in tapering this year if the
economy strengthens.  Officials will reduce the amount at their next meeting on
Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent of economists in an Aug.
9-13 Bloomberg survey.  India’s rupee and Turkey’s lira dropped to record lows last
week amid the capital flight as the prospect of an expanded
Middle East conflict further damped demand for emerging-market
currencies.  The rupee pared its loss on Aug. 29 after the  Reserve Bank 
of India said it will provide foreign currency to state-run
Indian Oil Corp., Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum
Corp., which the central bank will later repurchase.  ‘Risk Aversion’  “Investors have suddenly ramped up their  risk aversion  to
a very high degree,” Steven Englander, head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in an Aug.
28 radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“We favor the U.S., but what the market is looking for is low
beta economics, low beta markets.” Beta is a measure of
volatility.  The rupee decreased 8.1 percent, its biggest-ever monthly
drop, to 65.7050 per dollar. It hit a record low of 68.8450 on
Aug. 28. Turkey’s currency slipped 5.1 percent to 2.0381 per
dollar after falling to 2.0730 on Aug. 28.  The British pound had the biggest monthly gain versus the
euro in since January as Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
said forward guidance will help the economic recovery in his
first policy speech since taking over on July 1. He also said
the BOE is focused on sustaining the economic recovery despite
the “inevitable shocks ahead.”  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee meets on Sept.
5, the same day as the  European Central Bank . It has introduced
the guidance to prevent a pickup in borrowing costs from
undermining the economic recovery.  The pound rose 2.6 percent to 85.29 pence per euro in
August. Sterling appreciated 2 percent to $1.5504, its largest
monthly gain since April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  