-- Tebow Cut by NFL Patriots in Polarizing Player’s Latest Shuffle
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/tebow-cut-by-nfl-patriots-in-polarizing-player-s-latest-shuffle.html
Tim Tebow  was released yesterday by
the  New England Patriots , ending a two-month run with the team
and casting doubt over the future of one of the National
Football League’s most polarizing players.  Tebow, 26, was cut two days after throwing two touchdown
passes in the fourth quarter to lead the Patriots to a 28-20
preseason win against the  New York Giants . The 2007 Heisman
Trophy-winning quarterback at the University of Florida was
among 13 cuts announced by the Patriots as New England reached
its 53-player roster limit for the season.  Tebow said in a Twitter message that he appreciated the
opportunity he was given by Patriots owner  Robert Kraft , head
coach  Bill Belichick  and offensive coordinator  Josh McDaniels ,
who was head coach in Denver in 2010 when Tebow joined the
Broncos.  “I would like to thank Mr. Kraft, Coach Belichick, Coach
McDaniels and the entire Patriots organization for giving me the
opportunity to be a part of such a classy organization,” Tebow
said on Twitter. “I will remain in relentless pursuit of
continuing my lifelong dream of being an NFL quarterback.”  Under Belichick, New England often carries only one backup
quarterback, one fewer than many teams. Ryan Mallett is listed
on the team’s roster behind starting quarterback  Tom Brady .  The move means the phenomenon known as Tebowmania has
traveled in six years from Florida to the Rocky Mountains,
through the New York area and quickly past New England.  Jets Season  Tebow led the  Denver Broncos  to the NFL playoffs in 2011 in
his second season. Amid questions about his passing skills and
decision making, including some from team executive and Hall of
Fame quarterback  John Elway , he directed five fourth-quarter
comebacks and helped Denver to its first playoff win since 2005.  In the offseason, Tebow was traded to the  New York Jets ,
where his arrival sparked a quarterback controversy that never
fully materialized. He completed six passes in New York for 39
yards and no touchdowns, and was released in April after the
team drafted quarterback Geno Smith from West Virginia
University. Mike Westhoff, who retired as the Jets’ special-teams coach after last season, called the Tebow experiment an
“absolute mess.”  Cut from two teams in five months, the free-agent market
may be bare for Tebow, who won two national championships at
Florida and entered the NFL as a running quarterback with
questionable passing ability. He was unsigned for two months
after being cut by the Jets, received an invitation in April to
compete for a roster spot on a Canadian Football League team,
and has been publicly criticized by former teammates in both
Denver and New York.  Broncos wide receiver  Demaryius Thomas  said on an Atlanta
radio station after Tebow departed that his teammates in Denver
were frustrated over the attention he received from the media,
and doubted his ability as a quarterback. Jets guard Matt Slauson was quoted in the New York Daily News last year saying
that he didn’t consider Tebow a quarterback, just an athlete.  Different Position  Football analysts often discuss the possibility of the 6-foot-3, 236-pound Tebow playing another offensive position, such
as tight end or fullback, and New England is a franchise that
has historically valued versatility. His dismissal from the
Patriots may limit other teams’ willingness to explore those
options.  Tebow was voted America’s favorite active pro athlete in an
ESPN fan poll after rushing for 660 yards in 2011 for Denver,
where he ignited a fad known as Tebowing based on his kneel-and-pray pose after victories. His Jets jersey was the NFL’s fourth-highest seller last season. The son of missionaries, Tebow is
outspoken in his Christian views and has said repeatedly he’ll
remain a virgin until marriage.  Quarterbacks Released  In June, Tebow joined New England’s roster behind Mallett
and Brady, a two-time NFL Most Valuable Player who’s won three
Super Bowl titles with the Patriots.  Tebow appeared in three of New England’s four preseason
games, completing 11 of 30 passes for 145 yards with two
touchdowns and two interceptions. In his final game against the
Giants, he completed six of 11 passes for 91 yards and one
interception, rallying the Patriots to victory with 14 fourth-quarter points.  Also yesterday, the New York Jets said they had released
quarterback  Greg McElroy , who was beaten out for the third-string job by Matt Simms. McElroy, 25, started one game and went
19-of-31 for 214 yards and one touchdown in two seasons with the
Jets.  The New York Giants released  David Carr , who had been
quarterback Eli Manning’s backup for four of the previous five
seasons. Curtis Painter and rookie Ryan Nassib made the team as
backup quarterbacks.  Young Released  “We simply based it on the preseason,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  told reporters. “From the standpoint of all the
evaluations, it pointed to the fact that Painter had a better
preseason.”  The  Green Bay Packers  released backup quarterback  Vince Young , 30, who was the third overall pick by the  Tennessee
Titans  in the 2006 draft. Young made the Pro Bowl twice with the
Titans in 2006-10 and was with the  Philadelphia Eagles  in 2011.
He did not play in the NFL last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  