-- Merkel to Face Scrutiny in TV Election Debate With Steinbrueck
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-08-31T22:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/merkel-to-face-scrutiny-in-tv-election-debate-with-steinbrueck.html
German Social Democratic chancellor
candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  goes into today’s television debate
with  Angela Merkel  seeking to give his campaign fresh impetus
three weeks before the federal election.  Even as  Syria  eclipsed the international agenda, in  Germany 
the race for the Sept. 22 ballot has been dominated by the euro-area debt crisis, as Merkel and Steinbrueck traded barbs over
her strategy of tying aid to conditions. With Steinbrueck’s SPD
trailing Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc by 14-19 percentage
points, the onus is on the challenger to make his mark.  The 90-minute debate, the only televised clash between the
two candidates, starts at 8:15 p.m. in Berlin and will be
broadcast live on four channels: ZDF, ARD, RTL and ProSieben.  “Steinbrueck will try to find a weak point to attack
Merkel, but even on the core Social Democratic terrain of social
justice Merkel can point to record low  unemployment ,” Joachim
Trebbe, a professor of media analysis at the Free University in
Berlin, said in a telephone interview. “That’s a crucial plus
for her and her party.”  Both candidates came out on Aug. 30 against military
engagement in Syria, effectively removing it as a campaign topic
in the run-up to the debate. Merkel and her finance minister,
 Wolfgang Schaeuble , have instead focused on the relative health
of the Germany economy and signs of recovery in the broader euro
zone almost four years after the crisis emerged in  Greece .  Steinbrueck has focused his campaign on social justice,
saying that Merkel has done nothing to arrest a widening gap
between rich and poor in Germany.  German ‘Standstill’  Germany under Merkel “is at a standstill,” he said Aug.
29. His priorities for his first 100 days in office include a
flat-rate minimum hourly wage of 8.50 euros ($11.28), reform of
the pensions system, equal pay for men and women working in the
same job and tax increases for the richest in society.  Support for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , dropped a
percentage point to 41 percent in an Infratest poll released on
Aug. 30, while her Free Democratic coalition partner held at 5
percent. Their combined tally of 46 percent would probably be
enough for a rerun of the current coalition if repeated on
Election Day.  Steinbrueck’s SPD gained two points to 26 percent while its
Green party ally dropped a point to 11 percent. The Left Party
had 8 percent, down one point. Infratest polled 1,500 voters on
Aug. 27-28. No margin of error was given.  Merkel Prepared  Merkel, who routinely omits to mention Steinbrueck by name
during her campaign rallies across the country, has prepared
thoroughly in advance of the debate, according to a person
familiar with her tactics who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the event has yet to take place. The chancellor is ready
to confront Steinbrueck on her crisis handling, the person said.  Steinbrueck rehearsed his performance in a professional
television studio over two days in the middle of this month,
Spiegel Online reported.  Both sides have agreed to the discussion fields “labor and
social matters,” “security” and “money and finances.”
Steinbrueck will have the first word and she will have the last.  Merkel’s crisis course received a fillip on Aug. 30 as
figures showed economic confidence in the 17-nation euro region
rising to a two-year high in August. That added to German
economic growth of 0.7 percent in the second quarter that helped
haul the bloc out of its longest-ever recession and unemployment
of 6.8 percent, near a two-decade low.  Success Destroyed  The German-led path of aid in return for reforms and debt
cuts “is showing the first signs of success,” Merkel said at a
campaign rally in the western town of Minden on Aug. 29. “But
if we go about it wrongly then this success can be destroyed.”  Germany’s crisis policy has become the crucible in which
the election may be decided after Schaeuble, a  Christian
Democrat  like Merkel, said that Greece will need more aid. That
shows Merkel’s strategy isn’t working and needs to be
recalibrated to focus on bolstering jobs and growth, according
to Steinbrueck. Merkel says her approach is yielding results.
Neither advocates a second debt cut for Greece.  “In terms of big issue politics -- the handling of the
debt crisis and now Syria -- Merkel and Steinbrueck are not
sufficiently far apart for the debate to make a difference,”
said Trebbe of the Free University. With the polls firming up,
it shows “there’s little appetite for a change of government,”
he said. “That’s a terrific advantage for Merkel.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  