-- Mexico Exchange Said to Cancel Erroneous Trades of Slim’s Frisco
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-08-31T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/mexico-exchange-said-to-cancel-erroneous-trades-of-slim-s-frisco.html
Mexico’s exchange has canceled some
erroneous trades that caused shares of billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
 Minera Frisco SAB (MFRISCOA)  to double in price, according to a bourse
official with direct knowledge of the decision.  A technical glitch at the exchange prompted the silver and
gold miner’s stock to soar as much as 104 percent in intraday
 trading  yesterday, said the person, who asked not to be named
because he hadn’t been authorized to speak on the matter. The
shares pared their gain to 25 percent and closed at 36.29 pesos
yesterday in Mexico City. The canceled trades had a volume of
about 250,000 shares and took place in the 10 minutes of
trading, the person said.  Roberto Gavaldon, a stock exchange spokesman, didn’t
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the
trades. Aurelio Bueno, a press official for the National Banking
and Securities Commission, said the nation’s regulator was
reviewing the jump in Frisco’s price. Minera Frisco said in an
e-mailed response to questions that the company has no knowledge
of any reason for the share move.  The error occurred amid the exchange’s most-active trading
day on record, according to  volume  data compiled by Bloomberg.
Money managers had been updating their portfolios before changes
on the benchmark IPC index take effect on Sept. 2. Five of the
35 stocks on the gauge, including Frisco, are getting replaced,
while others will have their weightings adjusted.  The nation’s bourse implemented safeguards to limit damage
from trading mistakes after a human-input error at brokerage
Bulltick Capital Markets erased 2 percent from the benchmark
index in three minutes in April 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  