-- Palace Joins Newcastle, Norwich With First Premier League Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-31T19:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/newcastle-joins-norwich-in-picking-up-first-premier-league-wins.html
Crystal Palace beat Sunderland 3-1
to join Newcastle and Norwich in claiming their first wins of
the season in English soccer’s Premier League.  Danny Gabbidon, Dwight Gayle and Stuart O’Keefe score in
Palace’s home victory, while Hatem  Ben Arfa ’s goal with four
minutes remaining lifted Newcastle over Fulham 1-0.  Nathan Redmond scored the only goal of the game midway
through the second half as Norwich beat Southampton, Manchester
City defeated Hull City 2-0, Stoke won 1-0 at West Ham and
Everton drew 0-0 at Cardiff.  At Selhurst Park in south  London , Gayle broke a 1-1 tie
with a 79th-minute penalty kick after being taken down by John O’Shea, who received a red card. O’Keefe then sealed the win
with a goal in stoppage time.  Gabbidon gave Palace the lead from close range in the ninth
minute and Sunderland’s Steven Fletcher tied the score early in
the second half.  Newcastle controlled play at St. James’ Park but didn’t
break through until the closing minutes, when Ben Arfa fired a
left-footed shot from the edge of the area into the corner. The
goal denied Fulham its first three-game away winning streak
since 2008.  At Carrow Road in Norwich, Sunderland’s Adam Lallana hit
the post to keep the teams scoreless at halftime. Norwich took
the lead in the 68th minute when Redmond sent a low shot from 20
yards out past goalkeeper Artur Boruc for his first Premier
League goal.  Alvara Negredo and Yaya Toure scored as Manchester City
rebounded from last week’s surprise loss at Cardiff.  No Goal  Hull’s Sone Aluko went one-on-one against goalkeeper Joe Hart in the seventh minute but shot wide. The Tigers then put
the ball in the net in the 11th minute, but Danny Graham was
ruled offside when he volleyed in Robbie Brady’s cross.  Negredo came on for Edin Dzeko to start the second half and
gave City the lead in the 65th minute with a header. Toure then
curled in a free kick from the edge of the penalty area in the
final minute to clinch the victory.  Jermaine Pennant also scored with a free kick in the 82nd
minute as Stoke beat West Ham for just its second win in the
past 13 away Premier League matches. Everton dominated play at
Cardiff but only put three of 13 shots on target in opening the
season with a third straight draw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 