-- War Powers Shift by Obama Shares Syria Hit With Congress
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-09-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/obama-revision-shares-burden-of-strike-with-u-s-congress.html
President  Barack Obama  decided the
crisis in Syria, which he called “the worst chemical weapons
attack of the 21st Century,” required delay rather than action.  In asking for the  U.S. Congress  to approve the bombing of
Syria, Obama reset the notion of presidential authority about
war  powers  that had increasingly resided with the Executive
Branch since the end of World War II.  It also represents one of the greatest gambits of his
presidency in that he is seeking the approval from a Congress
that, at least in the Republican-controlled U.S. House, has
fought him at every turn on a wide range of subjects.  Obama’s conviction yesterday, and the moral outrage
expressed by Secretary of State  John Kerry  just two days ago,
suggest they are convinced, knowing all of the evidence and not
simply the declassified portion that lawmakers have seen, that
they will win the debate once Congress is fully informed.  White House officials said the president was shifting the
burden to members of Congress, who have been long on criticism
and short on solutions, as he faces a crowded agenda in the fall
that includes the implementation of his health care law. The
president, the officials said, wanted to lean into the debate
about the role of Congress rather than avoid it.  War Powers  The authority of the U.S. Senate and House in matters of
war was debated intensely before the second conflict in Iraq.
Then senators, Vice President  Joe Biden , Kerry and Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel all became critics of the war, saying
President  George W. Bush  had overstepped his authority. Obama’s
criticism helped propel his election to the Senate and,
eventually, the White House.  In an interview with the Boston Globe in 2007, Obama was
asked in what circumstances, if any, a president would have
constitutional authority to bomb Iran without seeking a use-of-force authorization from Congress.  “The president does not have power under the Constitution
to unilaterally authorize a military attack in a situation that
does not involve stopping an actual or imminent threat to the
nation,” Obama  said .  “As Commander-in-Chief, the president does have a duty to
protect and defend the United States. In instances of self-defense, the president would be within his constitutional
authority to act before advising Congress or seeking its
consent,” he said.  Rare Moment  Obama’s decision marks a rare moment in the last half
century when a president unilaterally decided to give some power
back to another government branch.  “It’s quite uncertain what a military strike is going to
produce,” said  Robert Dallek , a presidential historian. “He
really shouldn’t go it alone. It’s wise to bring Congress into
it. It gets him much more of a broad consensus.”  While “temporarily it would certainly undermine him” if
Congress rejects his request, the risk of proceeding without
backing is greater, he said. “If you run into difficulties,
you’re out on a limb. This way he’s someone who’s acted with
political backing,” Dallek said.  Lee Hamilton, a Democrat and former chairman of the House
foreign affairs and intelligence committees, said the decision
will help Obama “in the country.”  “You will have the support of the Congress, which shares
the burden. It will help him internationally, which will see the
country is united,” said Hamilton.  Republican Pressure  Yet Obama’s words undermined the sense of indignation that
he and Kerry expressed less than 48 hours before, and at the
same time put new pressure on Republicans in Congress, who had
been urging military force even as they had taken no
responsibility for it with a vote. Professional military
officers at the Pentagon were also said to be lukewarm about the
mission.  Faced with few good options in the short run, Obama chose
to pull back so that more time might change the calculus.  Now the administration has the task of persuading
Republicans, especially those who represent a more isolationist
and Libertarian strain on international affairs, to support a
limited military strike that no one argues will end the civil
war in Syria, and many have suggested may make it worse.  “It’s unfortunate that it’s gotten to the point where I
have to thank the president for following the Constitution & the
law,” Representative Justin Amash, a Republican from Michigan,
said in a Twitter posting.  Clear Risks  Modern U.S. history makes clear the risk of entering a
military conflict without clear backing from Congress, Dallek
said. “ Harry Truman  crosses the parallel in Korea without
congressional support. It destroys his presidency. He gets stuck
in Korea and ends up with a 32 percent approval rating.  ‘‘ Lyndon Johnson  relies on the Gulf of Tonkin resolution,
which was not a blanket commitment to expand and fight in
Vietnam, and it essentially destroys his presidency,’’ Dallek
said.  A request for congressional authorization hadn’t been
discussed in White House deliberations on a Syria strike until
Aug. 30, said two administration officials.  Late in the day, Obama and  Denis McDonough , the White House
chief of staff, spent 45 minutes walking the South Lawn
discussing the idea, with the president laying out the argument
that a congressional debate would strengthen him and provide
firmer ground for a military strike, the officials said.  Internal Dissent  When he called aides into his office that night to tell
them he had decided to ask for a congressional vote, some
dissented, said the officials. They declined to identify the
dissenters or detail their arguments.  Obama’s relations with Congress have deteriorated almost
from the day he has taken office, with  House Republicans  voting
40 times to either repeal or defund his signature domestic
initiative, The Affordable Care Act, along with threatening to
shut down the government or even force default on debts.  A Syrian strike authorization vote in the Senate would fare
better, though two of the strongest Republican supporters for
military action, Senator  John McCain  of Arizona and  Senator
Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, said they couldn’t back the
president’s call for only limited strikes.  The agenda on  Capitol Hill  was crowded before the situation
in Syria worsened. It must deal with the  federal budget , raising
the debt ceiling, and consideration of the president’s nominee
to be chairman of the  Federal Reserve . It also has a proposed
revision of immigration laws and other tax issues that remain
for debate.  No Commitments  Reaction to the president’s decision to seek Congress’
approval was met with praise from Republicans who also stopped
short of any commitment.  Representative Howard P. ‘‘Buck” McKeon, a California
Republican and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
said he “appreciated the president’s decision” to consult and
agreed that “those who use chemical weapons against their own
people should be held accountable.” He said the president would
need to set out “clear military objectives that can meet
articulated policy goals.”  By asking Congress to deal with an issue as grave as
military action, Obama may be seeking to make matters such as
shutting down the government or defaulting on the debt appear
petty and trivial.  Obama’s calendar is crammed as well. He leaves Tuesday for
economic meetings in Sweden and  St. Petersburg , Russia, and he
will do so now with a chance to persuade other leaders to
support him rather than having to defend a decision that already
had been rejected in the House of Commons to the embarrassment
of Prime Minister  David Cameron .  No Urgency  In a week when Obama also helped commemorate the 50th
anniversary of the Rev.  Martin Luther King Jr .’s “I Have a
Dream” speech, the president reprised King’s line about the
“fierce urgency of now” when he came to dealing with social
injustice.  In the case of Syria, he has decided to take the risk of
delay, one that could leave him in the same position as Cameron
-- rejected by his own legislative branch at home and seen as
weaker abroad.  His decision also puts him more squarely in line with his
rhetoric as a senator and as a presidential candidate in 2008.  “History has shown us time and again, however, that
military action is most successful when it is authorized and
supported by the Legislative branch,” Obama said in the 2007
Boston Globe interview. “It is always preferable to have the
informed consent of Congress prior to any military action.”  Julian Zelizer , a presidential historian at  Princeton
University , said that “especially given who he is and how he
ran in 2008, the last thing he wants to be is a president acting
solo on military action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  