-- Obama Gambles as No Guarantee Congress to Approve Strike
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-09-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/obama-gambles-as-no-guarantee-congress-to-approve-strike.html
The  U.S. Congress  is by no means
certain to give President Barack Obama the go-ahead to attack
Syria, a stance that would pose a political obstacle to any
military strike and prolong a looming showdown on Obama’s
domestic agenda.  Republicans and Democrats alike praised Obama’s decision
today to seek congressional approval to attack Syria. Few
offered quick support for his decision to strike, and there are
no plans so far for Congress to return to Washington for a vote
before the scheduled Sept. 9 start of the fall session.  Instead, lawmakers called for a debate over the virtues of
an attack, which may add to the gridlock that paralyzed almost
all of Obama’s domestic agenda this year, including  government
spending , the debt ceiling and changes in immigration law.  “Syria may be a very easy vote for Congress to vote
against,” Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist and former House
and Senate leadership aide, said in an interview. “It’s not
necessarily a slam dunk for the president to go and act.”  Obama’s call for congressional approval adds to an already
crowded legislative calendar. The House is scheduled to be in
session for nine days before government funding expires Sept.
30. That debate would be followed by negotiations to raise the
nation’s borrowing authority by mid-October. The House has yet
to take up efforts to alter immigration laws, after the Senate
passed legislation this year.  Up or Down  In seeking an up-or-down vote on military action yesterday,
Obama didn’t say he was giving Congress veto power over the
decision and left open the possibility that he would go ahead
without lawmakers. At the same time, he repeatedly cited the
need for all parts of the government to speak with one voice.  “So to all members of Congress of both parties, I ask you
to take this vote for our national security,” Obama said.
“Today I’m asking Congress to send a message to the world that
we are ready to move forward together as one nation.”  Obama late yesterday sent a draft of the resolution
authorizing him to use force against Syria. “Unified action by
the legislative and executive branches will send a clear signal
of American resolve,” the draft resolution said.  Ultimately, the president’s decision gives him political
“cover” should he decide to abandon plans to attack Syria,
because he is unlikely to flout a vote in Congress, said  Ross Baker , a congressional scholar at  Rutgers University  in New
Brunswick,  New Jersey .  “They asked for it, he gave it to them and they turned it
down, I don’t want to defy the will of Congress,” Baker said in
predicting Obama’s reasoning.  No Endorsement  Even though they welcomed the president’s decision to seek
authorization for a strike, most Democrats and Republicans
didn’t endorse military action.  “Authorization for the use of force in this case should be
contingent on the president setting clear military objectives
that can meet articulated policy goals, including degrading any
party’s ability to use these weapons again,” Representative
Buck McKeon, a California Republican and chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee, said in a statement. “The coming days
will determine if such a military operation can be identified.”  Republican Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina are the only lawmakers so far who said
that they wouldn’t support a limited strike on Syria.  “We cannot in good conscience support isolated military
strikes in Syria that are not part of an overall strategy that
can change the momentum on the battlefield, achieve the
President’s stated goal of Assad’s removal from power, and bring
an end to this conflict,” the two said in a statement.  Democrats’ Divisions  Divisions among Obama’s own party also surfaced, with the
two top congressional Democrats, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California
backing a limited strike. Reid of Nevada said the Senate will
start holding hearings on the issue next week, adding that a
vote on authorizing a strike will come “no later than the week
of Sept. 9.”  Other Democrats warned against an immediate strike.  Senator  Carl Levin , chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee and a Michigan Democrat, reiterated his call to arm
some in the Syrian opposition.  “I have again urged the president to use this time to help
the Syrian people defend themselves by assisting vetted elements
of the Syrian opposition in obtaining more effective weapons
such as anti-tank weapons,” he said in a statement.  Others such as Dick Durbin of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2
Democrat, cited the emotional and financial toll the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars have taken on the U.S.  “If we can do something to discourage Assad and others
like him from using chemical weapons without engaging in a war
and without making a long-term military commitment of the United
States, I’m open to that debate,” Durbin said in a statement.  Compelling Evidence?  “After over a decade of war in the Middle East, there
needs to be compelling evidence that there is an imminent threat
to the security of the American people or our allies before any
military action is taken,” West Virginia Senator  Joe Manchin 
said in an Aug. 30 statement. “I do not believe that this
situation meets that threshold,” he said.  Numerous Republican and Democratic leaders, including Levin
and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, were calling on Obama to further consult Congress
before launching any new military operation.  “When people like Levin are asking for time or for the
president to consider getting an authorization, it’s
significant,” Baker said.  Even so, Obama was within his executive powers to pursue a
strike absent congressional approval, said Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican.  Congressional Authorization  “President Obama is abdicating his responsibility as
commander-in-chief and undermining the authority of future
presidents,” King, a member of the House Select Committee on
Intelligence, said in a statement yesterday. “The president
does not need Congress to authorize a strike on Syria.”  Congress never sought to force Obama to seek an
authorization vote, and Obama himself changed his mind on the
need for a congressional vote only changed his mind on Friday
evening, according to a senior administration official who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  One factor in his decision was watching U.K. Prime Minster
 David Cameron  lose a vote on the use of force in the House of
Commons, the official said. Obama told his chief of staff,  Denis McDonough , that instead of hiding from the debate on Congress’s
role, they should embrace it, because it would strengthen his
hand should the U.S. decide to attack.  Another Benefit  The decision has another benefit, senior administration
officials said: It would put Congress on the record in the
decision and make it harder for lawmakers to criticize Obama’s
handling of the matter as many Republicans have been doing.  At the same time, it may box in Obama politically, if the
House or the Senate votes no, analysts said.  Both President  George W. Bush  and his father sought
congressional approval for military actions -- the younger Bush
for Iraq and Afghanistan, and the elder for the first Persian
 Gulf War . All three times, Congress supported the use of force.  There are many reasons why Obama may fail in winning
congressional approval, said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in Washington.  In addition to significant public distaste for any further
overseas military commitments, Obama faces vast pockets of
opposition in both parties, he said.  ‘Odd Issues’  “This is one of those odd issues where there is a
coalition of opponents that includes liberal Democrats and the
more  Tea Party , libertarian kind of Republicans who raise the
specter of Iraq and executive powers,” he said. “The president
has a lot of work to do.”  Time is also working against the administration.  “The further along you go from the actual act itself, the
more people come up with excuses and other issues pop up,”
Rothenberg said. “From the White House’s point of view,
generally, you want to act right away.”  Obama’s decision to give members of Congress just what they
were asking for is “very mischievous” because many of those
same lawmakers are now in a political bind, Baker said.  “Members of Congress would prefer to be the hang back and
be critical,” said Baker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  