-- Tombini Says Brazil to Use Broad Tools to Reduce Real Volatility
-- B y   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-08-31T22:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/tombini-says-brazil-to-use-broad-tools-to-reduce-real-volatility.html
Brazil ’s central bank will use its
range of tools and is ready to provide liquidity if needed to
reduce the real’s volatility, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said.  Brazil has a “cushion” of more than $370 billion in
international reserves that allows it to provide hedge to
economic agents, Tombini said at an event in Campos do Jordao in
the state of Sao Paulo. The bank can also provide liquidity if
needed, he said.  Policy makers on Aug. 22 introduced a $60 billion plan to
stem the biggest decline amid major currencies that threatens to
further stoke inflation, which is near the upper end of the
government’s target range. Less than a week later, officials
lifted the benchmark rate for a fourth straight meeting, and
said in a statement that the decision will help put inflation on
decline.  “Our strategy is clear,” Tombini said. “We will use our
broad list of tools to reduce excessive volatility and mitigate
potential risks to financial stability.”  The real’s decline of 12 percent in the past three months
is the worst performance among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The real’s historical three-month volatility of 17 percent
is the highest among 24 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2015 have risen 94 basis points, or 0.94 percentage point, to
10.53 percent since the start of the month. The real fell 1.1
percent to 2.3855 per dollar on Aug. 30.  Rate Increase  Policy makers raised the Selic rate to 9 percent from 8.5
percent on Aug. 28, extending the biggest interest rate increase
this year amid major economies.  Analysts monitoring Brazil’s economy have increased their
12-month inflation expectations for eight straight weeks, to
6.08 percent, according to a central bank survey published on
Aug 23. Annual inflation in mid-August slowed to 6.15 percent
after breaching the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range twice this year.  Gross domestic product  expanded  1.5 percent during the
April to June period, or an annualized 6 percent, as investments
increased, the national statistics agency said on Friday. That
was the most since the first quarter of 2010 and more than all
44 forecasts from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median
estimate was 0.9 percent.  Latin America’s largest economy will expand by 2.7 percent
this year, according to central bank estimates. Central bankers
will update their projections in their quarterly inflation
report in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  