-- House Republican Lawmakers to Review Obamacare Navigators
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-08-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/house-republican-lawmakers-to-review-obamacare-navigators.html
Supporters of the U.S.  health-care
overhaul  are criticizing a House panel’s scrutiny of nonprofit
groups set to help enroll people in new insurance plans, saying
it’s part of a Republican effort to impede the law.  Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee sent
a letter Aug. 29 to 51 organizations in 11 states that have been
named “navigators” for the health-care law, demanding
documents and meetings to account for $67 million in federal
grants awarded Aug. 15, said Representative  Henry Waxman , a
California Democrat who is the panel’s top Democrat. The groups
were given a Sept. 13 deadline to respond.  The navigators were created to assist people who don’t have
health insurance sign up for coverage when new government-run
marketplaces, called exchanges, open Oct. 1. About half the 50
million uninsured people in the U.S. are expected to gain health
plans under the law. Republicans in the House have voted more
than three dozen time to repeal or defund the measure.  “This is a blatant and shameful attempt to intimidate
groups who will be working to inform Americans about their new
health insurance options and help them enroll in coverage,”
Joanne Peters, a spokeswoman for the  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Navigators face other obstacles. Republican legislators in
at least a dozen states have enacted laws to regulate
navigators, in some cases ordering training beyond federal
requirements and levying fees for certification.  Paperwork Request  House Republicans  asked the navigator groups to provide a
written description of how they’ll use the grants, and details
of any communications with the Obama administration or with
Enroll America, a Washington nonprofit that is working with the
administration to promote the law. The panel members also asked
for details of any correspondence with insurance companies that
will sell plans through the exchanges.  The Republicans, led by committee chairman, Representative
 Fred Upton  of  Michigan , said they opened the investigation “in
order to better understand the work you will perform as a
navigator and the consumer protections that will be in place
before open enrollment begins” for the health law.  The panel’s review was reported earlier by Kaiser Health
News and Bloomberg BNA. Alexa Marrero and Noelle Clemente,
spokeswomen for the committee, didn’t respond to an e-mail
requesting the letter and a response to the criticism.  Many of the navigator groups are small nonprofit
organizations that “do not have the capacity” to respond to
the panel’s request, said  Ron Pollack , the executive director of
Families USA, a Washington consumer advocacy group that created
Enroll America.  “There is no doubt that this unreasonable request for
burdensome paperwork is exclusively motivated to harass
community organizations that stand ready to help uninsured
families gain health coverage under the Affordable Care Act,”
he said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  