-- Treasuries Drop for 4th Month as Economy Fuels Fed Taper Views
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-31T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/treasuries-drop-for-4th-month-as-economy-fuels-fed-taper-views.html
Treasuries fell for a fourth
straight month, the longest losing streak in more than two
years, as signs of a mending economy supported the case for the
 Federal Reserve  to moderate monetary stimulus.  U.S. five- and seven-year note auctions this week attracted
the least demand in four years as a report showed the economy
expanded at a faster pace in the second quarter than previously
estimated. A smaller trade deficit and gains in inventories
overshadowed the effects of  federal budget  cutbacks, damping
haven demand. A report Sept. 6 is forecast to show U.S. nonfarm
payrolls rose more this month than last.  “It’s clear to the market that the Fed is committed to
scaling back its purchases of Treasuries, and as such, we are
seeing a continuation of the move out of the asset class at
these levels,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2.1
billion as chief investment officer at United Nations Federal
Credit Union in  New York . “We’ve had unambiguously better GDP
and a slow but steadily repairing labor market that has changed
views on the path of the underlying economy. People have been
more reluctant to hold Treasuries.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  increased 21 basis points this
month, or 0.21 percentage point, to 2.78 percent in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 2.5
percent note maturing in August 2023 was 97 17/32.  U.S. financial markets will be shut Sept. 2 for Labor Day.  Debt Returns  U.S. government securities lost 0.7 percent in August and
3.2 percent this year, according to the Bloomberg U.S.  Treasury
Bond Index. (BUSY)  The four-month losing streak is the longest since
the period ended March 2011.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  increased 
net-short position in 10-year note futures to the most since May
2012, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data compiled by Bloomberg. Speculative short positions, or bets
prices will fall, outnumbered long positions by 110,825
contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade in the week ending Aug.
27.  Treasuries rallied this week, with benchmark 10-year yields
falling three basis points, on speculation possible U.S.
military action against  Syria  may spur refuge demand. President
 Barack Obama  said Syria’s use of chemical weapons is a direct
threat to U.S. and global security. He said yesterday he hasn’t
made a final decision on his response while “in no event” will
it involve U.S. troops on the ground in Syria.  Momentum Play  Treasury 30-year bond momentum “is turning bullish” and
the debt may be poised to pare the worst losses since 2009,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Weekly slow
stochastics, a measure used to predict a security’s movement
based on how close its price is to its highest or lowest levels,
are signaling stronger sentiment for the long bond after
indicating weakness since May.  “The price momentum of the selloff has been losing thrust
in recent weeks as the market has become oversold,” said
 William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist at RBS,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve.  Thirty-year bond yields rose for a fourth straight month,
reaching 3.70 percent yesterday.  Second quarter gross domestic product growth at 2.5 percent
topped the median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg that projected a 2.2 percent gain. U.S. payrolls rose
180,000 this month, up from 162,000 in July, and the jobless
rate held at 7.4 percent, according to economists surveyed
before the Labor Department reports the figures next week.  Fed Reaction  “Tapering is almost a done deal unless you get a real bad
employment number in September,” said Thomas Roth, senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc.  Minutes of the Fed’s July FOMC meeting released on Aug. 21
showed policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to taper purchases this year if the
economy strengthens, with a few saying a reduction may be needed
soon.  The Fed will trim its monthly purchases of $85 billion at
the next scheduled meeting Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent
of economists in a Bloomberg survey this month.  Investors have bid $2.87 for each dollar of the $1.443
trillion in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this
year, according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
down from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  Auction Update  Demand was 2.43 times the amount of $29 billion seven-year
notes for sale on Aug. 29, the lowest ratio since May 2009. The
$35 billion five-year sale on Aug. 28 drew  bids  of $2.38 for
every dollar sold in debt, the least since July 2009.  “The story in rates is about the Fed taper,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities
LLC in New York. “Economic numbers are doing better and you
have seen aggregate demand for five- and seven-year auctions
cool.”  The five-year note sale turned into additional issuance of
seven-year notes sold in 2011, the first so-called unscheduled
reopening since 2004. The Aug. 27 auction of $34 billion of two-year notes, the shortest maturity U.S. coupon debt, attracted
the most demand since April.  Benchmark 10-year note yields will end 2013 at 2.73 percent
according to the median in a Bloomberg News survey of 66
economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  