-- S&P 500 Posts Worst Month Since May 2012 on Fed, Syria
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-08-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/s-p-500-posts-worst-month-since-may-2012-on-fed-syria.html
U.S.  stocks  fell for a third week in
four, capping the worst month since May 2012, as lawmakers
considered a military strike in  Syria  and investors weighed
economic data to gauge the  Federal Reserve ’s next move on
stimulus.  All 10 main industries in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
retreated. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Microsoft Corp. dropped more
than 3.4 percent, to pace declines among large companies.
Homebuilders fell 2.9 percent as a group as industry data
pointed to a slowdown in the housing recovery.  Salesforce.com (CRM) 
Inc. rallied 13 percent after boosting its full-year forecast.  The  S&P 500  lost 1.8 percent to 1,632.97 for the week,
capping a 3.1 percent slide in August. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell 200.20 points, or 1.3 percent, to 14,810.31. U.S.
financial markets will be closed on Sept. 2 for the Labor Day
holiday.  “The conflict in Syria is casting a pall over the
market,” Michelle Clayman, chief investment officer at New
Amsterdam Partners in  New York , which manages $2 billion, said
in a phone interview. Economic data during the week “is not a
horrible backdrop, but it looks as if third-quarter GDP is going
to be slow-ish,” she said. “That would support taper-light,
rather than a big hawkish move.”  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  erased earlier gains on Aug. 26 and posted its
biggest drop in nine weeks the following day after Secretary of
State  John Kerry  said the U.S. will hold Syria’s government
accountable for allegedly using chemical weapons.  ‘High Confidence’  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he hasn’t made a
final decision on his response, and that “in no event” will it
involve U.S. troops on the ground in Syria. He spoke after the
White House released an assessment saying intelligence agencies
have “high confidence” that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
forces used chemical weapons in an Aug. 21 attack.  Growing speculation that the Fed will reduce its monthly
bond buying has contributed to the S&P 500’s 4.5 percent decline
from a record high on Aug. 2. Minutes of the central bank’s July
meeting released Aug. 21 showed policy makers supported stimulus
cuts this year if the economy improves.  Three rounds of bond purchases by the Fed and better-than-forecast earnings have helped extend the  bull market  in U.S.
equities to a fifth year, with the S&P 500 surging more than 150
percent from a 12-year low in 2009.  Volatility, Volume  Reports during the week sent mixed signals, with data
showing the economy expanded at a faster pace in the second
quarter while  consumer spending  rose less than forecast in July
and durable-goods orders dropped.  “When we combine weak economic data with the geopolitical
risk, that clearly created volatility in a market that was
fairly thin in terms of volume,” Omar Aguilar, the San
Francisco-based chief investment officer of equities at Charles
Schwab Investment Management, said in a telephone interview. The
firm had $222 billion in assets under management as of June 30.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX (VIX) , surged 22 percent to 17.01 this week, the highest in two
months. The equity volatility gauge is still down 5.6 percent
this year compared with a 15 percent gain in the S&P 500.  An average of 5.23 billion  shares  changed hands on U.S.
exchanges during the week, 16 percent below the daily average so
far this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Industry Groups  Financial, industrial and technology companies fell the
most among 10 S&P 500 groups, sinking at least 2.3 percent in
the five days.  The KBW  Bank Index (BKX)  tumbled 4.2 percent, the most since June
2012, as all 24 members retreated. JPMorgan Chase, the largest
U.S. lender by assets, slipped 3.4 percent to $50.53 while Bank
of America Corp. declined 3.1 percent to $14.12.  Microsoft slumped 3.9 percent to $33.40. The slide erased
almost half the gain from the prior week, when the stock rallied
after Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said he would retire
within 12 months.  The world’s largest software maker told employees this week
it will continue a reorganization plan started by Ballmer,
seeking to reassure senior managers who are concerned that the
search for a successor will derail turnaround efforts.  The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding  index  slid 2.9 percent
as industry reports showed residential real-estate prices
increased in June at a slower pace and fewer Americans signed
contracts in July to buy previously owned homes. PulteGroup Inc.
fell 4.2 percent to $15.39 while D.R. Horton Inc. lost 4.7
percent to $17.85.  Joy, Tyson  Joy Global (JOY)  Inc. dropped 6 percent to $49.12. The largest
maker of underground mining equipment forecast a decline in
sales amid a slowdown in demand growth for metals and coal.  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, lost 4.4
percent to $7.70 for the biggest decline in the Dow.  Tyson Foods Inc. plunged 8 percent to $28.95. The largest
U.S. meat processor was cut to neutral from buy at Bank of
America.  Salesforce.com jumped 13 percent to a record $49.13. The
company forecast third-quarter sales and earnings that topped
analysts’ estimates. Customers are seeking the marketing tools
Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  acquired to complement his
customer-management software when he paid $2.5 billion to buy
ExactTarget Inc. last month.  Apache Corp. rallied 7.4 percent to $85.68 after agreeing
to sell a 33 percent stake in its Egyptian oil and gas business
for $3.1 billion to China Petrochemical Corp.,  Asia ’s largest
refiner.  Debt Ceiling  Investors head into the holiday weekend anticipating
continued political wrangling over the approaching limit on
federal spending. The U.S. government is expected to exhaust its
ability to borrow funds in mid-October, when it will hit the
statutory debt limit, according to an estimate from the Treasury
Department.  “September promises to be an important month, as
discussions on the U.S. debt situation resurface and as the
holiday season ends,”  Richard Hunter , head of equities at
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in  London , wrote in an e-mail. “As
investors roll up their sleeves for the last third of the year,
volumes should pick up markedly from the current low levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  