-- Schaeuble Sees Volatile Markets If Merkel Coalition Doesn’t Win
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-08-31T16:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/schaeuble-sees-volatile-markets-if-merkel-coalition-doesn-t-win.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he expects financial-market turbulence if
election results don’t show a clear majority for  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s ruling coalition on Sept. 22.  Schaeuble told Christian Democratic Union supporters in his
constituency in the town of Appenweier that the opposition
 Social Democratic Party ’s leader  Sigmar Gabriel  is preparing for
a government that includes the Greens and the anti-capitalist
Left Party if Merkel and her Free Democrat allies don’t get
enough votes.  “If there is no clear election result for us, it’s going
to be pretty exciting, but it’s an excitement I can do without
because it would mean that the situation in Germany is
unstable,” Schaeuble said. “If we don’t have a majority for
the coalition on the evening of the 22nd, just watch the Dow
Jones the next day.”  Support for Merkel’s CDU and its Bavarian sister party, the
 Christian Social Union , dropped a percentage point to 41 percent
in an Infratest poll released on Aug. 30, while the FDP held at
5 percent. Their combined tally of 46 percent would probably be
enough to maintain the current coalition if repeated on election
day.  Gabriel’s SDP, which chose former Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck  to challenge Merkel, gained two points to 26
percent, while its preferred coalition partner, the Green party,
dropped a point to 11 percent. The Left Party had 8 percent,
down one point. Infratest polled 1,500 voters on Aug. 27-28. No
margin of error was given.  Greece Outlook  “I don’t really care what Mr. Steinbrueck says he will or
will not do,” Schaeuble said. “It won’t be so important
afterward.”  Schaeuble said his Aug. 20 revelation that  Greece  will need
more aid was meant to deflect any accusations that the
government is hiding an unpleasant truth until after the
election. It also made clear that Greece won’t get another debt
cut, he said.  Merkel’s crisis course received a boost on Aug. 30 as
figures showed economic confidence in the 17-nation euro region
rising to a two-year high in August. That added to German
economic growth of 0.7 percent in the second quarter that helped
haul the bloc out of its longest-ever recession and unemployment
of 6.8 percent, near a two-decade low.  The German-led path of aid in return for reforms and debt
cuts is “showing the first signs of success,” Merkel said at a
campaign rally in the western town of Minden on Aug. 29. “But
if we go about it wrongly then this success can be destroyed.”  Schaeuble said  Germany  relies on  Europe  for most of its
exports and praised crisis countries for making progress.
Bailouts so far have cost German tax payers hardly anything and
only lying “demagogues” offer voters easy answers such as a
German exit from the euro to be better off, he said.  “The risks won’t materialize in Ireland,” Schaeuble said.
“In Greece we’re not out of the woods yet, but have made good
progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  