-- Syrians Buy Food as Possible U.S. Strikes Dominate Conversations
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-08-31T15:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/syrians-buy-food-as-possible-u-s-strikes-dominate-conversations.html
As UN inspectors wrapped up their
search for evidence of chemical weapons use in Syria, Damascenes
braced for U.S. missile strikes across their country.  They stocked up on food, including staples such as bread,
rice and water. Traffic on the streets, which are usually
crowded in the summer evenings, is sparse after dark and people
debated whether the U.S. would follow through on its threat.  “I watch talk shows and listen to analysts to try to
understand what’s going on and guess what will happen,” said
Adel Mustapha, 52, who works for a travel company. “Attacking
Syria will be tantamount to terrorism.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he hasn’t
decided yet on a response after a U.S. intelligence assessment
concluded with “high confidence” that the Syrian army used
chemical weapons against its people in the Ghouta area, outside
Damascus. At the same time, the departure today of the UN team
investigating the allegations, which Assad denies, removed an
obstacle to a military strike.  “We’re expecting it any minute now,” said lawyer Mahmoud Merei. His main concern is what happens after the strikes.  Syrian rebels are massing outside the capital and “there
are fears that radicals will come into our city,” said Merei.
“We don’t want the regime to go only to have it replaced with
Tora Bora or Kandahar,” he said, referring to areas in
 Afghanistan  controlled by the Taliban.  Government Reassurance  The Assad government has sought to reassure its people that
it has the situation under control. As lines formed outside
bakeries, Minister of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection
Samir Amin called the hoarding of bread “unjustified.”  Prime Minister Wael al-Halaqi said the government is
working hard to guarantee food and medical supplies and has
strategic reserves of all products. He said bakeries will
continue to work round the clock to meet citizens’ demands.  Around Damascus, Syrians were making plans to hunker down
for at least the next few days. While some said news of a
possible strike doesn’t scare them, “a few are hysterical,”
said German Heike Weber, who has lived in  Syria  for about 30
years.  “They’re scared of the Americans,” Weber said. “They
don’t know what their plans are.”  Weber has closed her handicrafts store on Old Damascus’
Straight Street for a week. Her Syrian staff were “worried that
if the strikes take place, they won’t be able to go home,” she
said.  Normal Life  Some Syrians were determined to live as normal a life as
possible.  Ghassan Youssef, head of banquets at a Damascus hotel, said
not a single wedding of about 12 planned for September has been
canceled. He said he had no plans to stop the twice weekly
entertainment program at one of the hotel restaurants.  Tony Ouba, a Syrian singer, took his three sisters to a
pool in Damascus, joining scores of sunbathers and swimmers.  The prospect of a U.S. attack did dominate his conversation
with friends, as they sipped vodka in the dry heat. Some believe
the U.S. won’t strike, others that the attack will be limited,
Ouba said by phone above the chatter of children splashing in
the pool.  “They want to strike, they don’t want to strike, life must
go on,” said Ouba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  