-- UN Says It Needs Time to Analyze All Evidence on Syria
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-08-31T21:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/un-needs-time-to-analyze-entire-body-of-evidence-on-syria.html
The United Nations needs time to
examine the “entire body of evidence” its inspectors collected
before reaching conclusions on Syria's alleged use of chemical 
weapons, according to  Martin Nesirky , spokesman for the UN's 
secretary-general.  The world body is “uniquely capable” of conducting an
“impartial, credible” report, Nesirky told reporters today in
 New York , after investigators completed a 14-day visit and left
Syria.  A team of 13 UN scientists arrived in The Hague today after
four days collecting evidence at a site outside Damascus that
must be analyzed before they submit a report to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Nesirky said. The UN won’t provide a
timetable for its final report, he said.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday that the U.S.
already has clear evidence that Bashar al-Assad’s regime used
chemical weapons on Aug. 21 and wouldn’t wait for the UN report
to act against Syria.  Today, President  Barack Obama  said he will seek
authorization from Congress before taking planned military
action, raising the possibility that the UN report will come out
while Congress is debating the issue.  Ban yesterday told envoys of the five permanent members of
the UN Security Council -- the U.S., U.K.,  France , Russia and
 China  -- that the report may take as long as two weeks to
prepare due to the required lab work, said two western diplomats
who weren’t authorized to comment and asked not to be
identified.  ‘Grotesque, Affront’  The scientists will deliver the “biomedical and
environmental” samples to two laboratories in  Europe  to
establish a chain of custody for the evidence, Nesirky said
yesterday.  In today’s briefing, Nesirky called it “grotesque and also
an affront” to view the departure of the chemical weapons
inspectors as opening a “window for military action of some
kind.” More than 1,000 UN employees remain in  Syria  and will
continue humanitarian aid work there, he added.  Because the U.S. has already established that chemical
weapons were used, “the UN can’t tell us anything that we
haven’t shared with you this afternoon or that we don’t already
know,” Kerry told reporters yesterday in presenting American
intelligence findings that the weapons were used and Assad’s
regime was responsible.  Assad’s Assertion  Assad’s regime has denied using chemical arms, and asked
Ban on Aug. 28 to authorize an additional UN investigation into
what it claims were three chemical weapons attacks by rebels
against government soldiers.  Inspectors visited a government military hospital near
Damascus yesterday to evaluate information submitted by the
Assad administration on the alleged attacks, according to
Nesirky. He said Ban hasn’t decided whether he will approve an
additional probe.  Angela Kane, the UN’s disarmament chief, today briefed Ban
for an hour on the current status of the chemical-arms
investigation, and they are doing “whatever can be done to
speed up the process,” Nesirky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  