-- Williams Gets Stephens Again as Del Potro Is Upset at U.S. Open
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-31T05:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-31/williams-gets-stephens-rematch-as-top-men-advance-at-u-s-open.html
Serena Williams  wasted little time
dispatching Yaroslava Shvedova after a late start at the U.S.
Open, setting up a rematch with fellow American Sloane Stephens,
who upset Williams at the Australian Open in January.  The top-seeded Williams, 31, hit 22 winners to Shvedova’s
three, wrapping up a 6-3, 6-1 win shortly after 1:00 a.m. New
York time. The match began at 11:49 last night, as the players
waited inside Arthur Ashe Stadium until the completion of
Lleyton Hewitt’s upset against men’s No. 6 seed Juan Martin Del Potro, which took more than four hours.  Williams and Hewitt joined defending champion  Andy Murray 
of the U.K. and top-seeded Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  as former
champions who advanced yesterday at the National Tennis Center
in Queens, New York.  “I’m so excited you guys stayed out for the late night
rendezvous,” Williams told the crowd after the match. “I don’t
think I’ve ever played this late, so it’s a really good
surprise.”  Third-round play starts today for the men and continues for
the women at the tennis season’s final Grand Slam. Men’s No. 2
seed  Rafael Nadal  plays Ivan Dodig of Croatia, while 17-time
Grand Slam champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  faces  France ’s
Adrian Mannarino. Women’s No. 2 seed Victoria Azarenka of
Belarus, who has dropped four games in two matches, will play
No. 26 seed Alize Cornet of France.  Stephens needed just 63 minutes to defeat Jamie Hampton
6-1, 6-3 yesterday in a matchup of the two best-seeded Americans
after Williams. It’s the first time the 20-year-old Stephens has
advanced past the third round at the  U.S. Open . Williams, by
contrast, has won 16 Grand Slam titles and hasn’t been
eliminated before the fourth round at the U.S. Open since her
tournament debut in 1998.  Australian Open  Stephens upset Williams 3-6, 7-5, 6-4, in the quarterfinals
of the Australian Open in January, Williams’s only Grand Slam
loss in the 12 months from July 2012 through June 2013. The two
later got into a media spat, with Stephens accusing Williams of
being disrespectful.  “It’s definitely been a learning experience from January
’til now,” Stephens told reporters yesterday. “I’ve had a
great year. I’m really pleased with the way it’s gone.”  Through five days, the U.S. Open has featured few major
upsets, with Argentina’s  Del Potro  and women’s No. 4 Sara Errani
the only players seeded in the top 10 of either side to be
eliminated so far. Ten such players had been eliminated at the
same point last month at Wimbledon.  Djokovic, 26, beat Benjamin Becker of  Germany  in straight
sets, while Hewitt rallied from down two sets to one to beat Del
Potro in a matchup of former U.S. Open champions. Murray
defeated Leonardo Mayer of Argentina 7-5, 6-1, 3-6, 6-1.  ‘Keep Improving’  “I played well when I needed to,” Murray, 26, said after
his match. “I want to keep improving as the tournament goes on.
You don’t want to play your best right at the beginning.”  On the women’s side, fifth-seeded  Li Na  of  China , the 2011
French Open champion, beat No. 32 seed Laura Robson of Britain
6-2, 7-5. Agnieszka Radwanska, the No. 3 seed from Poland,
advanced to the fourth round with a 6-4, 7-6 (7-1) win against
32nd-seeded Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia.  Two of the three remaining American men play today, with
No. 13 John Isner facing No. 22 Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany
and Jack Sock facing No. 18-seed Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia.
American Tim Smyczek yesterday beat Alex Bogomolov Jr. 3-6, 7-6
(8-6), 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. No American male has advanced to the
semifinals at the U.S. Open since  Andy Roddick  lost in the 2006
finals.  “All of us Americans have a pretty good rapport, and we’re
all pulling for each other,” Smyczek, 25, said yesterday.
“It’s pretty cool the way we all get along.”  Williams echoed a similar sentiment about the U.S. women.
She said that while her match against Stephens would be tough,
there was a silver lining.  “There is definitely going to be one American in the
quarterfinals,” she said. “I’m really excited about that.”  -- With assistance from Mason Levinson in  New York . Editor: Rob
Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at the National Tennis Center at 
9307 or
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  