-- Accounting Makeover for Global Companies Seen Within U.S.: Taxes
-- B y   A l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   H e a t h e r   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-10-05T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/accounting-makeover-for-global-companies-seen-within-u-s-taxes.html
Multinational companies expect the
 U.S. Congress  to revamp the international  tax codes , and they
already are preparing for it.  Sixty-eight percent of U.S. multinationals say
comprehensive international reform is coming, according to a
survey by Ernst & Young LLP. Fifty-one percent said lawmakers
could accomplish the job in 2014, while 31 percent said reform
is likely by 2015.  More than half said the prospect of big international
reform already has affected their tax planning. Leaders in both
parties have spent much of the 112th Congress gearing up for  tax
reform , which they expect to at least start next year.  “Tax directors are analyzing the impact of a new regime on
their companies and evaluating the cost of different planning
scenarios under the current system through any transition, as
well as the impact of operating under the new system,” Jeff
Michalak, head of Ernst & Young International Tax Services, said
in a statement.  The survey found that 80 percent of multinationals would
prefer a territorial regime. Currently, the system taxes the
offshore profits of U.S.-based multinational companies -- a so-
called worldwide system that means companies pay tax on business
they do in other countries as well as domestically. Republican
lawmakers have proposed shifting to a territorial tax system,
where most of the income those companies generate abroad would
be exempt from U.S. taxes.  House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Republican from
 Michigan , in 2011 unveiled a blueprint for corporate tax reform
that would significantly lower the corporate  tax rate  and move
the overall system to a territorial tax system similar to those
used by  Japan  and the U.K. Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Democrat from  Montana , hasn’t offered a formal blueprint, though
he laid out principles in a June speech. His approach includes
focusing on jobs and competitiveness.  President Obama also has called for overhauling the
Internal Revenue Code. His corporate tax plan focuses on
lowering the rate and retaining the worldwide system while
making it more difficult for companies to defer income.  Business Should Push Harder for IRS Fast-Track Audits  Businesses being audited by the  Internal Revenue Service 
should push harder to get into the fast-track settlement
program, a top agency official said.  The fast-track project aims to cut the time and cost of
resolving tax disputes with the IRS. Businesses can settle tax
disputes in as little as 90 days, according to Paul DeNard, a
deputy commissioner at the IRS said this week.  “If you have not been offered fast-track, ask,” DeNard
said. “If the exam team says no, they should tell you why. If
you’re not happy with the answer, go to a manager. I would
encourage all taxpayers to at least ask.”  IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  in September said the
fast-track program was part of an larger agency initiative to
transform its relationship with taxpayers.  However, he said the program will only succeed only if both
parties come to the table with a goal of reaching a solution. If
one side is convinced that the other side is wrong, the
settlement option will not work, DeNard told a conference co-
sponsored by the LB&I Financial Services Industry and the  New
York  Chapter of the Tax Executives Institute.  Attorneys Offer Medical Device Firms Advice for Excise Tax  Medical device makers will have to master a complex set of
rule to comply with the new excise tax on devices that takes
effect at the start of the new year, a panel of tax attorneys
tell the Advanced Medical Technology Association Oct. 3.  IRS has built a tax plan around the  Food and Drug
Administration ’s regulatory regime for medical devices, says
Rita Cavanagh, a partner with Latham & Watkins. It will be a
challenge for device companies to determine the right amount to
pay and to prove it to the IRS, she says. IRS excise tax rules,
in effect for more than 30 years, aren’t well adapted to this
industry, she adds.  Devices that are listed with the FDA are subject to the
tax.  If a firm uses FDA labeling, it must list the device, says
Benneville Haas, also a partner with  Latham & Watkins .  If
during an inspection FDA determines that a product should have
been listed, the tax will apply, he says.  Property Rules Will Help Increase Market Liquidity  Final tax rules on publicly traded property for purposes of
determining the issue price are a good thing because they are
likely to help increase the liquidity of the markets, an IRS
official says.  Unveiled in September, the rules reflect changes to the
easing of the debt markets in recent years. Mark Perwien of
IRS’s Office of Chief Counsel says the rules are “a good thing
from a policy perspective. The bigger a debt issue is, the more
liquid it is.”  French Court Upholds Seizure of Google Tax Data  An appeals court in Paris rules that French tax law allows
auditors to seize documents and other data from the foreign-
based servers of a multinational corporation.  The court rejects arguments from Google  France  and Google
Ireland that the seizure of documents from foreign-based servers
violates French and European Union law. The court says data
accessible through a computer on the local audited premises is
considered as stored in that computer.  “It matters little that the seized data were on servers
located abroad,” the court says.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  