-- Macquarie Asia Head of Investment Banking Desai to Leave
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-05T06:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/macquarie-asia-head-of-investment-banking-desai-to-leave.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s head of
 investment banking  in  Asia , Kalpana Desai, is leaving after
three years with the company amid a widening exodus of
dealmakers from the industry.  Desai, 45, will retire as head of Macquarie Capital Asia
effective in April to spend time with her family, according to
an internal memo obtained by  Bloomberg News . Fiona McDonald, a
spokeswoman for the Sydney-based bank, declined to comment.  Senior banking executives including Gaby Abdelnour of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Yusuf Alireza have left investment banking in the past year, as deals
dried up and compensation fell. Macquarie, Australia’s largest
investment bank, said in July that its securities unit will
probably post a second straight annual loss as Europe’s debt
contagion dents appetite for trading and share sales.  “With the changes taking place in the investment banking
model, senior bankers are now asking the question: What is next
for me in these changing times?” said David Webbe, a senior
client partner at Korn/Ferry International, a global executive
search firm.  Macquarie’s Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Moore  in July
described the  securities market  as “very, very tough” and said
he didn’t expect the European crisis to improve soon.  Alex Harvey, who was made CEO of Macquarie’s Asian
operations in January, will assume Desai’s role, according to
the memo. That will leave the firm’s Asian operations with a
similar leadership structure to those in Europe, the  Middle East 
and  Africa .  Macquarie’s ranking in underwriting share sales in Asia
fell to 23rd this year from 11th in 2010, the first full year
after Desai assumed her position, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The rankings exclude offerings in  China , where Macquarie
lacks a joint venture required to underwrite stock sales.  Fees Slump  In mergers advisory, Macquarie has slipped to 54th in Asia
from No. 16 in 2010, according to data that includes China. The
global investment banking unit accounted for  8.9 percent  of the
group’s revenue for the year ended March 31.  Macquarie ranked 11th in Asia equity underwriting and 41st
in mergers advisory in 2009, the data show.  Investment-banking fees in the Asia-Pacific region slumped
to $10.6 billion in the nine months through September from $12.4
billion in the year-earlier period, according to data from
researcher Freeman & Co.  Banks have lost some of their allure as employers after
stricter capital rule and a drop in fees restricted their
ability to pay. Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are
among investment banks that have announced cuts in overall
compensation this year.  Vietnam, Pakistan  In the past two years, Desai helped forge alliances with
local partners in Vietnam, Pakistan and Thailand to cooperate in
investment banking and securities operations including cash
equity sales and trading. In October 2011, Macquarie announced
an agreement with Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. to develop a
wealth management business with the Zurich-based firm.  Desai joined Macquarie in October 2009 after working for 11
years at Merrill Lynch & Co., now part of Bank of America Corp.
At Macquarie, she oversaw mergers advisory, equity and debt
capital markets and principal investment in 13 countries.  Desai started her career in investment banking in London
and is a graduate of the  London School  of Economics. She is
married with three children.  “When I started work in Asia in 2002, Kalpana was already
a very high-profile banker,” Webbe said. “Bankers in any case
reach a certain stage in their life when they have decided it’s
time to leave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  