-- Thai Baht, Bonds Have Weekly Gain as Yields Lure Capital Inflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-05T08:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/thai-baht-bonds-have-weekly-gain-as-yields-lure-capital-inflows.html
Thailand’s baht and government bonds
advanced for a second week as monetary easing in developed
nations boosted inflows into the country’s relatively higher-
yielding securities.  The currency touched a six-month high today and the five-
year yield dropped to the lowest level in almost a month this
week as global funds  pumped  a net $260 million into Thai
sovereign debt, according to data from the Thai Bond Market
Association. The nation’s benchmark interest  rate  of 3 percent
compares with a maximum 0.25 percent in the U.S. and Japan.  “With global central banks introducing measures to support
their economies, risk sentiment is improving,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of the investment trust and fixed-income business
unit at Rakuten Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Developed nations
will keep  interest rates  low for a long time and that makes
higher yields offered by emerging countries attractive.”  The baht climbed 0.8 percent this week to 30.56 per dollar
as of 3:09 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency added 0.1 percent today and touched
30.52 earlier, the strongest level since March 9. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, held steady today and this week at 4.27 percent.  Overseas investors bought $98 million more Thai stocks than
they sold this week through yesterday, exchange data show.  The  European Central Bank  is ready to start buying
government bonds as soon as the necessary conditions are
fulfilled, President  Mario Draghi  told a press conference in
Slovenia yesterday. The  Federal Reserve  announced in September
it would start open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.27 percent from a
week ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate,
which was little changed today, touched 3.26 percent on Oct. 3,
the lowest level since Sept. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 