-- Airbus A400M Endurance Test to Resume After Engine Fixed
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-05T11:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/airbus-a400m-endurance-test-to-resume-after-engine-fixed.html
Airbus Military  will have to rerun a
pivotal test phase for the A400M troop transporter after fixing
an engine fault that caused an earlier trial to be halted, an
aircraft regulator said.  The so-called function and reliability test will restart
once repairs are implemented, and the required 300 hours “will
have to be redone,” the Cologne, Germany-based European
Aviation Safety Agency said in a written response to questions.  Airbus interrupted the test in mid-2012 after 160 hours
when metal chips were found in a gearbox. The suspension led the
manufacturer to adjust the schedule of the 20 billion-euro ($25
billion) A400M. It delayed the plane’s civil and military
certification until the first quarter of 2013 from this year and
put off an end-of-March contractual deadline for the first
customer delivery.  “The full 300 hours will have to be repeated for the
engines, but not necessarily all the other systems,” Airbus
Military said in a written response to questions. “We’re making
good progress on the retrofit program,” including on the MSN6
production-representative aircraft being used for the test, the
unit of Toulouse, France-based  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  said.  The gearbox on all production versions of the A400M’s
turbo-propeller engine is being modified to fix a cover plate
that separates sections of the mechanism. The engine, the
biggest of its kind, is built by Europrop International, a group
of companies including  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX) ,  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RR/)  and  Safran SA (SAF) ’s Snecma division. The gearbox is
made by Avio SpA in  Italy .  “The flight-test program has been continuing with the
other aircraft, and we have now recorded 1,300 flights and 3,850
flight hours,” Airbus said. The airlifter is flying with a
provisional certification granted in April.  Airbus still plans to deliver four A400Ms to customers next
year. France and  Turkey  will receive the airplanes. The third
French plane and the only Turkish plane among the four aircraft
will be delivered on time, the manufacturer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  