-- Al-Qaeda Affiliates Getting Stronger, Says U.S. Official
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-10-05T19:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/al-qaeda-affiliates-getting-stronger-says-u-s-official.html
Terrorist groups in Mali and Yemen
that are affiliated with al-Qaeda are “gaining strength,” in
large part by taking hostages for ransom, a senior U.S. Treasury
official said today.  “The U.S. government estimates that terrorist
organizations have collected approximately $120 million in
ransom payments over the past eight years,” said  David Cohen ,
the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for terrorism and
financial intelligence, in a speech to the Royal Institute of
International Affairs at Chatham House in  London .  U.S. intelligence officials are investigating whether the
two main groups Cohen cited, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb and
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, may have played a role in the
Sept. 11 attack on a U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi,  Libya ,
that killed Christopher Stevens, the American ambassador to
Libya, and three other Americans.  “Al-Qaeda’s core is not in the position to provide
generous funding to its affiliates, such as al-Qaeda in the
Lands of the Islamic Maghreb, ‘AQIM,’ operating in the Sahel,
and al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, ‘AQAP,’ operating
primarily in  Yemen ,” Cohen said. “Instead, these al-Qaeda
offshoots are self-sufficient, raising their own funds and
themselves providing support to the next generation of violent
groups.”  “AQIM, the al-Qaeda affiliate that has likely profited
most from kidnapping for ransom, has collected tens of millions
of dollars through KFR operations since 2008,” he said. “It
raised significant funds from kidnapping for ransom operations
in early 2012, and was holding nine hostages as of the middle of
last month.”  Expanding Reach  Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, he said, is using ransom
money to expand its reach and influence, and as of earlier this
year was expected to provide hundreds of thousands of dollars to
other extremist groups in  Africa .  Cohen said the two, as well as other terrorist groups in
the  Philippines , Pakistan and elsewhere use ransom money to help
finance all their activities, “including recruiting and
indoctrinating new members, paying salaries, establishing
training camps, acquiring weapons and communications gear,
staging deadly attacks,” and “helping to support the next
generation of violent extremist groups.”  “What’s worse,” he added, “the size of the average
ransom payment is increasing. In 2010, the average ransom
payment per hostage to AQIM was $4.5 million; in 2011, that
figure was $5.4 million.  “It is therefore not surprising that the size of ransom
demands appears to be increasing, too, with AQIM reportedly
demanding £70 million ($113.3 million) for the release of four
French citizens taken hostage in  Niger  in September 2010,” he
said.  Attractive Targets  Terrorist groups distinguish between nations that pay
ransom and those such as the U.K. and the U.S. that don’t, Cohen
said. “Recent kidnapping for ransom trends appear to indicate
that hostage takers prefer not to take U.S. or U.K. hostages --
almost certainly because they understand that they will not
receive ransoms,” and because they fear a military response if
they do, he said.  “Indeed, our information reveals that in 2011, AQIM was
planning to target mainly Europeans, not Americans, for
kidnapping operations because AQIM believed that some European
governments would pay ransoms while the U.S. government would
not,” Cohen said.  A second U.S. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
to discuss a sensitive issue, said French and German citizens
and companies are two of the prime targets for kidnappers.  Protection Money  The groups’ tactics, Cohen said, are expanding to include
demands that companies pay protection money, which the second
official said is already a routine practice in countries such as
 Pakistan , Afghanistan and  Mexico .  “One al-Qaeda affiliate was planning to extort substantial
annual payments, amounting to millions of euros a year, from a
European-based company, in exchange for a promise not to target
that company’s interests in Africa,” Cohen said.  He said the U.S. and other governments are cooperating in
efforts to combat terrorist financing, and more than 160
countries, including all members of the European Union, are
obligated to cooperate against hostage-taking under the 1979
International Convention against the Taking of Hostages.  U.S. intelligence officials have said that, while the U.S.
and its allies have curbed the flow of money from the  Persian
Gulf states  to al-Qaeda’s remaining leaders in Pakistan, groups
such as those in Mali and Yemen have become self-sufficient and
independent. The way the terrorist threat has metastasized has
made it harder to combat, the officials, who spoke on condition
of anonymity to discuss intelligence issues, said.  Best Management Practices  Companies that do business in risky areas can assist in
efforts to combat hostage-taking, he said.  Shipping industry organizations and navies from around the
world, he said, have collaborated to produce a set of “Best
Management Practices” to help prevent hijackings off Somalia.
He cited a 2009  Chatham House  paper which found that ships that
have implemented practices such as tracking and avoiding pirate
skiffs, increasing speed near suspicious vessels, and equipping
themselves with razor wire or high-pressure sprays to prevent
unauthorized boarding may be four times less likely to be
hijacked than those that haven’t.  “More generally, Cohen said, “international
organizations, corporations, and non-profits should train their
employees to spot and evade danger, and insurance companies
should continue to work with their clients to identify new
avenues for mitigating risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  