-- Amazon to Purchase Seattle Offices for $1.16 Billion
-- B y   D a n   L e v y ,   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-10-05T23:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/amazon-to-purchase-seattle-offices-for-1-16-billion.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, agreed to buy its 11-building headquarters
complex in  Seattle  for $1.16 billion in a deal poised to be the
biggest U.S. office transaction of the year.  The campus has 1.8 million square feet (167,000 square
meters) of space in the South Lake Union neighborhood, Amazon
said today in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The company said it’s made a nonrefundable deposit
of about $23 million, which will increase to $51 million on Oct.
22. It expects to complete the purchase in the fourth quarter.  The terms of the agreement would make the transaction
2012’s priciest purchase of a single office property anywhere in
the country, said  Dan Fasulo , managing director at real estate
research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc. Seattle office
buildings have been among the most desirable properties for
investors this year, the firm’s data show.  Vulcan Inc., billionaire  Paul Allen ’s investment company,
put the campus, which is now leased by Amazon, up for sale in
August, saying it will use proceeds from the sale for other real
estate projects in the area. South Lake Union is one of six
areas Seattle designated as “urban centers” in the city’s 2004
growth plan.  “When we originally commenced the disposition process, we
did not think Amazon would necessarily be the buyer,” said Ada Healey, vice president for real estate at Seattle-based Vulcan.
The 11 buildings were built in six phases. “We were fully
prepared to have the six phases go to six different buyers.”  Largest Deal  Healey declined to comment on the deal’s capitalization
rate, a measure of yield used by real estate investors, or the
potential profit for Vulcan.  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , the Los Angeles-based listing broker for
the Amazon campus, declined to comment on today’s filing, said
Robert McGrath, a New York-based spokesman for the real estate
services firm. Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  The Amazon campus is the largest of more than $3 billion of
office deals under contract or on the market in Seattle, Kevin
Shannon, vice chairman at CBRE, said before the agreement was
announced.  “I’d estimate there will be over $4.5 billion closed by
year-end, which would more than triple last year’s total,” he
said in an e-mail. “Capital follows markets with the best
fundamentals. Seattle has some of the best office market
fundamentals in the nation.”  The announcement was made after the close of regular U.S.
trading. Amazon fell 0.8 percent to $258.51 today. Its shares
have climbed 49 percent this year as updated Kindle e-readers
and tablets increase in popularity among consumers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  