-- American Says 757s’ Seats Had History of Coming Loose
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-05T20:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/american-says-757s-seats-had-history-of-coming-loose.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  aircraft seats that
dislodged in flight, causing the temporary grounding of 48
 Boeing Co. (BA)  757s, already had been under closer scrutiny by the
carrier for becoming loose sooner than others.  The airline initially blamed incorrectly installed saddle
clamps before determining that a buildup of residue from spilled
sodas, coffee and juice had kept locking pins from remaining in
place,  David Campbell , American’s vice president for safety,
security and environmental, said in an interview today.  “We look every month because we have seen they were coming
loose a little more than the average fleet we have,” he said.
“We have a very aggressive maintenance program. There were just
generally problems with the seat in terms of how it’s designed
compared to later designs out there.”  The seat issues developed as the Fort Worth, Texas-based
airline, operating in bankruptcy, struggled with delayed flights
and tried to fend off a takeover attempt by  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  American, a unit of AMR Corp., canceled 94 flights
yesterday and today while it carried out the inspections.  The seats, which have been used for years, differ from
others because two locks are torque-tightened and two tightened
by hand instead of all being torque-tightened. The manufacturer
recommends inspections every 18 months, Campbell said.  Seat Manufacturer  The seats were designed and made specifically for American
by Zodiac Aerospace’s  Weber Aircraft Inc.  unit in Gainesville,
 Texas . Robert Funk, vice president of sales and marketing for
Weber, said in an e-mail that he couldn’t immediately respond.  The 757 inspections initially began after seat rows in
coach sections worked free on three flights from Sept. 26
through Oct. 1. Seat rows were tightened multiple times on at
least one of two planes involved, and one set of seats came
loose enough to shift backward toward the next row. The seats
never came completely loose from the floor, Campbell said.  The airline and U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  are
continuing an investigation into the incidents. American
mechanics are installing a redundant locking mechanism to
address the issue.  “We have a lot of confidence that this is what caused
those events,” Campbell said. The seats are only used on 48 of
the airline’s 102 757s.  American had completed repairs on 42 of the planes by noon
Dallas time, and the airline expects to have all 48 planes back
in service by tomorrow,  Andrea Huguely , a spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Sugary Residue  Maintenance workers had not previously discovered the
buildup of “coking,” or the sugary residue, that allowed the
pins eventually to work free and let the seats move, Campbell
said. Seats normally are removed for various maintenance and the
tracks cleaned.  “For some reason, coking has built up on these particular
ones and created this problem,” Campbell said. “When a
perfectly situated plunger is down and locked in, you can’t move
the seat. But as the aircraft moves and torques, the plunger
works back up because the locking pin wasn’t secured in place.”  Andreas Eichin was stuck in Bridgetown, Barbados, while
trying to return to the U.S. from a business conference. His
flight on an American 757 to  New York ’s Kennedy airport and then
on to Washington Reagan was delayed two hours yesterday and
subsequently canceled.  “We could see it on the tarmac,” Eichin said today while
he was waiting for another American flight. “They said it was
canceled because of a mechanical problem on board.”  Eichin, who primarily flies on  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) ’s  United Airlines , said that in the future he would
“definitely always try to go for” that carrier for his once-
monthly flights.  Flight delays that began at the carrier in September and
the seat woes built on labor unrest after American imposed
concessions on pilots to help it restructure in bankruptcy and
detailed plans to cut more than 4,000 jobs among mechanics and
airport ground workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  