-- Arabica Coffee May Extend Slide on Brazilian Crop; Sugar Falls
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-05T12:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/arabica-coffee-may-extend-slide-on-brazilian-crop-sugar-falls.html
Arabica coffee may fall for a third
day in New York, the longest losing streak in six weeks, after
trees in top producer  Brazil  started to flower before the next
crop and rainfall is forecast later this month. Sugar fell.  The first flowering before the 2013-14 crop occurred on the
southern part of  Minas Gerais , the largest arabica-producing
state, according to Rio de Janeiro-based broker Flavour Coffee.
Blossoming is likely to cover 25 percent to 40 percent of the
trees’ production potential, it said in a weekly report e-mailed
yesterday. Flowering has also taken place in irrigated areas of
Cerrado, according to Cazarini Trading Co. in Varginha, Brazil.  Coffee climbed 6.9 percent in the week to Oct. 3 on concern
dry weather would cause flowers to abort, reducing the size of
the next crop. A new cold front will bring widespread rains to
Brazil’s coffee growing areas after Oct. 10, Sao Paulo-based
weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia said yesterday.  “On the ground in Brazil, there is not so much concern
about dry weather and the flowering,”  Kona Haque , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., said by phone from  London  today. “On the
back of the recent rally, you’ve seen a lot of central American
countries and  Colombia  starting to sell.”  Arabica coffee for December delivery was little changed at
$1.752 a pound by 8:11 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
after dropping as much as 4.2 percent yesterday. Robusta coffee
for November delivery slid 0.4 percent to $2,143 a ton.  Weather Factor  “This year, with soil moisture levels already high, the
wait for the back-up rains is not quite as crucial as, for
example, last year,” Volcafe, the coffee unit of commodities
trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd., said in a report e-mailed today.
“Rains by next weekend are a reasonable outcome.”  Robusta coffee slid after inventories gained, surprising
many traders, said Jerome Jourquin, the head of agricultural
commodity derivatives at Aurel BGC, a broker in Paris.
Stockpiles with valid grading certificates in warehouses
monitored by NYSE Liffe were 130,280 tons as of Oct. 1, up 0.6
percent from two weeks earlier, exchange data showed.  Raw sugar for March delivery slid 0.9 percent to 21.38
cents a pound in  New York . White, or refined, sugar for March
delivery fell 0.3 percent to $584.50 a ton in London.  Cocoa for December delivery was little changed at $2,397 a
ton on ICE. Cocoa for March delivery was up 0.2 percent to 1,541
pounds ($2,494) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 