-- Areva Excluded From Bidding to Build CEZ Reactors at Temelin
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-10-05T13:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/areva-excluded-from-bidding-to-build-cez-reactors-at-temelin-1-.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the world’s largest
supplier of nuclear fuel and services, was excluded from bidding
to build two Czech reactors at  CEZ AS (CEZ) ’s nuclear power plant
Temelin.  The Paris-based company failed to meet legislative and
commercial requirements of the tender, CEZ spokesman Ladislav Kriz said in a phone interview. Areva plans to file an objection
against the decision, it said in an e-mailed statement.  The Czech utility plans to choose a builder for the third
and fourth reactors at the Temelin plant by the middle of next
year. The other two bidders, Westinghouse Electric Corp. and a
Russian-Czech consortium led by Rosatom Corp.’s unit ZAO
Atomstroyexport, weren’t excluded.  “All I can say at this point is that Areva’s offer had
serious shortcomings,” Kriz said. “They were both commercial
and legislative.”  Areva has 15 days to appeal the decision, during which CEZ
won’t comment on the specific reasons that its offer was
rejected, Kriz said. The French company can also turn to the
anti-competition office.  “Areva firmly believes we have all the tender criteria and
we look forward to addressing the issues raised by CEZ,”
spokeswoman Patricia Marie said in the statement. “Our
commitment to the Temelin project remains absolute.”  CEZ is currently  Europe ’s only utility with an atomic
project out to bid. The winner of the Temelin tender will be
chosen by the middle of next year and the final contract must be
signed before the end of 2013, the company said.  The utility has started drawing up a list of potential
financial partners for the project, whose cost has been
estimated at $10 billion by analysts and some investors. CEZ may
hold a separate tender for an investor after the supplier is
chosen, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Benes said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  