-- Target, Remy Cointreau, McDonald’s: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-05T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/target-remy-cointreau-mcdonald-s-intellectual-property.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the Minneapolis-based
retail chain, was sued for patent infringement by a
Philadelphia-based garment manufacturer.  Destination Maternity Corp.  accuses Target and its supplier
of infringing patent RE43,531, which was issued July 24. The
patent covers a garment with an expandable belly panel and a
torso-encircling circumference that recedes downward to make
room for the growing abdomen of a pregnant woman.  Target continues to sell the allegedly infringing garments
even after having been put on notice by Destination Maternity,
according to court papers. Counsel for the parties have
“exchanged further correspondence without resolution,”
Destination Maternity said in its pleadings.  The company asked the court to bar Target and its suppliers
from further infringement, and for money damages “in no event
less than a reasonable royalty” and awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Target didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Destination Maternity Corp. v. Target Corp.,
12-cv-05680, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Remy Cointreau Wins Order Temporarily Banning ‘Controy’ Liqueur  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) ’s Cointreau unit persuaded a federal
judge in  Dallas  that La Madrilena SA’s Controy orange liqueur
has the potential to infringe its “Cointreau” trademark.  In an Oct. 2 order, U.S. District Judge David C. Godbey
issued an order temporarily barring Mexico City-based La
Madrilena from importing and selling any liqueur under the
“Controy” name. He required Cointreau to post a $1 million
bond for payment of damages and costs should La Madrilena be
able to demonstrate it was wrongfully restrained and harmed in
the process.  Cointreau sued in July 2012, claiming its multiple
“Cointreau” marks -- some the company has used since 1995 --
were infringed by La Madrilena’s “Controy.” It noted that the
liqueurs were both sold in similar squat square-shaped bottles,
with the name depicted on a banner.  In its complaint, Cointreau cites a survey from the
National Alcohol Beverage Control Association that ranked its
Cointreau behind only Grand Marnier in annual sales in the
orange liqueur category.  The Paris-based distiller accused La Madrilena of trying to
hitchhike on the fame and goodwill associated with the Cointreau
trademarks and trade dress. It asked the court to bar the sale
of the allegedly infringing product and award money damages,
including extra damages, to punish the Mexican company.  The case is Cointreau Corp. v. Pura Vida Tequila Co., 12-
cv-02257, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  McDonald’s Files Trademark for Ground, Whole Bean Coffee  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
filed a trademark for its name for use on ground and whole bean
coffee, according to September filings with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  The company filed to register both McDonald’s and its
double arch logo as trademarks for use with coffee. It also is
seeking registration for “McCafe” for the same purpose.  Danya Proud, a spokeswoman for McDonald’s, declined to
comment in an e-mail on whether the company may introduce a
bagged coffee under its name in grocery stores, calling the idea
“speculative.”  McDonald’s coffee trademark quest comes more than five
years after  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  began selling coffee in
stores with Procter & Gamble Co. P&G has since sold its coffee
business to J.M. Smucker Co., which said in August that sales of
the Dunkin’ brand increased 11 percent in the first quarter
ended July 31.  “As part of doing business, we register a number of
trademarks to protect our brand equities,” Proud said.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  has sold bagged coffee in groceries since
1998, when it signed a distribution agreement with Kraft Foods
Inc. Starbucks, which has since regained control of the packaged
coffee business, said July 26 that its share of the premium
coffee segment in groceries, drugstores and mass markets rose to
28.2 percent from 25.6 percent a year earlier.  TAO Licensing Says Maine Restaurant With Similar Name Infringes  TAO Licensing LLC, which operates  TAO  Asian-fusion
restaurants in Las Vegas and New York, sued a  Maine  restaurant
for trademark infringement.  Tao Restaurant LLC  of Brunswick, Maine, is accused of
infringing the TAO trademarks, and attempting to trade on the
goodwill and fame of the New York and Las Vegas restaurants.  According to the complaint filed Oct. 2 in federal court in
 Portland , Maine, TAO registered its trademarks with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office beginning in 2001.  When Tao Restaurant LLC opened its TAO property in
Brunswick in May 2012, TAO claims the choice of name was
deliberate in order to take advantage of the fame of the two TAO
properties. The Maine restaurant followed the same convention in
its naming by the use of TAO plus a geographic origin -- Tao
Maine -- that TAO uses for its New York and Nevada properties,
according to court papers.  TAO, based in New York, also objects to the Tao-Maine.com
Internet domain name used by the Maine restaurant. It claims
that Tao Restaurant has caused harm and economic damage through
its name choice.  In addition to seeking an order barring further use of the
TAO name, the New York company asked the court for awards of
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  The owner of the Maine restaurant  told the Portland Press 
Herald that while the two companies’ names were similar sounding
in English, the Chinese character for “Tao” it uses means
“peach” and the name was chosen to celebrate a Chinese fairy
tale about a fisherman and a peach orchard.  TAO’s “Tao” is written with a different Chinese character
that is associated with the philosophical and religious practice
of Taoism, according to the Portland Press.  The case is TAO Licensing LLC v. Tao Restaurant LLC, 12-
cv-00302, U.S. District Court, District of Maine (Portland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Plans to Appeal Infringement Verdict in Oracle Trial  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said it will ask a federal appeals court to
overturn a jury’s finding of copyright infringement or order a
new trial in a lawsuit by Oracle Corp. over Android software for
mobile devices.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
said in a court filing yesterday in federal court in San
Francisco that it will appeal the trial judge’s decision not to
set aside a jury’s verdict or order a new trial.  A federal jury found May 7 that Mountain View, California-
based Google infringed Oracle’s copyrights when it developed
Android software for mobile devices. The jury also deadlocked on
whether Google’s copying was a permissible “fair use.”  Google’s attorneys said in earlier court filings that the
jury found the company had infringed just nine out of millions
of lines of code in a Java programming language platform, which
they said was legally insignificant.  The appeal will be filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit in  Washington , the attorneys said. The trial
was held in San Francisco.  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , is the largest
maker of database software.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the filing.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-cv-3561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Google Reaches Book-Scanning Agreement With Five Publishers  Google Inc., operator of the world’s biggest Internet
search engine, settled a lawsuit with five publishers over the
digital scanning of books. The deal doesn’t resolve litigation
by authors.  The agreement ends the publishers’ portion of a copyright
infringement suit filed in federal court in New York in 2005,
Google and the Association of American Publishers said yesterday
in a statement. U.S. publishers can now choose whether to make
their books and articles available for scanning or have them
removed, according to the statement.  Google disclosed a plan in 2004 to scan millions of books
from public and university libraries digitally in order to
provide snippets of text on its search engine. The Authors
Guild, individual authors and publishing companies sued,
claiming Google hadn’t sought authorization from the owners of
the works.  “We are pleased that this settlement addresses the issues
that led to the litigation,” Tom Allen, chief executive officer
of the publishers’ association, said.  The agreement is with McGraw-Hill Cos., Pearson Education
Inc., Penguin Group USA Inc.,  John Wiley & SonsInc. (JW/A)  and Simon &
Schuster Inc., which is owned by CBS Inc.  “The publishers’ private settlement, whatever its terms,
does not resolve the authors’ copyright infringement claims
against Google,” Paul Aiken, executive director of the Authors
Guild, said in an e-mailed statement  In 2009, Google reached an initial settlement of the class,
or group, lawsuit by the authors and publishers that was valued
at $125 million.  The writers’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-cv-08136,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).
The visual artists’ case is The American Society of Media
Photographers v. Google, 10-cv-02977, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The appeals case is
Authors Guild v. Google, 12-3200, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Jones Day Hires Douglas Weinstein From Finnegan Henderson  Jones Day hired Douglas Weinstein for its intellectual-
property practice, the law firm said in a  statement .  Weinstein, who joins from Washington’s Finnegan, Henderson,
Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP, does patent and trade secrets
litigation. He has represented clients in the electrical,
computer and telecommunications industries.  He previously served as the managing partner of Finnegan’s
Taipei office.  Weinstein has an undergraduate degree in engineering from
Vanderbilt University and master’s degree in business from the
University of  Alabama . He received both a law degree and a
master’s degree in intellectual property law from Franklin
Pierce Law Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 