-- Arrest Warrant Issued for Former Philippine President Arroyo
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-05T00:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/arrest-warrant-issued-for-former-philippine-president-arroyo.html
An arrest warrant was issued to
former Philippine President  Gloria Arroyo  at a government
hospital after a court charged her with misappropriating funds
from a charity.  Arroyo was admitted to the Veterans Memorial Medical Center
in Quezon City suffering from dehydration and a numb hand, ABS-
CBN reported yesterday. An anti-graft court ordered Arroyo’s
arrest on Oct. 3 on charges she diverted 366 million pesos
($8.82 million) for personal gain.  A successful prosecution may bolster what President Benigno Aquino says is his campaign to combat corruption. Arroyo spent
eight months under hospital arrest on charges of election fraud
before being freed in July because of insufficient evidence, and
faces additional allegations of taking gifts in relation to a
telecommunications deal in 2007.  “This will have positive implications for Philippine
President  Benigno Aquino  because it shows his resolve to pursue
cases against his predecessor,” Earl Parreno, an analyst at the
Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in  Manila , said by
phone. “Arroyo’s arrest will make her supporters angry, but
this won’t matter much to Aquino’s popularity.”  Sandiganbayan First Division Presiding Justice Efren de la
Cruz issued a warrant for the arrest of Arroyo and former
officials of Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office on the charge
of plunder, according to a copy of the order. Plunder is a non-
bailable offense that involves pocketing at least 50 million
pesos of public funds.  The court rejected a motion from Arroyo’s lawyer seeking to
have the case dismissed, according to a copy of the order.  Neck Brace  The ex-president, who wears a neck brace because of a bone
disease, checked into the hospital before 7 a.m. yesterday, ABS-
CBN said, citing hospital director Nona Legaspi. Arroyo showed
signs of dehydration, according to the report.  “Policemen are guarding her there,” Chief Superintendent
Genereso Cerbo, a police spokesman, said by phone.  Arroyo, who’s seeking a second term as a representative of
Pampanga province, has accused her successor of pursuing a
political vendetta. Aquino, who campaigned on an anti-corruption
ticket, has an approval rating of 78 percent after two years in
office, according to a survey conducted by Pulse Asia from Aug.
31 to Sept. 7.  Arroyo led the indictment, arrest and imprisonment of her
predecessor,  Joseph Estrada . Estrada spent six years under
arrest after he fell from power and before he was convicted of
corruption and sentenced to life in jail in September 2007.
Arroyo pardoned him a month later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net  