-- Hartford Rallies as McGee’s Focus Turns to Annuities
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-05T21:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/hartford-rallies-as-mcgee-s-focus-turns-to-annuities.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer selling units to focus on property-casualty
coverage, climbed to a six-month high as  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
said it can free capital that’s backing variable annuities.  Hartford gained 2.2 percent to close at $21.20 in New York
trading, the highest since April 4. The shares have advanced 13
percent since Sept. 26, the day before Hartford announced the
sale of a life insurance unit.  Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee has agreed this year to
sell the life unit, a broker-dealer and the individual-annuities
distribution business, freeing capital that can be returned to
shareholders. Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the
same name, is still working to manage liabilities on variable
annuities it previously sold.  “Convincing investors that there is material positive
value in the variable-annuity business” can boost the stock,
Thomas Gallagher, an analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a
research note today, using Hartford’s ticker symbol, HIG. “‘We
are incrementally more confident that HIG will be able to
successfully free up capital.’’  McGee said in an interview last week that Hartford may seek
to do transactions to limit the risk of variable annuities the
company sold in the U.S. and  Japan . In August, he said the firm
was ‘‘laser-focused on all possible ways to accelerate reducing
the liabilities.’’  Variable annuities can guarantee minimum returns to
clients. Hartford’s liabilities increase on the contracts when
bond yields decline and stock markets fall. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has advanced 28 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  