-- Australian Mining’s Demise ‘Greatly Exaggerated,’ Parkinson Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-05T02:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/australian-mining-s-demise-greatly-exaggerated-parkinson-says.html
Australia ’s mining companies are set
to play a greater role in the nation’s economy and talk of the
industry’s demise are “greatly exaggerated,” Secretary to the
Treasury Martin Parkinson said.  “We expect strong investment this financial year and
next,” Parkinson, the Treasury’s top bureaucrat, said in a
 speech  today in Perth, the capital of Western Australia state.
“Only just beginning is the strong rise in extraction and
export volumes stemming from that investment.”  He rejected suggestions the currency, which has rebounded
70 percent from a low reached during the global financial
crisis, should be weakened to help manufacturers and services
industries. “The alternative -- which would be allowing the
real exchange rate appreciation to be driven by higher domestic
inflation -- is likely to be more costly for the economy,”
Parkinson said.  Australia’s central bank resumed cutting its benchmark
 interest rate  this week to revive demand outside of the resource
boom that it said is likely to crest next year at a lower level
than previously expected. Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered the
overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3.25
percent on Oct. 2, ending a three-meeting pause.  “The peak in resource investment is likely to occur next
year, and may be at a lower level than earlier expected,”
Stevens said in a  statement  accompanying the decision. “As this
peak approaches it will be important that the forecast
strengthening in some other components of demand starts to
occur.”  Commodity Prices  Concern about the mining boom’s longevity was fueled by a
plunge in commodity prices as growth slows in China, Australia’s
biggest trading partner. Prices of Australia’s key export,  iron
ore , rebounded about 20 percent since reaching a three-year low
on Sept. 5 after  China  announced spending on new subways and
roads.  “Rumors of the death of the mining sector have been
greatly exaggerated,” Parkinson said. “Instead of the boom-
and-bust cycle, what we will see ultimately is mining becoming a
much larger share of a reshaped economy. The mining sector is
expected to rise from 5 percent of gross value added in the
early 2000s, to in the order of 10-12 percent in the decades to
come.”  Parkinson was upbeat about the outlook for  Asia  based on
the expansion of the region’s middle class and its growing role
in the global economy as  Europe ’s influence wanes under a debt-
and-deficit crisis.  “The number of middle-class consumers in the Asia-Pacific
region is expected to grow from half a billion in 2009 to 3.2
billion by 2030,” Parkinson said. “Consequently, by 2030, it
is estimated that just under two-thirds of spending by the
world’s middle class will come from the Asia Pacific region,
compared to around only one-quarter today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  