-- Avon’s Andrea Jung Exit Marks End of Era at Cosmetics Retailer
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-10-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/avon-executive-chairman-andrea-jung-to-step-down-at-year-end.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) ’s  Andrea Jung , the
face of the door-to-door cosmetics seller for 13 years, will
step down as executive chairman after a tenure that encompassed
slumping  earnings , a foreign-bribery investigation and a
takeover attempt.  Jung, 54, who was chief executive officer from 1999 until
April, will leave at the end of the year and continue as a
senior adviser to the board beginning on Jan. 1., New York-based
Avon said yesterday in a statement. Fred Hassan, a lead
independent director, will succeed her and become non-executive
chairman.  The departure marks the end of an era for Avon, which
appointed Jung as its first female chief executive. The elegant
Jung, leading a largely female sales representative force,
touted the cosmetics giant as “the company for women.” Jung’s
background was in marketing, not operations, which became a
liability once the company began to struggle and grapple with an
overseas bribery probe.  “Given the sour taste that the last several quarters of
her tenure left in some people’s mouths, I’d view this as a
positive for the stock overall,”  Rommel Dionisio , an analyst at
Wedbush Securities in  New York , said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Dionisio recommends holding the shares.  Avon  rose  7.2 percent, the most since May 9, to $17.39
yesterday. The shares have dropped 0.5 percent this year.  Rejected Takeover  Avon said in December that Jung would relinquish the CEO
position, replacing her with Sherilyn McCoy. The company has
posted three straight years of declining  profit , and in August
McCoy said Avon is working to cut costs, re-evaluate the
company’s markets and work to boost incentives for top sales
representatives.  The company rebuffed a takeover offer from  Coty Inc. (COTY) 
earlier this year. Coty, the maker of perfumes by  Beyonce
Knowles  and  Heidi Klum , withdrew its sweetened $10.7 billion bid
for Avon on May 14, citing delays by Avon and unwillingness to
engage in negotiations.  Richmont Holdings Inc., a closely held investor in consumer
brands, is working on a proposal to take a stake in Avon, a
person with knowledge of the situation said last week. Richmont
had approached Avon about buying part or all of the company
before Coty withdrew its offer for Avon, two people said at the
time. They asked not to be identified because the matter is
private.  Takeover Attempt  Richmont’s chairman and founder, John Rochon, has served as
chief executive officer of door-to-door cosmetics seller Mary
Kay Inc. and attempted to take over Avon in the late 1980s and
early 1990s, acquiring 22 percent of its stock at the time.  Hassan, who joined the board in 1999 and has been lead
director since 2009, has a history as a dealmaker. As CEO of
Schering-Plough Corp., he sold the drugmaker to Merck & Co. in
2009 for $51 billion.  In 2000, Hassan engineered Pharmacia & Upjohn’s $37 billion
takeover of  Monsanto Co. (MON) , forming Pharmacia Corp., then three
years later sold Pharmacia to New York-based Pfizer Inc., the
world’s largest drugmaker, for $58 billion.  Hassan has done well for shareholders in those previous
deals,  Les Funtleyder , president of the investment advisory
division at Poliwogg, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “You would definitely be nervous being on the other side
of the table” from Hassan in a negotiation, he said.  Signature Pearls  Jung, attired in designer-label clothing, her signature
pearls and red lipstick, was a celebrity and women’s advocate as
well as an executive. She also helped raise more than $800
million for Avon’s charitable programs, focused on breast cancer
research and fighting violence against women.  Pressure on Jung mounted earlier this year. Avon directors
debated for three weeks whether to fire her before deciding to
remove her as CEO and retain her as chairman, two people
familiar with the matter said in February. Avon’s nine
independent directors decided Jung should stay on because she
was the well-known face of the company, said the two people, who
declined to be named because the matter is private.  Many Avon board members worked closely with Jung for much
of her tenure, drawing criticism from corporate governance
consultants. Moreover, the board gave her more latitude than
most chief executives. Typically CEOs sign two-year or three-
year contracts. Until this year, Jung’s was open-ended and
renewed again and again.  Now that Jung is leaving, “we would anticipate further
changes to the board,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  