-- Best Buy’s Geek Squad Expands to EBay Seeking Customers
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-10-08T15:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/best-buy-s-geek-squad-expands-to-ebay-seeking-customers.html
(Corrects firm’s name in 19th paragraph of story published
Oct. 5.)  The Geek Squad is going where no geek
has gone before.  Best Buy Co.’s (BBY)  tech-support service is expanding to  EBay
Inc. (EBAY)  and conducting trials at some  Target Corp. (TGT)  stores as the
world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer seeks new revenue
from fixing computers and tablets.  EBay recently added around-the-clock Geek Squad support
with service plans costing $29.99 for three months and $49.99
for six months, said Gregory Boutte, vice president of EBay
electronics and motors in North America. Best Buy also is
rolling out the Geek Squad at 28 Target Corp. stores in Denver
and one in  Minneapolis .  The hook-ups with EBay and Target are testament to the
enduring appeal of the Geek Squad. In fact, the army of 20,000
black-tied, white-shirted agents is the struggling electronics
chain’s best-known brand and the vehicle driving its services
push, said George Sherman, senior vice president of Best Buy’s
services business group.  Expanding the Geek Squad “fits with their strategy to
deliver a connected experience to consumers,” said Stephen Baker, an analyst at NPD Group, a Port  Washington ,  New York- 
based research firm. “They’re trying to make Geek Squad a
ubiquitous, stand-alone brand that stands for great help around
your technical problems.”  Customer service is a big part of Best Buy’s plan to revive
slumping sales and fend off rivals such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
Hubert Joly, who took over as CEO a month ago, is giving
employees more training so they can help shoppers connect their
gadgets, generating higher fees from service contracts and
warranties. Best Buy boosted U.S.  revenue  from services 6
percent in the quarter ended Aug. 4 as comparable-store sales
sank 3.2 percent, the eighth decline in the past nine quarters.  Closing Stores  The company also is shutting 50 big-box stores and
accelerating the opening of smaller shops that sell mobile
phones, e-readers and tablets. Those categories increased sales
last quarter while television and computer purchases fell.  The strategy still has a ways to go. Analysts project Best
Buy’s  revenue  will fall 2.9 percent to $49.2 billion this year,
while Amazon’s sales are estimated to gain 31 percent to $62.8
billion.  The competition has weighed on Best Buy’s stock. The shares
have declined in three of the past four years and now trade at a
78 percent discount to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index
on a price-to-earnings basis.  Best Buy fell 2 percent to $18.03 at at the close in New
York. The shares have tumbled 23 percent this year.  Bicycle Patrol  Geek Squad was founded 18 years ago by Robert Stephens, who
rode around Minneapolis on his bicycle, helping people with
technology problems. He sold the company to Best Buy in 2002,
when he had 65 agents. He still serves as a consultant to the
retailer.  Early on the Geek Squad was criticized by Best Buy
executives upset that it was recommending and repairing  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  computers when the retailer wasn’t yet selling the brand.
Stephens, 43, said he found allies in founder and Chairman
Richard Schulze and CEO Brad Anderson, who fended off the
complaints.  “I was adamant saying that a Geek Squad agent should
always be comfortable to recommend what is the best,” Stephens
said in an interview. “The minute that gets called into
question, Geek Squad is going to lose value and trust.”  The same type of competitive tensions may arise as Geek
Squad expands beyond Best Buy, Stephens said.  “Target is probably not interested in having Geek Squad
refer business to Best Buy away from Target’s electronics
sales,” he said in a telephone interview.  AARP Deal  In April, the Geek Squad began helping members of AARP, an
organization for people 50 years and older, with a program
costing $169.99 a year. In July, the unit hooked up with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  to help small and mid-sized businesses.  The Target deal offers Best Buy a way to reach more women.
The “vast majority” of the discounter’s female customers don’t
regularly visit Best Buy, Sherman said. Target is testing
whether the Geek Squad will help its electronics departments,
which already offer a trade-in service, said Kristy Welker, a
spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-based company.  EBay Deal  Geek Squad support can be bought from EBay, which has about
100 million active customers, even by shoppers who don’t
purchase electronics from the online marketplace, Boutte said.
Consumers can then get their Geek Squad help online, over the
phone and in Best Buy stores, where the retailer hopes to ring
up additional sales. The companies wouldn’t disclose how they
split fees.  Geek Squad may have annual revenue of about $3 billion,
according to Love Goel, CEO of GVG Capital Group, a private-
equity firm in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota . Best Buy wouldn’t disclose
the unit’s sales.  Stephens, who stepped down as Best Buy’s chief technology
officer in March and moved to San Francisco to invest in tech
startups, has offered to help Schulze if he succeeds in taking
the retailer private.  “If I were the CEO of Best Buy, I would absolutely try to
get back to the magic of what technology can do,” Stephens
said. “They took their eye off of the ball. It is not too
late.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  