-- BOJ Refrains From More Stimulus as Political Pressure Mounts
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-10-05T08:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/boj-refrains-from-adding-stimulus-as-political-pressure-mounts.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  held off from more
easing after adding to stimulus last month, preserving its
policy firepower despite increased political pressure and signs
of an economic contraction.  The BOJ kept its asset-purchase fund, the main policy tool
amid near-zero rates, at 55 trillion yen ($700 billion), the
bank said in a statement in Tokyo today. The outcome was
expected by all 20 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Attention now turns to the next meeting on Oct. 30 as
Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse AG forecast two straight
quarters of economic contraction through year-end. Economy
Minister  Seiji Maehara  attended today’s policy meeting, the
first minister to attend the meeting for over nine years, adding
to pressure on BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , who today
indicated the bank would lower its growth and price forecasts.  “There’s a chance that the BOJ will employ more monetary
stimulus at its next meeting,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief
economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo. “The BOJ will likely revise
down its CPI forecasts for fiscal 2012 and 2013,” at the
meeting.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell after the decision before
recouping the losses and closing up 0.4 percent. The yen
strengthened to 78.41 per dollar at 5:38 p.m from 78.46 before
the decision.  Falling Prices  Japan’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate 
between zero and 0.1 percent and monthly bond purchases at 1.8
trillion yen. A fund that extends credit to banks was held at 25
trillion yen.  “Downgrading the economy or growth rates means revising
down the outlook for improvement in the supply-demand gap,”
Shirakawa told reporters today in Tokyo after the meeting.
“That qualitatively means downgrading consumer prices.”  The bank downgraded its assessment of the economy for the
second month today, saying “economic activity is leveling
off.” Last month, the bank said “the pick-up in economic
activity has come to a pause.”  Junko Nishioka, RBS Securities  Japan  Ltd. chief economist
and a former central bank official, expects an expansion of the
asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen on Oct. 30, when the bank
could revise down its 0.7% inflation forecast for the year
starting in April.  Political Pressure  A cabinet reshuffle and leadership contests for the ruling
and main opposition parties since the BOJ’s last meeting in
September have highlighted pressure on the bank, as politicians
push for extra monetary steps.  Economy Minister Maehara said after the meeting that he
attended to express his “sense of crisis” about the yen’s
appreciation and prolonged deflation, adding that he intends to
go to future meetings as often as possible.  “Maehara’s attendance didn’t seem to have an impact on
today’s meeting,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at
JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. and a former central bank
official. “That doesn’t mean he won’t have an impact on policy
in the coming months.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  last month pledged to defeat
deflation within a year, while Shinzo Abe, the head of the
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , said he wants an inflation
rate of 3 percent, from the bank’s 1 percent goal now. Consumer
prices excluding fresh food fell 0.3 percent in August, matching
the steepest decline in 16 months.  Falling Exports  Exports are sinking, a boost from car-purchase subsidies is
fading, and strength in the yen is hitting output. Large
manufacturers became more pessimistic last quarter, a BOJ report
showed Oct. 1, and relations with  China , Japan’s biggest export
market, are being tested by a territorial dispute.  Economists are split on whether Japan will suffer a
contraction this quarter as some positive signs emerge in the
 U.S. economy . Barclays Plc forecasts 0.7 percent annualized
growth for Japan in the October-December period after an
estimated 1.5 percent contraction last quarter.  There are signs of weakness across the Asia Pacific region,
with China yet to reverse its slowdown. The  Asian Development
Bank  this week cut its growth forecast for the region excluding
Japan to 6.1 percent this year, the slowest pace since 2009. The
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  cut interest rates for the first in
four months on Oct. 2.  Japan’s recovery has been delayed by half a year, Shirakawa
said after the BOJ expanded its asset-purchase fund by 10
trillion yen last month, six days after the  Federal Reserve 
decided on the open-ended buying of $40 billion a month in
mortgage debt.  Falling Profits  Sony Corp., Japan’s largest electronics exporter, cut its
annual profit forecast 33 percent in August as the strong yen
makes exports more expensive and reduces the value of
repatriated earnings.  “More BOJ stimulus may help show the bank’s stance on
preventing the yen from appreciating, but it won’t boost the
economy much because liquidity isn’t a big problem in Japan,”
said Shuichi Obata, senior economist at Nomura Securities in
 Tokyo . “Japan needs to wait for the global economy to revive.”  The central bank said in a separate statement that it will
begin disbursing U.S. dollar loans this month as part of its
efforts to spur growth. The BOJ delayed the program, which uses
the 6-month U.S. dollar Libor rate, in August amid attempts to
reform the London interbank offered rate.  The central bank also said in a statement today that it
adjusted collateral prices for its policy programs “to maintain
the soundness of its assets and efficiency, considering recent
financial market developments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  