-- Braves Put Medlen’s Record Win Streak Against Champion Cardinals
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/braves-put-medlen-s-record-win-streak-against-champion-cardinals.html
The  Atlanta Braves  have won 23
straight games that pitcher Kris Medlen has started, breaking a
record shared by  Whitey Ford  and Carl Hubbell. If they don’t win
one more, their season is over.  None of Medlen’s 30 career starts has been more important
than his playoff debut today, when the Braves host the defending
World Series-champion St. Louis Cardinals in a National League
wild-card game in Atlanta. Medlen is scheduled to throw the
first pitch at 5:07 p.m. Eastern time.  Another victory behind Medlen would send the Braves into a
best-of-five division series against the  Washington Nationals ,
who had the best record in  Major League Baseball  and finished
four games ahead of Atlanta in the NL East. If the Braves lose,
their season is over and the Cardinals move on.  “It’s your goal to win the game, no matter how,” Medlen
said at a news conference yesterday. “This whole year, it’s not
about me; I’ve given up four or five runs in a start and guys
kind of pull it out for me. My name is in the books, but it’s a
team thing. I didn’t do it all by myself, that’s for sure.”  The Texas Rangers host the  Baltimore Orioles  in today’s
 American League  wild-card game, with the winner advancing to
face the  New York Yankees , who had the best record in the AL.
The Rangers-Orioles game will begin at 8:37 p.m. Eastern time.  After today’s one-and-done wild-card games, the division
series begin tomorrow, when the  Oakland Athletics  visit the
 Detroit Tigers  at 6:07 p.m. Eastern time. That’s followed by the
 San Francisco Giants  hosting the  Cincinnati Reds  in the NL
series, with a scheduled 9:37 p.m. Eastern time first pitch.  12 Starts  Medlen has started 12 times for the Braves this season
while also making 38 relief appearances and is 10-1 with a 1.57
earned run average. His streak of consecutive starts won by the
Braves dates back to 2010, four years after the team drafted the
26-year-old right-hander out of high school with a 10th-round
pick.  Since moving into the Braves’ starting rotation on July 31,
Medlen has gone 9-0 with a 0.97 ERA in 12 starts. His second-
half performance has elicited comparisons to a pitcher who won
three of his four Cy Young Awards in Atlanta.  “He’s the closest thing we’ve seen to Greg Maddux in the
past 10 to 12 years,” said former All-Star pitcher Dan Plesac,
who’s now a baseball analyst for the MLB Network. Maddux helped
the Braves win the  World Series  in 1995.  Whitey Ford  Ford, a Hall of Fame member and former Cy Young winner who
spent 16 seasons with the  New York  Yankees, from 1950-53 had a
streak of 22 straight starts in which the Yankees won.  Hubbell, also a Hall of Famer and two-time NL Most Valuable
Player, also had a run of 22 starts in which the  New York Giants 
didn’t have a loss from 1936-37.  Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez said the coaching staff
decided two to three weeks ago that they’d start Medlen in a
potential wild-card game over Tim Hudson, who led the team with
16 wins this season.  “I don’t think Meddy is going to step on the rubber and
say, ‘Wow, I’m pitching Game 7, which is basically what we’ve
talked about -- we’ve got one game,” Gonzalez said yesterday at
a news conference. “Win or lose, he’s going to be the same guy.
I don’t think he’s going to spook.”  Favored Braves  The Braves are listed as a -165 money line favorite,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, meaning a bettor
would have to risk $165 to win $100. A winning $100 bet on the
Cardinals, who go with starting pitcher Kyle Lohse, would return
a $155 profit.  Yu Darvish is the starting pitcher in today’s AL game for
the two-time AL-champion Rangers, who are the -190 money line
favorite at home. The Orioles counter with Joe Saunders in their
first playoff appearance in 15 years and are +180 underdogs,
meaning a winning $100 wager on Baltimore would return $180 plus
the initial stake.  The Cardinals and Tigers are the only two teams in the
postseason to have a losing record in road games this season.
 St. Louis  went 38-43 away from home, including losing two of
three games in Atlanta in May, and was 1-5 against the Braves.  “I’m going to approach it the same as every other start,”
Medlen said. ‘I’ve had 12 other starts this year and they really
don’t matter anymore. It’s a Game 7 mentality and you just go
out and don’t talk, you just do.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  