-- Brazil September Annual Inflation Speeds Up for Third Month
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-10-05T14:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/brazil-september-annual-inflation-speeds-up-for-third-month-2-.html
Brazil ’s  annual inflation  accelerated
in September for the third straight month, as the economy
emerges from a year-long slowdown in response to government
stimulus measures.  Prices as measured by the IPCA price index rose 5.28
percent, the national statistics agency said in  Rio de Janeiro 
today. The rate has quickened every month since June and was the
fastest since February. The median estimate from 31 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.26 percent.  In the month , prices
rose 0.57 percent, compared with 0.41 percent in August, with
food and beverage prices jumping 1.26 percent.  “Even taking food costs out of the equation for the
moment, inflation is still firming pretty much across the
board,” Daniel Snowden,  emerging markets  analyst at Informa
Global Markets, said by telephone from  London . “This is making
the 4.5 percent inflation target look extremely difficult to
achieve in the next 12 months.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration in recent months
has lowered taxes on company payrolls and  consumer goods ,
reduced bank reserve requirements to spur lending and pressured
banks to lower loan spreads, while the central bank has cut the
benchmark interest  rate  by 500 basis points since August 2011 to
a record low 7.5 percent. As a result, the largest emerging
market after  China  has shown signs of picking up speed.  Retail Sales  Industrial production rose 1.5 percent in August from July,
the third straight monthly increase and the biggest since May
2011.  Retail sales  climbed in June by 1.6 percent, the most
since January, and beat analyst expectations with a 1.4 percent
increase in July.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014 fell 14
basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 7.45 percent at 10:27
a.m. local time. The real was virtually unchanged at 2.0184 per
 U.S. dollar .  The central bank’s economic policy director, Carlos Hamilton, said on Sept. 27 that a spike in commodity prices
means slowing the inflation rate to target by year-end would
“imply too high a cost.” The target probably won’t be attained
until the third quarter of 2013, he said. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  The September jump in food prices was the  biggest  since
December 2010. Clothing rose 0.89 percent, personal expenditures
were up 0.73 percent and housing 0.71 percent.  Economists surveyed by the central bank increased for the
12th straight week their forecast for 2012 inflation, to 5.36
percent.  ’Dangerous Game’  “This is a dangerous game, especially in a country that is
well-known for its hyperinflation past,”  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said by telephone
from  Sao Paulo  on Oct. 4. “If we start seeing the central bank
being more lenient toward inflation, everybody is going to start
being more lenient toward inflation.”  Economists surveyed by the bank  expect  inflation to reach
5.48 percent in 2013. If inflation doesn’t converge to target
next year, the bank would risk further undermining its
credibility and would first resort to macro-prudential measures
and then allow some strengthening of the real, Santos said. A
stronger real helps to control inflation by making imported
goods less expensive.  ’Dirty Band’  The real has lost 7.5 percent of its value against the
dollar this year, the worst performing of the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as the government imposed
barriers on capital inflows and purchased dollars in the spot
and futures markets.  The central bank is unofficially pegging the currency in a
“dirty band” of between 2 reais and 2.1 reais per dollar to
maintain the competitiveness of local industry, said  Tony Volpon , head of emerging market research for the Americas at
Nomura Securities.  “I expect the bank will change the peg when 12-month
inflation reaches 5.75 percent,” Volpon said by telephone from
New York on Oct. 2.  “Inflation is within the target limits and this will
continue,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Sept. 19. “The
policy of low interest rates will continue.”  Traders this week have increased bets that the central bank
will cut the Selic rate by 25 basis points at the policy meeting
on Oct. 10 before raising it in the first half of next year.  Faster Growth  Brazil’s gross domestic product  expanded  at a 1.6 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, up from 0.5 percent in
the first quarter. The central bank last week cut its forecast
for GDP growth this year to 1.6 percent from 2.5 percent, adding
that the economy will grow 3.3 percent in the second quarter of
2013.  Faster GDP growth at the beginning of next year will
generate inflation that threatens to exceed 6.5 percent,
prompting the bank to take forceful action to contain it, Paulo Vieira da Cunha, partner at Tandem Global Partners LLC, said by
telephone from  New York  on Oct. 4.  “If at a certain point they feel that they have to bring
inflation down, and bring it down quickly to be credible and to
be politically acceptable, that is going to have a large output
effect,” said Vieira da Cunha, who is a former central bank
board member.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Boston  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 