-- Bullard Says Investors Doubt Fed to Hold Inflation to 2%
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-10-05T02:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/bullard-says-investors-doubt-fed-to-hold-inflation-to-2-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said measures of inflation expectations
indicate bond holders have doubts the central bank will hold
price increases within its 2 percent goal.  “Distant inflation expectations from the TIPS market seem
to suggest that investors do not completely trust the Fed to
deliver on its 2 percent  inflation  target,” Bullard said today
in a speech in Memphis, Tennessee, referring to Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities.  Bullard’s comments echoed Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher ’s concern about rising expectations following the Federal
Open Market Committee’s decision last month to start an asset
purchase program. Policy makers said they could change the size
of the central bank’s monthly asset purchases to reduce any
risks from the program, including higher inflation or a
disruption to financial markets, according to minutes of the
Sept. 12-13 meeting released today.  The five-year,  five-year forward  break-even rate, which
projects the pace of price increases starting in 2017, rose to
2.88 percent on Sept. 14, the day after the FOMC announced a
third round of quantitative easing. That was up half a
percentage point from July 26. It dropped to 2.77 percent on
Oct. 2.  Bullard said to reporters after the speech that he
disagrees with a monetary policy approach that would link action
to a certain level of unemployment such as that proposed by
Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans .  ‘Fickle Variable’  “Tying monetary policy explicitly to unemployment is a
mistake,” he said. “Unemployment tends to be a fickle
variable” and can be affected by changes in the structure of
the labor market, not just demand, he said.  A qualitative description for a goal would be preferable to
a numerical target level for unemployment, which would be a
“line in the sand” for action, Bullard said.  “This threshold thing is going to put the committee in
more of a box,” he said. “And I think it is going to be not a
good outcome even from the point of view of the people who want
to do it.”  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
said inflation “is sometimes seen as a way to partially default
on existing nominal debts,” and said that approach would hurt
savers, mostly older U.S. consumers, in his remarks to the
Economic Club of  Memphis .  Higher Inflation  “A partial default today through higher inflation would be
paid for via higher inflation premiums in future borrowing,” he
said. “This type of policy would likely impair U.S. credit
markets for many years.”  In response to audience questions, Bullard said the current
low level of inflation gives the committee “some room to
maneuver” though “ it is not very much room and it is not like
2010” when there was a threat of falling prices.  Bullard, who was the first policy maker to voice support
for asset purchases in 2010, opposed the FOMC decision to expand
its holdings of long-term securities with open-ended purchases
of $40 billion of mortgage debt a month in a third round of
quantitative easing. The Fed is seeking to spur economic growth
and bring down an  unemployment rate  stuck above 8 percent for 43
months.  In addition to undertaking QE3, the Fed said economic
conditions would likely warrant holding their target interest
rate near zero through at least mid-2015, extending a previous
date of late 2014. The Fed said low  interest rates  will remain
appropriate for a “considerable time” after growth
strengthens.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  