-- Cable Firms May Withhold Non-Sports Programs From Competitors
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-10-06T05:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/cable-companies-said-to-be-freed-from-sharing-non-sports-content.html
Cable providers such as  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  may withhold their non-sports programming from
competitors, U.S. regulators said today in a rule change opposed
by satellite broadcasters.  The Federal Communications Commission on a 5-0 vote
declined to extend program-sharing requirements put in place 20
years ago to boost competition to cable companies, whose
dominance has faded as consumers turn to other pay-TV providers
including  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and  DirecTV. (DTV)   The FCC in an order released yesterday let the sharing rule
expire. The agency in the order also said it would presume that
cable companies are required to share regional sports networks
that show professional and collegiate contests, and set up a
complaints process for competitors seeking access.  “Today’s unanimous decision enables the FCC to continue
preventing anticompetitive video distribution arrangements
through a legally sustainable, expeditious, case-by-case
review,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  The National Cable & Telecommunications Association, a
trade group with members including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the biggest
cable provider, and No. 2 Time Warner asked the commission to
eliminate the sharing requirement. Rules aren’t needed because
there is now “robust and irreversible” competition, the
Washington-based group said in a  filing .  Cable Power  Dish, DirecTV and telephone providers  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)   told  the agency that cable companies are
still powerful enough that the FCC should require them to share
networks.  The phone companies have introduced video services and had
disputes over access to cable-owned networks showing San Diego
Padres baseball and high-definition  New York  Knicks basketball
games.  Comcast agreed to separate program-sharing obligations when
it bought NBC Universal last year. Those requirements expire in
2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  