-- California Refiners Ration Gasoline as Prices Near Record
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-10-05T20:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/california-refiners-ration-gasoline-as-prices-near-record.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  are rationing gasoline deliveries to customers in
California as refinery halts cut into the state’s supplies,
driving pump prices toward record highs.  Valero stopped spot sales in  Southern California  and is
allocating the rest of its deliveries to customers. Exxon is
also rationing to buyers at West Coast terminals. Retail prices
in the state jumped to an average $4.486 a gallon, according to
data published today by AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization.  California’s gasoline markets are particularly susceptible
to refinery outages because the state is mostly cut off from
oil-products pipelines spanning the rest of the country,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. The
latest shortage forced retailers in the  Los Angeles  area,
including  Costco Wholesale (COST)  Corp., to run out of supplies, shut
pumps and, in some cases, charge their highest prices ever.  “We’re really sort of shell-shocked,” said Tom Robinson,
president of  Santa Clara , California-based Robinson Oil Corp.,
which operates 34 Rotten Robbie convenience stores. “If you’ve
been in California long enough, you know how volatile our market
can be. But to see prices go up $1 a gallon since Monday -- I’ve
never seen that before.”  Prices Jump  Spot gasoline in California, with its own blending
requirements to reduce smog and difficulty importing supplies
from other states, surged to record highs this week. California-
blend, or Carbob, in Los Angeles jumped 30 cents to $1.45 a
gallon over  New York  Mercantile Exchange futures yesterday, the
highest level since at least November 2007, when Bloomberg began
publishing the prices.  The fuel’s premium tumbled 65 cents to 80 cents a gallon
over futures at 1:47 p.m. New York time today after  Phillips 66 (PSX) 
was said to delay work on a hydrocracker at the Los Angeles
refinery and Exxon said its Torrance  refinery  had resumed normal
operations after losing power Oct. 1.  “The Rockies, the Midwest,  Gulf Coast , East Coast are all
very connected by pipelines,” said Tim Hess, a petroleum
analyst for the Energy Information Administration in  Washington ,
D.C. “The West Coast is not connected to that system at all.
It’s quite a bit dependent on its own refinery production.”  Refiners outside California are generally not equipped to
supply the cleaner-burning gasoline required in the state, Hess
said by telephone.  “That adds another level of complexity when there’s an
outage and they have to import gasoline,” he said. “They still
need to figure out how to blend that.”  National Average  Pump prices in  California  Oct. 3 were 53.1 cents more than
the national  average  of $3.784, AAA data show. In Los Angeles,
the price was $4.347. The record high for California is $4.61 a
gallon, and in Los Angeles $4.626.  Robinson said yesterday by phone that his stations were
charging $4.599 a gallon for unleaded gasoline, the highest
price the company’s ever posted. His stations are among many
receiving allocated deliveries from suppliers, he said.  “There’s no doubt” the company’s prices will climb
higher, he said.  Low-P, a gasoline station in Calabasas, California, 30
miles west of Los Angeles, shut pumps Oct. 2 after running out
of gasoline.  The station received a fuel delivery yesterday that will
allow it to reopen, while charging almost $6 a gallon, John
Ravi, the station’s owner, said yesterday by phone. The shipment
should keep the store open for another week, Ravi said.  Costco Supply  Costco’s outlet in Simi Valley, 40 miles (64 kilometers)
northwest of Los Angeles, ran out of regular gasoline Oct. 3 and
was selling premium fuel at the price of regular.  The gasoline shortage “feels like a hurricane to me, but
it’s the West Coast,” Jeff Cole, Costco’s vice president of
gasoline, said by telephone Oct. 3. “We’re obviously extremely
disheartened that we are unable to do this, and we’re pulling
fuel from all corners of California to fix this.”  The  power failure  at Exxon’s Torrance refinery shut some
production units and slowed output from others earlier this
week. Phillips 66 is performing work at its Rodeo refinery in
Northern California, and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Richmond refinery has
been running at reduced capacity since a fire Aug. 6. Chevron
also shut a pipeline that delivers crude to Northern California
refineries last month because of elevated levels of chloride in
the oil.  “Product supply in California has tightened, especially in
Southern California, due to refinery outages,”  Bill Day , a
Valero spokesman at the company’s headquarters in  San Antonio ,
said yesterday by e-mail.  The California Independent Oil Marketers Association, a
Sacramento-based group that represents wholesale and retail fuel
marketers, asked the state Oct. 3 to expedite a waiver that
would allow refiners to produce and sell winter-grade fuel, Jay
McKeeman, a spokesman for the association, said by telephone
that day.  California’s summer-blend fuel requirements are in effect
in Southern California until Oct. 31. The Reid Vapor Pressure,
or RVP, limits are lifted in other areas of the state as early
as Sept. 30.  The state Air Resources Board and Energy Commission are
evaluating fuel supplies and haven’t decided on the waiver, Dave
Clegern, a spokesman for the air board in  Sacramento , said by e-
mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  