-- Canadian Dollar Rallies as U.S., Canada Jobs Gains Fuel Demand
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-10-05T21:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/canada-dollar-rallies-as-u-s-canada-jobs-gains-fuel-demand.html
The Canadian dollar rose versus its
U.S. peer as domestic employers added five times more jobs than
forecast, adding to speculation Bank of Canada Governor  Mark
Carney  will raise the central bank’s target interest rate.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened to a
two-week high as employers added 52,100 jobs in September,
 Statistics Canada  reported in Ottawa. That exceeded forecasts
for an increase of 10,000 jobs. A U.S. government report showed
payrolls increased 114,000 and the unemployment rate
unexpectedly dropped to 7.8 percent.  “The data was a significant upside surprise,” Mazen Issa,
a strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, said
in a phone interview. “The Bank of Canada will be concerned
with how growth will evolve in this quarter and this year, but
will likely continue to maintain its hawkish bias to take the
overnight rate higher.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 97.86 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto, reaching the the
highest level since Sept. 21. The currency is up 0.5 percent
this week. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0219.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed. Crude-
oil futures lost 2 percent to $89.90 a barrel in  New York ,
dropping for the third straight week on signals that supply is
exceeding demand. Oil is Canada’s largest export.  Jobs Growth  Canadian employment rose following an August gain of
34,300, Statistics Canada said. The nation’s jobless rate rose
to 7.4 percent from 7.3 percent as the  labor force  grew by
72,600. The job gain exceeded all 24 forecasts in a Bloomberg
economist surveyed, while the  unemployment rate  was forecast to
be unchanged.  Statistics Canada delayed the release of the data by 91
seconds today, citing technical issues with their website.  At 8:30 a.m. Ottawa time, Statistics Canada media officer
Yves Chartrand declined to open the connection that would allow
media participating in a lock-up to release data to the public,
according to normal procedure. Chartrand told reporters in the
lock-up he was asked to keep them in the room and not allow them
to file their stories or access their mobile phones until he had
authorization from a supervisor. Chartrand said it was due to a
“technical problem.”  “The economic fundamentals of Canada are still pretty
sound,”  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in
Toronto at a unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said before the
report. “A strong employment number gives support to the Bank
of Canada’s stance that they would prefer to withdraw stimulus
sooner rather than later.”  Bonds Decline  Government bonds  fell the most in three weeks, with the
yield on the 10-year government security rising five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.81 percent. The 2.75
security maturing in June 2022 lost 43 cents to C$108.33.  The Bank of Canada will auction C$2.7 billion ($2.8
billion) in three-year notes on Oct. 10. The last sale of this
note maturity on Aug. 29 was C$2.9 billion and yielded 1.278
with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.73.  Carney held his key lending rate at 1 percent on Sept. 5,
where it’s been since September 2010, the longest unchanged
period since the 1950s. Carney reiterated that an increase “may
become appropriate” as domestic spending props up an economic
recovery restrained by weak global demand for exports.  Bank of Canada  Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem
reiterated yesterday that policy makers may withdraw monetary
stimulus as the nation’s economy recovers.  Central Bank  “To the extent that the economic expansion continues and
the excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some
modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy
stimulus may become appropriate,” Macklem said yesterday during
a speech in Winnipeg, Manitoba.  The  U.S. economy  added workers last month after a revised
142,000 gain in August that was more than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
advance of 115,000. The jobless rate dropped from 8.1 percent
and hourly earnings climbed more than forecast.  Canada ’s dollar has gained 2.1 percent this year against
nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  