-- Canada August Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-05T12:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/canada-august-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
August building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Contractors took out building permits worth $7.3 billion in
August, a 7.9% increase, following a 2.8% decline in July. The
increase in August originated from higher construction
intentions in the non-residential sector, which more than offset
a decrease in the residential sector.  The value of permits in the non-residential sector
increased 25.2% from July to $3.2 billion, the highest level in
almost four years. The increase followed two consecutive monthly
declines and was the result of higher construction intentions in
seven provinces, led by Ontario.  In the residential sector, the value of permits fell 2.3%
from July to $4.2 billion. This was the second consecutive
monthly decline. The decrease was mainly attributable to lower
construction intentions in British Columbia and Ontario.
Declines were also posted in three other provinces. The largest
gains were in  Alberta  and Saskatchewan.  Non-residential sector: Increases in the institutional and
industrial components  The value of permits in the institutional component more
than doubled in August to $1.1 billion, the highest level since
March 2011. This increase followed two consecutive monthly
declines. Construction intentions for institutional buildings
rose in eight provinces. Ontario, which posted the largest gain,
reported higher construction intentions for medical facilities,
educational institutions and nursing homes.  In the industrial component, the value of permits increased
for the third consecutive month, rising 26.2% to $638 million.
The advance was primarily the result of higher construction
intentions for utilities buildings and manufacturing plants in
Ontario. Construction intentions also rose in five other
provinces, including Newfoundland and Labrador and Saskatchewan.  Municipalities issued $1.5 billion worth of permits for
commercial buildings, down 8.5% following two months of growth.
The drop was attributable to lower construction intentions for a
variety of commercial buildings in seven provinces, including
retail outlets, office buildings, recreational facilities and
university residences.  Residential sector: Declines in both multi-family and single-
family dwellings  The value of permits for single-family dwellings declined
2.3% to $2.4 billion, the second straight monthly decrease. The
decline was the result of lower construction intentions in six
provinces, with Ontario posting the largest decline followed by
British Columbia.  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings fell for
a second consecutive month, declining 2.3% to $1.8 billion. Of
the five provinces that registered decreases, the largest
occurred in British Columbia and Ontario. Strong gains in
Alberta and Saskatchewan failed to offset these decreases.  Municipalities across  Canada  issued permits for the
construction of 18,655 new dwellings, down 1.8% from July. The
decline was attributable to both single-family dwellings, which
declined 2.0% to 7,111 units and multi-family dwellings, which
fell 1.8% to 11,544 units.  Increases in most provinces  The value of building permits increased in six provinces in
August, with Ontario and Alberta posting the largest gains.  Ontario registered the largest advance as a result of
higher construction intentions for institutional and industrial
buildings. In Alberta, the gain came from multi-family dwellings,
institutional and commercial buildings.  In Saskatchewan, the increase was attributable to both
residential and non-residential buildings, while in Quebec,
institutional buildings explained most of the growth.  British Columbia posted the largest decline, a result of
lower construction intentions for residential and commercial
buildings.  Nova Scotia ’s drop came mostly from commercial and
multi-family dwellings. Manitoba and Prince  Edward Island  also
recorded decreases.  Most census metropolitan areas post gains  In August, the total value of permits rose in 21 of the 34
census metropolitan areas.  The largest increases occurred in Hamilton,  Edmonton  and
Calgary. In Hamilton, the gain was the result of higher
construction intentions for industrial and institutional
buildings as well as multi-family dwellings.  In Edmonton, the advance was primarily attributable to
commercial buildings and multi-family dwellings. In Calgary, the
increase was the result of higher construction intentions for
multi-family dwellings and, to a lesser extent, institutional
buildings.  Vancouver  and Montréal registered the largest declines;
both had posted the largest increases in July. In Vancouver, the
decrease was attributable to multi-family dwellings and
commercial buildings, while in Montréal, it was attributable to
multi-family dwellings.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends. ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part -
partie3-eng.htm)  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/ Quebec ) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  