-- Chavez ‘Likely’ to Lose, Supporting Bonds, Barclays Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-10-05T15:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/chavez-likely-to-lose-supporting-bond-position-barclays-says.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez will
“likely” lose this weekend’s election, sparking a bond rally,
Barclays Plc said after a poll showed opposition candidate
Henrique Capriles Radonski widened his lead.  Capriles’s lead grew to almost 5 percentage points in a
poll by Consultores 21, with 51.8 percent of Venezuelans who
said they’re sure to vote saying they support the opposition
candidate, the Caracas-based polling company said yesterday.
Chavez had the support of 47.2 percent. The poll of 1,546 people
taken between Sept. 27 and Oct. 2 had a margin of error of 2.5
percentage points.  “Taking into account the Consultores 21 poll and Mr.
Capriles’ momentum, an opposition victory looks likely,”
Barclays analysts Alejandro Arreaza and Alejandro Grisanti wrote
in a research note today. “An opposition victory could be a
positive surprise for the market that could push Venezuelan
assets to levels not seen in the past five years.”  Barclays maintained its recommendation that investors buy
bonds from the Venezuelan government and state-run oil company
Petroleos de Venezuela SA.  Benchmark bonds due in 2027 rallied, sending the yield down
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 10.39 percent as
of 10:58 a.m. New York time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The country’s dollar bonds returned 30 percent on
average this year through yesterday as Chavez’s battle against
cancer fueled speculation that his time in power may be nearing
an end, making them best performers after Ivory Coast debt in
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Polls Split  Chavez, a former paratrooper and a self-claimed socialist,
has nationalized everything from utilities to banks to steel
companies since coming to power in 1999, leading to a drop in
investment from foreign and local companies. Capriles, a 40-
year-old lawyer, is promising to dismantle Chavez’s economic
policies, including currency and price controls that have
created food shortages and failed to contain the world’s third-
highest inflation rate.  With two days before the election, polls are still split on
who is leading the race. A Datanalisis poll from Aug. 25 through
Sept. 5 of 1,600 people who said they’re certain to vote showed
Chavez led Capriles by 10.4 percentage points.  Barclays’s trading recommendation stands in contrast with
Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Bank of America analyst Francisco Rodriguez said today that
Chavez still has an edge before the election and will probably
win by five to eight percentage points. JPMorgan cut Venezuelan
bonds to the equivalent of hold on Sept. 17, saying that the
securities were “adequately” priced after the rally this year.  Barclays’ analysts said Caracas-based Consultores 21 has
been accurate in forecasting the recent election results in
Venezuela, saying the firm has a “a long track record” of
predicting both the winner and also the margin of victory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  