-- Chavez Losing Invincibility Tag Spurs Election Bond Rally
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-10-05T19:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/chavez-losing-invincibility-tag-spurs-election-bond-rally.html
Venezuelan bonds  are posting the
biggest rally among major developing nations as investors bet
that President  Hugo Chavez ’s tenure will end soon even if he
wins the closest election he’s faced in 14 years.  The country’s  dollar bonds  returned 30 percent this year as
Chavez’s battle with cancer slowed his campaign for another six-
year term that would allow him to extend his push for more state
control of the economy. Only the  Ivory Coast ’s debt has gained
more, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  While Chavez is still the likely winner, investors are
betting on a change in government in  South America ’s largest oil
exporter after the Oct. 7 vote as his health deteriorates,
according to TCW Group Inc. Henrique Capriles Radonski, who
leads the president according to one poll, is promising to
dismantle Chavez’s economic policies, including currency and
price controls that have created food shortages and failed to
contain the world’s third-highest  inflation  rate.  “Even if Chavez wins these elections, people are still
focusing on a political transition within two years,” said
Marcela Meirelles, a Los Angeles-based strategist at TCW, which
oversees $128 billion of assets, including Venezuelan bonds.
“Putting politics aside for a moment,  Venezuela  bonds still
offer attractive yields, given risks involved.”  The securities are on pace for their biggest annual advance
in three years after Chavez had three operations in the past 15
months to remove tumors from his pelvic area. The 58-year-old
Chavez says he is now cancer free.  Yield Spread  “I’m recovered and doing exercise,” Chavez said during a
radio interview Sept. 4, according to a statement from the
Information Ministry. “I thought at one point that I would have
to leave politics, but I’m recovered and now my life is in the
hands of God and the people.”  Venezuela’s dollar bonds  yield  11.05 percent on average,
down 3.06 percentage points this year while still the highest
among major emerging-market countries tracked by JPMorgan’s
EMBIG index. The extra yield investors demand to hold Venezuelan
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has narrowed 298 basis points,
or 2.98 percentage points, this year to 960. The so-called
spread is on par with  Pakistan , and 249 basis points above
Ukraine, which shares Venezuela’s B+ credit rating at Standard
and Poor’s, four levels below investment grade.  Benchmark bonds due in 2027 rallied today, sending the
yield down 11 basis points to 10.42 percent as of 3:48 p.m. New
York time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Gains  The IBC Index from the Caracas Stock Exchange rose 31
percent this week and has gained 247 percent this year. The
surge this week is due to “investors betting that Capriles will
win the race,” according to a research note from BBO Financial
Services, a Barbados-based financial group with operations in
Caracas, Bogota, Montevideo and  San Juan .  Barclays Plc said in a report today that Capriles is
“likely” to beat Chavez.  Polls are split on who is leading in the race. None show
Chavez dominating as he did in 2006, when he won 63 percent of
votes. Capriles, 40, was supported by 51.8 percent of those who
were sure they would vote among 1,546 people surveyed Sept. 27 -
Oct. 2 by Caracas-based Consultores 21, compared with Chavez’s
47.2 percent. Chavez’s lead in Datanalisis polls narrowed to
10.4 percentage points in September from 15.3 points in June
among people who said they’re certain to vote.  Capriles, a Caracas-born lawyer, has vowed to attract
foreign investment, eradicate corruption, create jobs and phase
out currency controls while maintaining some of Chavez’s popular
social programs such as subsidized food markets and free health
care.  ‘Real Chance’  Chavez, a former paratrooper and a self-claimed socialist
who led a failed coup in 1992, has nationalized everything from
utilities to banks to steel companies, leading to a drop in
investment from foreign and local companies.  “This is the first time that there’s a real chance for the
opposition to upset Chavez,” said Gorky Urquieta, who helps
oversee $15 billion of emerging-market debt, including
Venezuelan bonds, at ING Investment Management International in
Atlanta. Any bond selloff following a Chavez win will be short-
lived because “the business environment is unfriendly already
and I don’t see things getting significantly worse,” he said.  In a bid to bolster economic growth ahead of the election,
Chavez has overseen a 30 percent jump in  government spending 
this year, with outlays going to low-income housing projects and
new social programs to assist the elderly and children.  Dollar Reserves  Foreign  reserves  have declined 12 percent this year to
$26.3 billion, and touched $24.8 billion last month, the lowest
level since 2007. Oil production has dropped 22 percent since
Chavez took office to 2.7 million barrels a day last year,
according to British Petroleum Statistical Review. Venezuela
relies on oil for 95 percent of its exports and half of public
spending.  Consumer prices rose 18.1 percent in August from a year
ago, the highest official rate among the 102 countries tracked
by Bloomberg after Belarus and  Iran . Venezuela will devalue the
bolivar 31 percent to 6.2 per dollar in the first quarter of
2013 to keep the economy competitive and close a  budget deficit 
by boosting oil revenue in bolivars, according to the median
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in July.  Venezuela’s economy may contract next year as the
government reigns in spending after the election, according to
Bank of America Corp. and Nomura Securities International Inc.
Gross domestic product will increase 5 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Political Transition  “The underlying picture has deteriorated,” said Bob Maes,
who holds less Venezuelan debt than benchmark indexes in his
emerging-market bond funds at KBC Asset Management SA in
Luxembourg. “I won’t join the rally at the moment.”  Bank of America recommended in a note Oct. 2 that its
clients sell Venezuelan bonds because Chavez is likely to win
the election by as much as 10 percentage points, allowing him to
pursue “more radical” policies. JPMorgan cut Venezuelan bonds
to the equivalent of hold from buy on Sept. 17, saying that the
securities were priced appropriately following gains.  Venezuelan bonds rallied the most in 13 years in February
as Chavez’s trips to Cuba for cancer treatment fueled
speculation he wouldn’t be able to stay in power. Questions
remain even as the president says he’s healthy. Chavez
campaigned on live television for about 20 hours in September,
one quarter of the time he spent in the month leading up to the
2006 election, according to a Sept. 26 report by Barclays Plc.  Oil Prices  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez wins and becomes too ill to
serve during the first four years of his term, Vice President
Elias Jaua would assume the presidency and have to call new
elections within 30 days. If he can’t serve the final two years
of his mandate, the vice president would finish the term.  Chavez, who sits over the world’s largest oil reserves, has
never missed a debt payment since taking office, even as crude
prices dropped below $20 a barrel in 2002. Oil has increased 21
percent over the past year to $92 a barrel.  Thomas Cooper, who oversees the $2.1 billion GMO Emerging
Country Debt Fund at Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co. in
 Boston , said he’s betting on Venezuelan bonds to outperform
regardless of the result of the election as the government has
enough oil revenue to pay off debt. His fund returned 19 percent
annually over the past three years to beat 97 percent of its
competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The likelihood of a political transition within two years
is something that will continue to support sponsorship of the
credit,” TCW’s Meirelles said. “It’s awkward to say since
we’re talking about someone’s health, but it is what it is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  