-- Chavez, Capriles Rally Thousands as Venezuela Campaign Ends
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-10-05T00:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/chavez-capriles-rally-thousands-as-venezuela-campaign-ends-3-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  and
his rival Henrique Capriles Radonski addressed thousands of
supporters today as the official campaign period ended before
the Oct. 7 election.  Chavez spoke for about 30 minutes while supporters packed
as many as seven main avenues in downtown Caracas under heavy
rains that left his clothing completely drenched.  “I won’t talk long because of the circumstances,” said
Chavez, who also sang and danced on the wet stage. “I’m here,
just as I said I would be. Thanks to you and thanks to God.”  The former paratrooper, who is recovering from three cancer
surgeries over the 15 months, has picked up the pace of his
campaign in the last week by holding rallies in about one-third
of the country in order to win a “knock out” victory over
Capriles. Chavez, 58, asked his supporters to wake up and vote
early so that a victory would be “unquestionable by noon.”  Crowds chanted as Chavez sang the national anthem, and
confetti was released as his speech ended. He changed his
clothes before getting on a truck to caravan through crowds in
the capital.  ‘David against Goliath’  Capriles, the 40-year-old former governor of Miranda state,
filled a stadium in the city of Barquisimeto in central Lara
state, spoke for 55 minutes, thanked his supporters and said
Chavez’s government was “tired” after almost 14 years.  “President Chavez, your time is over, I want to thank you
from the bottom of my heart for showing me the direction to
take, it’s love not hate, light not darkness,” Capriles said.
“You were a good contender without a doubt, you abused of your
position of authority, but this was always a spiritual fight,
David against Goliath, and we all know David wins.”  Chavez is facing his stiffest electoral challenge to date
in his race to defeat Capriles, who has widened his lead to
almost 5 percentage points in a poll conducted by Consultores 21
ahead of the Oct. 7 vote.  Capriles had 51.8 percent support against 47.2 percent for
Chavez among Venezuelans who said they’re sure to vote, the
Caracas-based company’s vice president  Saul Cabrera  said today.
Other polls show Chavez with an advantage of about ten
percentage points.  Bonds Rally This Year  The close election and speculation that Chavez’s illness
may force him to step down before 2019 if he wins has caused
Venezuelan bonds to rally this year, returning 30 percent year-
to-date, the most among major emerging market economies,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global  index .  The yield on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
due in 2027 rose 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point to
10.53 percent at 4:35 p.m. in Caracas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell 0.24 cents to 90.49
cents on the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  