-- Chicago Boss Vows No New Taxes After Teacher Strike: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/chicago-boss-vows-no-new-taxes-after-teacher-strike-muni-credit.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  is coming
to  Wall Street  to convince skeptical investors he can close a
$300 million budget deficit without raising taxes and also
narrow a $15 billion pension gap.  Emanuel, 52, a former investment banker and President
 Barack Obama ’s ex-chief of staff, is scheduled to address
municipal bond analysts in New York today, more than two weeks
after cutting a deal to end the third most-populous U.S. city’s
first teacher strike in 25 years.  He plans to unveil his 2013 spending plan next week after
pledging to fix the city’s finances without boosting taxes,
fines or fees. Some investors doubt that Emanuel, who took
office in May 2011, can stick to that promise down the road. The
yield penalty on some  Chicago  general-obligation debt has grown
by more than 50 percent since Sept. 19, when students returned
to class after the seven-day strike concluded.  “Absent some reform of the benefits that are paid out, a
tax increase is just simple math -- it has to occur,” said
Shawn O’Leary, senior research analyst in Chicago at Nuveen
Asset Management, which oversees about $90 billion in munis.
“You can’t cut your way to that kind of balance.”  ‘Outsized’ Pressure  Chicago is contending with the same retirement-system
challenge as its home-state, which has the nation’s weakest
pension-funding ratio.  Illinois  was downgraded in January by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited “severe pension under-
funding.” Its A2 rating, sixth-highest, is the lowest for a
U.S. state. Moody’s also cited “outsized pension pressures” in
giving Chicago a negative outlook in April.  Nationwide, growing pension liabilities have helped push
smaller municipalities such as Stockton,  California , and  Central
Falls ,  Rhode Island , into bankruptcy. U.S. states and localities
face more than $2 trillion in unfunded public-employee
retirement costs, Moody’s said in a July report.  Chicago’s four retirement funds face a combined unfunded
liability of $14.7 billion, or $5,473 per resident. Without
changes to benefits, taxpayer payments toward pensions may
almost triple, to $1.2 billion in 2015 from $476 million this
year, according to budget documents and the mayor.  Narrower Deficit  Emanuel said last month that the city’s projected 2013
 budget deficit  had dropped to $298 million from about $370
million. The revision included savings of $23 million in health
care and $1 million on unused telephone lines.  The Chicago Public Schools system, which Emanuel runs, has
a separate deficit of about $1 billion in 2013.  Chicago’s inspector general, Joseph Ferguson, on Sept. 27
proposed ideas, including spending cuts and tax increases, to
raise as much as $1.2 billion. The savings included expanding
the  sales tax  to certain city services, an idea that Emanuel
proposed and later dropped during his mayoral campaign.  Part of Emanuel’s dilemma is that the city can’t change the
structure of its pensions without state approval. Illinois
lawmakers have yet to deal with the state’s own pensions. They
failed to advance any measures in a special session Aug. 17
aimed at addressing the funds.  For Emanuel, “the real challenge is the pensions and what
they do about them in Springfield,” the state capital, said
Laurence Msall, president of the Civic Federation, a Chicago-
based research group that follows  government finance .  Funding Danger  “He desperately needs the state of Illinois to address
pension reform,” Msall said. “The danger of city pensions
running out of funds is real.”  Emanuel, who formerly worked as a mergers and acquisitions
adviser in the Chicago office of Wasserstein Perella & Co.,
inherited a city that lost 6.9 percent of its residents from
2000 to 2010 and faced a $600 million budget deficit when he
took office.  The mayor plans to address the pension challenge during a
presentation he’s scheduled to deliver today to the Municipal
Analysts Group of New York, said  Kathleen Strand , a spokeswoman
for Emanuel.  “Like many cities and states across the country, we have
balanced our budgets, invested in what works and reformed what
doesn’t, but if we do not address our pension challenges, this
work will have been for naught,” he said in an e-mailed comment
forwarded by Strand.  ‘Reasonable’ Decision  His decision to rule out tax increases is “reasonable,”
said  Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer at McDonnell
Investment Management LLC in  Oak Brook , Illinois.  “Knowing that you have to make cutbacks, you start with
those first and then you see what you need to fill up with the
burden on the taxpayers,” said Ciccarone, whose company
oversees about $8 billion in munis. “The slow growth in the
nation’s recovery hasn’t blessed them with an easy fix.”  Muni investors are demanding a larger yield penalty on
Chicago’s general obligations.  Securities maturing in 2034 traded yesterday at an average
yield of 3.34 percent, or 0.70 percentage point more than
benchmark AAAs, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That difference
was about 0.45 percentage point on Sept. 19. The penalty also
widened on bonds maturing in 2017 and 2040.  In muni trading yesterday, 10-year AAAs rallied for a 13th
straight day, pushing yields down about 0.01 percentage point to
1.67 percent, a two-month low. It touched 1.63 percent July 27,
the lowest since at least January 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Following are pending sales:  MINNESOTA OFFICE OF HIGHER EDUCATION is set to issue $375
million of revenue debt as soon as next week, according to the
preliminary official statement. (Updated Oct. 5)  CITY AND COUNTY OF HONOLULU plans to offer $925 million of
tax-exempt debt as soon as this month, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. (Added Oct. 4)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  