-- Chile Peso Falls as Traders Trim Positions on Intervention Risk
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-10-05T17:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/chile-peso-heads-for-weekly-gain-on-faster-than-forecast-growth.html
Chile ’s peso fell as traders
concerned the central bank will intervene to weaken the currency
trimmed holdings.  The peso dropped 0.2 percent to 473.45 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Santiago, trimming its advance this week to 0.3
percent. Copper, Chile’s main export, fell 0.2 percent to
$3.7785 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  Chile’s stable borrowing costs and expanding economy have
helped the peso outperform all other major currencies in the
region this year, appreciating 9.7 percent. Central bank
President Rodrigo Vergara on Sept. 28 said the bank would seek
to weaken the peso if needed. The currency was approaching the
level where the bank would consider acting, he said.  “Vergara’s declaration from last week suggested that the
risk of intervention is not that low,” said Eugenio Cortes, the
head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA
in Santiago. “It is better to go into the weekend long or flat
dollars and hazard losing a couple of pesos on Monday than to
risk losing 15 or 20 pesos from a central bank announcement over
the weekend.”  Chile’s economy  grew 6.2 percent in the 12 months through
August, the central bank reported today, faster than the 6
percent median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Economic growth beat estimates in five of the first eight months
of this year.  Minutes from the central bank’s latest meeting this week
showed that policy makers didn’t contemplate any change to the
key policy rate they  have held  at 5 percent since January.  “With growth around 6 percent and almost full employment,
there’s very little chance that the central bank will lower the
rate and that makes taking positions against the peso
expensive,” said Eduardo Kutscher, a trader at Celfin Capital
SA in Santiago. “Below 470 per dollar, the market is scared
about intervention, so it is respecting that level.”  Two-year  interest-rate swaps  rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 4.93 percent, the highest closing
level since Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  