-- Cisco Promotes Executives as Chambers Lines Up Successors
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-10-05T20:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/cisco-promotes-executives-as-chambers-lines-up-successors.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
biggest maker of computer-networking equipment, promoted Gary Moore and Robert Lloyd each to the role of president, lining up
potential successors to Chief Executive Officer John Chambers.  Both are among 10  candidates  Chambers had said were being
considered as successors. Moore, 63, who joined Cisco in 2001,
will remain chief operating officer. Lloyd, 56, hired by Cisco
in 1994, will continue to oversee sales while adding
engineering. Both had been executive vice presidents prior to
the appointment, Cisco said in a statement yesterday.  “They’ve been the two leading candidates all along,” said
John Slack, an analyst at Caris & Co. “The next CEO for Cisco
will most definitely be internal, and this gives the market more
of a direct line to follow for a succession plan for Chambers,
which I think the market wants.”  While the discussion over succession indicates a new
openness to change at Cisco, it may be instrumental to winning
back business lost to such competitors as  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) 
and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and technology shifts being driven by
smaller competitors, such as Arista Networks Inc. and  Palo Alto
Networks Inc. (PANW)  Chambers initiated a management overhaul last year
to stem profit-margin erosion.  Chambers, 63, has been Cisco’s CEO since 1995, one of the
longest tenures in the technology industry, and has indicated
that he may retire in two to four years.  While Moore and Lloyd are among the “first wave” of
executives who will be considered for the top job, several
others are also strong candidates, Chambers said in an interview
yesterday.  Executive Moves  “It’s not a two-horse race at all, and it’s not a race,”
Chambers said. “We win as a team. Whoever the leaders will be
at Cisco have to be very strong team players.”  Other executives Chambers mentioned as potential successors
during a Sept. 26 interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York include Chuck Robbins, who yesterday was also promoted to
head of worldwide sales, and Edzard Overbeek, senior vice
president of global services.  Investors support Moore because he has tightened Cisco’s
finances and has been a key figure in making the company more
efficient, Slack said. While Moore could get the top job if
Chambers retires soon, Lloyd’s age and his stewardship of the
sales organization probably makes him a likelier pick if
Chambers stays longer than expected. Slack said Overbeek ranked
highly for him as well.  Restructuring Challenge  Rivals of the San Jose, California-based company are
competing on price and pressuring profit margins, while weakened
spending by corporations and government agencies have hurt
sales. Software-defined networking, which wrings more
performance out of existing networking equipment, also poses a
threat, as it could eventually slow sales of Cisco products.  The pressures have led to layoffs and other restructuring
moves. In July, Cisco announced plans to eliminate 1,300 jobs,
or 2 percent of its workforce, bringing the total number of jobs
Chambers has cut over the past year to 7,800. Chambers has also
reduced prices and eliminated a council-based management
structure that slowed decision-making.  Some high-ranking Cisco executives have recently left the
company amid the restructuring. One of the latest was Ned Hooper, who organized some of its biggest acquisitions. On June
26 Cisco announced that he was leaving to form an investment
firm. Another recent departure was Paul Mountford, who ran
Cisco’s global sales to businesses.  Cisco lost less than 1 percent to $18.86 at the close in
New York. The stock has climbed 4.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  