-- Citrix Deal Strategy Run by Former Analyst to Combat VMware
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-10-05T20:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/citrix-deal-strategy-run-by-former-analyst-to-combat-vmware-2-.html
Sixteen years ago, as an equity
analyst at Needham & Co., Mike Cristinziano was one of the first
on  Wall Street  to recommend buying shares of  Citrix Systems
Inc. (CTXS) , following the software maker’s initial public offering the
previous year.  Some $13 billion in market value later, Cristinziano is
today responsible for making sure investors stay bullish,
Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech Deals Blog.  Following a career in research and investment banking,
Cristinziano has spent the past nine years running strategic
development at Citrix, orchestrating almost 40  acquisitions  to
convert a single-product company into a central player in cloud
networking, virtualization and workplace collaboration. Citrix
spent its early years focused on software that let users access
their office programs from remote locations.  With the help of acquisitions such as Cloud.com, Kaviza and
GoToMeeting creator Expertcity, Citrix shares have more than
 tripled  since the end of 2003, compared with the 57 percent gain
for the Nasdaq Composite Index through yesterday. Sales have
 increased  at least 16 percent each of the past two years, and
analysts project growth of 17 percent this year to $2.57
billion.  “Mike is this incredible unsung hero within the company,”
said Jesse Lipson, founder of ShareFile, a cloud-based storage
provider that Citrix purchased last year for over $50 million.
“He’s a key secret to Citrix’s success.”  Citrix declined 4.1 percent to $71.57 at the close in  New
York , paring the gain for this year to 18 percent.  Closing Deals  Cristinziano, 47, operates out of his home in Raleigh,
 North Carolina , nearly 700 miles north of the company’s
headquarters in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . He lives about triple
that distance from Citrix’s Silicon Valley office in  Santa
Clara , where he sat down for an interview to discuss his deal-
making machine. Cristinziano said he spends about a third of his
time in transit, meeting with venture capitalists and bankers
and attending startup events to understand where technology is
headed and where Citrix needs to go.  His biggest challenges lie ahead. As Citrix grows into a
large enterprise, smaller acquisitions no longer move the needle
in terms of revenue, so Cristinziano and his seven-person team
have to make sure the company is betting on the right people in
the right markets at the right time.  To date, most of the deals have cost less than $100
million, and the most expensive was virtual networking provider
XenSource, which fetched $500 million in 2007. The success of
the XenSource deal is still in question. Since the acquisition,
Citrix has struggled to gain market share from  VMware Inc. (VMW)  in
the virtualization market.  Finding Talent  Cristinziano also has to contend with an inflating startup
market, where entrepreneurs can create Web and mobile companies
faster and with less capital than ever before. That means Citrix
is not only competing against bigger companies such as  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and VMware, but also with hot venture-
backed startups trying to lure top developers.  “We still have an entrepreneurial spirit,” said
Cristinziano, acknowledging that big tech companies are
notorious for driving founding teams away after acquisitions.
“When you find the right people, you want to retain them.”  In addition to paying what both sides view as a fair price,
Citrix typically implements a three-year earnout, so that the
acquired team has to reach certain milestones in order to
receive its maximum award, Cristinziano said. The company also
often adds restricted stock and options to its packages, and
rather than cashing out all unvested options, it sometimes asks
management teams to commit to a three-year term before getting
fully paid.  Growth Prospects  “We’re not in the business to screw people,” Cristinziano
said. “We want to keep them past those three years.”  According to Cristinziano, the most appealing reason to
stay on board is the company’s  growth  prospects. Citrix’s
internal projection has it surpassing $5 billion in sales,
Cristinziano said, or more than double its revenue in 2011,
though it hasn’t said publicly how long that will take.  Cristinziano, who has a master’s degree in systems
engineering from the  University of Pennsylvania , offered an idea
of what markets that Citrix would like to enter. One is mobile
device and application management, where companies are building
software to let businesses secure and manage all the smartphones
and tablets being used on their network. He said there are about
30 players in that market vying for relevance. Another area he’s
following closely is cloud management, or the development of
software for monitoring and improving websites and apps.  “He seems to identify the right trends at an earlier point
than his peers and goes after them aggressively,” said Paul Madera, a managing director at venture capital firm Meritech
Capital Partners in  Palo Alto ,  California .  Madera, whose firm has backed companies including Box Inc.
and Cloudera Inc., has yet to do a deal with Cristinziano. But
it’s not for lack of trying.  “He’s out there actively searching as opposed to sitting
at his desk and waiting for the bankers to call,” Madera said.
“He’s one of the smartest guys in the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  