-- CNH Global Hasn't Yet Approved Fiat Industrial Merger
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-10-05T12:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/cnh-global-hasn-t-yet-approved-fiat-industrial-merger.html
Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) , the truck and
tractor manufacturer spun off by carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  in 2011, said
a special committee of its  CNH (CNH)  Global NV unit hasn’t yet
approved its merger proposal.  “The CNH Special Committee, which was constituted for the
sole purpose of evaluating the proposal, is engaged in an
extensive due diligence process,” Fiat Industrial said in a
statement today. The company said it will provide an update on
the merger process when it presents third-quarter results this
month.  Fiat Industrial plans to merge with CNH and, in a blow to
 Italy , move the combined company’s primary listing to New York
from Milan. The manufacturer is reorganizing in response to
economic woes in Europe. Its Iveco truck unit announced plans on
July 1 to shut five plants in Europe by the end of 2012 because
of the sovereign-debt crisis. Fiat Chairman  Sergio Marchionne 
has said he plans to complete the CNH deal this year.  Marchionne, who is targeting 25 billion euros ($32.5
billion) in sales for Fiat Industrial this year, wants to create
the world’s third-largest capital-goods company in the merger,
with a product range spanning Iveco delivery trucks, New Holland
harvesters and FPT ship engines.  The Italian manufacturer already holds an 88 percent stake
in Amsterdam-based CNH, which owns New Holland and the Case
agricultural- and construction-equipment brand. Fiat Industrial
proposed on May 30 that a new company be created in a share
exchange with no premium for CNH shareholders.  “Now it seems that there is hope for those CNH
shareholders holding out for better terms,” said  David Arnold ,
a sales specialist at Credit Suisse in London, after Reuters
reported Oct. 3 that the combination may be delayed to 2013 as
independent directors questioned the share-swap terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  