-- ConocoPhillips Dispute in MF Global Case Set for Hearing
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-10-05T16:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/conocophillips-dispute-in-mf-global-case-set-for-hearing.html
ConocoPhillips Co. (COP)  may learn from a
U.S. district court judge in December whether it will escape the
liquidation of commodity broker MF Global Inc. without losses
suffered by other customers.  U.S. District Judge Katherine B. Forrest in  Manhattan 
agreed yesterday with ConocoPhillips that a dispute over
$205 million in letters of credit posted by the oil producer
must be decided in her court, not by a bankruptcy judge. She
told both sides to submit all briefs by Dec. 3 so she can hear
oral arguments on Dec. 19.  ConocoPhillips, based in Houston, was one of nine MF Global
customers allowed to post letters of credit rather than cash as
margin for their trading accounts. James Giddens, the commodity
brokerage’s liquidator, has said customers may face a $1.6
billion gap in those accounts.  Had ConocoPhillips posted cash, it would only be entitled
to receive the same percentage in distributions as other
customers. Because all of ConocoPhillips’s letters of credit
expired after bankruptcy without being drawn, the company argued
that they should be canceled, sparing it from losses.  Giddens has objected to ConocoPhillips’s claim, citing a 
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulation that says
“proceeds” of letters of credit must be treated the same as
other forms of customer collateral, such as cash.  A victory by Giddens might eventually require
ConocoPhillips to write a check to the trustee, Forrest said in
her 19-page opinion. She didn’t say how she might rule.  CFTC Authority  Forrest said the dispute must be resolved in district court
because it involves non-bankruptcy law, particularly the
Commodity Exchange Act. The case also deals with the question of
whether the CFTC exceeded its authority in regulating bank
letters of credit, she said.  The brokerage and its parent company,  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Holdings
Ltd., went into separate bankruptcies on Oct. 31. The parent is
under control of a Chapter 11 trustee, while the broker is
overseen by Giddens, who was selected by the Securities Investor
Protection Corp.  Conoco’s motion to remove the claim dispute to district
court is In re MF Global Inc., 12-cv-06014, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The holding company’s
Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-15059,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
liquidation of the broker is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in
the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  