-- Cuba Jails Dissident Yoani Sanchez, Pro-Government Blog Says
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-10-05T17:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/cuba-detains-activist-yoani-sanchez-pro-government-blog-says.html
Cuba detained activist and blogger
Yoani Sanchez in the eastern city of Bayamo, where she was
attending the trial of a man charged in the driving death of
another dissident, the pro-government Cuban blog  Yohandry  said.  Sanchez, who writes the “Generation Y” blog that
discusses shortcomings of the Caribbean island’s communist
government and her failed attempts to travel abroad, was
provoking a “media show” over the trial, Yohandry said.  Sanchez’s son Teo and other activists confirmed that she
was arrested last night, said Ted Henken, a professor of Latin
American studies at  Baruch College  in  New York  who writes about
Cuban bloggers.  “It’s part of a pattern by the Cuban government of
systematic and brief detentions to prevent dissidents attending
rallies to shine any light on what they don’t want publicity
for,” Henken said in a phone interview today. “Sanchez is
probably the most prominent lightning rod for that.”  Officials at the Cuban Interests Section in  Washington 
didn’t answer calls by Bloomberg. An e-mail to Cuban officials
at the country’s  United Nations ’ mission wasn’t immediately
answered.  Obama Interview  Sanchez, 37, has drawn tens of thousands of followers
worldwide through her blog and use of social media. President
 Barack Obama  responded to  Sanchez’s questions  in an interview
posted on the Huffington Post website in 2009.  Among the last posts on her twitter account yesterday,
Sanchez said that she and her husband were stopped by
authorities several times to fumigate the car they were driving.  “The question I had for police was whether it was for
dengue and they remained silent,” she wrote.  Sanchez was covering the trial of Spaniard Angel Carromero
as a freelance reporter for El Pais, the Madrid-based newspaper
said on its website today.  Sakharov Prize  William Ostick, a U.S. State Department spokesman, said
that Cuba was cracking down on independent journalists and other
activists, including Sakharov Prize laureate Guillermo Farinas,
who was arrested yesterday in  Santa Clara .  “We are deeply disturbed by the Cuban government’s
repeated use of arbitrary detention to silence critics,” Ostick
said in Washington today. “Cuba remains the outlier in a
democratic region, quashing dissent with unsettling frequency
and ease.”  U.S. Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen said in a statement
last night that 20 pro-democracy activists were also arrested
yesterday as part of the crackdown.  The Yohandry blog said Sanchez was arrested while rallying
outside the trial of Carromero, who is charged in the July 22
death of Cuban dissident Oswaldo Paya in a road accident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Washington at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 