-- Cyprus Will Seek Agreement With Lenders by October 22
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-10-05T20:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/cyprus-will-seek-agreement-with-lenders-by-october-22.html
Cypriot political parties will seek
agreement on a government-proposed austerity plan by Oct. 15 to
clear the way for a deal with international lenders a week
later, the leader of the island’s ruling party said.  Cyprus on June 25 became the fifth country in the euro area
to seek external aid. No amount was specified for the rescue,
which will encompass the public sector as well as banks. Cyprus
has also sought a 5 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) loan from
 Russia .  Igor Shuvalov , a first deputy prime minister, said Sept.
8, that Russia may make a decision on the request within a
month.  The Cypriot government, which does not have a parliamentary
majority, approved two days ago an austerity plan that it
discussed today in Nicosia with political parties. The
government, which relies on opposition support to pass
legislation, proposes savings that total 1.02 billion euros in
four years.  The so-called troika of the  European Central Bank , the
European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund , which
supervises bailouts in the euro area, is seeking 975 million
euros of cuts in three years.  Reach Agreement  Andros Kyprianou, the leader of the island’s ruling
communist party, said “we have to reach an agreement as the
time margins are becoming very tight.”  Cyprus’s case could be discussed at the November meeting of
euro-area finance ministers “if all these talks also with the
troika are concluded by Oct. 22,” Kyprianou said.  A decision on whether communist President Demetris Christofias will secure political support for his austerity plan
ahead of negotiations with the troika was postponed until Oct.
15. At that time the Cypriot head of state will meet again with
the leaders of the island’s political parties, government
spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  said.  “There is a road map,” Stefanou told reporters in Nicosia
today after Christofias met party leaders.  “We first want to reach an agreement among ourselves,
before we negotiate with the troika,” ahead of next month’s
meeting of euro-area finance ministers, Stefanou said. He added
that the government will provide additional documents on its
proposed austerity package to the island’s parties.  Cypriot Bailout  The Cypriot government will seek an 11 billion-euro
bailout, 62 percent of gross domestic product, to recapitalize
its banks and pay its bills, according to three people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  The government, which has been shut out of markets since
May 2011, had 492.4 million euros in the bank at the end of
August and faces 751 million euros of maturing debt through the
end of November, according to the  Finance Ministry . The
government, which has monthly outlays for salaries, subsidies
and social programs, faces a larger year-end wage payment in
December.  The government plans to cut the public payroll by 247.3
million euros through the end of 2016. The plan also foresees an
increase in pension contributions for civil servants and a
decrease of 87.8 million euros in pension payments. Spending on
welfare benefits will drop by 109.1 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  