-- Czech Policy Makers Split on Non-Standard Policy Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-05T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/czech-policy-makers-split-on-non-standard-policy-easing.html
Czech central bankers were split last
week on whether the economy needed monetary-policy easing beyond
rate cuts, even as they agreed koruna weakening is the preferred
path for such action, minutes from the meeting showed.  Governor Miroslav Singer, Vice Governors Mojmir Hampl and
 Vladimir Tomsik  and board members Kamil Janacek and Lubomir
Lizal voted Sept. 27 to cut the  benchmark  two-week repurchase
rate by a quarter-point to a record-low 0.25 percent, the
minutes published on the bank’s  website  today showed.  Eva
Zamrazilova  and Pavel Rezabek voted for stable borrowing costs.  The bank board discussed possible further actions it may
consider if a additional monetary-policy easing is necessary,
according to the minutes.  “It did not agree on whether such actions were needed,”
the bank said in the minutes, which don’t disclose opinions of
individual board members. “In connection with the discussion of
the koruna exchange rate, however, the option of taking actions
that would directly affect the exchange rate was preferred.”  The board agreed that the domestic  economy  was subdued and
anti-inflationary, according to the minutes. Koruna gains prior
to the meeting were “surprising” and a “stronger appreciation
would need to be taken sufficiently into account in future
monetary-policy deliberations,” the bank said in the minutes.  The Czech rate cut widened the gap with the European
Central Bank’s main rate to 0.5 percentage point. A stronger
koruna tames inflation by making imports cheaper, while a weaker
currency eases conditions for exporters.  The Czech  economy  is suffering from weak domestic demand
after the government cut investments and raised sales taxes to
trim the budget deficit. While a trade surplus remains, the debt
crisis has curbed purchases of electronics and cars. The 27-
nation European Union buys 80 percent of Czech exports,
including from companies such as carmaker Skoda Auto AS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  