-- Daimler Targets 50% Auto Loan Growth in Asia on Chinese Sales
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-10-05T07:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/daimler-targets-50-auto-loan-growth-in-asia-on-chinese-sales.html
  Daimler (DAI)  AG, the world’s third-
largest luxury carmaker, plans to boost loans in Asia and Africa
by at least half in the next two years as rising wealth in  China 
fuels demand for its Mercedes-Benz vehicles.  Daimler Financial Services AG , the automaker’s financing
business, is targeting a loan portfolio of 18 billion euros ($23
billion) for the two regions by 2014, Richard A. Howard, the
unit’s Asia and Africa head, said in an interview in Singapore
yesterday.  The number of Asia-Pacific millionaires increased almost 2
percent last year, outnumbering those in  North America  for the
first time, according to the World Wealth Report published by
 Royal Bank of Canada  and Capgemini SA. Among major markets,
China ranked second in Mercedes-Benz car sales growth in the
quarter ended June 30, as the world’s rich cope with a slowing
economy and the  European debt crisis .  “The center of the automotive universe is now in Asia,”
Howard said, adding China and India will lead Daimler
Financial’s expansion in the countries he oversees. “There’s a
huge potential to grow and get the numbers here at least to the
global average.”  The unit finances half of all cars sold globally by
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler, Howard said, and it lends for
one of every five cars it sells in Asia. The region will jump
from about 85 percent to 90 percent of his loan portfolio by
2014, he said.  Auto financing companies provided about 200 billion  yuan 
($31 billion) of loans last year in China, according to carmaker
 Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238)  The China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers projects the market for vehicle loans
will more than double to 525 billion yuan by 2025.  In other Asian markets, Daimler intends to start lending in
Malaysia later this year and Indonesia next year, Howard said.  Japan, Australia and  South Africa , which he characterized
as “mature markets,” and Korea and Thailand will also
contribute to his unit’s 2014 growth target, Howard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  