-- Closed New York Gallery Settles Suit Over ‘Forged’ Pollock
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/defunct-new-york-gallery-settles-suit-over-fake-pollock-1-.html
Manhattan ’s Knoedler & Co. art
gallery, which closed last year, agreed to settle a lawsuit by
hedge fund manager Pierre Lagrange over an allegedly forged
Jackson Pollock painting he bought for $17 million.  Lawyers for Lagrange, the gallery and the gallery’s former
director, Ann Freedman, yesterday filed a stipulation to dismiss
the case in federal court in Manhattan. Terms of the settlement
are confidential, Nicholas Gravante, Freedman’s lawyer, said.  “Ms. Freedman continues to move forward, focusing on her
artists and her gallery, and is pleased to have this litigation
behind her,” Gravante said in a phone interview.  Lagrange, the co-founder of London-based GLG Partners Inc.,
sued in December 2011, alleging the Pollock painting he bought
four years earlier, Untitled 1950, was a forgery. When he tried
to sell the painting, both Sotheby’s Inc. and Christie’s Inc.
rejected it because of it wasn’t included in the definitive
catalogue of the artist’s works, Lagrange said.  Knoedler, founded in 1846, closed its doors a day after
Lagrange provided the gallery with an expert report that the
painting was a fake, according to the complaint.  The case “settled amicably,” Freedman said in a statement
provided yesterday by her lawyer.  Matthew Dontzin, a lawyer for Lagrange, and Charles Schmerler, a lawyer for Knoedler, didn’t immediately return
calls to their offices after regular business hours yesterday
for comment on the settlement.  The gallery has also been sued by other art collectors,
including Tom Ford International Chairman Domenico De Sole and
his wife, who claim they were sold a fake Mark Rothko painting
for $8.3 million in 2004. That lawsuit is still pending,
according to the electronic docket in Manhattan federal court.  The case is Lagrange v. Knoedler, 11-8757, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net 
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story: 