-- Det Norske Falls as Gas Discovery Thwarted: Oslo Mover
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-10-05T14:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/det-norske-falls-as-gas-discovery-thwarted-oslo-mover-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of analyst’s name in 5th paragraph.)  Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR) , fell to
the lowest level in more than a month after it said a gas find
in the Barents Sea can’t be developed profitably without the
construction of a new pipeline and processing facilities.  Det Norske, based in Trondheim,  Norway , declined as much as
 3.6 percent  to 90 kroner, the lowest intraday level since Aug.
30, making it the biggest loser on the Oslo Stock Exchange’s
benchmark OBX index today.  Det Norske, which owns a stake in the Johan Sverdrup field,
the biggest discovery off the coast of Norway in more than 30
years, climbed to a record on Sept. 10 after saying the Salina
and Garantiana prospects contained hydrocarbons.  Earlier today it said that while the  Salina  discovery may
hold recoverable reserves of six to eight billion cubic meters
of gas, it can’t be exploited commercially with the current
infrastructure in the area.  The share price decline is “an overreaction” given that
expectations have been reduced during the past month, Swedbank
First Securities analyst Teodor Sveen Nilsen said by phone from
Oslo today. “I’m a little surprised. There had been a general
understanding that if it was a discovery, it would be a small
discovery.”  Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  has a 40 percent stake in Salina, while
 Sweden ’s  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE) , RWE-DEA AG and Det Norske each own
20 percent.  ‘Total Madness’  Lundin fell as much as  2.3 percent  in  Stockholm , the
biggest drop in three weeks, and a move that Sveen Nilsen
described as “total madness.”  Det Norske traded 1.6 percent lower at 91.90 kroner as of
10:55 a.m. in Oslo, while Lundin was 1.2 percent weaker at 158.8
kronor as of the same time in the Swedish capital.  Det Norske and Lundin have said they fear gas finds in the
Barents Sea will continue to be unprofitable if a south-bound
export pipeline isn’t built, just as discoveries such as
Skrugard and Havis have boosted interest for the area.  The Salina find needs “one or several more gas discoveries
and the building of infrastructure, both processing facilities
and a pipeline,” to make its development viable, Det Norske
Chief Executive Officer Erik Haugane said in an interview today.  The size of the Salina discovery means it’s “not
insignificant,” said Sveen Nilsen, who has a buy recommendation
on both Det Norske and Lundin.  “It could be developed, but I don’t think the market would
be willing to put value on it yet,” he said. “You would need
more finds in the area and new infrastructure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter  in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  