-- Dollar Drops Versus Euro This Week as Jobs Spur Risk Appetite
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-05T21:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/dollar-advances-versus-yen-as-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-falls.html
The dollar had its first five-day
loss against the euro in three weeks after an unexpected drop in
the U.S.  unemployment rate  prompted investors to spur the safety
of the greenback and seek higher-yielding assets.  The U.S. currency fell to its weakest level in more than
two weeks versus the euro after the jobless rate slid to the
lowest since January 2009. The greenback pared losses versus the
shared currency late today as U.S. stocks reversed gains. The
Canadian dollar rose versus most major currencies as employment
climbed in the nation.  “It’s certainly a positive development to see the
unemployment rate come down,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst
in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage, said in a telephone interview. “I wouldn’t say
there’s massive justification for risk-on. You would expect to
see a little bit of a bounce, like we did see, and then some
paring heading into the weekend.”  The greenback fell 1.4 percent against the euro this week.
It declined 0.2 percent to $1.3045 per euro at 5 p.m. in  New
York  after falling earlier to $1.3072, the weakest level since
Sept. 19. The dollar appreciated 0.2 percent to 78.67 yen and
reached 78.87 yen, exceeding the 100-day moving average of
78.83. The euro advanced 0.4 percent to 102.57 yen.  The shared currency has closed above $1.30 only once in the
past 21 weeks, reaching $1.3120 in the five days ended Sept. 14.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and yen, was little changed
after dropping as much as 0.3 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was little changed after
earlier gaining as much as 0.7 percent.  Implied volatility, which signals the expected pace of
currency swings, reached an almost five-year low. It touched 7.5
percent, the least since Oct. 16, 2007, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 index  for Group-of-Seven currencies showed. Lower volatility
makes investments in currencies with higher key lending rates
more attractive because the risk in such trades is that market
moves will erase profit. The five-year average is 12.4 percent.  The Canadian dollar rallied as domestic employers added
52,100  jobs  last month, five times more than a Bloomberg News
survey forecast, adding to bets  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark
Carney  will raise the benchmark  interest rate . The currency,
nicknamed the loonie for the image of the aquatic bird on the
C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to 97.86 cents per  U.S. dollar  after
climbing earlier as much as 0.7 percent.  ‘Upside Surprise’  “The data was a significant upside surprise,” Mazen Issa,
 Canada  macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities
unit, said in a phone interview. “The Bank of Canada will be
concerned with how growth will evolve in this quarter and this
year, but will likely continue to maintain its hawkish bias to
take the overnight rate higher.”  The U.S. is Canada’s largest trading partner.  The South African rand reached its weakest level versus the
greenback since April 2009 as strikes spread across the nation’s
mining and transport industries. The currency tumbled as much as
3 percent to 8.7793 per dollar. It lost 3.2 percent to 11.4460
per euro and touched 11.5446, the weakest since November 2009.  The yen advanced earlier against the euro for the first
time since Sept. 26 after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  held off from more
monetary easing after adding stimulus last month, preserving its
policy firepower. The Japanese currency rose as much as 0.3
percent before reversing gains after the U.S. jobs report and
falling for a seventh day, the longest stretch since February.  The euro has gained 1.6 percent this week, the best
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar was little
changed, while the yen dropped 1.1 percent.  Fed Stimulus  The  Dollar Index  slid to what was then its lowest level in
more than three months on Sept. 7, 80.151, after the last U.S.
employment report showed that payrolls expanded by fewer jobs
than forecast.  Six days later, after their September meeting, Federal
Reserve policy makers said the central bank would buy $40
billion a month of mortgage bonds in a third round of
quantitative easing until they see what Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
described as an “ongoing, sustained improvement in the labor
market.” They also said the  federal-funds rate  will probably
stay at virtually zero at least through mid-2015.  The Fed previously purchased $2.3 trillion of assets in two
rounds of easing to spur economic growth.  ‘Reduce Expectations’  “The fact that the unemployment rate is moving lower will
have an impact on the length and size of this new QE program
from the Fed,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for
Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The unemployment rate moving lower, faster is going
to reduce expectations that the Fed is going to need to print
more dollars.”  The  jobless rate  fell to 7.8 percent last month from 8.1
percent in August, Labor Department data showed today in
Washington. The economy added 114,000 workers, almost matching a
Bloomberg News survey estimate of 115,000, after a revised
142,000 gain in August that was more than initially estimated,
the data showed.  Bernanke, in a speech in August, called the U.S. jobs
picture a “grave concern.” The economy has recovered only
about 4.1 million of the 8.8 million jobs lost in the wake of
the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Fed policy makers said at their Sept. 12-13 meeting they
saw manageable risks in the new round of bond buying, according
to minutes released yesterday.  Managed Risks  “Most participants thought these risks could be managed
since the committee could make adjustments to its purchases, as
needed, in response to economic developments or to changes in
its assessment of their efficacy and costs,” the meeting
minutes showed.  The Fed has signaled it’s moving toward linking its outlook
for near-zero interest rates to specific economic conditions
such as a drop in unemployment.  Policy makers such as Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans 
have said the central bank should promise to keep rates low
until the unemployment rate falls to 7 percent, as long as
inflation doesn’t breach 3 percent. Participants at the Fed’s
meeting last month said such a strategy would give the central
bank more flexibility, while saying it would be “challenging”
to agree on specific thresholds, the minutes show.  A link between the Fed’s outlook for near-zero interest
rates and economic conditions would represent a shift from the
central bank’s policy to tying low rates to the calendar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  