-- E-Mail Votes Seen Raising Election Security Risk: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-10-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/e-mail-votes-seen-raising-election-security-risk-bgov-barometer.html
The Nov. 6 presidential election is
the first in which almost half the states will permit Americans
in the military or overseas to cast ballots via e-mail or
online, raising concerns that voting may be vulnerable to
hacking or cyber attacks.  The BGOV Barometer shows that 23 states and the  District of
Columbia  will permit some degree of Internet-enabled voting for
armed forces personnel and U.S. citizens living abroad,
according to data compiled by the  Overseas Vote Foundation .
Among contested states in the presidential race,  Nevada ,
 Colorado ,  Iowa  and North Carolina will allow e-mailed ballots,
raising the possibility that the winner of a state’s electoral
votes might depend on a few thousand electronic ballots.  “From a security point of view, it’s the riskiest form of
voting ever invented,” said David Jefferson, a director of the
 Verified Voting Foundation , a Carlsbad, California-based non-
profit that works to improve the security of online and
electronic balloting.  While the probability of an organized hacker attack may be
low, “the potential damage is so large that we have to treat it
as a threat to U.S. national security,” said  Jefferson , a
computer scientist at the Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory, in Livermore,  California .  Jefferson called for banning the e-mailing of voted
ballots. He said cyber attacks can alter ballots or make them
disappear and can compromise voter secrecy.  Privacy Risk  “The return of voted ballots via e-mail inherently risks
loss of privacy,” Pam Mitchell, acting head of the  Federal
Voting Assistance Program , the Pentagon office charged with
supporting overseas and military voting, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The individual voter must balance the possible
exposure of the individual’s identity against the opportunity to
exercise the right to vote.”  In 2008, the last presidential election year, members of
the military and U.S. citizens abroad cast more than 637,000
ballots in 45 states that reported totals to the U.S. Elections
Assistance Commission.  A similar volume is expected this year, according to the
OVF, an Arlington, Virginia-based  non-partisan group  that
promotes voting by Americans living abroad.  About 5 percent of overseas voters in 2010 used e-mail to
cast their ballots, according to an OVF survey. If that rate
holds for this election, as many as 32,000 ballots would be
returned via e-mail, and some election officials predict the
rate will be higher.  Votes Dispersed  While the risk is fragmented because e-mailed votes are
dispersed among at least 24 jurisdictions, “It’s just not
secure,” said Susan Dzieduszycka-Suinat, OVF’s chief executive
officer. “We are very pro-technology. But we have to know where
to draw the line. We believe it’s essential to have a paper
trail.”  The 2009 Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act
requires election officials to send ballots to eligible voters
45 days ahead of the election, including by e-mail or other
electronic delivery, if requested.  That should leave enough time for voters to print out,
complete and mail back ballots, Dzieduszycka-Suinot said.  Even so, Johnnie McLean, deputy director of the  North
Carolina  State Board of Elections, predicts eligible voters will
make heavy use of e-mail to return ballots this year.  Human Nature  “Almost 100 percent are going to be returned that way,”
McLean said in an interview. “It’s human nature. If there’s a
deadline, people will wait until almost the deadline.”  In 2008, 12 states permitted e-mailed ballot return, with
eight of them restricting use to emergencies.  For the November election, 18 states and the District of
Columbia allow military voters, and in some cases other U.S.
civilians living abroad, to send voted ballots via the Internet,
according to information compiled by the OVF.  While most of those states use e-mail, at least two,
 Arizona  and  North Dakota , allow ballots to be uploaded to an
elections website. Another five states limit e-mail use to
emergencies, according to OVF.  The increasing use of Internet-based ballot return is a
worrisome trend to  J. Alex Halderman , a professor of electrical
engineering and computer science at the University of Michigan,
who in 2010 led a team of researchers that hacked into a
District of Columbia online voting system during a mock election
being held as a test.  Changed Votes  In two days, Halderman’s team changed votes and rigged
equipment so it could determine how everyone voted.  It took an additional two days for elections officials to
respond to the hacking even though Halderman’s group tweaked the
system to play the  University of Michigan  fight song whenever
someone cast a ballot.  The District canceled plans to use the system in a real
election.  E-mail is even less secure than an Internet voting system,
Halderman said in an interview.  “It’s a dangerous trend that its use is increasing,”
Halderman said. “I would be more and more concerned as these
numbers grow because we’re seeing increasingly close
elections.”  Not everyone shares his concern.  “We do have a secure system,” said McLean, the North
Carolina elections official, declining to describe it. “If I
told you what it was, it wouldn’t be secure, would it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  