-- Tea Party Favorite Embraces Obama as N.Y. Politics Shift
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/tea-party-favorite-embraces-obama-as-n-y-politics-shift.html
Representative Nan Hayworth of  New
York , first elected with support from the anti-government
spending  Tea Party  movement in 2010, is aiming for the political
center in this year’s campaign against a Democrat trying to
dredge up her past.  Hayworth, 52, vowed two years ago to “slash federal
spending” and attacked “King Barack and his out-of-control
Congress,” referring to President  Barack Obama  and the
Democrats who then controlled the Senate and House. Now she
boasts of bringing federal money to her district, tells a local
television interviewer that she has been “eager to work with
Democratic colleagues and with the president all along,” and
touts co-founding the Common Ground Caucus with Democratic
Representative David Cicilline of  Rhode Island .  Though she voted twice for House Republican budgets that
would replace traditional Medicare, in her literature and
commercials she promises to “fight to keep Medicare safe and
reliable,” as images of her elderly parents are shown.  “She was elected on a Tea Party tsunami,” said
Representative Steve Israel of New York, chairman of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, referring to the
electoral wave that swept Republicans into the House majority.
“Now the tide has receded and she is left high and dry with her
voting record.”  For Hayworth to win re-election, she has to persuade voters
to cross party lines because enrolled Democrats outnumber
Republicans in the district that covers much of the lower Hudson
Valley.  Democratic Challenger  Her challenger, Sean Patrick Maloney, 46, a one-time aide
to former President  Bill Clinton  and former New York Governor
 Eliot Spitzer  and a founder of a software company, is accusing
Hayworth of being part of a Republican “war on women” by
voting to cut off funding for  Planned Parenthood  and ending
traditional Medicare.  Maloney uses his website, his commercials, his campaign
appearances and an interview to highlight those votes. “It’s
outrageous to end Medicare so we can give huge new tax cuts to
multimillionaires like Nan Hayworth,” Maloney said. “People
should know the choice is between a Bill Clinton Democrat who
wants to save Medicare and a Tea Party Republican who wants to
end it.”  Hayworth’s voting record puts her 217th among the 240  House
Republicans  based on how often she votes with her party,
according to Open Congress, founded by the Sunlight Foundation,
a Washington-based nonpartisan group. The  League of Conservation
Voters , an environmental group, gives her a 43 percent favorable
rating, fourth-highest among House Republicans.  Bucking Party  Hayworth voted against legislation pushed by her party’s
House leadership that would block regulations that could harm
the coal industry and prevent the federal government from
regulating  greenhouse gases  to reduce the emissions blamed for
global warming. She also opposed a bill backed by the Republican
leaders to outlaw abortions based on the gender of the fetus.  “My votes have been consistent with the needs of the
people of my district,” Hayworth said. “By their very nature,
they’re going to be more centrist.”  Democrats highlight other parts of Hayworth’s voting
record, including support for the House Republican budget
sponsored by Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , the party’s
vice-presidential nominee. The budget, blocked by  Senate
Democrats , would reduce the top income-tax rates, cut social
programs and replace Medicare with vouchers to purchase private
insurance or a government plan with a cap on expenditures when
those 55 and younger become eligible.  Family Planning  Another bill she supported included eliminating the federal
funding for Planned Parenthood, which performs abortions in
addition to providing health screenings and contraceptives, and
also would have ended the funding for other family-planning
programs for lower-income Americans and reduced  Pell grants  for
college students.  Hayworth was endorsed two years ago by FreedomWorks, a Tea
Party-aligned group. On her  campaign blog  in September 2010, she
pledged to cut taxes and “slash federal spending.”  At a meeting in Goshen, New York, in December 2009, she
declared, “The first American Revolution, as we know, was
prosecuted against King George III and his out-of-control
parliament, and today we have King Barack and his out-of-control
Congress,” according to an account in the  Mid-Hudson News .  In the 2010 election, she defeated Democrat  John Hall , a
former rock musician who was seeking a third term, by close to
six percentage points.  Backing Withheld  FreedomWorks, which gives Hayworth a 57 percent favorable
rating on her voting record, is withholding support of her in
this election.  “We consider our endorsement something to be earned and
re-earned every election cycle,” said Jacqueline Bodnar, a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based group. “So if a voting
record from a sitting member of Congress does not measure up to
our fiscally conservative positions on economic policy, then we
can’t credibly endorse him or her.”  Hayworth isn’t backing down from her votes, saying they are
aimed at helping her constituents. “What keeps them up at night
is being able to afford to live here, being able to afford to
put food on the table and gas in the tank. Those are universal
concerns,” she said.  Medicare Issue  She defended her vote on Medicare while meeting voters at
the Sept. 30 Founder’s Day celebration in Brewster, New York,
insisting it was wrong to characterize what she called “premium
support” to buy private insurance as “vouchers.” She told Ann
Fanizzi of Carmel, a retired New York City teacher and assistant
principal, “it’s not a voucher. It never was. You can
tell the truth now to people.”  Fanizzi wasn’t convinced. “The concern is that Medicare be
maintained,” she said later. “The devil is in the details.”  Retired small-business owner William Whipp said he doesn’t
like the details. “I’ll give you a voucher to go buy the
Brooklyn Bridge,” said Whipp, a Maloney supporter.  Hayworth also stresses her efforts to help her district.  “The last question she asks is, ‘What do my constituents
expect me to do?’” said Putnam County Executive MaryEllen Odell, a Republican supporting the congresswoman. “That’s why
she has been an effective leader.”  Scholarship Fight  Among the constituents Hayworth greeted in Brewster was
Meri Verille, owner of a local pet and house-sitting service
whose daughter Sarah had lost a Navy scholarship to  Boston
College  because of an eye issue. Hayworth, an ophthalmologist,
intervened and successfully pressed for the scholarship to be
awarded, and Sarah Verille is preparing for a career as a naval
officer.  “Nan did everything for us,” Mari Verille said. “Nobody
had time to listen to my story. She listened.”  Hayworth also worked to secure federal funding to rebuild
the Tappan Zee Bridge across the  Hudson River  and to obtain
Federal Emergency Management Agency funds to repair local damage
after  Hurricane Irene  and Tropical Storm Lee in 2011.  “When there is an appropriate or justifiable role for
federal dollars to be deployed in my district, it is my job to
make sure that gets done,” Hayworth said.  Others say Hayworth hasn’t done enough. A fourth-generation
onion farmer in Warwick, Chris Pawelski, says Hayworth wouldn’t
help get emergency funding to pay for crops lost in the storms.  “If you don’t fight for that,” said Pawelski, “that’s a
cardinal sin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Brewster, New York at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  