-- EADS Said to Mull Deadline Move as BAE Talks Go Into Weekend
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n ,   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-10-06T12:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/eads-struggles-to-meet-bae-merger-deadline-amid-government-talks.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  are working through the weekend to win
government backing for their proposed merger, raising the odds
of missing a midweek deadline to formalize their plan.  The companies will decide by the start of the week whether
to extend the Oct. 10 time limit, said a person with knowledge
of the negotiations. A decision hangs on progress with
governments this weekend, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. EADS and BAE said
they’re striving to meet the deadline and that talks continue.  With time running out, EADS and BAE have sought to dispel
government concern about how a combination of Europe’s largest
aerospace company and the biggest defense contractor will affect
the states’ role as well as jobs and the centers of command.
 Germany , which doesn’t own a direct stake in EADS, has lobbied
for more involvement, a demand that contrasts with EADS’s
efforts to limit government involvement in the new firm.  “We have said what we consider as being our
requirements,” French President  Francois Hollande  told
journalists at a press briefing in Malta yesterday. “Now it is
up to the companies to continue discussions, negotiations,
knowing what the French position is in terms of the
shareholding, the location of headquarters and the protection of
our French defense industry.”  Must Notify  The deadline set for 5 p.m. on Oct. 10 by the U.K. Takeover
Panel can be extended. EADS Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders 
said last week that he doesn’t want to go on much longer without
a firm plan he can present to shareholders and employees. EADS
has lost 11 percent since the proposed merger was first reported
by  Bloomberg News  on Sept. 12.  BAE also said discussions were continuing. If at any point
the company thought the deal had collapsed, it would notify the
 London Stock Exchange (LSE) , spokeswoman  Charlotte  Lambkin said by
telephone today. EADS spokesman  Rainer Ohler  said governments
have notified the companies of their positions, denying reports
that the merger had failed. Combining EADS and BAE would create
 the largest  aerospace and defense company in the world by sales.  Der Spiegel reported in its online edition yesterday that
talks had all but ended, citing politicians it didn’t identify.
Financial Times Deutschland reported that talks had been
suspended and would continue at the start of next week.  In the U.K., 45 Conservative party lawmakers have written
to Prime Minister  David Cameron  demanding French, Spanish and
German government share holdings in the combined company be
removed as a condition to their support for the deal. Concerns
raised in the letter include national-security risks, BAE’s U.S.
defense contracts and possible “interference” by foreign
governments to protect jobs in their own nations over the U.K.  Daimler Stake  The French shares in Toulouse, France-based EADS are voted
by  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , a French publisher that owns 7.5 percent,
through an agreement that keeps precise balance between French
and German stakes. While Germany owns no shares, carmaker
Daimler AG has served as its proxy, controlling a 22.5 percent
stake that’s equivalent to the French shareholdings.  The proposed merger, which would give EADS shareholders 60
percent of the company and BAE shareholders the rest, would see
the French government shareholding shrink to 9 percent. Before
the EADS-BAE merger talk became public, Germany had said it
planned to buy a third of the EADS stake controlled by Daimler,
or 7.5 percent, and hold it through state-owned bank KfW. That
agreement has been put on ice by the merger talks.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s spokesman Steffen Seibert told a
government press conference yesterday that “intensive talks”
are continuing. He reiterated that comment after  Der Spiegel 
said negotiations had reached a gridlock. A U.K. government
official also confirmed that talks are continuing, without
elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  