-- Despite 12% Rally Hedge Funds Turn From Stocks
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-10-05T14:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/hedge-funds-in-denial-betting-on-stock-losses-during-12-rally.html
For the first time this year,  hedge
funds  are turning away from a rally in the global stock market.  The ratio of bullish to bearish bets among professional
speculators fell last week and is below historical averages,
according to a survey by International Strategy & Investment
Group. The reduction came as the MSCI All-Country World Index
extended its yearly advance to 12 percent and contrasts with
January, when managers bought shares as they rose, data compiled
by ISI and Bloomberg show.  Hedge funds make up more of the equity market after their
assets expanded and individuals pulled record cash from U.S.
mutual funds. Bulls say gains will get bigger as managers who
have trailed benchmark indexes most of the year start to buy.
Bears say previous rallies were fueled as they tried to catch up
and the advance that began in June will fizzle.  “The underexposure of hedge funds is one of the reasons I
remain bullish on equities,”  Michael Strauss , who helps oversee
about $26 billion as chief investment strategist at Commonfund
in Wilton,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “It may
create forced buying into the market.”  The  ISI gauge  of hedge-fund bullishness measuring the
proportion of bets that shares will rise slipped to 46.5 last
week from 48.1 in late August. The level is below the measure’s
10-year average of 50.2, the ISI data show.  Limited Returns  Skepticism toward equities has limited returns in 2012. The
Bloomberg Global Aggregate Hedge Fund Index rose 1 percent in
August, compared with the MSCI All-Country’s 1.9 percent
 advance . It has twice trailed the global benchmark for three
straight months in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The increase in the MSCI  index (BBHFUNDS)  this year is the biggest
rally in three years. Since the 2011  low  of 272.08 on Oct. 4,
the index climbed 23 percent to 335.56 as U.S. companies
extended their string of earnings growth to 11 quarters and
central banks announced unprecedented measures to stimulate
economies. The equity measure peaked at 427.63 on Oct. 31, 2007.  It rose 0.7 percent to 337.82 at 10:05 a.m. in  New York 
today as an unexpected drop in the American  unemployment rate 
bolstered confidence in the world’s largest economy.  “The level of net exposure suggests managers have not been
chasing the recent rally,” Oscar Sloterbeck, senior managing
director at New York-based ISI, said in an e-mail on Sept. 27.  ISI’s index, based on a survey of 35 hedge funds with about
$84 billion under management, plots bullish and bearish equity
bets on a scale of zero through 100. The lowest represents
maximum short selling, while 100 is the maximum bullish. At 50,
hedge funds are deploying a normal ratio of long to short
investments, according to ISI.  Late Investors  Professional investors were late to the rally in October
2011 and at the start of this year. Net exposure to stocks
reached 42 at the end of November, the lowest level since just
before the  bull market  began three years ago. Managers went
bearish amid slowing growth in the  U.S. economy ,  Europe ’s credit
crisis and President  Barack Obama ’s impasse with Congress over
raising the debt ceiling.  They were blindsided with an 11 percent  gain  in October
2011 as European leaders pledged a plan to support the region’s
banks, U.S. retail sales exceeded economists’ estimates and
third-quarter earnings beat analyst forecasts.  The hedge-fund industry sometimes acts as a group, which
translates into sudden swings in the level of bullishness, said
Uri Landesman at New York-based hedge fund Platinum Partners.
His firm ranked in the top 10 among mid-size hedge funds based
on returns for the 10 months ended Oct. 31, 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Copy-Cat Funds’  “It means big moves either way,” Landesman, who manages
$1.15 billion as president of Platinum Partners, said in a phone
interview. “A few thought-leaders start and copy-cat funds pile
on. For most people to go against the trend, it’s nice to have
some smart money behind them, so they can tell their client or
boss that so-and-so is doing it.”  Hedge funds bought equities following the  advance  in
October 2011 and the 5.7 percent increase in January. ISI’s
index of net exposure to stocks rose to a high of 48.9 at the
end of March from the November low after global equities rose
for a third month.  The underperformance hasn’t kept clients from sending money
to the largely unregulated investment firms that aim to make
money whether markets rise or fall. Unused cash from hedge funds
could fuel more gains, said  Jack Ablin  at BMO Private Bank.  About $20 billion was deposited in the six months ended
June 30, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.
That compares with withdrawals from mutual funds that buy U.S.
stocks of more than $90 billion this year, according to the
 Investment Company Institute  in  Washington . U.S. managers saw
outflows for a fifth year in 2011, the longest streak in data
going back to 1984.  Dry Powder  “There’s latent buying power in hedge funds which could
help push the rally,” Ablin, who helps oversee about $65
billion as chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank in
 Chicago , said in a phone interview. “I track liquidity looking
for where the next dry powder is going to come from and I’m not
seeing much in the traditional places.”  Investors expecting stocks to appreciate at the end of the
year will be disappointed, according to Jeffrey Sica of SICA
Wealth Management. Hedge funds won’t chase returns or accept
more risk as the stock market becomes vulnerable to political
turmoil in the U.S. where the so-called fiscal cliff looms and
as Europe’s debt crisis worsens.  Volatile Environment  “A lot of hedge funds don’t want to put themselves in a
position where they overexpose themselves in a volatile
environment,” Sica, the Morristown, New Jersey-based president
of SICA Wealth Management who helps oversee more than $1
billion, said in a phone interview. “Hedge funds have become
ready to accept their underperformance as a consequence of their
concerns.”  The fiscal cliff refers to the $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts that will kick in automatically in
2013 unless Congress fails to break a partisan deadlock and
reach agreement on the nation’s budget deficit. The MSCI All-
Country  slipped  1.8 percent last week as European leaders
clashed on ways to stem the debt crisis.  While money managers have been wary of entering the market
this year, they’ll be driven to add equities during the last
three months to avoid client redemptions, according to  Robert Pavlik  of Banyan Partners LLC in New York.  “What the market needs and what the market will probably
see is hedge funds largely being forced in,” Pavlik, who helps
manage about $1.4 billion as chief market strategist, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “They’ll be forced to buy
stocks and give up on their concerns to paint their portfolios.
Otherwise, they’ll be facing year-end returns that are
underperforming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  