-- Hedge Funds Trail Stock Rally With 0.6% September Return
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-10-05T20:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/hedge-funds-trail-stock-rally-with-0-6-september-return.html
Hedge funds  rose 0.6 percent last
month, trailing a global stock rally after the  European Central
Bank  announced specifics of its bond-buying plan and the U.S.
Federal Reserve said it would buy mortgage-backed securities.  Multistrategy, global  macro (BBHFMCRO)  and long-short equity managers
all rose. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  climbed 3.2 percent,
including reinvested dividends, after ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said policy makers agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program
and the Fed said it would expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month.  “Hedge funds trailed the major indices because the central
banks are all intervening and forcing liquidity into the
markets, and causing the general stock market to rally,” said
Jay Rogers, president of  Irvine , California-based Alpha
Strategies Investment Consulting Inc., which advises family
offices as well as hedge funds seeking to raise money.  The September increase brought hedge funds’ gains this year
to 3.6 percent, compared with an advance of 13 percent for
equities worldwide, including dividends.  The main Bloomberg hedge fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,698 funds, 1,182 of which have
reported returns for September. The index is down 9 percent from
its July 2007 peak.  Macro funds, which bet on economic trends, rose 0.3 percent
in September and fell 0.5 percent in this year’s first nine
months.  Multistrategy Funds  Multistrategy funds returned 0.3 percent last month and
dropped 2.9 percent in 2012.  John Paulson , the billionaire manager coming off record
losses in 2011, further pared declines in his Gold and Advantage
funds last month, according to two people familiar with the
matter. The Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other gold-
related investments, rose 13 percent as bullion rallied, cutting
losses this year to 3.9 percent. The Advantage Plus Fund, which
seeks to profit from corporate events such as takeovers and
bankruptcies and uses leverage to amplify returns, gained 3.6
percent last month, reducing losses since the start of the year
to 14 percent.  Paulson & Co., which manages $20 billion, posted September
losses in its Credit Opportunities and Recovery funds, reducing
year-to-date gains to 2 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively,
the people said. The Enhanced fund, which invests in shares of
companies that are involved in mergers, didn’t make or lose
money in September and is up 9.1 percent in 2012. All of the
funds’ gold share classes posted advances last month, and each
is up year-to-date except for the Advantage Plus fund. Investors
can choose between gold-and dollar-denominated versions for most
of New York-based Paulson & Co.’s funds.  Elliott International  Elliott Management Corp., the $21 billion New York-based
hedge fund founded by billionaire investor  Paul Singer , posted a
1.9 percent increase in its Elliott International Ltd. fund, its
fourth straight positive month, according to an update sent to
clients. The return lifted its 2012 gain to 8.4 percent.  Pine River Capital Management LP, the $10.3 billion
multistrategy firm based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , posted a 2.3
percent increase last month in its Pine River Fund, which has
$1.5 billion in assets and is run by Aaron Yeary, according to
an e-mail to clients, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg
News . The return brings this year’s gain to 16 percent. The
firm’s assets include hedge funds, managed accounts and  Two
Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , a mortgage real estate investment
trust.  Third Point  Long-short equity funds , whose managers can bet on rising
and falling stocks, climbed 0.3 percent last month and 1.9
percent in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Passport Capital LLC’s Passport Global fell 2.7 percent in
September and rose 11 percent this year, according to a
performance update obtained by Bloomberg News. The Passport
Global Long Short fund fell 0.6 percent last month and gained 13
percent this year, according to a person familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public. The $3.4 billion San Francisco-based firm is run
by  John Burbank .  Highside Capital Management LP, the $1 billion Dallas-based
global equity long-short hedge fund run by Lee Hobson, rose 1
percent in September and 11 percent this year, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Daniel Loeb ’s $9.3 billion Third Point LLC, based in  New
York , posted a 3.4 percent September gain in its Third Point
Offshore Fund Ltd., increasing its 2012 return to 11 percent,
according to an Oct. 2 regulatory filing.  Spokesmen for the firms declined to comment on the returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  