-- Melco Drives ADR Gain on U.S. Jobless Rate: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-05T19:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/melco-drives-adr-jump-on-u-s-jobless-rate-overnight.html
Chinese equities  in New York climbed,
driving the benchmark index toward a three-week high, as an
unexpected drop in the U.S. jobless rate bolstered the outlook
for exports and the global economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. gained 0.8 percent to 93.37 by 2:42
p.m., set to advance 1.5 percent in the week.  China  Life
Insurance Co. rose to trade at a premium to its Hong Kong stock
for a fifth day, while  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  jumped the
most since Sept. 27 as Union Gaming Group LLC said visitors to
Macau casinos surged during this week’s holiday.  Ambow Education
Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  rebounded from a four-week low.  The U.S. unemployment rate defied economists’ expectations
to fall to the lowest level since President  Barack Obama  took
office in January 2009, a Labor Department report yesterday
showed. Growth in China, the world’s largest exporter, has
slowed to the least in three years as a faltering U.S. economy
and the  European debt crisis  sap global demand for manufactured
goods.  The jobless rate drop “supports the view that the labor
market is improving and consumer spending should accelerate,”
Eric Brock, who helps manage $3.8 billion as a portfolio manager
at Clough Capital Partners, said by phone yesterday from Boston.
“An acceleration in U.S. household spending will help Chinese
exports improve, which means manufacturing in China is poised to
recover.”  China ETF Rises  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 0.9 percent to
$35.47, the highest level since May 10 based on closing prices.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was little changed at 1,461.58.  China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, added 2.3 percent
in its second day of gains to $44.58, the highest since Sept.
14. It has advanced 2.7 percent this week, snapping a two-week
slump. The ADRs, each representing 15 underlying shares in the
company, traded 0.9 percent  above  its Hong Kong stock, the
biggest premium in three weeks.  Melco Crown, a casino operator in Macau, climbed 1.9
percent to $13.22, set for a weekly advance of 2 percent.  Over the first four days of the so-called golden week
holiday in China, Macau has received more than 535,000 visitors,
76 percent of which are from the mainland, Union Gaming analyst
Grant Govertsen said in a note yesterday. Visits on Oct. 1 grew
9.7 percent from a year ago and the pace accelerated each day to
20.3 percent on Oct. 4, he wrote.  Steven Sun, the head of China equity strategy at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Hong Kong said he favors Macau gaming companies
and Hong Kong property stocks, in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Ambow Gains  Ambow, a Beijing-based private tutoring service provider,
rebounded 4.3 percent to $2.67 after sinking 11 percent on Oct.
4.  “This stock is quite illiquid, and probably some selling
caused some short moment of flash crash,” Ambow’s Chief
Strategy Officer Jenny Zhan said in a phone interview yesterday
from  California . “We don’t see anything unusual from the
fundamental perspective. We’ll announce Q2 earnings as soon as
possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  