-- Telefonica Sells Bonds as European Corporate Credit Risk Eases
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-10-05T15:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/telefonica-sells-bonds-as-european-corporate-credit-risk-eases.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s biggest phone
company, and  Italy ’s Mediobanca SpA tapped bond markets amid
renewed investor appetite for securities from the euro area’s
most indebted countries.  Telefonica raised 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) from
notes due 2020, the first non-financial corporate offering from
a peripheral country in two weeks, while Mediobanca sold three-
year bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost to
insure European company debt from default posted its first
weekly decline in three weeks.  Credit risk eased as U.S. unemployment unexpectedly fell in
September to the lowest since President  Barack Obama  took
office, and after the  European Central Bank  renewed yesterday
its pledge to support governments with bond purchases. The
central bank’s crisis-tackling efforts outlined in September had
helped spur the busiest month for bond sales since May 2009.  “We’ve had a big wave, but the door is still open to
issuance from peripheral companies,” said Harold Van Acht,
senior credit analyst at Kempen Capital Management NV in
Amsterdam. “These companies were probably waiting until after
the last ECB meeting was over, and now there’s a continuation of
the confidence that was here at the start of last month.”  Telefonica’s new bonds were priced to yield 330 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate. The phone company’s
existing 4.693 percent bonds due 2019 fell, pushing the yield
relative to swaps up seven basis points to 297.  Miguel Angel Garzon, a spokesman for Telefonica in  Madrid ,
declined to comment on the bond sale, which is the first from a
company in the euro-region’s periphery since Brisa-Auto Estradas
de Portugal SA issued debt on Sept. 21.  Slowing Sales  Mediobanca (MB) , Italy’s biggest traded investment bank, sold
500 million euros of bonds that were priced to yield 320 basis
points more than swaps. Stefano Tassone, a spokesman for the
Milan-based lender, declined to comment on the sale, which was
its first benchmark offering in euros since January.  Sales of non-financial company securities were about 3.2
billion euros this week, the slowest period since the week of
Aug. 19. Companies raised 51 billion euros from bond markets in
September.  Yield spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds have
narrowed 40 basis points relative to swaps this year to a three-
week low of 120 basis points, the index data show.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
linked to the debt of 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit
ratings dropped 17 basis points to 530. The Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell three
basis point to 126.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers fell eight basis points to 178.5
and the subordinated index declined 10.5 to 312. A basis point
on a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  