-- Emerging Stocks Rise to Two-Week High as Automakers Surge
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-10-05T22:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/emerging-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-as-automakers-surge.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed to a
two-week high as the U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to
the lowest in more than 3 1/2 years, boosting appetite for
riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.4 percent to
1,009.16, the highest since Sept. 19.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index
gained with homebuilder Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos
e Participacoes contributing most to the increase.  Russia ’s
Micex Index jumped 1.4 percent after the central bank left its
key rate unchanged. Equity indexes in Poland, Turkey and Mexico
also advanced. The rand was at the lowest level versus the  U.S.
dollar  since April 2009 as strikes spread in  South Africa .  The jobless rate in the U.S. dropped to 7.8 percent in
September, the lowest since January 2009, and hourly earnings
climbed more than forecast. Developing-nation equities rose on
signs a recovery in the U.S. labor market will stoke demand for
products from the developing nations as the 21 countries in the
MSCI gauge send about 13 percent of exports there, according to
World Trade Organization data.  “U.S. unemployment figures provide a risk-supportive
backdrop,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-market strategy at
Societe Generale SA in  London , said by e-mail.  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, was little
changed while the Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, dropped 2.8 percent.  Bovespa Gains  The Bovespa increased 0.2 percent, gaining for the first
time in four days. Cyrela rose 4.3 percent as Brazil lowered the
 interest rate  in its housing program known as Minha Casa Minha
Vida to 7.16 percent from 8.16 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged
yesterday to buy  government bonds  and help ease borrowing costs
in the region. Federal Reserve minutes released yesterday
signaled the central bank is linking its outlook for near-zero
interest rates to specific economic conditions such as
unemployment.  Russian stocks snapped three days of declines with energy
companies OAO Inter RAO UES and OAO  Tatneft (TATN)  gaining more than 2
percent. Bank Rossii kept its refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
today, a decision forecast by 19 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  “Risks of a significant slowdown” from a tighter monetary
policy after the central bank raised rates last month are
“small,” policy makers said in a statement today.  Inter RAO UES  Russia, the only major emerging market to raise interest
rates this year, is struggling to keep a lid on inflation after
droughts in the U.S. and locally drove up food costs. The
government’s top priority is fighting inflation even at the
expense of short-term growth, President  Vladimir Putin  said on
Oct. 2 at an investment conference in Moscow.  Inter RAO UES, the Russian state-controlled power generator
and exporter, gained 3.4 percent in Moscow, the biggest leap
since Sept. 14.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index climbed 0.7 percent on
expectations the violence on the Syrian border that killed five
people two days ago won’t escalate.  Besiktas Futbol Yatirimlari Sanayi & Ticaret AS (BJKAS) , the
merchandising unit of Turkish sports club Besiktas, rose 1.7
percent after a report it is in talks with banks for a $85
million loan.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
rose 1.2 percent to the highest since May 15 while markets in
 China  remained closed today for holidays. Indonesia’s Jakarta
Composite  Index (VXEEM)  added 0.9 percent, climbing to a record high.
The BSE  India  Sensitive Index sank 0.6 percent, retreating for
the first time in five trading sessions.  Erroneous Orders  The National Stock Exchange of India said 59 erroneous
orders were responsible for a plunge and halt in trading today.  Orders entered by Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. for
a client that led to trades valued at 6.5 billion rupees ($126
million) caused the problem, NSE spokeswoman Divya Malik Lahiri
said today by phone from New Delhi. Emkay’s Managing Director
Prakash Kacholia wasn’t immediately available for comment.  The NSE, the nation’s largest bourse, controls more than 90
percent of India’s $28 billion equity derivatives market and
handles 75 percent of the stock trades.  BMW Sales  Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd. (1114)  advanced 5.9
percent in Hong Kong, the highest since Feb. 23. BMW’s car sales
in China rose 59 percent in September, said Linda Croissant, a
spokeswoman at the Munich-based company, easing investors’
concern the world’s biggest automotive market is slowing. China
ZhengTong Auto Services Holdings Ltd. catapulted 6.1 percent in
Hong Kong.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  slid nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 286, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  