-- EPA Seeks Rehearing of Cross-State Air Pollution Ruling
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-05T16:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/epa-seeks-rehearing-of-cross-state-air-pollution-ruling.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency asked for a full-court review of a decision by a three-
judge panel that threw out a rule designed to cut pollution from
coal-fired power plants.  The agency, in a filing today in the U.S. Court of Appeals
in  Washington , said the judges in the 2-1 ruling striking down
its cross-state air pollution rule developed “regulatory policy
out of whole cloth” in violation of their role of review.  “The panel’s decision upends the appropriate relationship
of the judicial, legislative, and executive branches of
government by rewriting clear legislation, ignoring explicit
statutory jurisdictional limits, and stepping into the realm of
matters reserved by Congress and the courts to the technical
expertise of administrative agencies,” Norman Rave, a Justice
Department lawyer, said in the filing.  The panel’s decision dealt a blow to the Obama
administration’s efforts to curb harmful emissions with a
regulation it said would provide “dramatic” health benefits
for 240 million people.  The eight active judges on the Washington-based appeals
court heard only one so-called en banc case last term, according
to the court’s docket.  Overstepped Authority  On Aug. 21, two of the judges on the panel, Brett Kavanaugh
and Thomas Griffith, ruled that the agency overstepped its legal
authority and imposed standards that were too strict. The court
sided with power companies and mining groups that challenged the
measure, which caps emissions in more than two dozen states.  The court ordered the agency to continue to enforce a 2005
measure known as the Clean Air Interstate Rule until a viable
replacement to the cross-state regulation can be issued.  Among the power companies challenging the rule were
 Southern Co. (SO) , EME Homer City Generation LP, a unit of  Edison
International (EIX) , and Energy Future Holdings Corp. units in  Texas .
The state of Texas, the National Mining Association and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers joined in
parallel cases, saying the rule would put an undue financial
burden on power producers and threaten electricity reliability.  The EPA rules, which applied to Texas and 27 eastern
states, would have imposed caps on sulfur dioxide, which can
lead to acid rain and soot harmful to humans and ecosystems, and
nitrogen oxide, a component of ground-level ozone and a main
ingredient of smog.  The EPA argued in court papers that the rule would improve
the health of more than 200 million people, saying it had
“reasonably projected” which areas of the country should be
covered by the regulation.  ‘Costly, Burdensome’  Lawsuits challenging the rule called it “one of the most
costly, burdensome and arbitrary” ever issued under the Clean
Air Act.  Circuit Judge Judith Rogers, who dissented, said the
majority’s opinion resulted in “the endorsement of a ‘maximum
delay’ strategy for regulated entities, rewarding states and
industry for cloaking their objections throughout years of
administrative rulemaking procedures.”  The case is EME Homer City Generation LP v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1302, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  