-- Eric Hobsbawm, Historian Embracing Marxism, Dies at 95
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-05T10:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/eric-hobsbawm-historian-embracing-marxism-dies-at-95-correct-.html
(Corrects date of French revolution in third paragraph of
story published Oct. 1.)  Professor Eric Hobsbawm, the British
historian and lifelong socialist, has died. He was 95.  Hobsbawm, who was president of  Birkbeck College  at the
University of  London , died of pneumonia in the Royal Free
Hospital in the U.K. capital after a long illness, his daughter
Julia said today by telephone.  His best-known works were a trilogy on what he called the
long 19th century, covering the period from the French
Revolution in 1789 to the outbreak of World War I in 1914, and
his history of the 20th century, The Age of Extremes. His final
book,  How to Change the World , was published last year.  “We are certainly not entering an age of peace and
quiet,” Hobsbawm said in an interview with Bloomberg in May.
“It’s a very problematic age in which nobody really knows
what’s going to happen but nobody is very optimistic.”  Born in Alexandria in  Egypt  on June 9, 1917, the year of
the Russian Revolution, he was orphaned by the age of 14.
Adopted by his maternal aunt and paternal uncle, the family
moved to London from Berlin in 1933.  He became a history lecturer at Birkbeck College at London
University in 1947 and was professor of history there between
1970 and 1982. He was a visiting professor after his retirement
until 1987, a post he had held in the 1960s at  Stanford
University  in the U.S. He became president of Birkbeck in 2002.  Committed Socialist  Hobsbawm joined the Communist Party in 1936 and remained a
member after the former  Soviet Union  invaded  Hungary  in 1956,
although he signed a public letter of protest against it.  In the 1960s, his views moderated and he no longer
supported Soviet-style socialism. A regular contributor to the
now-defunct Marxism Today magazine, Hobsbawm supported former
Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock’s efforts to move back into the
U.K. political mainstream in the mid-1980s.  Some writers, including  Harvard University ’s Niall Ferguson, regarded him as one of the best historians of the 20th
century. Others, such as David Pryce-Jones, whose books include
the Hungarian Revolution in 1969, said his support of communism
affected his professional judgement.  Much of Hobsbawm’s interest lay in how events and political
systems affected ordinary people. In the interview at his north
London home in May, Hobsbawm said the international community
had to deal with  Greece ’s financial problems.  “The people that of course tend to be forgotten in all of
this are the actual Greeks,” Hobsbawm said. “Greece is
bankrupt and it has got to somehow or other declare it.”  Hobsbawm is survived by his wife Marlene, his three
children, Julia, Andy and Joseph, seven grandchildren and one
great grandchild, according to a statement issued by his family
to the British Broadcasting Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 