-- Merkel’s First Greek Crisis Visit May Mark Turning Point
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 2012-10-05T13:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/merkel-to-visit-greece-for-first-time-since-crisis-outbreak.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
travel to  Athens  for the first time since  Europe ’s financial
crisis broke out there three years ago, a sign she’s seeking to
silence the debate on pushing  Greece  out of the euro.  Merkel’s visit to the Greek capital Oct. 9 to meet with
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras underscores the shift in her
stance since she held out the prospect last year of Greece
exiting the 17-nation currency regime.  “The meeting could mark the turning point to the Greek
crisis,” said Constantinos Zouzoulas, an analyst at Axia
Ventures Group, a brokerage in Athens. “This is a very
significant development for Greece ahead of crucial decisions by
the  euro zone  for the country.”  Merkel’s demand for budget cuts in return for bailout
packages has stoked public resentment, with the German
chancellor depicted in some Greek media and on protestors’
placards wearing jackboots and an SS uniform because of her
insistence on austerity. While Samaras welcomed Merkel’s visit
as a “very positive development,” union walkouts and public
protests were immediately called to coincide with the event.  Two bailouts and the biggest debt writeoff in history have
so far failed to halt Greece’s slide into a fifth year of
recession, prompting  Christine Lagarde , the International
Monetary Fund’s managing director, to signal last month that
another writedown might have to be considered.  Help Greece  “We want to help Greece stabilize within the euro zone,”
Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, told reporters in
Berlin today as he announced the trip, saying that is the main
message  Germany  can give to Greece. “We do this by contributing
massively to the rescue programs Greece I and Greece II.”  He said Merkel’s trip to Athens, her first since July 2007,
reciprocated a visit by Samaras to Berlin in August this year.
The full program for the trip has yet to be completed, he said,
describing the visit as “normal.”  Greece’s ability to stabilize and stay in the euro “will
only be possible if Greece makes great efforts of its own,”
Seibert said. “We see that under the Samaras government there’s
a strengthened reform effort and we want to support that.”  Merkel has softened her tone on Greece since Samaras’s
election earlier this year. He managed to form a coalition after
beating off a challenge by parties that advocated tearing up the
terms of Greece’s rescues and calling the bluff of the so-called
troika of international creditors -- the IMF, the  European
Central Bank  and European Commission -- at the risk of
triggering global meltdown in financial markets.  ECB, IMF  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said Sept. 29
that Greece may need more outside aid as growth fails to meet
projections, joining the IMF in expressing doubt two bailouts
will suffice. That followed Lagarde’s comments that the level of
Greek debt would have “to be addressed.” Thus two of the three
troika members have publicly called for more help for Greece.  Members of Merkel’s coalition have raised options for
Greece that include front-loading aid payments to help it over
liquidity hurdles and lowering the  interest rate  or extending
maturities on loans.  A third option in the form of a second debt writedown
focusing on bonds held by public institutions, notably the ECB,
was ruled out by President  Mario Draghi  yesterday. European
policy makers aren’t considering a rescheduling of any Greek
debt held by the official sector official, a European official
said separately today.  Weighing Words  Merkel has yet to show her hand beyond slapping down
lawmakers from her coalition who suggested it was time for
Greece to quit the euro, telling them to “weigh their words
very carefully.” Germany will stand behind the Greek government
as it strives to overhaul the economy, she said during Samaras’s
Berlin visit.  “I want Greece to stay in the euro zone and that’s what
I’m working for,” Merkel said on Aug. 24, adding that she is
“deeply convinced” he will make every effort to solve Greece’s
problems. The goal of austerity measures is to help Greece reach
“the light at the end of the tunnel.”  That contrasts with a threat she delivered in November
2011, when former Prime Minister  George Papandreou  proposed a
referendum on austerity measures. She said the ballot,
subsequently rescinded, “will revolve around nothing less than
the question: does Greece want to stay in the euro, yes or no.”  Samaras, who formed a governing coalition with two rival
parties after winning the country’s second set of elections this
year, is trying to convince Greece’s creditors that his
government has done enough to secure its next bailout payment.  A Real Partner  “The question in German leadership circles is do we have a
real partner,” said Alexander White, European political analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London . “If they do, then they are
in for the long term.”  Samaras echoed Merkel’s language on the need for a sign of
hope for the Greek people, comparing their struggle with
economic hardship and political turmoil to the conditions that
led to the collapse of the  Weimar Republic  in post-World War I
Germany and ushered in the Nazi era.  His interview, published today in German newspaper
Handelsblatt, came hours before Independent Greeks, the fourth-
largest Greek parliamentary party, called a protest outside the
German Embassy in Athens during Merkel’s visit to reject her
“transforming Greece into a German protectorate.” A petition to
be handed to the ambassador will also call for World War II
reparations, the party said an e-mailed statement.  “Greek democracy stands before what is perhaps its
greatest challenge,” Samaras said in the interview. If his
government were to fall, “chaos awaits,” he said. “The people
know this government is Greece’s last chance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  