-- Tesco Slides to Lowest in Three Months as Analysts Cut Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-10-05T12:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/tesco-slides-to-lowest-in-three-months-as-analysts-cut-estimates.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
retailer, fell to the lowest in more than three months in London
trading after worse-than-expected international earnings caused
analysts to cut full-year profit estimates.  The shares dropped as much as 3 percent, the third straight
day of declines since the Oct. 3 release of first-half results.
The fall, the second-biggest in the  U.K. benchmark FTSE 100
Index,  pushed the stock down to the lowest since July 2 and
extended this year’s slide to 24 percent.  Tesco reported its first profit decline in almost two
decades this week as worsening consumer sentiment in  Europe  and
restricted opening hours in South Korea compounded a faltering
domestic business. Brokerages including Investec Securities and
Seymour Pierce today cut their estimates for annual profit.  “Too many of its overseas businesses face trading issues
shorter term,”  Kate Calvert , an analyst at Seymour Pierce, said
in an e-mail, adding that there is a lack of certainty over the
success of actions being taken by management in the U.K. She
lowered her estimate of annual pretax profit by 8 percent to
3.24 billion pounds and kept a reduce rating on the shares.  Investec analyst Dave McCarthy said he reduced his estimate
of trading profit by 6 percent for this year and 8 percent for
next. Difficulties in Asia and Europe are increasing, while the
U.S. Fresh & Easy chain continues to lose money, he said.  “We remain concerned and believe that Tesco strategy needs
a major overhaul,” McCarthy said.  Sunday opening restrictions in South Korea, the grocer’s
largest market outside the U.K., will reduce full-year trading
profit by about 100 million pounds, Tesco said this week.
Consumer weakness in  China  contributed to a 3.8 percent decline
in first-half profit in Asia. Profit in Europe fell 28 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  