-- Metro Cust Profit Forecast as Europe Slowdown Hurts Sales
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-10-05T15:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/metro-cust-profit-forecast-as-europe-slowdown-hurts-sales.html
     Oct. 5 (Bloomberg) --  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer,
cut its 2012 profit forecast, saying  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis is weighing on sales in the south and east of the region.  Earnings before interest and taxes will decline to about 2
billion euros ($2.6 billion) in 2012, the Dusseldorf-based
retailer said in a statement today. It had previously forecast
earnings would be about the same as 2011’s 2.37 billion euros.
The  shares  fell the most in about 10 months.  “The European consumer environment has worsened further in
recent weeks against the backdrop of rising unemployment, which
has hit a new record high in the euro zone,” said the company,
which owns Media Markt electronics stores. “This has also
started to materially affect Metro Group’s business development,
especially in southern Europe and parts of eastern Europe.”  The retailer cut its forecast little more than two months
after saying that improving sales at the Media-Saturn unit
contributed to a decision to maintain the outlook. Government
budget cuts from  Spain  to Ireland have eroded  consumer spending 
and added to pressure on Metro, whose annual revenue has
declined 1.8 percent from a peak of 68 billion euros in 2008.  “They are really struggling with all their formats in
Europe,” said Bianca Casertano, an analyst at Planet Retail
research company in Frankfurt. “It doesn’t look well.”  DAX Exit  Metro fell 9 percent to 21.46 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close
of trading in Frankfurt, the  steepest decline  since Dec. 6. That
extended the stock’s decline this year to 24 percent and cut the
market capitalization to about 7 billion euros. The retailer’s
shrinking value meant it was removed last month from Germany’s
 DAX Index (DAX)  of the nation’s biggest stocks.  Metro’s reduced  forecast  adds to evidence that Europe’s
slowing economies are eating into retail sales.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,
Britain’s largest retailer, said this week that earnings in
European countries including  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and
Hungary dropped 28 percent to 171 million pounds ($277 million)
in the first half ended Aug. 31.  “In many countries, the conditions for our customers and
thus for our business as well have significantly deteriorated in
recent weeks,” Metro Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch said in
a letter to investors. “This has led to an even greater
restraint in consumer spending, especially in non-food, like
consumer electronics.”  Koch is focusing on the Cash & Carry wholesale business and
the Media-Saturn electronics chain while cutting  investment  in
Kaufhof department stores and Real grocery outlets, both of
which he has said he may sell.  The CEO said today that he still plans to reduce net debt
and will “critically review” expansion plans for 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  