-- Europe Stocks Advance; Stoxx 600 Heads for Weekly Gain
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-10-05T16:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/europe-index-futures-rise-stoxx-600-heads-for-week-gain.html
European (SXXP)  stocks climbed, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 posting its first weekly advance in three,
after a report showed the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly
declined in September.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  led gains in
shares sensitive to economic growth.  Burberry (BRBY)  Group Plc, the
U.K.’s largest luxury house, rose after Morgan Stanley lifted
its recommendation on the shares.  Hunting Plc (HTG)  gained 3.4 percent
after Deutsche Bank AG named the company among its preferred
U.K. oil stocks.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 1 percent to 274.11 at the close of
trading. The index posted a 2.1 percent weekly gain and has
rallied 17 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as European
Central Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited asset-purchase
program and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
quantitative easing.  “Overall, the employment report was good news,” said
Jacques Porta, who helps manage $627 million at Ofi Patrimoine
in Paris. “The cherry on the cake was the drop in the
 unemployment rate . It’s satisfactory and reassuring.”  The unemployment rate in the U.S. unexpectedly fell to 7.8
percent in September, the lowest since January 2009, as
employers took on more part-time workers.  The economy added 114,000 workers last month after a
revised 142,000 gain in August that was more than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
The median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for an advance of 115,000. The jobless rate dropped from
8.1 percent and hourly earnings climbed more than forecast.  No Intervention  ECB President  Mario Draghi  reiterated during a press
conference in Slovenia yesterday that the central bank won’t
start intervening in bond markets until governments like  Spain 
request a bailout and agree to conditions. He also ruled out
allowing the ECB to take losses in any further Greek debt
restructuring and damped speculation of another interest-rate
cut.  The prime ministers of  Italy , Spain, and  France  meet at a
summit of Mediterranean leaders in Malta today.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will travel to  Athens  for
the first time since Europe’s financial crisis broke out there
three years ago, a sign she’s seeking to silence the debate on
pushing Greece out of the euro.  Merkel’s visit to the Greek capital Oct. 9 to meet with
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras underscores the shift in her
stance since she held out the prospect last year of Greece
exiting the 17-nation currency regime.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets except Iceland. France’s CAC 40 advanced 1.6
percent, Germany’s DAX climbed 1.3 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE
100 added 0.7 percent.  Gauges of banks and automakers on the Stoxx 600 were the
best performers of the index’s 19 industry groups. BNP Paribas,
France’s biggest bank, rallied 3.5 percent to 39.39 euros. BMW
advanced 2.1 percent to 60.99 euros.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  led gains on the Stoxx, climbing
8.6 percent to 68.4 euro cents. Shares rose 21 percent this
week.  Burberry rallied 2.8 percent to 1,028 pence. Morgan Stanley
raised its recommendation on the stock to overweight, the
equivalent of a buy rating, from equal weight.  Hunting advanced 3.4 percent to 855 pence. Deutsche Bank,
which recommended that investors buy the stock, said the company
has positive earnings momentum and attractive relative value.  Greek Banks  Shares of  National Bank of Greece SA  and  Eurobank Ergasias
SA (EUROB)  were suspended after gaining 4 percent to 2.09 euros and 7.3
percent to 1.17 euros, respectively.  National Bank, the nation’s biggest lender, and domestic
competitor Eurobank Ergasias are in talks to merge, according to
two people with knowledge of the situation.  The banks may announce the discussions as soon as today,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
plans are private. Talks are at an early stage and may not lead
to an offer, one person said. National Bank will hold an
extraordinary board meeting today in Athens, another person
said. Officials at the Athens-based banks declined to comment.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the biggest maker of flavors and fragrances,
rose 1.8 percent to 926 Swiss francs. The stock was added to the
“most-preferred” list of European chemical companies at UBS.  Lonza AG (LONN)  dropped 4.2 percent to 48.48 francs after saying
it hasn’t decided how to proceed with trials for a copy of Roche
Holding AG’s best-selling Rituxan cancer drug with partner Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  