-- European Stocks Post Weekly Advance on U.S. Jobless Rate
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-10-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/european-stocks-post-weekly-advance-on-u-s-jobless-rate.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly gain in a month as the U.S.  unemployment rate  dropped to
the lowest level since January 2009 and stress tests bolstered
confidence in the Spanish banking system.  Banco Espirito Santo SA, Portugal’s largest publicly traded
bank by market value, jumped the most in more than three years.
 EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  surged 6.7 percent in London trading as Europe’s
second-biggest discount airline said full-year earnings topped
its forecasts. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG led a
rally in automakers.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 2.1 percent to 274.11 this
past week, the largest increase since the period ended Sept. 7.
The benchmark measure has advanced 12 percent in 2012 as
European Central Bank policy makers approved a plan to buy the
bonds of the most-indebted euro-area members and the  Federal
Reserve  unveiled a third round of stimulus measures.  “Equities are going up,  house prices  are going up and now
unemployment is going down,” said Jacob de Tusch-Lec, a London-
based  money manager  who helps oversee about $20 billion at
Artemis Investment Management LLP. “You have all these three
things happening at the same time and that is a very potent
picture. The wealth effect is alive.”  A report on Sept. 25 showed U.S. home prices climbed more
than forecast in July. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index of property
values  in 20 cities increased 1.2 percent from a year earlier,
the biggest 12-month advance since August 2010.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes advanced in all 18 western
European markets, except Iceland. Germany’s DAX index added 2.5
percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 2.3 percent and France’s CAC
40 increased 3.1 percent. Greece’s ASE Index jumped 12 percent,
the most in almost four months.  Government data yesterday showed U.S. employers added
114,000 workers to payrolls in September as the unemployment
rate unexpectedly declined to 7.8, the lowest level since
President Barack Obama took office in January 2009. The gain in
payrolls was close to the 115,000 median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 89 economists. The jobless rate dropped from 8.1
percent and hourly earnings climbed more than forecast.  Other data this week showed that U.S. service industries
expanded more than estimated in September, while  manufacturing 
unexpectedly increased.  Spanish Rescue  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he has no plans
to ask for a bailout soon, in response to mounting speculation
that a request was imminent.  Still, Spain’s 2013 budget, presented this week, assumes
the economy will shrink 0.5 percent, less than the 1.3 percent
median contraction predicted by 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Deputy Finance Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said
a larger-than-expected contraction next year won’t affect
Spain’s ability to meet its budget commitments. Spain is still
analyzing the possibility of seeking assistance even though the
procedures involved are “complex,” he added.  “Investors are preparing for the inevitable Spanish
request for a bailout,” said Graham Bishop, an equity
strategist at Exane BNP Paribas in London. “Stocks are also
helped by signs the economy is back on a slow recovery path
after a summer soft patch.”  The ECB and the  Bank of England  left their benchmark
 interest rates  on hold, while euro-area  retail sales 
unexpectedly increased for a fourth month in August as demand
rebounded in Germany, Europe’s largest economy.  The ECB is ready to start buying  government bonds  as soon
as the necessary conditions are fulfilled, President  Mario
Draghi  said Oct. 4 at a press conference in Ljubljana, Slovenia.  Stress Tests  A gauge of European lenders had the second-biggest advance
among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 this week as stress
tests commissioned by the European Union and the Spanish
government bolstered confidence. Spain’s banks have a capital
deficit of 59.3 billion euros ($76 billion), tests conducted by
New York-based management consultancy  Oliver Wyman  showed, which
was less than the 62 billion euros Wyman estimated in June that
the lenders would need.  The EU’s top banking regulator told the bloc’s lenders to
hold on to more than $258 billion in capital raised since 2011
to pave the way for tougher global standards. Twenty-seven banks
were required by the European Banking Authority to submit plans
for their capital raising attained a total of 116 billion euros,
the London-based EBA said Oct. 3.  Espirito Santo  Espirito Santo  rallied 21 percent in Lisbon for the biggest
jump since May 2009. Austria’s Raiffeisen Bank International AG,
eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender, jumped 11 percent.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  climbed 8.7 percent as France’s third-
largest bank started exclusive talks to sell Emporiki Bank, its
unprofitable Greek unit, to Alpha Bank SA for a token price of 1
euro. Alpha Bank surged 22 percent.  EasyJet advanced 6.7 percent to pace gains among airlines,
after saying on Oct. 3 that full-year earnings beat its
forecasts following a surge in demand for flights from London
after the end of the 2012  Olympic Games .  The  International Air Transport Association  raised its 2012
global airline-profit forecast by 37 percent as carriers slow
capacity growth to cope with higher fuel prices and waning
travel demand.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, rallied 7.2
percent and International Consolidated Airlines Group, the
parent company of British Airways and Iberia, jumped 11 percent.  Automakers Gain  Stoxx 600 automakers advanced 5.1 percent this week, for
the biggest gain among the 19 industry  groups . BMW added 7.2
percent, the most in eight months, after the  largest maker of
luxury cars  said group sales in China rose 59 percent in
September, easing investors’ concerns that the world’s biggest
automotive market is slowing.  Daimler increased 4.3 percent after reporting sales of
Mercedes-Benz cars jumped 7 percent in the U.S. in September as
the third-largest luxury carmaker expanded its lead on BMW in
that market. Preferred shares of Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest
automaker, rose 4.7 percent.  BTG Plc soared 14 percent, the biggest gain since April
2009. The British specialist drugmaker raised its annual revenue
forecast, citing “a strong first-half performance and a
positive outlook for the second half.”  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  tumbled 12 percent after the
lender said it will seek to raise as much as 2.5 billion euros
from a share sale as it tries to cover a capital shortfall
identified by the stress tests.  FirstGroup plunged 18 percent, the most since March, after
the U.K. Department for Transport canceled the West Coast
competition to run trains from London to Scotland citing the
discovery of “serious technical flaws” in the franchise
process. FirstGroup had won the route in August from billionaire
 Richard Branson ’s Virgin Group.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest retailer, slid 5 percent, the
most since January. The company reported its first profit
decline in almost two decades after increasing investment to
halt declining supermarket sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  