-- Mexico’s Peso Falls as Global Growth Concern Outweighs U.S. Jobs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-10-05T20:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/mexico-s-peso-falls-as-global-growth-concern-outweighs-u-s-jobs.html
Mexico ’s peso fell, wiping out gains
that pushed the currency to its highest level in six months, as
renewed concern about global growth outweighed a drop in the
U.S.  unemployment rate .  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 12.8106 per  U.S. dollar  at
3:17 p.m. in Mexico City, after earlier advancing as much as 0.7
percent and touching the highest intraday level since March 27.
It has added 0.4 percent this week, the most among the six major
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Spain  has been deterred from triggering the European
Union’s rescue mechanisms because of concern about how, and even
whether, the process would work, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya
Saenz de Santamaria said today. That’s helping fuel speculation
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will drag on global growth, hurting
the peso and other emerging-market assets,  Ramon Cordova , a
currency trader at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico, said in a phone interview.  “The peso is already overloaded,” Cordova said. “The
Spanish prime minister still hasn’t given signs that they’re
going to ask for a rescue. You have some risk that something
could happen over the weekend.”  The peso surged earlier after the unemployment rate in the
U.S., the top destination for the Latin American nation’s
exports, fell to the lowest since January 2009.  The U.S.  jobless rate  dropped to 7.8 percent from 8.1
percent, lower than the 8.2 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Mexico sends 80 percent of its
exports to the U.S.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 dropped four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.36 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price increased 0.44 centavo to
141.45 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  