-- Facebook Seeks Dismissal of $15 Billion Privacy Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-10-05T18:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/facebook-seeks-dismissal-of-15-billion-privacy-suit.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  said a $15 billion
lawsuit accusing the company of secretly tracking the Internet
activity of its users after they log off should be dismissed
because the subscribers didn’t specify how they were harmed.  The complaint suffers from an “utter lack of allegations
of any injury to these particular named plaintiffs,”  Matthew
Brown , a lawyer for Facebook, today told U.S. District Judge
Edward Davila in San Jose,  California . The plaintiffs haven’t
identified what websites they visited, what kind of data or
information was collected, or whether Facebook used it or
disclosed it to anyone else, Brown said. “They have not done
anything close to that.”  The lawsuit consolidates similar complaints filed on behalf
of U.S. residents who subscribed to Menlo Park, California-based
Facebook from May 2010 to September 2011 in 10 different states,
including California, Texas and  Alabama .  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking
service, has been scrutinized by regulators in the U.S. and
 Europe  over how it protects users’ private information. The
consolidated case in  San Jose  claims that while Facebook users
consent to the company’s installation of “cookie” files on
their computers to track and transmit their Web browsing, they
don’t consent to such monitoring after logging out of Facebook.  “Generalized allegations of harm suffice” at this stage
of the case to survive Facebook’s attempt to dismiss it, Stephen
Grygiel, a lawyer for the users, told Davila at today’s hearing.  “We were users, we used the computers in the way we were
entitled to,” and Facebook, “through a trick,” intercepted
users’ electronic communications with third party websites,
which amounts to a violation of federal wiretap and stored
communications laws, he said. “Nowhere in Facebook’s privacy
policies does the company say, ‘We are involved in your
communication with third party websites after you log out.’”  The U.S. Wiretap Act provides for damages of as much as
$100 per violation per day for each Facebook user, according to
the complaint.  The case is In re Facebook Internet Tracking Litigation,
5:12-md-02314-EJD, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  