-- Fed’s Dudley Says Housing Is Key Impediment to Growth
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-05T17:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/fed-s-dudley-says-housing-is-key-impediment-to-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said weakness in the housing market
is one of the main forces creating a “disappointing” economic
recovery.  “While there are several headwinds that have been
restraining economic growth, a key impediment is that the
housing market has failed to respond fully to the significant
easing of monetary policy,” Dudley said in New York today in
welcome remarks for a conference on distressed residential real
estate.  The Federal Open Market Committee last month announced a
third round of asset purchases and extended its horizon for
near-zero interest rates at least through the middle of 2015.
The Fed is buying $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities a
month to boost housing and fuel growth and employment.  The “sluggishness” in the housing market has stemmed from
“impaired” mortgage credit availability and “large volumes”
of distressed properties in the aftermath of the financial
crisis, Dudley said.  While housing starts and sales are “trending up
gradually” and prices have “begun to rise modestly” after
stabilizing, the level of starts and sales remains “quite
low,” Dudley said.  “The net result is that while housing’s contribution to
growth has finally turned positive, its magnitude is far below
that experienced in previous recoveries,” he said.  New Homes  Purchases of new U.S. homes hovered close to a two-year
high in August, the Commerce Department said last month.
S&P/Case-Shiller data showed Sept. 25 that home prices in July
advanced 1.2 percent from the previous year, the largest 12-
month gain since August 2010.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.4 percent to
1,467.44 as of 12:45 p.m. in New York, rising for a fifth
straight day after the unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent,
the lowest since 2009. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note rose 0.05 percentage point to 1.72 percent.  Dudley said the New York Fed is “deeply committed to
contributing to efforts to resolve the housing crisis that
continues to impede our economic performance.”  Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke said today in a speech at the
conference that even within metropolitan areas with rising
prices during the past year, one fourth of postal codes showed
declining prices, citing data from CoreLogic compiled by
researchers at the central bank.  Those ZIP codes with falling prices “have also experienced
rising vacancy rates more often” than in other ZIP codes, she
said.  “Vacant homes can be more than just an eyesore; they can
have substantial negative impacts on the surrounding community,
impacts that are felt most acutely by the neighbors and
communities that must cope with the dangers and costs of vacant
buildings,” Duke said. “Homes that have been vacant for a long
time tend to fall into severe disrepair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in Washington at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  