-- Ferdinand Accepts Hodgson Apology for Tube Gaffe: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-05T06:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/ferdinand-accepts-hodgson-apology-for-tube-gaffe-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Hodgson’s Apology  Rio Ferdinand  accepted England manager  Roy Hodgson ’s
apology for discussing the  Manchester United  defender’s
international future with passengers on the London Underground,
the Daily Telegraph reported.  Although the pair have still not spoken in person, indirect
contact has been made over what Hodgson said could be perceived
as an insult, the newspaper added.  “All I remember was that I was talking to quite a lot of
people on the Tube and one guy said, ‘Is Rio in the next squad?’
and I might have said: ‘I don’t think so,’” the Telegraph cited
Hodgson as saying. “It’s a mistake and I need to apologize for
that. I have no one to blame but myself.”  Ferdinand ‘Furious’  Ferdinand was “furious” with Hodgson for his gaffe and
fears the England manager has a personal issue with him, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Hodgson eventually left a voicemail apology for Ferdinand
and the player is said to have indicated to the Football
Association that he’s prepared to move on, the newspaper added.  Hernandez Carrot  Manchester United is hoping to tempt Real Madrid into
offloading some of its top players by offering Mexican striker
 Javier Hernandez  in return, the  Daily Star reported .  United has previously been linked with defenders Raul Albiol and Raphael Varane, and is said to be closely monitoring
 Sergio Ramos ’s feud with manager  Jose Mourinho , the Star added.  UEFA’s Urging  UEFA sent a memo urging participating clubs to help promote
the Europa League because the governing body wants the
competition to be taken more seriously, the  Sun reported .  The crib sheet sent to clubs before their pre-match news
conferences this week asked managers to use words such as
“prestigious” and “heritage” when talking about Europe’s
second-tier club tournament, the newspaper added.  Stones Chase  Everton will try to beat Chelsea and Manchester City to
sign Barnsley right-back John Stones with a big-money bid, the
 Mirror reported .  Toffees coach  David Moyes  sent coach Jimmy Lumsden to check
out the 18-year-old Stones in midweek, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  