-- Food-Stamp Use Cited in Presidential Debate Climbs to Record
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/food-stamp-use-cited-in-presidential-debate-climbs-to-record.html
A record 46.68 million Americans
received  food stamps  in July, the government said as
presidential candidates debate the economy and federal aid.  Participation was up by 11,532 from June and 2.9 percent
higher than a year earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said yesterday in a  report  on its website. The number rose
partly because of local weather disasters in Ohio,  Maryland  and
West Virginia, the USDA said. The total has topped 46 million
since September 2011.  “When you have a difficult recession -- as one as deep as
we experienced -- you’re going to see an increase, obviously, in
participation in programs that provide help for folks that are
going through a tough time,” Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack
said in an interview last week.  Monthly spending on food stamps reached $6.26 billion, also
a record and 2.9 percent more than a year earlier. The program’s
cost more than doubled in four years to a record  $75.7 billion 
in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, 2011 and is the department’s
biggest annual expense. This week, in the first debate between
presidential candidates, Republican  Mitt Romney  cited the
program’s growth as evidence of what he said are the failing
economic policies of President  Barack Obama .  Status Quo  “When the president took office, 32 million people on food
stamps; 47 million on food stamps today,” Romney said. “Going
forward with the status quo is not going to cut it for the
American people who are struggling today.”  Food-stamp enrollment in January 2009 was 31.98 million,
according to the USDA.  The House budget approved in April, sponsored by
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, Romney’s vice
presidential running mate, would cut expenses for food stamps,
officially called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program,
by $33 billion over 10 years.  The program also has ensnared efforts to pass a farm bill
to replace the law that expired Sept. 30. The Senate in June
approved a plan that would lower expenditures by $4 billion over
10 years. The Republican-led House Agriculture Committee in July
backed a $16 billion cut in the same period.  The  report  shows  California and Texas , the states with the
largest population, having the most recipients. California led
with 4.03 million, a 0.6 percent increase from the previous
month and 6.8 percent more than a year earlier. Food stamps went
to 3.98 million Texans, up 0.6 percent from June while 1.8
percent lower than a year earlier.  Hawaii , with a 10 percent rise, and  Florida , with a 9.6
percent gain, had the biggest year-over-year increases. The
largest decline was in  North Dakota , where enrollment fell 8
percent, followed by Utah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  