-- Forint Jumps as Hungary Drops Tax Opposed by IMF: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-05T14:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/forint-gains-most-in-3-weeks-as-hungary-scraps-central-bank-tax.html
The forint strengthened the most in
two months and the cost of insuring  Hungary ’s debt fell to a 14-
month low after the government scrapped a tax plan that was an
obstacle to obtaining aid from the International Monetary Fund.  Hungary’s currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 282.19 per
euro by 3:03 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest jump since Aug. 3.
The cost of protecting the country’s bonds against non-payment
with credit-default swaps tumbled 17 basis points to 358, the
least since August 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government will impose a higher levy on cash
withdrawals, raise more than previously planned by taxing
transactions at the state treasury and delay a pay increase for
teachers to keep the budget deficit within 3 percent of gross
domestic product, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said at a
press conference in Budapest today. The measures will help it
forgo a tax on central bank deals which threatened to further
delay IMF aid requested by Hungary 11 months ago.  “The market is pleased with the government measures,”
Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote
by e-mail today. “It regards the steps as realistic for now and
it sees the item related to the central bank as a move towards
an agreement” with the IMF, Bamli said.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bond fell
17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 7.24 percent, the
lowest since July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘More Balanced’  The IMF urged Hungary to implement “more balanced”
policies that improve the growth outlook and hold off on
additional austerity measures on top of the government’s planned
2013 budget cuts, Iryna Ivaschenko, the Washington-based
lender’s representative in Budapest, said on Oct. 3. The fund
hasn’t set a date for the resumption of talks with Hungary,
Gerry Rice, the lender’s spokesman said in  Washington  yesterday.  The budget steps announced today “may reduce risks and
increase the chances for a potential IMF agreement,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based economist at Erste Group Bank AG,
said by telephone today. “We still see a lot of uncertainties”
as the measures may not be enough to keep the deficit within 3
percent of GDP or reach a quick deal with the IMF, he said.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell 13 basis points to 362, the lowest in
two months and more than 50 percent below January’s peak.  Emerging-market assets extended gains today after a report
showed U.S. unemployment unexpectedly fell in September,
boosting bets on a recovery in the global economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  