-- French Wheat Exports Seen by Senalia Rising on Demand Next Month
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-05T14:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/french-wheat-exports-seen-by-senalia-rising-on-demand-next-month.html
French wheat exports that have slowed
in recent weeks are likely to rebound next month as supplies
diminish in  Russia  and Ukraine, said Laurent Martel, who heads
the biggest grain storage group at  France ’s Port of Rouen.  Exports from Rouen,  Europe ’s biggest cereal-shipping hub,
fell 32 percent in the week through Oct. 3, compared with a week
earlier, the port said yesterday. Shipments have been “very
slow” since the marketing season began on July 1 as buyers
preferred cheaper grains from the Black Sea region, Martel said
in an interview at the 52nd European Commodities Exchange in
Edinburgh. Silos are full at Senalia, a cooperative union that
loads 2 million to 4 million metric tons of grain annually, he
said.  “Importers were jumping on the opportunity to have some
wheat from Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan before they ran out,”
said Martel, Senalia’s director general. “Until the end of
October it will be very slow from France, but then there’s going
to be massive demand.”  Milling wheat prices have climbed 33 percent this year on
NYSE Liffe in Paris on speculation that dry weather would spur
Russia to restrict exports this season.  Egypt , the world’s
largest wheat importer, has purchased the grain from France in
at least four tenders in the past month, after favoring  Black
Sea region  supplies earlier in the season.  Senalia can load as much as 800,000 tons of grain a month,
Martel said.  “We’re optimistic because we know demand would be there,”
he said. “We would prefer it to be more spread out, because it
could be very concentrated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  