-- Gasoline Gains as Supplies Tighten, U.S. Jobless Rate Falls
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-05T20:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/gasoline-gains-as-supplies-tighten-u-s-jobless-rate-falls.html
Gasoline rose as refinery and
pipeline shutdowns threatened supply levels and as the U.S.
 unemployment rate  slipped to 7.8 percent in September, the
lowest since President  Barack Obama  took office in January 2009.  Futures advanced after  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  halted spot
sales in  Southern California  and Exxon Mobil Corp. rationed
gasoline deliveries, citing tight supplies. Colonial Pipeline
Co., operator of the largest conduit between Gulf Coast refiners
and the East Coast, reopened two products pipelines that shut
yesterday. The Labor Department reported that the jobless rate
fell from 8.1 percent in August.  “The surprising drop in the overall unemployment rate
caught everybody by surprise,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president
of research at PFGBest in Chicago. “We also still have the
ongoing concerns about tightness in supply.”  Gasoline for November delivery rose 0.96 cent, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $2.9525 a gallon on the exchange. Prices
fell 12 percent this week as the market switched to trading the
November contract, which is based on winter-grade gasoline.  Gasoline surged 5.1 percent yesterday amid reports of the
pipeline shutdown, spot shortages in Southern California and a
fire at Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Baytown, Texas, refinery, the
largest in the U.S.  “The markets are very tight,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil
market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a research consultant
in London. “We have risen a lot in terms of prices.”  Jobs Report  The economy added 114,000 workers last month after a
revised 142,000 gain in August that was more than initially
estimated, the Labor Department said. The median estimate of 92
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an advance of 115,000.  Heating oil fell on speculation that refinery and pipeline
shutdowns that have trimmed supply levels will be over soon.  Colonial Pipeline  said today it has restarted the gasoline
and diesel lines that were shut yesterday after a leak. Both
lines run between Atlanta and Nashville, Tennessee.  Motiva Enterprises LLC plans to restart a damaged 325,000-
barrel-a-day crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery as
early as the first week in December, according to people
familiar with refinery operations.  Motiva said in July that the crude unit would start early
in 2013. The unit will add to available supplies of diesel. At
full capacity, the Port Arthur refinery will be able to produce
190,000 barrels a day of the fuel, according to Motiva.  “The market has exhausted itself,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
 Connecticut .  November-delivery heating oil fell 3.25 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $3.1559 a gallon on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Futures declined 0.4 percent this week.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.5
cent to $3.789 a gallon yesterday, AAA data show. It was the
third straight increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  