-- GE Capital Said to Near Systemic-Risk Label in Review
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s ,   I a n   K a t z   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-05T20:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/ge-capital-said-to-near-systemic-risk-label-in-review.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance arm is
in the final stage of a regulatory review to determine if it
needs extra scrutiny because of the risk that its potential
failure would pose to the U.S. economy, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  GE Capital Corp. joins  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  as
the only two non-banks that the Financial Stability Oversight
Council has voted to advance to a third round of evaluations for
possible designation as systemically important financial
institutions, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  The decision moves regulators closer to deciding whether GE
Capital, which has been regulated by the Federal Reserve since
July 2011, should be subject to heightened financial
supervision. While GE has said it expects the unit to be
designated systemically important, the Fairfield, Connecticut-
based company isn’t discussing the status of its review.  “We will disclose our designation once the final decision
has been made,”  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for GE Capital,
said today in an e-mail. “We are prepared for whatever decision
is reached.”  The Financial Stability Oversight Council’s review may
still advance other companies to its final stage of review, the
people said.  Systemically Important  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the largest
U.S. life insurers, are also likely to be deemed systemically
important, analysts led by  Jay Gelb  at Barclays Plc said in an
Oct. 2 research note.  Prudential advanced 1.7 percent to $56.70 in New York
trading at 4 p.m. MetLife climbed 0.4 percent and GE was up 0.7
percent.  Bob DeFillippo, a spokesman for  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential, declined to comment on its status in the review.
MetLife’s Chris Breslin said the New York-based insurer remains
under Federal Reserve oversight because it is still a bank-
holding company, a status the company is trying to lose by
selling deposits.  A Treasury Department spokeswoman declined to comment today
and referred to a statement that was released after the last
council meeting, on Sept. 28. The panel voted then to extend its
evaluation of an unspecified number of non-bank financial firms.  “The council will notify the companies that were advanced
but does not intend to publicly announce the name of any non-
bank financial company that is under evaluation before a final
designation of such company,” the council said.  On Oct. 2, New York-based AIG disclosed that it was among
the non-bank financial companies that was still under review.  The FSOC was created as part of the Dodd-Frank law to
monitor the stability of the financial system following the
crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner chairs the
panel, which includes Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  