-- Gehry Too-Tall Condo Towers Built for Bull Market: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-10-05T14:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/gehry-too-tall-condo-towers-built-for-bull-market-mortgages.html
Architect  Frank Gehry  is designing
three condo towers in Toronto that would be  North America ’s
tallest residences. His latest contribution to his home town
comes as the Canadian government is trying to cool the market
after  home prices  surged 85 percent in the past decade.  The three sculpture-like towers, funded by theater promoter
David Mirvish, will rise as high as 85 floors beside a century-
old theater and near the Gehry-designed Art Gallery of Ontario.
The skyscrapers, with a combined 2,600 residential units, will
compete with hundreds of other projects in a city with more
residential buildings under construction than anywhere else in
North America.  “We’ve definitely reached a peak and we’re on the way
down,” Ben Myers, executive vice president of Urbanation Inc.,
a real estate research firm, said in a phone interview from
Toronto. “We didn’t anticipate these kinds of super projects
coming onto the market.”  The building boom coincides with slowing property sales and
prices after Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  in June
imposed tougher  mortgage lending  rules for the fourth time in as
many years. Existing home sales fell 19 percent last month from
a year earlier, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from six
regional real estate boards. Sales in Toronto dropped 21
percent, even as prices rose 8.6 percent.  Toronto condo sales were down 29 percent in September over
the same month last year, according to the city’s real estate
board. Prices of units rose 8 percent to C$377,422 ($385,000).
The average sale price for a home in Toronto  surged  to C$465,412
in 2011 from C$251,208 in 2001.  ‘Condo Bubble’  “Of course the condo bubble in Toronto is on my mind, but
we’re in the early beginnings of it,” Gehry said on Oct. 1, at
a press conference about the project at the Art Gallery of
Ontario. “The culture of the city and the condo boom has
nothing to do with me. That’s your problem.”  Even as the market is softening, a record 224 condo
projects with 58,995 units are under construction in Toronto,
according to the most recent data from RealNet  Canada  Inc.,
which tracks housing across the country. More than a quarter of
these are in the same area as the planned Mirvish, Gehry project
along King Street, west of the city’s financial core, according
to RealNet.  Flaherty criticized “continuous building, without
restriction” of condos as the central bank signaled record
consumer debt and the chance of a sudden housing correction are
major risks to the economy.  ‘Economics Work’  The government shortened the maximum amortization period on
mortgages the government insures to 25 years from 30 years, and
lowered the maximum amount homeowners can borrow against the
value of their homes to 80 percent from 85 percent. Canada also
capped mortgage debt payments at 39 percent of income and
limited government mortgage insurance to homes worth less than
C$1 million.  Gehry, the 1989 winner of the Pritzker Architecture Prize,
was born Ephraim Owen Goldberg on Feb. 28, 1929, in Toronto,
where his grandparents, Polish Jews, had settled.  “You can make architecture comfortable, it can engage, and
Old Toronto had that,” Gehry said at the press conference. “My
buildings are on budget, on time, they deliver some kind of
feeling, people like them, and they pay off somehow. The
economics work.”  Dancing Building  He became a pioneer in using computer software to turn
whimsical designs into precise building plans, and turned
little-known Bilbao,  Spain , into an international travel
destination after he bested two competitors for the job of
designing the New York-based Guggenheim’s branch museum there.
Gehry’s first foray into designing skyscrapers, the 76-story
rental apartment building at 8 Spruce St. in  Lower Manhattan ,
opened in 2011 as  New York ’s tallest residential building.  Gehry’s Nationale-Nederlanden Building in  Prague  became
known as the Dancing Building, or simply the Fred and Ginger,
after dancers  Fred Astaire  and Ginger Rogers, because of the way
one tower appears to be embraced by the other.  Gehry’s Toronto towers are not the first ambitious project
he’s embarked on as a market was reaching a peak. Construction
of the architect’s 450,000-square-foot Guggenheim Abu Dhabi
museum was halted in October 2011 by Tourism Development &
Investment Co. as the emirate scaled back plans made before the
financial crisis.  ‘Risky Period’  The Toronto condo project “does seem a bit late,” said
David Madani, an economist in Toronto with  Capital Economics .
“It’s definitely a more risky period to be thinking about
building, particularly when inventories are very high and
there’s already a backlog of work under construction.”  The strongest sign that government efforts to damp the
housing market came with the August home sales data, which
showed sales falling the most in two years. That was the “first
full glimpse” into Canadian housing after the mortgage rule
changes, Sonya Gulati, senior economist at  Toronto Dominion
Bank (TD) , said in a note to clients Sept. 17. The weakness in August
home prices and sales was expected and the regulatory-induced
cooling will continue for the next eight months, she said.  “The Canadian housing market has indeed ratcheted down its
growth pace,” she said in the note. “In most local markets, it
has reversed course with price and sales contractions becoming
more the norm.”  The Canadian housing industry fared better during the
economic downturn than the U.S., said George Carras, president
of RealNet. The main reason is that subprime mortgages made to
people with poor credit history weren’t as prevalent. Banking
regulators also required Canadian banks to have higher capital
reserves, meaning none of the country’s lenders required
government bailouts.  No Bubble  “I don’t think there is a bubble,” Flaherty told
reporters yesterday. “I think there was the danger of a bubble
in Toronto and  Vancouver . I’m actually comfortable with the fact
that we’ve seen some moderation in pressures.”  Myers at Urbanation said there’s certainly potential for
pricing to go down in the market. “But the unknown in the
market is the fact that we have a high percentage of investors
and if the market declines, we don’t know what their strategy
will be,” he said.  “We are essentially in year 16 or 17 of an increasing
market so it’s very hard for me to finally say ’yes, this is the
time when we’re going to see major declines in the market.’”  Right Pricing  The Mirvish, Gehry project has a better chance to succeed
than most condos as long as “pricing is right” because it is a
landmark project in the city and “investors are looking for
Triple-A sites, which would have the better appreciation going
forward,” he said.  The housing market in Toronto has “normalized,” James Ritchie, senior vice president at Toronto-based Tridel, said in
a phone interview.  “There are opportunities for many more new developments
over the next 10, 20 years in this city,” he said. Even with
the growth, this year will “pale in comparison” to last year’s
“velocity,” and the city will add about 16,500 new unit sales
in 2012, he said. “By any standard on this continent, it’s
still pretty darn good.”  Mirvish says he’s not concerned about a housing bubble in
Canada’s biggest city. “I can’t factor in a condo bubble,” he
said at the unveiling of the building design this week.
“Frank’s 83 and I’m 68. The bubble will take care of itself.”  ‘Mamma Mia’  The second-generation theater executive is the son of the
late Ed Mirvish, best known for founding Toronto’s “Honest
Ed’s” discount department store. Together, the father and son
built Toronto’s Princess of Wales Theatre in 1993, which will be
leveled for construction of the three towers. He also owns and
operates the Royal Alexandra Theatre, which will remain
operational beside the new development.  Theatrical productions Mirvish helped to bring to Toronto
include “ Mamma Mia ,” “The Producers,” “The  Lion King ,”
“Les Miserables” and “The Lord Of The Rings.”  The buildings are “transformative,” and their mixed use
is exactly what Toronto needs, Mirvish said.  “I want to see the building accommodate the evolution of
the city, and initially what there is in the city is demand for
smaller units,” Mirvish said. “We’re drawing attention back to
the center of the city; we’re giving it a sense of pride.”  The project, under review by the city, would compete with
other recent residential housing developments, including the
Trump International Hotel and Tower, which opened this year, and
the Holt Renfrew Tower, built on top of the luxury department
store of the same name and due in 2017. The Mirvish towers will
be up to 285 meters (935 feet) high, taller than both of these.  Art Collection  The towers will also include retail space and a public
60,000 square-foot museum to house artwork collected by Mirvish.
The target market isn’t luxury condo dwellers but young people
looking for smaller spaces, Mirvish said.  The first of the towers will need to be 70 percent sold to
begin construction, estimated by the end of 2013, and the first
tower should be completed in seven years, Peter Kofman,
president of Projectcore Inc. and the project developer said.  “Regardless of what we see today, we have to be
responsible, we have to be prudent,” Kofman said. “It could be
one tower, two towers, three towers depending on where the
market is.”  In a crane-lined city with so much condo competition, the
project signals the tail end of the condo boom, Myers at
Urbanation said.  “You have to stick out,” he said. “Just bringing on your
regular tower may not do it anymore - unless the pricing is
low.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  