-- Echo Rises After Genting HK Seeks Bigger Casino Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-10-05T07:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/genting-hk-asks-to-lift-echo-stake-to-25-in-packer-casino-fight.html
Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) ,
operator of Sydney’s only casino, rose the most in almost four
months after Genting Hong Kong Ltd. applied to raise its stake
amid a fight for control with billionaire  James Packer .  Echo’s shares climbed 3.4 percent to A$3.98 at the close of
trade in Sydney, their sharpest gain since June 8.  Genting Hong Kong, a cruise ship company controlled by
billionaire Lim Kok Thay, asked the New South Wales Independent
Liquor and Gaming Authority for permission to increase its
holding to 25 percent, the agency said in a  statement  on its
website. The move intensifies Lim’s contest with Packer’s  Crown
Ltd. (CWN)  for greater control of Echo, two weeks after  Genting
Singapore Plc (GENS) , also controlled by  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  of which Lim is
chairman, said it was selling its 4.8 percent stake in Echo.  Genting Hong Kong’s application “suggests they’re still
interested in the asset,” Gary Pinge, an analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by phone. Crown, which holds about
7.7 percent of Echo, has also applied to increase its stake to
25 percent.  The application announced today lifts the target above a 20
percent threshold at which companies must generally make a
takeover offer under Australian  corporate law . Genting Hong Kong
applied previously to raise its stake above 10 percent, in
accordance with provisions on local casino businesses.  The regulator and its counterpart in neighboring Queensland
state are investigating the plan by the company, which has a 4.2
percent stake, according to the statement.  The Hong Kong-based cruise ship operator’s debt was rated
below investment grade, or  junk , by Moody’s Investors Service
Inc. before ratings were withdrawn in 2009. Genting Singapore
has an investment-grade  Baa1 rating  and held  net cash  of S$1.93
billion as of June 30.  A broker at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc was seeking a 5
percent stake in Echo at A$3.90 yesterday, and Genting  Hong Kong 
was probably the buyer, the Australian Financial Review  reported 
without saying where it got the information. Justin Gallagher,
head of equity sales trading at the bank’s Sydney office, said
he couldn’t comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  