-- GM Says It Will Keep Opel After Report of Fiat’s Interest
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-10-05T12:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/gm-says-it-will-keep-opel-after-report-of-fiat-s-interest.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  intends to keep
its Opel unit, Vice Chairman Steve Girsky said after  Il Sole 24
Ore  reported that  Fiat SpA (F)  is interested in buying the division.  “Opel is not for sale,” Girsky, who is head of the U.S.
company’s European operations, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “GM fully stands behind Opel. Opel is a fully integrated
part of GM’s global footprint and vital for GM’s future success
in Europe.”  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has a plan
to buy Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel at a “symbolic price”
should an alliance between Detroit-based GM and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  falter, the Italian newspaper  reported  today, without
citing anyone. Fiat, which has its headquarters in the northern
Italian city of Turin, declined to comment on the report.  GM has been trying to fix its European business for more
than a decade after losing $16.8 billion in the region since
1999. Opel is cutting work days and may close a plant in  Germany 
in 2016 as the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe curtails growth
and curbs demand for cars.  Part of GM’s strategy in the region is a partnership
announced with Paris-based Peugeot in February. The companies
missed deadlines for logistics and and purchasing agreements,
and people familiar with the matter said last month that talks
on product development and supplies of vehicles and powertrains
have slowed amid the worsening economy.  Peugeot-GM Targets  Frederic Saint-Geours, Peugeot’s vice president for brands,
told journalists at the Paris Motor Show a week ago that
alliance projects will be achieved by the year’s end. They were
to have been signed by the end of this month, GM said in a U.S.
regulatory filing.  “The GM-Peugeot alliance is fully on track,” Girsky said
today. Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a spokesman for Peugeot, declined
to comment.  Fiat rose as much as 0.5 percent to 4.47 euros and was
trading up 0.5 percent at 2:19 p.m. in Milan. Peugeot gained 0.3
percent to 6.15 euros in Paris. GM shares traded in  Frankfurt 
rose 0.5 percent to $24.78.  The French and U.S. companies didn’t meet a June 30
deadline on a joint parts-buying plan. The companies cited
delays getting the approval of antitrust regulators, which
Peugeot CEO Philippe Varin said at the Paris show should be
achieved in November.  GM and Peugeot announced they had reached a logistics
agreement on July 2, more than two months after the April 30
deadline set in their Feb. 29 master agreement filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Cash Burn  Peugeot is trying to make its automotive operations
profitable and stem a cash burn at the business totaling 200
million euros ($257 million) a month. The French automaker is
cutting 8,000 jobs and closing a plant on the outskirts of
Paris.  Fiat, which controls U.S. carmaker Chrysler Group LLC, has
suspended investments in  Italy , reducing spending by 500 million
euros in  Europe  in 2012 and delaying new models, as Marchionne
has said he doesn’t expect sales to recover in the region before
2014. Marchionne, who failed to buy Opel in 2009, said last
month he won’t give up on Fiat’s home market, even as the
carmaker is set to lose 700 million euros in Europe this year.  The  ACEA  carmakers trade group in Europe is forecasting
that sales in the region this year will be at the lowest level
since 1995. Marchionne, who holds the rotating ACEA presidency,
has been urging European counterparts to come up with a
comprehensive plan to cut overcapacity throughout the region, a
move resisted by  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and other German carmakers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  