-- Gross Says Structural Changes Weigh on Employment: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-10-05T14:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/gross-says-structural-changes-still-weigh-on-employment-market.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said that while the drop in the  unemployment rate 
last month shows progress, the  U.S. economy  is still being
weighed down by structural changes rather than cyclical forces.  Globalization and technological advances are making it more
difficult for the U.S. to add jobs as opposed to changes in the
pace of economic growth, Gross, manager of the world’s biggest
bond fund, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “The dominant influence is structural,” Gross said. The
fall in the unemployment rate does show “we’ve made progress.
So let’s give some applause to the president and administration
in what they have been doing. Obviously, they haven’t been
creating enough jobs.”  Unemployment unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent in September,
the lowest since President  Barack Obama  took office in January
2009, as employers took on more part-time workers. The economy
added 114,000 workers last month after a revised 142,000 gain in
August that was more than initially estimated, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of 92
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an advance of
115,000. The jobless rate dropped from 8.1 percent.  Reflation Bet  Inflation remains a concern over the next several years
because of central-bank polices to add stimulus, said Gross, who
has been buying Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or
TIPS, as part of a bet to profit from the likely rise in
consumer prices over the next few years.  “An investor or bond fund or equity fund has to make a bet
on reflation or deflation, and recognize that the market power
currently rests with central banks,” Gross said. “‘We are
betting at Pimco on reflation. We don’t want to fight the Fed,
but we want to afraid of the inflationary consequences.”  The so-called  break-even rate,  which measures how much
traders anticipate consumer prices will rise over the life of
the debt, for 30-year securities touched 2.57 percentage points,
the highest since Sept. 18.  Inflation in the U.S. could climb to 3 percent over the
next five to 10 years as central banks endorse a higher rate
because they’re limited in policy responses, Gross said.
Consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in August, the most in more
than three years, Labor Department data show.  Front-Running Bankers  Fed policy makers began a third round of debt purchases
last month and said they will probably hold the federal funds
rate close to zero “at least through mid-2015.” Since January,
the central bank had said the rate was likely to stay low at
least through late 2014.  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in Pimco’s $277 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 21 percent of
assets in August, from 33 percent the previous month, according
the latest available data on the company’s  website . Treasuries
remained his second biggest holdings after mortgages securities
at 50 percent.  The Total Return Fund has gained 12 percent in the past
year, beating 96 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has returned 8.9 percent in the past
five years, beating 98 percent of comparable funds.  Gross, who purchases mortgage-backed securities earlier
this year given expectation the Fed’s would announce a new round
of quantitative easing using the debt, is also been purchasing
debt of Spain and  Italy  ahead of possible purchases by the
 European Central Bank .  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  endorsed last
month an unlimited bond-purchase program to contain rising
yields in the euro area and fight speculation that nations might
leave the 17-nation currency.  “We are looking to euro-land as the ECB is about to do
their own program,” Gross said. “You want to own what they are
buying before they buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  