-- Indian Stocks Decline Most in Asia After Erroneous Orders
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-10-05T13:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/indian-stocks-decline-most-in-asia-after-erroneous-orders.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks tumbled the most in
Asia after erroneous orders led to a plunge and halt in trading
on the S&P CNX Nifty Index that briefly erased about $58 billion
in value.  The Nifty slid 0.7 percent to 5,746.65 at close in Mumbai.
Trading in the index was halted at 9:49 a.m. local time for 15
minutes after the gauge plunged as much as 16 percent. The BSE
India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost 0.6 percent to 18,938.46
from its highest level since July 2011. Business at the BSE Ltd.
was unaffected, Asia’s oldest bourse said in a statement.
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s largest refining
complex, and  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the country’s
biggest mortgage lender, both tumbled as much as 20 percent.  “Erroneous orders would impact investor confidence,” said
 Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head of Asian equity research at
ABN Amro Private Banking, which oversees about $207 billion.
“However, investors would still ultimately look to future
reforms, not just related to the bourse but also to the economy.
The crash definitely hurts as there has been a lot of foreign
inflows in the last two months.”  The National Stock Exchange, the nation’s largest bourse,
controls more than 90 percent of India’s $28 billion equity
derivatives market and handles 75 percent of the stock trades.
The plunge, the biggest in more than two years, overshadowed
government approval yesterday of proposals allowing overseas
companies to take stakes in insurance firms and pension funds.  Reform Push  Ministers approved yesterday proposals allowing overseas
companies to hold as much as 49 percent in insurance firms, and
for the first time permitting foreign investment in pension
funds, as the Congress Party-led government pushes ahead with
the biggest opening of the economy since 2004.  Yesterday’s cabinet decision extends Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s policy push that began last month when the
government lowered fuel subsidies, opened retailing and airlines
to foreigners and reduced a tax on local companies’ overseas
borrowings to 5 percent from 20 percent.  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Allianz SE  and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  are among global
insurers that will be able to further invest in their Indian
ventures if lawmakers approve the proposals when parliament
resumes next month. The votes may provide the first test of
Singh’s ability to drum up the support among regional
powerbrokers that his minority administration will need to pass
legislation.  ‘Investors Cautious’  Singh’s widening embrace of foreign investment has been
spurred by an economy growing close to its slowest pace in three
years and warnings that  India ’s credit rating may be downgraded
to junk status amid stalled policy making. The Sensex has gained
5.1 percent since Singh unveiled the measures.  “There’s skepticism the government may not be able to pass
the insurance and pension bills in Parliament,” Rikesh Parikh,
vice president of equities at Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd.,
said in a phone interview today. “Investors are turning
cautious after the sharp rally.”  The Sensex has increased 23 percent this year as overseas
funds bought a net $16.5 billion of equities, the most among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, which excludes China. The
gauge trades at 15 times estimated  earnings , the most expensive
since March 30. The ratio is still below the gauge’s three-year
average of 16.3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volume Surge  Nifty (NIFTY) ’s October futures settled at 5,776.55. The BSE-200
Index slid 0.7 percent to 2,330.78. The National Stock Exchange
of India and the BSE traded 1.4 billion shares yesterday, 51
percent more than the 12-month daily average.  Infosys Ltd. (INFY) , the second biggest software exporter, slumped
to a four-week low. It fell 1.8 percent to 2,526.85 rupees.
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (IBN) , the third-biggest lender, fell 1.5 percent to
1,066.7 rupees, the steepest decline in two weeks.  HDFC dropped 5 percent to 749.95 rupees after  Carlyle Group 
sold its stake in the company. Reliance climbed 0.6 percent to
857.8 rupees, rebounding from an intra-day loss of as much as 20
percent.  Overseas  investors  bought a net  $187.5 million  of Indian
stocks yesterday, a ninth straight day of net purchases,
according to data from the nation’s market regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  