-- India Rupee Completes Fifth Weekly Gain on Singh’s Policy Push
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-10-05T12:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/india-rupee-completes-fifth-weekly-gain-on-singh-s-policy-push.html
India ’s rupee rose for a fifth week,
the longest winning streak since February, as global funds
bought more of the nation’s stocks on speculation the
government’s policy changes will spur economic growth.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s cabinet yesterday approved
proposals allowing overseas companies to own as much as 49
percent of insurers and permitted foreign investment in pension
funds for the first time. The bills, which will need
parliamentary consent, follow steps announced in September to
cut the budget deficit and attract capital.  “The wave of positive reforms from India has caught the
market’s attention,” analysts at Citigroup Inc., including
Singapore-based Gaurav Garg, wrote in a research report. “The
outperformance of the rupee to other regional peers is here to
stay as the reform juggernaut keeps rolling.”  The rupee advanced 1.9 percent this week to 51.8550 per
dollar in Mumbai, the best performance among Asian currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped 0.2 percent
today, erasing losses after earlier touching 51.3875, the
strongest level since April 18. The currency will strengthen to
50 in the coming months, according to Citigroup, which
recommends buying the rupee against  Singapore ’s dollar and the
South Korean won.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 11 percent. The gauge has fallen 40 basis
points this week, the largest drop in a month.  Stock Inflows  Global funds added $4.1 billion to holdings of Indian
shares last month, the biggest inflow since February, after
Singh cut fuel subsidies, opened retailing and airlines to
foreign investors, and reduced a tax on local companies’
overseas borrowing to 5 percent from 20 percent. Offshore
investors bought a net $199 million of equities in the first
three days of this month, exchange data show.  The currency dropped today as Indian stocks fell after
erroneous orders led to a plunge and halt in trading on the S&P
CNX Nifty Index that briefly erased about $58 billion in value.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 52.83 a dollar,
compared with 52.80 yesterday, and offshore non-deliverable
contracts were at 52.61 from 52.57. Forwards are agreements to
buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  