-- India Investing, Airline Delays, IMF Report: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-05T12:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/india-investing-airline-delays-imf-report-compliance.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s cabinet unveiled a second wave of policy changes
intended to bolster a slumping economy as he seeks to restore
faith in his leadership and establish a platform for his party
less than two years before the next general election.  In a move that signaled the  Congress party -led government’s
intent to push ahead with the biggest opening of the economy to
global investors since 2004, ministers approved proposals
allowing overseas companies to hold as much as 49 percent in
insurance firms, and for the first time permit foreign
investment in pension funds. The bills will need the consent of
lawmakers in parliament.  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  are among global
insurers that will be able to further invest in their Indian
ventures if lawmakers approve the proposals when Parliament
resumes next month. The votes may provide the first test of
Singh’s ability to drum up the support among regional
powerbrokers that his minority administration will need to pass
legislation.  Rejecting a parliamentary panel, which in December said a
further increase may not be in the interest of the country’s
insurance industry, the government will present a bill to
Parliament proposing to  lift  the cap on foreign investment in
insurance to 49 percent from 26 percent currently. A separate
bill will allow overseas investment in pension funds.  Last month, Singh’s cabinet allowed overseas retailers such
as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  to own as much as 51
percent in supermarket ventures. The government also said
foreign airlines can own as much as 49 percent in local
carriers, and permitted overseas investment of as much as 49
percent in power exchanges.  The second round of big-ticket policy changes announced
Oct. 3 may be harder to enforce because unlike foreign
investment in retail and aviation, which are enacted by a
cabinet decision, opening insurance and pensions requires
parliamentary approval.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Japan Urges Bank Lobby to Review Tibor Amid U.K. Rate Reform  Ikko Nakatsuka, Japan’s new financial services minister,
urged the country’s bank lobby to determine whether its process
for setting the benchmark yen lending rate should be revamped.  The  Japanese Bankers Association  should identify what
improvements, if any, need to be made to guidelines for
submissions used to set the Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate,
Nakatsuka told a group of reporters in Tokyo today.  Comments from the minister come as the U.K. looks to reform
governance and management related to setting the London
Interbank Offered Rate following a Libor manipulation scandal
there.  Yasuhiro Sato, who heads the lobby group, said July 19 his
association completed a monthlong review of member banks to
ensure they follow its guidelines. No issues related to its
framework for setting Tibor were found, he said.  In Japan, reference banks are responsible for submitting
interbank offered rates to the association, which compiles them
and sets the benchmark, according to the group’s website.  MasterCard Urges EU for ‘Different Approach’ on Card Fees  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said artificial reduction of cross-border
interchange fees for credit-card payments may increase consumer
costs and reduce benefits of retailers. The global payment
solutions company cited regulatory action in Spain, Australia
and the U.S. in support of its statement.  The European Commission said Oct. 3 it will draft new rules
on interchange fees charged on credit-card transactions between
different EU countries.  IMF Says Bank Stress Tests Need Better Focus on Risk Channels  The  International Monetary Fund  said countries need to
improve stress tests on banks and other major financial
institutions to identify risk channels and consider low-
probability events that could have dire consequences.  There have been “major improvements” in the ways
supervisors assess whether banks can withstand shocks, yet
changes put in place during the past few years don’t go far
enough to protect the financial system, the IMF said in an Aug.
22 report that was made public yesterday.  The IMF praised methods developed by the Dutch central bank
and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority to tackle solvency and
liquidity risks. It also praised the Federal Reserve’s U.S.
stress testing in 2009 for “restoring confidence” and making
it easier for investors to evaluate financial firms.  By contrast, European Union stress tests in 2011 failed to
reassure investors or identify imminent risks, the IMF said.  Compliance Action  RBS Said to Suspend Trader as Rate-Rigging Spreads Beyond Libor  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  suspended a trader for
trying to rig the Singapore dollar swap offer rate, indicating
employees may have sought to manipulate more than just Libor,
two people briefed on the matter said.  Senior trader Chong Wen Kuang was put on leave earlier this
year for trying to rig the interest rate to benefit his trading
position, said the people who asked not to be identified because
the bank is probing his actions. He is the first RBS employee to
be suspended or fired for attempting to rig a benchmark other
than the London interbank offered rate, one of the people said.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, is one of at
least a dozen firms being investigated over allegations they
colluded to influence  interest rates  so they could profit from
derivatives bets. RBS started its own probe into allegations of
rate-rigging in the middle of 2010, according to one of the
people. The Edinburgh-based lender fired four traders last year
for rigging the yen and Swiss franc Libors, and suspended a
further two, who have since been reinstated, the person said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore, the country’s central
bank, said in July it will examine how banks are setting “key
market interest rate benchmarks” amid similar reviews by
regulators in Europe and the U.S.  An e-mail sent to Chong’s RBS account was returned with a
delivery-failure message. Calls to his office were answered by
colleagues who declined to be identified and said he was away
from the office. A receptionist at RBS in Singapore said there
was no record for Chong in the bank’s global directory. He is
still listed as a  key person  at RBS for Singapore government
securities, according to the MAS’s directory.  Michael Strachan, a spokesman for RBS, declined to comment
on Chong and referred to a previously released statement.  For more, click here.  FSB Said to Weigh Shorter List of Too-Big-to-Fail Banks  Global regulators may trim their list of 29 too-big-to-fail
 banks  earmarked for capital surcharges, according to two people
familiar with the talks.  The  Financial Stability Board  is scheduled to agree on an
update of the list at a meeting next week in Tokyo, according to
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks
aren’t public. The list may be revised because the potential
failure of some of the lenders is no longer deemed to pose a
threat to the world economy and because others have
restructured, the people said.  The FSB last year published a list of 29 so-called globally
systemic banks that should have to hold more capital than
required by other international agreements.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , and HSBC Holdings Plc were provisionally earmarked to
face the top level of surcharges, set at 2.5 percent of risk-
weighted assets.  One of the banks that is almost certain to drop off the
updated list is Dexia SA, the Franco-Belgian lender that is
being broken up after losing access to unsecured funding, said
 Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies in Brussels.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision prepared a draft
update of the list at a meeting last month in Istanbul,
according to the people. Its proposals will now be weighed by
the FSB at its Tokyo meeting, which takes place on Oct. 10 and
Oct. 11.  For more, click here.  Hypo Tirol Capital Injection Wins Approval From EU Regulator  Hypo Tirol Bank AG won European Union approval for a
capital injection of 220 million euros ($284.6 million), the
European Commission said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Support to the lender doesn’t breach EU rules governing
state subsidies, the regulator said.  Spain Says EU Needs Clear Carbon Rules, Examines Backloading  The European Union’s draft plan to curb a glut of carbon
permits may endanger the predictability of the bloc’s trading
rules and Spain hasn’t decided whether to back the proposal,
Environment Minister Federico Ramos de Armas said.  The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory
arm, proposed in July a plan to curtail an excess of permits in
the world’s biggest carbon market to help prices recover from a
record low. The strategy, which consists of a draft change to
the EU  emissions trading law  and a separate measure to delay
sales of some allowances as of 2013, known as backloading, needs
qualified-majority backing from member states to be implemented.  At stake is the cost of pollution for European companies
that have enjoyed record-low prices for the permits they are
forced to buy in the EU carbon market to offset their emissions.
The economic crisis has hurt industrial output, boosting the
surplus of credits.  The EU hasn’t yet proposed a specific number of permits to
be postponed and plans to do so after finishing work on an
impact assessment, which will be ready “in the coming weeks,”
 Jos Delbeke , director general for climate action at the
commission, said on Sept. 26.  To enter into force, the backloading measure would need 255
out of 345 votes in the EU’s weighted  ballot  system that favors
larger member states. A blocking minority requires 91 votes.
Spain has 27 votes.  Courts  N.Y. Mortgage Probe Said to Get Extension to Sue 12 Firms  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is looking into
the mortgage securities practices of at least a dozen financial
institutions that have agreed to suspend a deadline for him to
bring fraud claims, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Schneiderman, who sued JPMorgan Chase & Co. this week for
defrauding mortgage bond investors, has so-called tolling
agreements with 12 institutions that preserve claims that could
expire during a state investigation, according to the person,
who declined to be named because the matter isn’t public.  The tolling agreements, reached this year, stop the clock
on the six-year statute of limitations and ensure Schneiderman
can bring civil fraud claims against banks for conduct going as
far back as 2006, said the person. The agreements don’t
necessarily mean that suits will be filed, the person said.  JPMorgan, based in New York, is one of the 12 financial
institutions that have tolling agreements. The names of the
others couldn’t be learned.  In the lawsuit against JPMorgan, Schneiderman said Bear
Stearns, which JPMorgan took over in 2008, deceived investors
about defective loans backing mortgage bonds, resulting in
“monumental losses.”  The attorney general said, after the JPMorgan lawsuit was
filed, that other cases would be filed over mortgage securities.  For more, click here.  Airlines in EU Must Pay Clients Thwarted by Strikes, Delays  Airlines must compensate passengers who were prevented from
boarding their flights as a result of a strike or a delayed
earlier flight, the European Union’s highest court said.  An “extraordinary” event, such as a strike, that prompts
an airline to reschedule subsequent flights “does not give
grounds for denying boarding or for exempting that carrier from
its obligation to compensate passengers,” the  EU Court of
Justice  in Luxembourg ruled yesterday. In a separate case, it
ruled that compensation is also due when boarding on a
connecting flight is denied after a delayed first flight.  Under  EU law , airlines are obliged to compensate passengers
who are denied boarding. Rulings by the EU court in recent years
have clarified that carriers must compensate passengers on
flights that are delayed by more than three hours or canceled
because of mechanical problems.  Under EU law, reasons of health, safety, security or
inadequate travel documents can justify a passenger being denied
boarding. In yesterday’s cases, the court said, the reasons for
the denied boarding weren’t attributable to the passengers.  “It is good that there now is a clear ruling for these
kind of situations, so that airlines can better plan their
operations in a similar situation,” Paivyt Tallqvist, a
spokesman for Finnair, a party to one of the cases, said by e-
mail.  The cases are: C-22/11,  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  v. Timy Lassooy;
C-321/11, German Rodriguez Cachafeiro and Maria Reyes Martinez-
Reboredo Varela-Villamayor v. Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA.  Interviews/Speeches  JPMorgan Shouldn’t Cut Dimon’s Pay, Harrison Says  William Harrison, former chief executive officer at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., talked about bank regulatory issues and
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon’s compensation.  Harrison, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also commented on
risk management, the separation of chairman and CEO roles, and
JPMorgan’s trading loss at its chief investment office.  For the video, click here.  U.K. Banking System Gradually Strengthening, FSA’s Bailey Says  Lenders are becoming stronger following calls from the U.K.
financial watchdog to raise capital, said  Andrew Bailey , head of
banking supervision at the Financial Services Authority.  Regulators “can see a picture of gradually improving
resilience in the banking system,” Bailey said in prepared
remarks for a speech in Scotland yesterday. Lending growth has
remained slow, Bailey said, despite the FSA relaxing guidance on
how banks calculate liquidity buffers in June.  “It is too soon to assess the impact of all these changes
on the resilience of the financial system and on credit
creation,” Bailey said. “We will monitor the results of these
actions very carefully, and we will be prepared to amend our
judgments in the light of experience.”  The FSA has said it would include Bank of England liquidity
measures in calculations of banks’ liquid asset buffers giving
lenders more room to dip to into reserves.  Comings and Goings  Hannam Said to Focus on Afghan Gold Mine After Leaving JPMorgan  Ian Hannam, one of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s top advisers on
the proposed transaction between  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , formally left the firm last week to focus on
his mining interests, three people with knowledge of the matter
said.  Hannam, 56, who was JPMorgan’s chairman of equity capital
markets, stepped down in April from his day-to-day role at the
bank to appeal a decision to fine him by the U.K. Financial
Services Authority. The FSA had fined him 450,000 pounds
($721,000) for market abuse. Hannam said in a statement then he
would appeal and planned to continue his financial career after
the dispute is over.  He is now focused on projects including his investment in
Kabul-based Afghan Gold & Minerals Co., the people said, asking
not to be identified because his plans are private.  Hannam and an official at JPMorgan in London declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  