-- IPhone 5 Backed by ‘Antennagate’ Critic Consumer Reports
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-10-05T20:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/iphone-5-backed-by-antennagate-critic-consumer-reports.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 won the backing
of  Consumer Reports , whose criticism of an earlier model became
known as “Antennagate” and who said the latest device is among
the best on the market despite its map flaws.  The larger screen, thinner and lighter body design, and
faster wireless speeds set the handheld apart from the company’s
previous models, according to the magazine, reinforcing a
preliminary review it published last month.  Consumer Reports 
also praised improvements made to Apple’s voice-recognition
software, Siri, and the iPhone 5’s camera.  “The Apple iPhone 5 is among the best smartphones in our
ratings and the best iPhone yet,” the magazine said.  Consumer Reports, which is published by Yonkers, New York-
based  Consumers Union , has picked fights with Apple before. When
the iPhone 4 was introduced in 2010, the 76-year-old magazine
refused to recommend the device because of a design flaw with
its antenna that led calls to be dropped if it was gripped a
certain way. The problems led Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  to
call a rare press conference to apologize and pledge to give
customers free cases to fix the defect.  With the iPhone 5, the most criticized feature has been the
new mapping software, which is prone to misrouted directions and
locating landmarks inaccurately. Apple Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  has apologized for the flaws and pledged the company
will improve the software.  ‘Competent Enough’  Consumer Reports said the problems aren’t significant
enough to stand in the way of recommending the handset.  “Apple’s new maps app, available on iPhone 5 and other
iPhones, is competent enough, even if it falls short of what’s
available for free on many other phones,” Consumer Reports
said.  Apple switched to its own mapping software with the iPhone
5, replacing  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s product, which had provided the
mapping data since the iPhone was first introduced in 2007. The
switch was the latest evidence of Apple’s business rivalry with
Google, which makes the Android operating system used by  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and other smartphone makers.  The Cupertino, California-based company sold 5 million
iPhone 5 models in its first three days on sale last month. The
company is battling rivals including Samsung for dominance in a
smartphone market estimated to be worth $219.1 billion by
Bloomberg Industries.  Apple  shares  fell 2.1 percent to $652.59 at the close in
New York. The stock has risen 61 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  