-- Iron Ore Bear Market Leaves Arrium With Low Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-10-05T08:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/iron-ore-bear-market-leaves-arrium-with-low-bid-real-m-a.html
Traders have become so bearish on the
iron ore market that the industry’s most insulting takeover bid
ever is seen as the best that  Arrium Ltd. (ARI)  can get.  The Sydney-based company, which  makes steel  and mines iron
ore, this week said it rejected a takeover offer of A$3.2
billion ($3.3 billion), including its net debt, from a group
including  South Korea ’s Posco and Hong Kong-based  Noble Group
Ltd. (NOBL)  The bid values Arrium at 0.71 times its net assets, cheaper
than any iron or steel company acquisition of more than $100
million on record, and less than a third of the industry’s
median deal valuation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even after rising  37 percent  this week, Arrium shares
remained below the bid price through yesterday, reflecting
traders’ concerns that there may not be a higher offer as  iron
ore  heads for the worst  bear market  in two decades, said IG
Markets Ltd. Iron ore prices have already fallen by almost half
from last year’s peak to $104.20 a metric ton. Arrium  borrowed
heavily  to transform itself into a mining company and processor
of iron ore, and now risks violating its debt covenants if the
raw material averages less than $100 next year, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG.  “This is highlighting how dire the industry is looking,”
Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG Markets in  Melbourne , said
in a telephone interview. “It’s an opportunistic bid, but such
a low-ball offer makes the case for the fact that their
prospects aren’t too great. With the current conditions, maybe
that’s what it’s worth.”  Grinding Media  After Arrium yesterday raised its outlook for iron-ore
exports this year, and  Australia  today said it may impose anti-
dumping tariffs on some imported steel, the shares crossed above
the 75-cent offer price for the first time.  Arrium rose 7.4 percent to  80 cents  a share in Sydney,
while steelmaker BlueScope Steel Ltd. gained 4.4 percent. At 80
cents, Arrium’s enterprise value is 0.74 times net assets,
matching the cheapest valuation paid in any takeover in the
sector, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Steve Ashe, a spokesman for Arrium, declined to comment on
the takeover attempt. Martin Debelle, a spokesman for the group
of bidders, called Steelmakers Australia, also wouldn’t comment.  Previously known as OneSteel Ltd., Arrium was spun off by
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in 2000. A steelmaker that mined iron ore for
its own needs, the company  began exporting  the raw material in
2005 after spending A$400 million to build a processing plant in
 South Australia .  With two purchases totaling almost A$3 billion, Arrium
built its business making so-called grinding media, used to
crush steelmaking materials into powder, including plants in
Canada and  Chile . Last year Arrium bought two iron ore projects
in South Australia from WPG Resources Ltd. for about A$320
million.  Debt Burden  The company changed its name in July to reflect its
increasing focus on iron ore.  Still, a slump in the price of the raw material hit mining
profits while the steel business continued to struggle with high
labor costs and a strong currency last year. Net income in the
year through June plunged  75 percent , data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Arrium’s net debt of A$2.1 billion, or more than twice its
market value, makes it particularly sensitive to languishing
iron ore prices, said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1
billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.  “If we go through a protracted period where prices don’t
improve, or deteriorate further, it’s going to be difficult for
the Arrium board to withstand a takeover,” he said in a phone
interview. “It really puts the pressure on Arrium’s board to
deliver improved earnings at a time when they’ve got to
seriously consider what they’ll do with their balance sheet.”  Lowest Value  Mining accounted for about half of Arrium’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the year ended
June 30,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Full-year profit fell
to A$58 million from A$230 million a year earlier.  Posco (005490) , the world’s third-largest steelmaker, said in
December that it had considered an acquisition of Arrium and
decided not to pursue the deal.  With the shares down  56 percent  in a year, Arrium on Oct. 1
said it received a takeover offer of 75 cents a share, or about
38 percent above its closing price last week. The bidder group
also includes the National Pension Service of Korea and Korea
Investment Corp.  The A$3.2 billion offer, including  net debt , values Arrium
at 0.71 times its book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s cheaper than any of the 70 other takeovers of iron and
steel companies worth more than $100 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The median valuation for the deals was 2.64
times book value.  Price Cuts  The bid implied an enterprise value of A$1.7 billion for
Arrium’s iron ore operations, or about 4.9 times the unit’s
Ebitda of A$344 million last year, according to estimates from
Morgan Stanley and data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a median of 5.8 times for 45 members of the Bloomberg
Industries Iron Ore Mine Principal Index, including Atlas Iron
Ltd. and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.  While Arrium rejected the bid as too low, traders have so
far proven unwilling to bet on a substantially higher offer,
with the stock remaining below the offer price of 75 cents a
share. The shares rose to within half a cent of that price
yesterday, their highest since August.  Posco and Noble, which acquired Australian iron ore
producer Territory Resources Ltd. in August last year, may be
most interested in the iron ore assets, Morgan Stanley analysts
Philip Bare and Shaun Lim wrote in an Oct. 1 research note.  China’s Growth  Arrium, which yesterday said it expects export sales to
reach a rate of 11 million metric tons a year by June 2013,
would give Posco enough supply to cover half its needs, the
analysts wrote. That makes the outlook for iron ore critical to
the company’s ability to extract a higher price from bidders, IG
Market’s Shamu said, pointing to another deal where prices have
been cut as circumstances deteriorated.  In August,  China ’s Sichuan Hanlong Group cut the price of
its takeover bid for Australian iron ore mine developer Sundance
Resources Ltd. by 21 percent. Sichuan Hanlong had agreed to pay
A$1.36 billion to take control of Sundance Resources in October
2011 when iron ore prices were still at $171.30 a metric ton.  “There’s a realization that the growth that we’ve had is
not going to be the same in the future, so we’re looking at
lower prices and lower growth in iron ore volumes, and lower
growth in steel-making volumes,” said Mathew Hodge, an analyst
at Morningstar Inc.  Proven Wrong  Iron ore  has slumped 46 percent from a record $191.90 a
metric ton on Feb. 16 last year to $104.20 a metric ton
yesterday, amid expectations that China’s demand for the raw
material has peaked. While the 8 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
currently forecast that iron ore will average $137.50 a metric
ton in 2013, the most recent of those estimates are all below
the median and as low as $116 a metric ton.  If iron ore traders are proven wrong about China’s demand
for steel, prices may rise sharply. The commodity will be higher
by the end of the year and peak at $170 a ton by the end of
2013, said Justin Smirk, a commodity analyst at Sydney-based
Westpac Banking Corp. Steel consumption in China is yet to peak,
he said.  “We’re not talking about a major recovery in prices, but
we are talking about prices coming through and strengthening in
the next year,” said Smirk. “We think the Chinese economy is
going to stabilize and improve.”  ‘Skeptical Mindset’  Still, any deterioration in iron ore prices could leave
Arrium in violation of agreements with its creditors. Iron ore
must average over $100 a metric ton in Arrium’s current
financial year for the company to “avoid covenant stress,”
Credit Suisse analysts  Michael Slifirski  and Sam Webb wrote in a
Sept. 5 report. That may prompt the need for a capital raising
of around A$600 million, they estimated.  “They risk having the banks in the driving seat, but they
don’t disclose what their covenants are, so it’s hard to say
whether they will or they won’t breach,” Morningstar’s Hodge
said in a phone interview from Sydney. “You can only guess, but
it’s uncomfortable and they potentially risk a dilutive equity
raising.”  While a recent weakening in the Australian dollar makes the
steelmaking business more competitive, it also makes it more
difficult for Arrium to repay some of its debt, Hodge said.
Nearly three-quarters of the company’s A$1.8 billion of bank
loans at the end of June were denominated in U.S. and Canadian
dollars, according to the company’s 2012  annual report .  Uncertainty about the outlook for iron ore is keeping
investors from betting that Arrium will be able to drive the
takeover price much higher, said Shamu of IG Markets.  “In bull markets, when a company rejects a takeover, the
price goes higher than the initial bid,” he said. “At the
moment, it’s that skeptical mindset that investors have. This
takeover seems to be reflecting current conditions and the
uncertainty we’re facing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  