-- Italy Banks’ ECB Borrowings Fall as Lenders Cut Bonds
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   G i o v a n n i   S a l z a n o
-- 2012-10-05T11:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/italy-banks-ecb-borrowings-fall-as-lenders-cut-sovereign-debt.html
Italian banks’ borrowing from the
 European Central Bank  fell for a second month as lenders in the
country reduced their sovereign debt holdings.  Total borrowing by Italian banks fell to 276.7 billion
euros ($360 billion) in September from 280.7 billion euros in
August, the  Bank of Italy  said on its website today. Most of the
decline came from the main refinancing operations, which fell by
about 4 billion euros to 4.16 billion euros.  “The spread between Italian and German sovereign bonds
narrowed in August and September, allowing Italian banks to sell
Italian debt, take advantage of rising prices and reduce their
borrowing needs from the ECB” said Fabrizio Bernardi, a Milan-
based analyst at Fidentiis Equities.  Italian banks cut their sovereign debt holdings by 6
billion euros in August, according to  data released  by the ECB.
This is the first decline in government bond holdings in eight
months. Lenders in  Italy  borrowed more than 255 billion euros
from the ECB in two auctions of three-year loans in December and
February. They increased their exposure to  government bonds  in
the first half by 78 billion euros, borrowing money at 1 percent
and buying securities yielding more than 4 percent.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, held about 40 billion
euros of Italian bonds as of June 30, while  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) ’s total holding of the country’s sovereign debt exceeded 80
billion euros at the end of June.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA (BMPS)  owned 25 billion euros of bonds. The Italian 10-year
yield spread with comparable German bunds narrowed 115 basis
points between August and September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Giovanni Salzano in Rome  at 
 gsalzano@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  