-- Jansa Sees Slovenia ‘on Safe Side’ on Bailout by Year End
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-10-05T14:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/jansa-sees-slovenia-on-safe-side-on-bailout-by-year-end.html
Slovenia won’t need an international
rescue package if stabilization measures are adopted by the end
of the year, Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  said.  The government is pushing ahead with measures to stabilize
the ailing banking industry, to consolidate public finances as
well as overhaul the pension system and the labor market, Jansa
told reporters today in Bratislava, Slovakia.  “With all these efforts, passing necessary decisions by
year’s end, I think Slovenia is on the safe side and we will
come out of waters when there are question marks about a
possible bailout,” Jansa said. “This will also improve the
country’s situation on financial markets.”  Rising bad loans at lenders in Slovenia such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d. and
the faltering economy are at the center of investors’ concern
that the Adriatic nation may become the sixth euro-region member
to ask for international aid. If all government efforts are
implemented, Slovenia will not need a rescue program, central
bank Governor Marko Kranjec said at Brdo, Slovenia, yesterday,
where the Governing Council of the  European Central Bank  held
its meeting.  ‘Significant Action’  Slovenia has taken “significant action” with efforts “on
all fronts - fiscal consolidation, efforts on structural reforms
and the banking system,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in an
interview with public broadcaster TV Slovenija late yesterday.  Lawmakers in the capital Ljubljana on Oct. 3 approved
legislation to stabilize the country’s banking industry. They
voted to create a special agency that will assume lenders’ bad
loans and swap them for government-guaranteed bonds worth as
much as 4 billion euros ($5.22 billion) that could be eligible
as collateral with the ECB, according to Finance Minister Janez Sustersic.  When asked whether the ECB will accept Slovenian state
bonds as collateral, Jansa said the government has had a “good
discussion” with the ECB about a plan to help the banking
industry, adding that the Frankfurt-based bank gave its support
to government’s measures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  