-- Jobless Rate Probably Climbed as U.S. Employers Limited Hiring
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/jobless-rate-probably-climbed-as-u-s-employers-limited-hiring.html
The  jobless rate  in the U.S. probably
rose in September as employers limited hiring, keeping the labor
market’s lack of progress at the center of Federal Reserve
deliberations and the presidential election.  Unemployment increased to 8.2 percent last month from 8.1
percent in August, according to the  median  projection of 88
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Payrolls climbed by 115,000
workers, less than the 139,000 average over the first eight
months of the year, the report may also show.  “We’re running in place,” said  Ethan Harris , co-head of
global economics research at Bank of America Corp. in  New York .
“A gain of around 100,000 or so jobs is just enough to absorb
the population of new workers.”  Joblessness that’s exceeded 8 percent for an unprecedented
43 months is restraining incomes and impeding consumers’ ability
to support the economy as global demand and business investment
wane. Today’s release marks the second-to-last jobs report
before the November elections as President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  debate who’s best equipped to
boost employment.  The Labor Department will issue the report at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Payroll estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gains of 60,000 to 165,000.  September’s projected increase suggests headcounts rose by
an average of 117,000 each month in the third quarter, the
second-weakest pace in two years.  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, probably
climbed by 130,000 after rising 103,000 in August, economists
anticipate the report will show.  Persistent Unemployment  The  unemployment rate , derived from a survey of households,
has topped 8 percent since February 2009, the longest stretch in
monthly records dating back to 1948. The  U.S. economy  has so far
recovered about 4.1 million of the 8.8 million jobs lost in the
wake of the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Only one president,  Ronald Reagan , has been
re-elected since World War II with unemployment above 6 percent.
On Election Day 1984, the rate was at 7.2 percent, having fallen
almost three percentage points in the previous 18 months.  To boost employment, Obama last September proposed the
American Jobs Act, which would cut payroll taxes for workers and
employers, provide aid to states and increase spending on
public-works projects. Romney has vowed to create 12 million new
jobs as part of a plan that includes developing the energy
sector and reducing taxes. The two debated this week.  Fiscal Cliff  Companies, nonetheless, may hold back on hiring plans amid
concern over  Europe ’s weakening economy and the so-called fiscal
cliff, a combination of tax increases and government spending
cuts that will occur next year if Congress doesn’t act.  The share of U.S. chief executive officers planning to add
employees or invest more in the next six months declined last
quarter, and a bigger share said they’d cut jobs and spending,
according to a Business Roundtable survey last month. The
group’s economic-outlook index slumped to the lowest since 2009.  “Over the past several months, we’ve seen the economy lose
some of the momentum it had generated coming into the year,”
 Carl Camden , president and chief executive officer at temporary-
staff provider  Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA) , said during a Sept. 13
conference. About a year ago, “we were seeing good signs of a
fairly solid recovery. But all of that is definitely slowed and
you see that in staffing volumes around the world.”  Applied Materials Inc., the largest producer of chipmaking
equipment, said this week it plans to eliminate 900 to 1,300
jobs, or 6 percent to 9 percent of its worldwide workforce.
 Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , the world’s largest soup maker, said Sept. 27
it plans to close two plants that employ more than 700 in the
U.S. as demand declines and productivity improves.  Bond Purchases  Warning that it can’t combat a slowdown in growth caused by
stricter fiscal policy, the Fed last month said it would hold
its target interest rate near zero until at least mid-2015 to
stimulate more hiring. The central bank also began a third round
of stimulus, buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds a month. The
 S&P 500  rose to 1,465.77 the next day, the highest close since
December 2007.  The  S&P 500 Index  last week had its biggest weekly slump
since June amid disappointing economic data, including a plunge
in orders for durable goods and stalled  consumer spending .  “We’re looking for ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market,” Chairman Bernanke said told reporters following
the announcement on Sept. 13. “What we’ve seen in the last six
months isn’t it.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  