-- Jordan Rally Calls for Democracy; Syrians Protest Amid Fighting
-- B y   M o h a m m a d   T a y s e e r   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-05T13:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/jordan-rally-calls-for-democracy-syrians-protest-amid-fighting.html
Jordanian demonstrators called for a
constitutional monarchy and an elected government a day after
 King Abdullah  dissolved the lower house of Parliament and
ordered new elections.  More than 20,000 supporters marched in the streets of the
capital Amman demanding reform. Some held banners that read:
“Down with all unelected governments” and “We prefer to die
rather than live a humiliating life.”  The Islamic Action Front, which called for the protests, is
urging a boycott of the parliamentary elections. The group, the
largest opposition party and the political wing of the  Muslim
Brotherhood , wants the country’s prime minister to be chosen by
lawmakers, instead of by the king as at present. It says half
the chamber’s 150 seats should be chosen by proportional
representation instead of the 27 stipulated by the election law.  There were protests in the kingdom, a U.S. ally, last year
as part of the wave of Arab unrest. Last month, demonstrations
against a fuel-price increased imposed to meet International
Monetary Fund budget targets prompted the king to reverse course
and cut prices.  “I think it is time for us to choose governments,” said
Mahmoud Sabri, an engineer. He said he joined the demonstration
“because I am fed up with the situation. We see our money and
the country’s institutions being stolen and nothing is being
done.”  In  Syria , there were scattered anti-government rallies
across the country as several provinces, including Aleppo, Hama
and Homs, came under heavy shelling or aerial bombardment by
troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad. At least 12 people
have been killed in Syria today, according to the Local
Coordination Committees, an opposition group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammad Tayseer in Amman at 
 mtayseer@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  