-- JPMorgan Loss Proves System Too Complex, China’s Gao Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-05T19:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/jpmorgan-loss-proves-system-too-complex-china-s-gao-says-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $5.8 billion
trading loss this year showed that the financial system is
getting too complicated for even respected institutions, the
president of  China ’s sovereign-wealth fund said.  “You are creating a system that very few people
understand, much less the regulators because the regulators
haven’t the incentives like the bankers,”  Gao Xiqing , president
of China Investment Corp., said today at a lunch hosted by the
Economic Club of New York. “As a former regulator I think we do
need to slow down a little bit instead of rushing up to all
those fancy derivatives.”  Gao, who said he was speaking in a personal capacity and
not in his role at the CIC, said the loss attributed to a trader
known as the London Whale was especially instructive because it
happened at a bank he holds in high regard and wasn’t the result
of a rogue employee. New York-based JPMorgan, the biggest U.S.
bank by assets, lost the money because of derivatives held by
its chief investment office.  “That single thing was most revealing to me at least
because I respect this institution JPMorgan very much,” he
said. “We believe in their risk management, we believe in the
fact that they’re being cautious.”  He expressed concern about a society in which “all the
best engineers are engineering financial products.”  “You have all the smartest kids to design these products,
the only purpose of which is to get money out of other people’s
pockets,” he said. “That is not very good.”  Gao said he tries to avoid relying on financial models in
his own investments because he doesn’t trust them.  CIC is an investor in  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-biggest
U.S. bank, which competes with JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 