-- JPMorgan’s Zubrow to Retire in Wake of CIO’s Trading Loss
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-10-05T19:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/jpmorgan-s-zubrow-to-retire-after-getting-new-boss-zames.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Barry Zubrow,
who oversaw risk management while the bank amassed credit-
derivative bets that led to a multibillion-dollar trading loss,
will retire at the end of this year.  “Now is the right time in my life” to retire, Zubrow, 59,
wrote to colleagues in a note today. “We have learned from the
mistakes of our recent trading losses.” The contents of the
note were confirmed by  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for the New
York-based bank.  Zubrow was chief risk officer from November 2007 until
January, as bank personnel were evaluating changes to the
computer-based mathematical models used to measure the potential
for trading losses. The changes, which took effect in mid-
January, made risks in the firm’s chief investment office look
smaller than they were, fueling losses that reached $5.8 billion
as of June.  Since January, Zubrow was head of corporate and regulatory
affairs, where he lobbied the  Federal Reserve  and other
regulators for looser controls on proprietary traders in the
CIO.  In a management shuffle in July, JPMorgan Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  moved Zubrow from reporting directly to him
to reporting to 41-year-old  Matt Zames , who was promoted to co-
chief operating officer.  ‘Thoughtful Counsel’  Dimon said in a separate memo to staff today that he had
benefited from Zubrow’s “thoughtful counsel and analysis.”  Zubrow, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive who was
hired by Dimon in 2007, also was the brother-in-law of Irv Goldman, who was appointed chief risk officer of the chief
investment office in February. Goldman, 52, had been fired in
2007 by Cantor Fitzgerald LP for money-losing bets that led to a
regulatory sanction of that firm,  Bloomberg News  reported on May
20.  It was during Goldman’s watch that Bruno Iksil, a CIO
trader in London, put on the trades that Dimon later called
“egregious.” Less than a week after the loss became public,
the bank stripped Goldman of those duties.  While the losses mostly occurred this year, the trades that
went wrong were designed to hedge other positions built up in
2011, according to  Michael Cavanagh , a senior executive at the
bank who led an internal inquiry into the cause of the losses.  Ina Drew, who was the bank’s chief investment officer,
resigned in May after the losses were disclosed.  Zubrow’s retirement was previously reported by the Wall
Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  