-- JS Bank Plans Dividend as HSBC Unit Buy Boosts Profit
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2012-10-05T07:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/js-bank-plans-dividend-as-hsbc-unit-buy-boosts-profit-correct-.html
JS Bank Ltd. (JSBL) , the Pakistani lender
that is buying  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s local unit, expects net
income to double this year and again in 2013, paving the way for
the first dividend payment to shareholders next year.  “We can double in size overnight if we retain all of the
business from HSBC,” Chief Executive Officer Kalim-ur-Rahman
said in an interview in Karachi yesterday. “We hope to retain
75 percent of HSBC’s loans and deposits by keeping their staff
and branches.”  JS Bank, which has expanded its network since its creation
less than six years ago to 155 branches, plans to increase it to
250 by 2014 and add overseas offices, Rahman said. The lender’s
 shares  have more than tripled this year after it returned to
profit and reduced provisions for bad loans.  “Their biggest challenge will be to retain HSBC’s foreign
clientele of multinational companies,” Raza Jafri, an analyst
with AKD Securities Ltd. in Karachi, said by phone. “The
acquisition will add prestige to the JS brand name, which in
turn will help them to make more clients.”  JS Bank may make a rights offer, a sale of stock to current
shareholders, after approval by the board at a meeting scheduled
for Oct. 12, said Rahman, 69, who has been CEO for two years.
The issue may be priced at 10 rupees a share, he said.  Rising Shares  Shares of JS Bank rose 3.4 percent to 5.47 rupees as of
9:34 a.m. local time in Karachi trading. The company’s threefold
gain this year compares with a 39 percent increase in the
 benchmark  KSE100 Index. Rahman said the shares may climb to 10
rupees within 12 months because of the acquisition, which is
subject to regulatory approval.  The stock has been propelled by a decline in provisions for
bad loans in 2011, said Hamad Aslam, head of research at Lakson
Investments Ltd. in Karachi. Banks’ provision expenses rose in
2009 and 2010 because of higher loan losses.  Pakistan ’s central bank may approve the HSBC acquisition
next week and the transaction is scheduled to be completed by
the end of the year, Rahman said, without giving a price for the
purchase. JS Bank plans to introduce credit cards and cash
management services this year, and will offer HSBC customers
stock brokerage and investment management services through the
JS Group in a bid to retain them, he said.  HSBC  unveiled  the sale last month. CEO  Stuart Gulliver  is
offloading assets in countries from  Costa Rica  to  Thailand  as he
seeks to cut costs by $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion and revive
profit. In Pakistan, the London-based lender had 10 branches and
gross assets of about $635 million as of June 30.  Overseas Assets  That’s more than the 57.2 billion rupees ($601 million) of
assets at JS Bank at the end of March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The acquisition will make it the first
Pakistani lender to purchase overseas banking assets since
 Faysal Bank Ltd. (FABL)  bought Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.’s local unit
in October 2010 for 41 million euros ($53 million).  Earnings at JS Bank have improved even as power blackouts
and declining exports strain the economy in Pakistan, which
needs to repay billions of dollars to the  International Monetary
Fund . It posted net income of 360.6 million rupees in the year
ended Dec. 31, rebounding from a loss of 407.5 million rupees a
year earlier,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  JS Bank bought American Express Bank’s local assets in 2006
and began operations on Jan. 1, 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  