-- Kenya Plans New Taxes to Fund Higher Wages for Doctors, Teachers
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-10-05T13:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/kenya-plans-new-taxes-to-fund-higher-wages-for-doctors-teachers.html
Kenya ’s government said it will
introduce new taxes and cut spending to cover the cost of a 25.5
billion-shilling ($300 million) wage increase that ended a
strike by state teachers, lecturers and doctors.  The measures will raise 40 billion shillings, ensuring that
the additional expenditure for the salaries and other
unspecified costs is “fully covered,” Finance Minister
Robinson Githae told reporters today in Nairobi, the capital.  Teachers at Kenyan state schools began a strike on Sept. 3
to demand a 300 percent wage increase and returned to work on
Sept. 24 after reaching a deal with the government, according to
the Kenya National Union of Teachers. Lecturers called off a
one-week strike on Sept. 19 after being awarded a 33 percent pay
rise, the Nairobi-based  Daily Nation  reported on Sept. 20.  Kenyan doctors yesterday called off a month-long strike
after the government agreed to meet their demands, Kenya Medical
Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union Chairman Victor
Ngani said on a broadcast by Nairobi-based Kenya Television
Network.  The tax measures announced by Githae today include raising
4.5 billion shillings from a 10 percent excise duty on cash
transactions using mobile-phone money-transfer systems such as
 Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ’s M-PESA product. The government will also
receive 14 billion shillings from the  African Union  for its role
in supporting a peacekeeping force in Somalia, as well as 10
billion shillings from surpluses held by industry regulators, he
said.  Regulators  The agencies include the Communications Commission of
Kenya, the  Capital Markets Authority , the Insurance Regulatory
Authority, the Retirement Benefits Authority and the Central
Bank of Kenya, Githae said.  The teachers’ pay hike will raise an additional 5 billion
shillings from increased income tax while expenditure cuts will
save the government 12.5 billion shillings, he said.  Kenya, where  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  said in March it’s discovered
oil, is also studying a capital-gains tax for the mining, oil,
gas and other natural-resources industries, Githae said, without
providing more details. He also didn’t specify what spending
cuts are planned.  Growth in Kenya,  East Africa ’s biggest economy, slowed to
3.3 percent in the second quarter from 3.4 percent in the
previous three-month period as record interest rates stifled
lending.  Monetary policy  will remain “tight” in order to curb
inflation, Githae said, without elaborating. Inflation slowed
for a 10th consecutive month in September to 5.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  