-- Kingfisher Airlines Risks License as Regulator Acts on Lockout
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-10-05T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/kingfisher-airlines-risks-license-as-regulator-acts-on-lockout.html
India ’s aviation regulator asked
 Kingfisher (KAIR)  Airlines Ltd. why its license shouldn’t be canceled
or suspended after the cash-strapped carrier extended a shutdown
following a strike.  Kingfisher hasn’t come up with an operational plan, the
Directorate General of Civil Aviation said yesterday in a
statement. The carrier had assured the regulator that flights
would be resumed by yesterday and now says it will take another
week.  The airline will send a response to the regulator “well in
time” to meet a 15-day deadline, Prakash Mirpuri, spokesman for
Kingfisher, said in an e-mail. “We will also submit a
comprehensive plan for restoration of services after
negotiations with our employees.”  The latest move by authorities adds pressure on Chairman
 Vijay Mallya  as he seeks investments to avert the collapse of an
airline struggling with 86 billion rupees ($1.6 billion) of debt
and years of losses. The Bangalore-based carrier on Oct. 4
extended the suspension of flights through Oct. 12 after locking
out employees who were protesting about not being paid.  Kingfisher said Oct. 1 that it would stop flights through
Oct. 4 after some employees failed to come to work. A group of
pilots and engineers said in Mumbai on Oct. 3 after a meeting
with managers that they would resume service only after seven
months of salary is paid.  Kingfisher Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal asked
for 10 days to pay March salaries and didn’t give a timeframe
for settling subsequent months, according to Vikrant Patkar, a
Kingfisher captain who said he represents 250 pilots and 270
engineers.  Safety Standards  The regulator isn’t satisfied with the carrier’s safety
standards following the delayed salaries and strike, Aviation
Minister Ajit Singh said in an interview yesterday. The
directorate can cancel or suspend the permit of an airline if it
isn’t convinced of the carrier’s ability to ensure safety,
according to the statement.  Kingfisher defaulted on loan and interest payments on
several occasions in the year ended March 31, the company’s
auditor said in the annual report. The carrier had also delayed
payments to banks, airports, tax authorities and fuel suppliers.  Mallya has said he is in discussions with overseas airlines
to sell a stake in Kingfisher, after India’s government last
month eased investment rules. The billionaire is also in talks
to sell a stake in  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the largest distiller in
India, to  Diageo Plc. (DGE)   Kingfisher’s founders have contributed 11.5 billion rupees
since April 1, Mallya told shareholders on Sept. 26. He also
gave personal guarantees totaling 59 billion rupees for loans
taken by Kingfisher, according to the annual report. It didn’t
give the terms for the guarantees. Assets worth 89 billion
rupees, including brand, planes and office furniture, have also
been pledged to back the airline’s loans.  Share Performance  The  carrier  fell by the daily limit of about 5 percent for
the fifth straight day yesterday to 13.25 rupees. The stock has
dropped 37 percent this year. Shares of Jet Airways (India)
Ltd., the nation’s largest listed carrier, and budget operator
 SpiceJet (SJET)  Ltd. have more than doubled this year.  Kingfisher has 10 planes, comprising seven Airbus SAS A320s
and three Avions de Transport Regional turboprop aircraft, Arun
Mishra, India’s director general of civil aviation, said Oct. 2.
It has enough staff for 60 planes, he said. The number of
employees at the carrier fell to 5,696 in the year ended March
31 from 7,317 a year earlier, according to the annual report.  Bharath Raghavan, company secretary of Kingfisher, resigned
effective Sept. 30.  Kingfisher, named after Mallya’s flagship beer brand, has
slumped to sixth from second in terms of domestic market share
after paring services and losing passengers. It had a 3.2
percent share in August, the lowest among six carriers.  The airline has a long-term debt-to-total capital ratio of
162 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 58 percent at Jet Airways and 76 percent at
SpiceJet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  