-- Krugman Says Impressed by Draghi, Depressed by Germany
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-10-05T13:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/krugman-says-impressed-by-draghi-depressed-by-germany.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman said European Central Bank PresidentMario Draghi has
made him more upbeat about a solution to the euro area’s debt
crisis, even though he’s “depressed” by German politicians.  “I’m more hopeful now,” Krugman said at a conference
today in Rovinj,  Croatia . “I’m impressed by Draghi, but when I
listen to German politicians, I get depressed again.”  While Europe needs to move quickly toward a fiscal and
banking union to solve the crisis, a more realistic solution is
for the 17-nation currency region to “at least” have a lender
of last resort, “and not just to banks,” Krugman said.  Draghi announced details last month of an unprecedented
plan to buy the bonds of distressed euro-area nations as part of
efforts to save the single currency as investors dump the debt
of nations such as Spain and  Greece . He said yesterday that his
plan, called Outright Monetary Transactions, has already lowered
borrowing costs for sovereigns across  Europe  and that he’s
seeking to sell the program in  Germany  after Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann objected to it.  A failure of the euro would be “catastrophic, financially
and politically,” and would spell the “irreversible defeat of
the European project, which is much more than economics,” said
Krugman, a professor at Princeton University.  ‘Creative’ Draghi  Krugman said Draghi’s initiatives have made him more
optimistic. The ECB president “is very creative at finding a
way through the political process,” he said.  Krugman also told an audience of Croatian businessmen,
bankers and politicians that the  Balkan nation  shouldn’t rush
into adopting the euro after its planned entry to the 27-nation
EU next year.  “Because of Croatia’s euro-denominated debt, you lost some
flexibility, but you should play for time,” he said. “In a
year or two, you will have a better prospect, but for now I
wouldn’t be rushing into the euro zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  