-- National Bank of Greece Offers to Buy Eurobank to Remain Leader
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-10-05T20:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/national-bank-of-greece-offers-to-buy-eurobank-to-remain-leader.html
National Bank of Greece SA , the
nation’s biggest lender, offered to acquire domestic rival
 Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  in a bid to retain its market dominance as
Greece’s debt crisis forces a wave of mergers.  National, with a market value of 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion) will offer 58 new shares for each 100 shares of
Eurobank, the Athens-based lender said in an e-mailed statement
today. The new entity, to be called NBG Group, will have 178
billion euros in assets, 110 billion euros in loans and 87.9
billion euros in deposits, National said.  “This offer announced today aims at creating an expanded
banking group in Greece that will undertake the important role
of being a pillar of stability in the Greek financial system and
extending the financing needed to support Greece’s economic
recovery,” Georgios Zanias, National’s chairman and a former
finance minister, said in the statement.  Greece is overhauling its banks after they sustained losses
on their holdings of domestic  government bonds  in the country’s
debt swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in history. The
country obtained a 130 billion-euro bailout in March from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  that
earmarked 50 billion euros for recapitalizing the banks.  Eurobank Chief Executive Nikos Nanopoulos said in a
separate statement that the bank would evaluate the offer “in a
constructive spirit.”  Share Tender  Nearly 44 percent of Eurobank’s shareholders agreed to
tender their shares, National said. National Bank shareholders
will meet on Oct. 30 to approve the deal, which is subject to
regulatory approvals. National will hold 75 percent of the new
entity, once the offer is complete.  “This would be a complementary combination in southern and
eastern  Europe , one with few overlaps, while synergy extraction
in Greece would be challenging,” Alexander Kyrtsis, a European
banks specialist at UBS AG in  London , said before the offer was
announced. “The banks don’t want to be the last and be forced
to buy whatever is left as consolidation gathers pace. If it
happens, the combined bank will still need additional capital,
though Eurobank will benefit from improved funding.”  National Bank jumped as much as 6 percent in Athens trading
before being suspended after To Vima reported that the lenders
are in merger talks that may also include  Hellenic Postbank (TT)  SA.
Eurobank gained as much as 9 percent before being suspended,
valuing the company at 636 million euros.  Overseas banks are also seeking to exit the country as
concern lingers over the country’s future in the euro area.
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  is in talks with Alpha Bank SA on its
Emporiki Bank unit, and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  is in discussions to
sell  Geniki Bank (TGEN)  to  Piraeus Bank SA. (TPEIR)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Natalie Weeks at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell  at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  