-- National Bank of Greece, Eurobank Said to Be in Talks to Merge
-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-10-05T11:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/national-bank-of-greece-eurobank-said-to-be-in-talks-to-merge.html
National Bank of Greece SA , the
nation’s biggest lender, and domestic competitor  Eurobank
Ergasias SA (EUROB)  are in talks to merge, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation.  The banks may announce the discussions as soon as today,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
plans are private. Talks are at an early stage and may not lead
to an offer, one person said. National Bank will hold an
extraordinary board meeting today in  Athens , another person
said. Officials at the Athens-based banks declined to comment.  National Bank jumped as much as 6 percent in Athens trading
before being suspended after To Vima reported that the lenders
are in merger talks that may also include  Hellenic Postbank (TT)  SA.
Eurobank gained as much as 9 percent before being suspended,
valuing the company at 636 million euros ($827 million).  Greece 
is overhauling its banks after they sustained losses on their
holdings of domestic government bonds in the country’s debt
swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  “This would be a complementary combination in southern and
eastern  Europe , one with few overlaps, while synergy extraction
in Greece would be challenging,” said Alexander Kyrtsis, a
European banks specialist at UBS AG in  London . “The banks don’t
want to be the last and be forced to buy whatever is left as
consolidation gathers pace. If it happens, the combined bank
will still need additional capital, though Eurobank will benefit
from improved funding.”  Overseas banks are also seeking to exit the country as
concern lingers over the country’s future in the euro area.
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  is in talks with Alpha Bank SA on its
Emporiki Bank unit, and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  is in discussions to
sell  Geniki Bank (TGEN)  to  Piraeus Bank SA. (TPEIR)   The country obtained a 130 billion-euro bailout in March
from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund that
earmarked 50 billion euros for recapitalizing the banks.  A combination of the nation’s two largest banks would
create a lender with assets of about 178 billion euros, based on
the banks’ first-quarter filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  