-- Natural Gas to Fall as Supplies Rise Before Winter, Survey Shows
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-10-05T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/natural-gas-to-fall-as-supplies-rise-before-winter-survey-shows.html
Natural gas  futures will decline next
week as stockpiles rise toward an all-time high before the
winter heating season begins, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Eight of 16 analysts, or 50 percent, forecast that futures
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  will drop through Oct. 12.
Five, or 31 percent, said prices will increase and three said
they will stay the same. Last week, 67 percent of participants
said gas would fall through Oct. 5.  U.S. inventories  totaled 3.653 trillion cubic feet last
week, 8.3 percent above the five-year average for the period,
the Energy Department said yesterday. The agency sees supplies
expanding to a record by the end October, before the winter
heating season. Midwest and West Coast temperatures will be
above normal over the next 11 to 15 days, the  National Weather
Service  said.  “The recent rally seemingly ignored the large amount of
natural gas we have in storage,” Aaron Calder, senior market
analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston, said in a note to
clients yesterday.  Gas use typically  slackens  after summer air-conditioning
use drops off and before heating demand starts.  The increase in gas stockpiles of 77 billion cubic feet in
the week ended Sept. 28 exceeded forecasts for a gain of 73
billion, based on 26 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The five-year average injection for the week is 78 billion.
Inventories may rise to an all-time high of 3.95 trillion cubic
feet by the end of this month, the Energy Department said in its
Short-Term Energy Outlook on Sept. 11.  Gas has advanced 8.6 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $3.406 per
million Btu so far this week on the Nymex. The futures are up 14
percent this year.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  5      8      3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  