-- New Jersey’s Formula 1 Race Set for June, Promoter Hindery Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-06T05:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/new-jersey-s-formula-1-race-on-schedule-for-june-hindery-says.html
The Formula One race set for
Weehawken, New Jersey, in June will take place as scheduled, and
all outstanding contract obligations, including safety and
facility reviews, will be met, said event promoter Leo Hindery.  The Paris-based International Automobile Federation, F-1’s
governing body which goes by the French acronym FIA, released
its schedule for the 2013 season last week and affixed an
asterisk to the June 16 event, saying it was subject to
confirmation. Chief Executive Bernie Ecclestone said earlier
this week that parts of the race contract were unfulfilled,
according to the Wall Street Journal.  Hindery, managing partner at  InterMedia Partners LP , said
the outstanding issues are primarily safety reviews and the
inspection of pits, media centers and hospitality buildings that
are currently under construction.  “We will be racing,” he said yesterday in an interview.
“We don’t have existing, fixed facilities that can be inspected
today, so when he says we’re subject to review, we’ll be subject
to review until the race date just because of the nature of a
street course racing for the first time.”  Race organizers announced last October plans for a 3.2-mile
(5-kilometer) track on public roads in the New Jersey towns of
Weehawken and West New York, across the Hudson River from Times
Square and the New York City skyline. The streets will be
cordoned for the entirety of the three-day event, which is
estimated to bring in roughly 100,000 spectators and a $100
million boost annually to the local economy.  Ecclestone’s Comments  Ecclestone, who has repeatedly stated his desire for a
Formula One race in the New York City area, said event
organizers had “run out of time” and that parts of the 10-year
contract “went unfulfilled,” the Wall Street Journal  reported .  “If they get together with all the provisions, everything
will be okay,” he said, according to the newspaper.  Those provisions will be met, Hindery said.  “Every first-year race is problematic until it isn’t,” he
said. “We still have a few pieces to put together, but the
sport’s now behind us and we’re thrilled to be on the
calendar.”  New Jersey Governor Chris Christie last year celebrated the
event’s announcement as an example of the state’s ability to
attract major sporting events. The 2014 Super Bowl is being held
at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, 8 miles from the
Weehawken waterfront.  Christie Call  Christie called Hindery last week after hearing that the
race might be in jeopardy.  “He told me it’s definitely happening, no problem,”
Christie said in an Oct. 1 news conference in Dover. “I said if
there is one, call me. He said yes and that was the end of the
conversation.”  There has not been a Formula One race in the U.S. since
2007, when Indianapolis Motor Speedway hosted the U.S. Grand
Prix. The sport is scheduled to return Nov. 18, at a new $300-
million track in Austin,  Texas .  Hindery, who declined to say how much has been spent on the
New Jersey race, has maintained throughout the planning that no
public money would be used.  No Subsidies  “We have gotten no subsidies, never will, never will ask
for it, don’t believe in it,” he said. “We feel like it’s a
privilege to be on those streets and roads.”  Sponsorships, which will be announced later this year, will
probably include names from the New York financial world,
Hindery said.  The Formula One calendar next season stops in what Hindery
called “the major markets of the world,” including  Singapore ,
Abu Dhabi and Barcelona, Spain. He said New York can be a
successful addition, citing a growing gap in the auto racing
world between the stock car orientation, such as Nascar, and
open-wheel disciplines like Formula One.  “The fans aren’t typically the same,” he said. “Are we
likely to be as appealing in the Carolinas as Nascar is? No. But
we’re going to be more appealing in  Connecticut , New Jersey and
New York.”  -- With assistance from Terrence Dopp in Trenton. Editors:
Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  