-- TNK-BP Board to Consider Resuming Dividends as Cash Builds
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-05T15:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/tnk-bp-board-to-consider-resuming-dividends-as-cash-builds-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and its billionaire partners
in TNK-BP asked management to review the Russian oil venture’s
“significant” cash pile and assess its ability to resume
dividend payouts.  Management will make recommendations on dividend payments
for the board to consider in the next few weeks, the Moscow-
based venture said today in an e-mailed statement. TNK-BP had
$2.4 billion of cash and deposits at the end of June after
generating free cash flow of $3.9 billion in the first half,
according to a company presentation.  In July, AAR, the group representing the billionaires,
voted down BP’s proposal for a $1 billion dividend, saying a
payout wasn’t prudent at the time. No proposals on dividends
were made for the board meetings held yesterday and today, two
people with knowledge of the meeting said, declining to be
identified.  The U.K. explorer is pursuing a sale of its half of TNK-BP
after years of tension with its partners about strategy and
expansion. AAR and  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  are both looking to buy the 50
percent stake.  TNK-BP hasn’t paid dividends on 2012 income as it has
lacked a functioning board since December. Ex-German Chancellor
 Gerhard Schroeder  and  James Leng , a former chairman at Corus
Group Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, quit the board last year amid a
shareholder dispute arising from BP’s failed attempt to form an
alliance with state-run Rosneft.  Dividend Distribution  TNK-BP can distribute additional dividends with the
approval of its current directors, while regular payouts can
only be voted on by a full board, the company said in July.
Russia’s third-largest oil producer has paid BP $19 billion in
dividends since 2003 and accounts for a quarter of the London-
based company’s global output.  The board also supported a $3 billion plan to develop the
Rospan natural gas project with some details on a gas sales
agreement still to be completed, the people said, without being
more specific. Final approval for the project is expected next
week, TNK-BP said in the statement.  The directors approved continuing work on a $1.2 billion
project to build a hydrocracker at the Ryazan refinery,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  