-- Novo Says It’s Likely to Benefit From Bristol-Amylin Tie-Up
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-10-05T12:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/novo-says-it-s-likely-to-benefit-from-bristol-amylin-tie-up.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  predicts it will
benefit from  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s $5.3 billion purchase of
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. as their promotion of diabetes
products may increase demand for Novo’s own range.  Bristol-Myers and its partner  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s push to
expand revenue from Amylin’s Byetta and Bydureon medicines,
helped by “big sales forces,” will boost the market for GLP-1
agonists, a new class of diabetes drugs to which the treatments
belong, alongside Novo’s Victoza, Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen,
Novo’s chief scientific officer, said in an interview.  “Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca will go out and talk about
GLP-1s,” Thomsen said yesterday in Berlin, where he attended
the  European Association for the Study of Diabetes  conference.
“That’s good for everyone, including Novo Nordisk.”  Pharmaceutical companies are rushing to develop new
treatments for  diabetes , a disease that afflicted 366 million
people worldwide last year, according to the  International
Diabetes Federation . The market is likely to grow to more than
$58 billion in 2018 from $35 billion now,  Standard & Poor’s  said
in a report yesterday.  People suffering from diabetes lack the insulin needed to
convert blood sugar into energy. GLP-1 analogues such as
Bydureon and Victoza mimic the function of a digestive hormone
that stimulates the pancreas to produce insulin after meals. The
GLP-1 market, which didn’t exist in 2007, may balloon to $7
billion by 2018, according to Natixis Securities.  Side Effects  Novo, based in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , doesn’t consider the
increased competition as “a long-term threat” because once-
daily Victoza is a better medicine than the twice-daily Byetta,
Bydureon is complicated to administer and the rest of the
Bristol-AstraZeneca products won’t overlap, Thomsen said.  “Byetta and Bydureon, they are what they are, the change
in ownership won’t change much,” Thomsen said.  Novo is developing a new once-weekly GLP-1 of its own,
semaglutide, a direct competitor of Bydureon, also a once-a-week
treatment, Thomsen said. Results from a mid-stage trial of
semaglutide were presented for the first time at EASD this week.
The drug was shown to lower blood sugar levels and weight more
than Victoza. Nausea and vomiting were high with the highest
doses, side effects that could be problematic if repeated in
further trials.  “The potency of semaglutide surprised us a lot,” Thomsen
said. The side effects were caused by an exceedingly
“aggressive” dosing regimen, he said. In late-stage tests, due
to begin next year, the dosing will be better adjusted, Thomsen
said. Unlike Bydureon, which has a thick needle and is painful,
semaglutide will be administered with a thin needle, he said.  ‘Smart Agents’  Diabetics rely on frequent injections when the disease is
at an advanced stage, and painful shots or injections that are
complicated to administer can be an obstacle to use of a drug.  The semaglutide results were “encouraging,” Philippe Lanone, an analyst at Natixis Securities in Paris, wrote in a
note yesterday. The drug could garner annual peak sales of 15
billion Danish kroner ($2.62 billion) by 2025, he said.  The GLP-1 field is getting crowded. Eli Lilly & Co. and
GlaxoSmithKline Plc are among other companies developing
experimental GLP-1s, which, if approved, would compete with
Novo’s products.  GLP-1s “are smart, smart agents,”  David Matthews , a
professor of diabetic medicine at the University of Oxford, said
in an interview in Berlin. “They reduce weight, they change
people’s appetite, they have effects way outside the pancreas”
and don’t lead to dangerously low blood levels, a condition
known as hypoglycemia that can be caused by insulin use,
potentially leading to coma or death.  “There is no way that the GLP-1 market is going to go
away,” Matthews said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  