-- India’s NSE Says 59 Erroneous Orders Caused Stock Plunge
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w ,   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-10-06T13:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/nse-probing-freak-trade-that-caused-price-error-on-bourse.html
The plunge and rebound in Indian
stocks that pushed the S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index down 16 percent in
eight seconds underscored concern about financial markets.  Trading in the Nifty and some companies stopped for 15
minutes in  Mumbai  yesterday after the 50-stock gauge tumbled as
much as 16 percent. A brokerage that mishandled trades for an
institutional client was to blame, according to the National
Stock Exchange of  India .  Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told
reporters in Mumbai today that the government will investigate
the stock plunge, as regulators around the world probe market
structures and electronic trading after a series of
malfunctions. In May 2010, high-frequency orders worsened the
U.S.’s so-called flash crash, which briefly wiped $862 billion
from the nation’s stocks. The Nasdaq was this May overwhelmed by
cancelled orders and trade confirmations were delayed in the
public debut of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , 2012’s largest initial public
offering.  “Everyone is very sensitive to these electronic errors,”
Adam Mattessich, head of international trading at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, said by phone from  New York . “It’s the kind of
thing that could be nothing or it could become a financial
calamity.”  Emkay Orders  Orders entered by  Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. (EMKAY)  that
led to trades valued at 6.5 billion rupees ($125 million) caused
the drop, said Divya Malik Lahiri an NSE spokeswoman in  New
Delhi .  Circuit-breaker limits enforced by the NSE get activated
“after existing orders are executed,” Ravi Varanasi, head of
business development at the exchange in Mumbai, said by phone.
“We are investigating the reason behind the wrong orders and
how checks and balances at the member’s end failed.”  The NSE’s trading limits for the Nifty range from 10
percent to 20 percent. The percentages are calculated into index
points at the end of every quarter and applied for the next
three months. A rise or decline of 570 points, equal to 10
percent of the Nifty’s closing level of 5703.3 on Sept. 28, is
meant to halt trading on any day in the quarter through Dec. 31,
according to a circular on the NSE’s website.  Volume Doubled  The volume of stocks in the benchmark index that were
traded almost doubled from the 100-day average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. An  index  of Indian stocks traded in
New York slipped as much as 1.2 percent.  “Even if there was order backlog, the index couldn’t have
slumped 900 points before halting when the circuit filter was
set for a 570-point fall,”  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal
Research & Investment Services Pvt., said by phone. “This is a
system failure. Blaming a broker does not absolve the exchange
of the lapse on their system’s part.”  “I am assured that there is no systemic risk” to Indian
markets, Chidambaram told reporters. “The NSE is looking into
it and SEBI will also investigate the matter,” he said,
referring to the financial regulator.  The NSE’s systems weren’t at fault, according to the
exchange’s Varanasi.  “There is no question of any glitch or malfunctioning in
NSE’s systems,” he said by e-mail. “The broker’s dealer put in
an erroneous quantity in the orders, which is being
investigated.”  Shares Plunge  Emkay Global Managing Director Prakash Kacholia didn’t
answer his mobile phone. The broker’s shares plunged by the 10
percent daily limit to 31.1 rupees.  While the drop in India drew comparisons with the rout in
American equities on May 6, 2010, the U.S. event spurred many
times the losses of the Nifty’s plunge and affected more
companies.  About 20 stocks in India saw declines of 19 percent or more
on Oct. 5, compared with the more than 300 securities that lost
at least 60 percent during the flash crash before the trades
were canceled, a September 2010 report from the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission
found. The decline and rebound in the Nifty lasted seconds,
compared with more than 15 minutes for stocks, futures and
indexes in the flash crash.  ‘Fat-Finger Mistake’  “It’s definitely concerning but we feel it was a fat-
finger mistake rather than a market structural issue,” Ben Rozin, who helps manage the $600 million Manning & Napier
International Fund, which includes Indian stocks, said by phone
from Rochester, New York. “When we look at the Indian equity
market, we think it’s pretty well run, and that this has very
low impact.”  The NSE, India’s largest bourse, controls more than 90
percent of India’s $28 billion equity derivatives market and
handles 75 percent of the stock trades. The stoppage, the
biggest such problem in more than two years, comes as a burst of
policy reforms by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  propels Indian
stocks to a 17-month high. Foreign investors have plowed a net
$16.5 billion into local shares this year, the most among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China .  The Nifty slipped 0.7 percent to 5,746.95 by the 3:30 p.m.
close of trading yesterday.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s largest refining complex, rose 0.6 percent at 857.8
rupees, rebounding from a 20 percent plunge, while  Housing
Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s biggest mortgage lender, lost
5 percent to 749.95 rupees after also falling 20 percent.  Reliance Declines  Of the 4,100 companies trading on the exchange, 19 fell 19
percent or more intraday. Mumbai-based Reliance dropped from 856
rupees to 816.7 in one trade at one second before 9:51 a.m.,
traded again at that price, then rebounded. A second later, it
fell to 682.35 rupees in two trades, Bloomberg data show.  The stock jumped back to 856 during the same second. A
total of six trades occurred below 840 rupees during the
session, all of them at the bid price.  Housing Development Finance opened at 775.80 rupees and
traded at an average price of 753.63 during the day. Thirty-five
trades occurred at prices below 740 rupees. The day’s low was
reached because of two trades at 2 seconds before 9:51 a.m.
executed at a price 16 percent below the previous transaction.  ADRs Fall  An  index  of Indian stocks traded in New York fell the most
since Sept. 25, after rising over the previous two days. The
Bank of New York Mellon India ADR Index dropped 1.2 percent to
1,071.40 by 2:47 p.m. American depositary receipts of  Infosys
Ltd. (INFY) , India’s second-largest software exporter, declined for the
first time in seven days, losing 1.5 percent to $48.93.  “The crash definitely hurts as there has been a lot of
foreign flows in the last two months and any erroneous order
would impact investor confidence,”  Daphne Roth , head of Asian
equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking in  Singapore , which
oversees about $207 billion, said by e-mail. “Investors would
still ultimately look to future reforms, not just related to the
bourse but also to the economy.”  Combined daily  volumes  on the nation’s two biggest bourses
averaged 989 million shares last month, 27 percent more than in
August, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Trading last year in
the Nifty, at 35.5 billion shares, was the lowest in four years.  “It’s not something that India needed at this stage when
volumes are just beginning to recover,” Aquarius’ Rajan said.  In a separate statement, the NSE said it had “disabled”
Emkay Global and closed out the broker’s outstanding positions.
N. Hariharan, a spokesman at the Securities & Exchange Board of
India, the market regulator, wasn’t available for comment.  Electronic Trading  The NSE, founded in 1992, began trading equities
electronically in 1994, spurring the 137-year-old BSE, which
runs the BSE India Sensitive Index, to follow suit.  Trading at both exchanges takes place through an open
electronic limit order book, where order matching is undertaken
by the trading computer.  The entire process is order-driven, meaning market orders
placed by investors are automatically matched with the best
limit orders and buyers and sellers remain anonymous. The order-
driven market brings more transparency by displaying all buy and
sell orders in the trading system, though there’s no guarantee
that orders will be executed because of the absence of market
makers.  All orders must to be placed through brokers, many of which
provide online trading facilities to retail customers.
Institutional investors can gain direct  market access  through
trading terminals provided by brokers for placing orders
directly into the stock market trading system.  Competition among Indian bourses is poised to intensify
with a third bourse, the MCX Stock Exchange, planning to start
trading equities around Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights,
which falls in November.  “With another exchange set to be operational in about a
month investors would have an alternative,” Kejriwal of
Kejriwal Research said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  