-- Obama Campaign Wins at Appeals Court on Ohio Early Voting
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/obama-campaign-wins-at-appeals-court-on-ohio-early-voting.html
Every citizen in  Ohio  be offered the
same number of early voting days as members of the U.S. military
under a federal appeals court ruling that was a victory for
President  Barack Obama ’s campaign.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati yesterday rejected
a bid by Ohio’s secretary of state and attorney general, both
Republicans, to overturn a lower-court order that blocked a law
ending pre-election voting three days earlier for civilians than
for service-members and overseas citizens.  “There is no relevant distinction between the two
groups,” the three-judge panel said. “The state argues that
military voters need extra early voting time because they could
be suddenly deployed. But any voter could be suddenly called
away and prevented from voting on Election Day.”  Ohio controls 18 of the 270 Electoral College votes Obama
or his challenger,  Mitt Romney , needs to win the presidency and
no Republican has won the office without carrying the state.
Obama took Ohio with 51.5 percent of the vote in 2008, winning
by 262,224 votes. More than 100,000 people out of a total of
5.77 million voters cast their  ballots  in the last three days,
according to yesterday’s opinion.  The NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist College survey of
likely voters taken Sept. 30-Oct. 1 and released Oct. 3 showed
Obama leading Romney 51 percent to 43 percent in Ohio. He was
ahead, 50 percent to 43 percent, in last month’s poll.  Unconstitutional Disparity  Obama for America and the state and national Democratic
organizations sued the Ohio officials in July, arguing that the
early voting disparity was unconstitutional.  “We will make a determination on how to proceed legally
and provide administrative guidance to Ohio’s boards of
elections” at the beginning of next week, Secretary of State
Jon Husted said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Attorney General Mike DeWine is reviewing the ruling, his
spokesman, Dan Tierney, said. He declined to comment further.  “With today’s decision by the Sixth Circuit Court of
Appeals, Ohio joins  Wisconsin ,  Florida ,  New Hampshire  and
 Pennsylvania  as states that turned back restrictions on voter
access and limitations on voter participation,” Bob Bauer,
general counsel for Obama for America, said yesterday in a
statement.  The early voting measure was one of two Ohio election
disputes before the appellate court. State officials are also
challenging a lower court order barring election workers from
disqualifying provisional ballots voters cast in the wrong
precinct because of poll-worker error. A three-judge panel heard
the state’s appeal Oct. 1 and hasn’t issued a decision.  Pending Lawsuits  Those cases are among at least 15 pending nationally over
election law limits on issues including early voting,
registration and photo identification requirements in the run-up
to the Nov. 6 election.  The lawsuits challenge statutes passed since Obama’s
election in 2008 by Republican-dominated legislatures across the
country -- laws aimed in part at fighting voter fraud,
proponents contend. Opponents argue they are an effort to
suppress the votes of lower-income people and the elderly who
may be more inclined to vote for Democrats.  Over the past few months, the majority of challenges have
been resolved against the laws.  On Oct. 2, Pennsylvania became the third state, following
 Texas  and Wisconsin, where courts rejected a requirement that
citizens show photo identification to vote. A judge, ruling
after the state  Supreme Court  sent the case back for further
analysis, barred enforcement of the law until after the election
because it couldn’t be fairly implemented in time.  Texas, Florida  In Texas, lawyers resolved a lawsuit that sought to stop
the state from deleting as many as 68,000 possibly dead people
from voter rolls before Nov. 6. State court Judge Scott H.
Jenkins in Austin on Oct. 3 signed an order ending the case and
lifting a Sept. 20 temporary bar on the voter-roll purge after
the state agreed to stricter requirements for it, said David
Richards, a lawyer for the four voters who sued.  Florida election officials were allowed by a federal judge
on Oct. 4 to continue purging 198 people that the state has
determined aren’t U.S. citizens from voter registration rolls.  Ohio’s early-voting laws were enacted after the
presidential election in 2004, when long lines and broken
equipment forced voters to wait as long as seven hours to cast
their ballots, according to an Obama campaign statement issued
on the day it sued to let all voters cast early ballots through
Nov. 5. A change in the law last year resulted in the military-
civilian disparity.  500,000 Voters  Almost 500,000 Ohio voters availed themselves of early
voting in 2008, more than 100,000 of them in the last three days
before the election, said U.S. Circuit Judge Helene White, one
of the three judges voting yesterday to uphold the lower-court
decision.  U.S. District Judge Peter Economus, who was appointed to
the court by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat, ruled for the
Obama campaign on Aug. 31.  While the appeals court agreed with Economus that it’s
unconstitutional to give some people more time to vote than
others, it declined to order all Ohio election boards to remain
open for the three days immediately before the election. The
court left it up to the individual boards to decide whether to
allow voting on those days.  Early voting  began  in Ohio on Oct. 2.  The court’s majority opinion was written by U.S. Circuit
Judge Eric Clay, another Clinton appointee. His opinion was
joined by U.S. District Judge Joseph Hood, who was nominated by
President  George H.W. Bush , a Republican.  White, who was appointed by Republican President  George W. Bush , agreed with the majority that the state’s law could
possibly disenfranchise voters. Still, she argued in a partial
dissent that the state should have an opportunity to fix the law
before the election.  The case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-4055, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  