-- OCBC, CIMB Said to Mull Bids for GE Bank of Ayudhya Stake
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-10-05T09:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/ocbc-cimb-said-to-mull-bids-for-ge-bank-of-ayudhya-stake.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  and
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  are considering bidding for General
Electric Co.’s $1.6 billion stake in Thailand’s  Bank of Ayudhya
Pcl (BAY) , said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The two lenders have signed non-disclosure agreements that
allow them to examine in closer detail the accounts of the
Bangkok-based bank, the people said, asking not to be identified
as the process is private.  GE (GE) ’s finance unit owns 25 percent of
Thailand’s fifth-largest lender.  GE sold 7.6 percent of Bank of Ayudhya to institutional
investors last month, and said at the time that it is reviewing
“strategic” options for its remaining holding. GE won’t sell
any more shares through the market for 180 days unless it
relates to a “strategic sale,”  Bank of Ayudhya said Sept. 26.   “There has been significant interest from investors in the
bank arising from its strong business performance so we
undertook the block sale,” GE Capital said in an e-mailed
statement today in response to questions from Bloomberg News.
The company “continues to review strategic options for its
remaining interest in BAY, and we cannot comment on market
speculation about any external interest in this.”  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s biggest lender, would be
interested in one-on-one discussions with GE about its Bank of
Ayudhya stake, though doesn’t want to compete with other
bidders, one person familiar with the matter said. Maybank
hasn’t signed a non-disclosure agreement, this person said.  Maybank today said it is seeking about 2.64 billion ringgit
($865 million) in a private placement of shares, to strengthen
its capital and “support growth objectives.”  Land Grab  Bank of Ayudhya rose  2.4 percent  to 32.25 baht today, its
highest in more than a week. OCBC was unchanged while CIMB
gained 0.9 percent and Maybank fell 1 percent.  Koh Ching Ching, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for OCBC,
declined to comment, as did officials at CIMB and Maybank.  OCBC, Southeast Asia’s second-largest lender, is vying with
Singapore-based rivals to expand into other parts of Asia. The
company generated  82 percent  of its pretax income from Singapore
and Malaysia in the second quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. OCBC said in August it expects a $1.15 billion gain from
the sale of stakes in  Fraser and Neave Ltd. (FNN)  and  Asia Pacific
Breweries Ltd. (APB)   Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB, which already owns a bank in
Thailand called  CIMB Thai Bank Pcl. (CIMBT) , is also seeking to extend
its regional reach after being the nation’s top underwriter for
equity and rights offerings in the past three years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. CIMB agreed in April to buy most
of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Asia-Pacific investment
banking operations.  Formed in 1945 and listed on the local stock exchange in
1977, Bank of Ayudhya has counted GE as its top shareholder
since 2007, when the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company
acquired a 29 percent stake, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The U.S. firm boosted its stake to 33 percent later that year.  That investment preceded at least eight takeovers by the
Thai bank, including purchases of businesses from GE,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the data show.
Those deals turned Bank of Ayudhya into Thailand’s top or
second-ranked provider of credit cards, car loans and personal
finance, bank filings show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  