-- Occidental Awarded $1.77 Billion in Ecuador Contract Dispute
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-10-05T22:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/occidental-awarded-1-77-billion-in-ecuador-contract-dispute-1-.html
A World Bank arbitration panel
ordered  Ecuador  to pay  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the largest
onshore crude producer in the continental U.S., $1.77 billion to
settle a contract dispute.  The International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes, known as ICSID, said Ecuador breached Los Angeles-
based Occidental’s contract by failing “to accord fair and
equitable treatment,” according to a document on ICSID’s
 website . Ecuador’s Attorney General Diego Garcia said today the
South American country “categorically rejects” the decision
and may seek its annulment, according to an e-mailed statement.  Ecuador stripped Occidental of its oil concession in 2006
over an alleged contract breach, prompting the company’s
complaint to the panel. In May 2009, Ecuador’s government said
it would refuse to comply with the court if it ruled in favor of
the company.  “Ecuador categorically rejects this decision,” Attorney
General Garcia said. The South American country is studying the
panel’s ruling and plans to comment further on Oct. 8, Garcia
said in the statement.  The settlement is “a nice positive” for Occidental, said
 Leo Mariani , an analyst for  RBC Capital Markets  in Austin,
 Texas . The long-term effects will depend on whether Ecuador
adheres to the verdict, Mariani said in an interview. “That’s
the problem -- are they really going to honor” the decision?  Mariani has the equivalent of a hold rating on Occidental
and doesn’t own any of its stock.  Occidental’s Focus  The settlement would be more than Occidental’s net income
for any of the three previous quarters, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Occidental has concentrated this year on
drilling in onshore U.S. fields.  The company plans to spend $5.5 billion in the U.S. in
2012, with an emphasis on prospects in  California  and the
Permian Basin in Texas, according to a slide presentation
accompanying its second-quarter earnings release. About 37
percent of the company’s revenue comes from outside the U.S.  Melissa Schoeb, vice president of corporate communications
at Occidental, confirmed the amount of the award in an e-mailed
statement today.  The statement was released after the close of trading in
U.S. markets. Occidental rose less than 1 percent to $85.32
after the close of regular trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net  or
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  