-- Hollande, Monti Push Leaders for January Bank Union Start
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t ,   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-05T22:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/hollande-monti-push-leaders-for-january-bank-union-start.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  are pressing countries
including Germany and  Finland  to drop resistance to the European
Union’s plan to implement common banking supervision on Jan. 1.  Hollande and Monti were joined by the prime ministers of
 Spain ,  Portugal  and Malta yesterday in calling for progress at
the region’s  summit  in Brussels Oct. 18-19.  “The next European Council must pave the way towards the
establishment of a single European banking supervision system,
to be decided before the end of the year and operational by
January 2013,” the five leaders said in a joint statement after
meeting in La Valletta, Malta.  Jose Barroso , president of the
European Commission, also participated in the meeting.  Hollande and Monti are rebuffing calls by some policy
makers, including German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , to
slow down the process of passing bank supervision from national
authorities to the  European Central Bank . EU leaders called for
the single supervisor in June as a condition for allowing banks
in the 17-nation euro area direct access to the 500 billion-euro
($651 billion) permanent bailout fund, the European Stability
Mechanism.  “We are particularly in agreement,” Monti told reporters,
in reference to the banking union timeline, after the meeting.  Deeper Integration  Hollande, Monti and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
are pushing for deeper integration among European governments to
counter the region’s sovereign debt crisis. Schaeuble and his
counterparts from Finland and the Netherlands are seeking to
shield the common regulator from being burdened by troubled
banks. Schaeuble said Sept. 15 that banks should be subjected to
stress tests before passing under ECB supervision.  The leaders also discussed the EU’s bond-buying mechanism
as pressure mounts on Rajoy to request the support.  “For the moment, Spain hasn’t taken any decision,” Rajoy
told journalists in Malta. “The only thing I will say is that
the decision will be taken when the time is right and when we
know what the conditions will be.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said Oct. 4 the central bank is
preparing a legal opinion on the single-supervisor proposal to
spell out accountability channels and ensure a “clear and
robust” separation of bank oversight and monetary policy
decisions. He said the central bank welcomes the plan, seeing it
as “one of the fundamental pillars of a financial union” and
an important building block for the euro area.  Pivotal Role  The issue is likely to play a pivotal role on whether the
ESM is able to aid banks directly and free countries such as
Spain and Ireland from the burden of propping up their financial
sectors. When EU leaders announced plans to create the single
supervisor in June, they explicitly said the goal was to combat
the crisis by breaking the link between banks and sovereigns.  “We need to work to make the banking union ready by the
end of the year,” Hollande told reporters.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said the EU must
study the effects a joint supervisor would have across the 27-
nation EU, including on countries within the region’s single
market that won’t take part in the banking plan. He predicted at
least six months of technical work would be required.  Sweden, Poland and  Hungary , which don’t use the euro, have
voiced objections to the bank-supervision plan, saying its
current design would require them to give up power without
gaining a clear voice in decision-making. As currently proposed,
non-euro nations can volunteer to join the ECB and would agree
to follow ECB rules and exchange data without getting a vote on
supervisory panels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Stagno Navarra in Rome at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  