-- Monsanto Seed Patent Case Gets U.S. Supreme Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-05T19:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/monsanto-seed-patent-case-gets-u-s-supreme-court-review.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
consider how patent rules apply to self-replicating
technologies, accepting an appeal from a farmer seeking to
circumvent  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s planting restrictions on its
genetically modified seeds.  The justices today said they will review a federal appeals
court decision that Vernon Hugh Bowman infringed Monsanto’s
patents when he planted soybeans he had bought from a grain
elevator. Those beans were the product of seeds covered by
Monsanto’s patents, and the St. Louis-based company says its
rights extend to the second-generation beans.  The case centers on a technology that has helped make
Monsanto the world’s largest seed company, with $13.5 billion in
annual revenue, while provoking fights with opponents of
genetically modified food and some farmers. Monsanto’s Roundup
Ready seeds are engineered to be tolerant of herbicides. Farmers
have embraced the technology because it lets them kill weeds
while leaving crops unscathed.  Last year, 94 percent of U.S. soybeans were engineered to
tolerate herbicides such as Roundup.  The case may affect patents on other cutting-edge
technologies, including man-made cell lines, DNA molecules,
nanotechnologies and organic computers, according to a court
filing by the Obama administration.  Risk to Business  The case represents a risk to Monsanto’s soybean business
if the court re-examines whether companies can prohibit seed
saving,  Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness Crespi
Hardt & Co. who rates the company’s shares neutral, said today
by telephone. A ruling against Monsanto may ultimately have
little financial impact if growers continue buying fresh seed to
benefit from the newest varieties, he said.  “It could definitely scare people,” Shaw said. “Let’s
see how the Supreme Court addresses it.”  Monsanto sold $1.77 billion of soybeans and genetic
licenses during the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, about 13 percent
of the company’s total. Gross profit in the soybean unit was
$1.16 billion, more than 16 percent of Monsanto’s total.  The legal issues stem from Monsanto’s efforts to ensure
that farmers have to buy the genetically modified seeds every
year, rather than planting part of the harvest from the previous
season. Farmers who buy seeds from an authorized dealer must
agree that they won’t use any harvested seeds for planting.  Grain Elevator  Bowman sought to get around that requirement from 1999 to
2007 by buying less expensive soybeans from a grain elevator.
Because the elevator accepted harvests from farmers using
Monsanto seeds, the second-generation beans proved to be
herbicide-resistant. When Monsanto found out about the practice,
the company sued Bowman.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
handles patent cases, sided with Monsanto. The panel rejected
Bowman’s contention that Monsanto had “exhausted” its  patent
rights  by the time he bought the seed. The appeals court said
Bowman “created a newly infringing article” by growing a new
generation of soybeans with the seed.  Monsanto said in a statement that the Federal Circuit
decision “reaffirmed important intellectual property rights of
significance to the entire agricultural biotechnology
industry.”  ‘Every Farmer’  Bowman’s lawyers said in the appeal that the issue
“affects every farmer in the country and the method of planting
that farmers such as Mr. Bowman have used for generations.”  They argued that the lower court ruling “serves to
completely eliminate exhaustion as a viable defense to patent
infringement claims” involving self-replicating technologies,
including genetically modified seeds.  The  Supreme Court  took up the case against the advice of
the Obama administration, which said the Federal Circuit reached
the right conclusion in the case.  The case may undermine a legal doctrine the Federal Circuit
has adopted to extend the rights of patent holders. Under the
so-called conditional sale exemption, patent holders can enforce
their rights even after making a sale of the covered product.
The doctrine has given patent holders the power to enforce
restrictions against downstream purchasers.  The Supreme Court called that doctrine into question in a
2008 ruling. The justices unanimously said  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
couldn’t enforce its memory-technology patents against both
 Intel Corp . and the computer makers that install Intel’s chips
in their machines.  Inconsistent Doctrine  The Obama administration’s top Supreme Court lawyer,
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, told the justices that the
conditional sale doctrine is inconsistent with the 2008 ruling.
Even so, Verrilli said the court should reject the appeal
because the Federal Circuit didn’t focus on the conditional sale
issue in the Monsanto case.  Chuck Benbrook, a research professor at Washington State
University’s Center for Sustaining Agriculture and Natural
Resources in Enterprise,  Oregon , said he would be surprised if
the Supreme Court overturned the prohibition on seed saving.  “If it’s overturned, it will have cataclysmic
repercussions for the business model in the seed biotech
industry,” Benbrook said by telephone. “It would basically end
the agricultural biotech industry as we know it, certainly for
soybeans.”  The court will hear arguments and rule by June. The case is
Bowman v. Monsanto, 11-796.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  