-- HP Debt at Riskiest Level to Dell in Decade: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-10-05T15:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/hp-debt-at-riskiest-level-to-dell-in-decade-corporate-finance.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  debt is the
riskiest in a decade relative to  Dell Inc. (DELL)  as Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  struggles to transform the world’s largest
computer maker in an age of tablets and smartphones.  The cost to insure Hewlett-Packard bonds with credit-
default swaps grew to 54.9 basis points more than its largest
rival on Oct. 3 after being cheaper a year ago. The gap grew 15
points as Whitman said income would be below analyst estimates
and that her company lacked “competitive focus.” Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday it may downgrade the firm.  Hewlett-Packard is suffering from  falling sales  of
computers and printers and a debt load that’s climbed above the
industry average this year. A “deteriorating outlook” kept the
company from using savings to fund investment in businesses such
as security, according to an analyst presentation.  “It appears that the CDS market is expecting Hewlett-
Packard’s performance to deteriorate further,”  Joel Levington ,
managing director for corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in  New York , said in an e-mail. “There is
substantial investor skepticism around HP’s ability to turn
around the business units.”  Bonds Decline  Bonds of Hewlett-Packard have dropped 0.64 percent this
week, more than the 0.17 percent decline for all investment-
grade technology firms, including Dell, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Borrowing costs of 2.82
percent compare with an average yield of 2.24 percent for the
industry.  Hewlett-Packard’s $1 billion of 4.375 percent bonds due in
2021, which yielded as little as 3.59 percent in February, have
dropped 2 cents on the dollar since Oct. 2 to 101, yielding 4.23
percent at 10:13 a.m., according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
That compares with a rate of 3.07 percent for Dell’s similar-
maturity, 4.625 percent notes.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, and  David Frink , a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell, declined to
comment on their companies’ finances.  The company’s leverage, or ratio of total debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, is
rising. Hewlett-Packard’s $29.7 billion of debt exceeds earnings
by  2.17 times , up from 1.43 times in the three months ended July
2011. That’s higher than an average of 1.5 among competitors,
which is up from 1.45 a year ago.  “It’s going to take longer to right this ship than any of
us would like,” Whitman said at a meeting with analysts as the
shares plunged to the lowest price in a decade. She blamed the
computer maker’s challenges on management upheaval and a paucity
of investments in new products.  Market Value  Earnings excluding some items for the 2013 fiscal year,
which begins next month, will be $3.40 to $3.60 a share, the
company said in an Oct. 3 statement. Analysts on average had
estimated profit of $4.16 a share, Bloomberg data show.  Hewlett-Packard, whose market value has dropped by more
than $15 billion since Whitman assumed the helm a year ago, now
trades at  0.24 times revenue , lower than all global competitors
with market values bigger than $5 billion except  Fujitsu (6702)  Ltd.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fujitsu has a price-to-
sales ratio of 0.14.  ‘Weaker Credit’  While Hewlett-Packard retains a “pretty decent”  credit
profile , declining revenue,  weaker margins  and spending on
acquisitions such as its $10.3 billion takeover of Autonomy
Corp. last year have combined to push leverage higher, according
to  Dave Novosel  of Chicago-based Gimme Credit LLC.  The company is rated A3 by Moody’s and BBB+, one level
lower, at  Standard & Poor’s , compared with ratings of A2 and A-
at Dell. Hewlett Packard was downgraded from the double-A tier
in 2001 as the technology bubble ended and cut to its current
levels after Whitman took over.  “It’s definitely a weaker credit,” Novosel said in a
telephone interview. “There will be a turnaround, but what that
means is that HP is not going to get to the types of margins and
growth that it was enjoying two years ago.”  While Hewlett-Packard has almost $11 billion of bonds
maturing through 2014, the average yield on similarly-rated debt
with a 10-year maturity is about 2.86 percent. That compares
with an average coupon of 4.39 percent on the company’s maturing
obligations, signaling it may be able to refinance at a lower
rate.  PC Leadership  Hewlett-Packard and Dell have dueled for leadership of the
PC market for more than a decade. Dell wrested the title of top
maker from Hewlett-Packard in 2001 by relying on its ability to
peddle machines at lower prices by  purchasing parts  at bargain
prices and selling direct to customers.  A year later, Hewlett-Packard retook the crown when former
CEO Carly Fiorina acquired Compaq Computer Corp. in 2002 for
$17.6 billion.  The rivals are now contending with weak computer demand in
a market increasingly pinched by high-end products such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and competition from Asian manufacturers for low-
cost machines.  “I don’t have confidence that the secular decline in the
PC business is going to turn around,” Ping Zhao, an analyst at
debt researcher CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. Hewlett-Packard’s  personal computer unit 
accounted for more than 30 percent of the company’s $127 billion
in revenue last year, Bloomberg data show.  Hewlett-Packard’s bonds will likely underperform similarly
rated technology companies, Zhao wrote yesterday in a report.  Servers, Storage  Dell has been more successful in adapting by focusing on
areas such as selling servers and storage machines to large
companies, according to  Aaron Rakers , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. It’s also less burdened by debt, with a  leverage
ratio  of 1.75, Bloomberg data show.  “You don’t have to look much further than the balance
sheet,” said Rakers, who rates Hewlett-Packard “hold” and
recommends buying Dell shares.  Hewlett-Packard, whose $26.5 billion of bonds outstanding
have an average maturity of 5.11 years, may need to tap debt
investors for an additional $2 billion to $4 billion, according
to Barclays Plc analysts Hale Holden and Jonathan Kahnowitz.
That influx of supply, combined with “market skepticism” about
deteriorating earnings, may widen spreads on the company’s
bonds, the analysts wrote yesterday in a report downgrading the
securities to “underweight.”  ‘Top Priority’  Relative yields on Hewlett-Packard bonds have already
increased 8 basis points this month to 2 percentage points, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Dell’s have declined 1
basis point to 148 in the same period.  The spread on Hewlett-Packard’s $1.5 billion of 2.6 percent
notes due in 2017 has widened 37 basis points to 2.12 percentage
points since the debt was sold in March even as relative yields
on similarly-rated corporate debentures narrowed 50 basis
points, according to Trace and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  That doesn’t bolster Hewlett-Packard’s chances of obtaining
the “mid-single-A” credit rating that Chief Financial Officer
 Cathie Lesjak  said was “a top priority” on Oct. 3. Credit-
default swaps linked to Hewlett-Packard imply a rating of Ba2,
five levels below where Moody’s currently ranks the company,
according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group.  Leverage Ratio  The ratings firm said in a statement yesterday that the
company’s earnings outlook meant leverage could be higher than
it had expected. Moody’s said in March that the rating could be
lowered if Hewlett-Packard maintained an adjusted leverage ratio
above 2 or if margins linked to earnings before interest and
taxes dropped below 7 percent for an extended period of time.
That  measure  fell to 6.96 percent in the third quarter,
Bloomberg data show.  Ebitda generated in the past 12 months has declined for
four straight quarters to $13.7 billion as of July 31.  Swaps linked to Hewlett-Packard have almost doubled this
year to 297 basis points at 11:07 a.m., according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts, which pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt, are 16 basis points from the
record-high 313 basis points set in July. Swaps on Dell are up
109 basis points this year to 246.  “If you’ve got a company in HP’s case where the Ebitda is
declining and there is really not a whole lot of room for them
to reduce debt, to be able to do what Moody’s says is needed to
retain the A3 rating is difficult,” Monica Erickson, a Los
Angeles-based money manager and credit analyst at DoubleLine
Capital LP, which oversees more than $45 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “They’ve got a lot of work to do to turn
things around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  