-- Pakistan Cuts Rate a Second Meeting to Support Faltering Economy
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-10-05T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/pakistan-cuts-rate-a-second-meeting-to-support-faltering-economy.html
Pakistan  cut its benchmark interest
rate for a second meeting to support a faltering economy after
inflation eased to the lowest level in almost three years.  The State Bank of Pakistan lowered the  discount rate  to 10
percent from 10.5 percent, spokesman Syed Wasimuddin told
reporters in Karachi yesterday. Eight of 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted the decision. One expected no
change, another a reduction to 9.75 percent, five a move to 9.5
percent and one a cut to 9 percent.  Power blackouts, an insurgency on the Afghan border and a
drop in exports amid faltering global growth have added to the
case for steps to support expansion. The central bank’s move
comes after  inflation  cooled to 8.79 percent last month, the
lowest level since December 2009, and adds to a 1.5 percentage-
point reduction in borrowing costs in August.  “We expect more rate cuts ahead,” Sukhy Ubhi, an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in a note.
“Pakistan’s poor government finances means that fiscal policy
has little room for maneuver. Instead, the government is likely
to put political pressure on the SBP to support the economy
ahead of next year’s election. We have pencilled in another 50
basis points of policy loosening at the December meeting.”  Pakistan’s rupee has weakened about 8.6 percent against the
dollar in the past year, hurt by risks including a current-
account gap, while the  Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index (KSE100)  is up 33
percent after companies such as banks reported higher profits.  Moderating Inflation  “A consistent decline in inflation since May is more than
earlier estimates,” the central bank said in its monetary
policy statement. “Despite an expected uptick in the second
half of the fiscal year, the overall inflation outlook has
improved.”  The rate cut is a “populist decision” ahead of a general
election due by early 2013, said Farrah Marwat, head of Research
at JS Global Capital Ltd. in Karachi.  Pakistan needs to repay billions of dollars to the
International Monetary Fund, signaling pressure on foreign
reserves. A partially disbursed, $11.3 billion IMF loan program
expired in September 2011.  The nation hasn’t requested a fresh loan, Jeffrey Franks,
the IMF’s mission chief to Pakistan, said at a briefing in
Islamabad on Oct. 3.  Inflation may rise to double digits by mid-2013 unless
monetary financing of the budget deficit is reversed, and the
shortfall may exceed the government’s target for this fiscal
year, Franks said in a statement on Oct. 4.  The administration’s goal is a gap of 4.7 percent of gross
domestic product in the year that began July 1.  Ratings Cut  Pakistan has to repay about $7.5 billion to the Washington-
based lender from 2012 to 2015, with $1.2 billion of that amount
handed over as of June, Moody’s Investors Service said in July,
when it cut Pakistan’s credit rating deeper into junk status on
falling reserves and political instability.  Asian nations from  India  to South Korea are due to decide
on borrowing costs this month as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurts
demand for the region’s exports, increasing pressure for rate
cuts to bolster spending and investment at home.  Pakistan’s government has a goal of 4.3 percent economic
growth in the year ending June, even as power blackouts as long
as 18 hours a day hamper businesses.  The IMF estimates GDP will rise 3 percent to 3.5 percent
this financial year. The nation needs faster growth to absorb an
expanding workforce, according to the multilateral body.  The latest rate cut may not spur lending, a pattern evident
after August’s reduction, said Ayaz Mahmood, the chief financial
officer of Honda Atlas Cars Pakistan Ltd. in Lahore.  “People are just not ready to borrow amid the energy
shortage,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net 
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  