-- Palm Oil Stockpiles in Malaysia Set for Record on Production
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-05T09:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/palm-oil-inventories-in-malaysia-set-for-record-as-output-soars.html
Palm oil stockpiles in Malaysia, the
biggest producer after  Indonesia , probably climbed 15 percent in
September to a record as production surged and demand slowed.  Inventories increased to 2.43 million metric tons from 2.12
million tons in August, according to the median of estimates
from five analysts and two plantation companies compiled by
Bloomberg. The previous record was 2.27 million tons in November
2008, Palm Oil Board data show. Output climbed 10 percent to
1.83 million tons from 1.66 million tons, while  exports  rose 4.9
percent to 1.5 million tons from 1.43 million tons, the survey
showed. The data are released on Oct. 10.  Palm oil, used in everything from candy to biofuel, has
declined 20 percent since the end of August on concerns that
rising stockpiles will expand as the global slowdown curbs
demand. Lower prices may hurt revenue at growers including  Sime
Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the biggest listed producer. Output typically peaks
from July to October.  “Production has rebounded a little bit stronger than we
were expecting,” Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank
International, said by phone from  London . “Right now, we’re
pricing in an incredibly large amount of stockpiles. I’m not
ready to call it a bottom yet, but from a fundamental
perspective, I think the market is oversold.”  Palm oil for December delivery advanced as much as 4.1
percent to 2,448 ringgit ($801) a ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange and traded at 2,417 ringgit at 5:14 p.m.
local time. Futures slumped 8.5 percent to 2,255 ringgit on Oct.
2, the lowest close for the most-active contract since November
2009 and the biggest drop since October 2008.  Wide Discount  The world’s most-used cooking oil is poised to resume its
decline in the next few days and may drop to $749 a ton for
cargoes delivered in Rotterdam, said  Dorab Mistry , director at
Godrej International Ltd. The price was $805 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Still, analysts at Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd. believe prices have bottomed out.  “The wide discounts to competing oils will provide a good
cushion against further weakness,” Ong Chee Ting and Chai Li Shin, analysts at Maybank, wrote in a report. “CPO prices may
continue to stay weak for the next one to two months. We expect
a meaningful CPO price recovery to only happen when inventories
are reduced towards November and December.”  The tropical oil’s  discount  to soybean oil reached $378.98
a ton on Oct. 2, the most since September 2008. Exports from
 Malaysia  lost 0.7 percent to 1.44 million tons in September from
a month earlier, surveyor Intertek estimated on Oct. 1.  A proposal to cut export taxes on crude palm oil to between
8 percent and 10 percent from 23 percent will be presented to
the Malaysian cabinet today, Plantations Industries and
Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok said Oct. 3. Unused duty-
free export quota may be redistributed, he said.  “The reallocation of unutilized tax-free CPO export quota
is highly positive,” according to Alvin Tai, an analyst at OSK
Investment Bank Bhd. “It does appear that some quota was given
to parties who were not able to shift inventory, so this
reallocation will help to reduce excess CPO.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  