-- Palo Alto Networks Said to Be Readying Secondary Stock Offering
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/palo-alto-networks-said-to-be-readying-secondary-stock-offering.html
Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) , the network
security provider that held its initial public offering in July,
is preparing a secondary sale of its shares, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation.  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW) , a business software maker that went public
the previous month, is likely to sell additional stock before
year-end, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the offerings haven’t been disclosed. Palo Alto’s
offering may be announced as soon as today, one person said.  Shares of Palo Alto and ServiceNow have soared since their
debuts, while consumer Internet companies Facebook Inc., Zynga
Inc. and Groupon Inc. have plunged on the public markets.
ServiceNow was the first technology IPO after  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
botched offering in May and opened the gates for more IPOs,
including Palo Alto, Eloqua Inc. and Qualys Inc.  Representatives for Palo Alto and ServiceNow declined to
comment.  Both IPOs were led by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and backed by Silicon
Valley venture capital firms, including Greylock Partners and
Sequoia Capital.  Companies typically hold follow-on offerings to raise
additional capital and to allow early investors opportunities to
sell their holdings.  Palo Alto has jumped 57 percent since going public on July
18, and fell less than 1 percent to $65.76 yesterday.
ServiceNow, whose Web-based software automates services such as
financial management and human resources, has more than  doubled 
in value since selling shares on June 28. The stock rose less
than 1 percent to $37.15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  