-- Party Leader Says Obama to Press Romney at Debate (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-10-05T22:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/party-leader-says-obama-to-press-romney-at-debate-transcript-.html
U.S. Representative  Debbie Wasserman
Schultz  of Florida, the Democrats’ national party chairwoman,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that she expects
President  Barack Obama  to actively challenge Mitt Romney when
the two presidential candidates meet for their second debate,
and accused the Republican challenger of lying during the
candidates first face-off this week.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the Democratic National
Committee chairwoman, Debbie Wasserman Schultz.  Madame Chairwoman, thank you for being with us. And I know
that party chairs always defend and champion their nominee, but
many Democrats - and even some in his own campaign, aides -
acknowledge that President Obama did not bring his A game to
that debate last Wednesday and Romney did. What does he need to
do to recover?  DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: Well, you know, I think you can
give  Mitt Romney  points for style, but, really, I think you have
to take a lot of points off for how untruthful he was during the
entire debate. I mean, from beginning to end, he lied about his
own proposals. And he clearly began, Al, the massive Etch A
Sketch that we knew was foreshadowed months ago by his - by his
campaign manager.  And, you know, we’re not going to let Mitt Romney get away
with lying about his tax plan, which does - and fact-checkers
independently after the debate and before, you know,
specifically said he has a $5 trillion tax plan skewed towards
the wealthy, that you have to increase taxes on the middle class
to pay for, the budget-busting tax breaks that are in that plan
for millionaires and billionaires.  HUNT: Well, why do we leave that up - why do we leave that
up to fact-checkers? That was the job of - of his opponent, the
president of the  United States . Why did he drop the ball on
that?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: Well, I don’t - you know, I don’t - I
beg to differ. I don’t think President Obama dropped the ball.
He repeatedly came back and, you know, talked about Mitt
Romney’s $5 trillion tax plan, kept mentioning it. Mitt Romney
kept trying to wriggle out of it, wouldn’t give the details.
President Obama tried to hold him accountable on the details, as
did Jim Lehrer, and Mitt Romney consistently refused to provide
details about his tax plan, about some of the deductions and the
math and how it adds up.  HUNT: Would you like to see the president be more
aggressive at the next debate?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: Well, I think, you know, with each
debate, decisions are made on - on the - based on the subject
matter and the way the questions are asked. And I think you’ll
see President Obama do very well in the next debate. He’ll come
out strong, and we’ll see a spirited discussion. That would be
my expectation.  HUNT: Be more - and be more aggressive?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: I’m confident that we will see President
Obama handle the next debate in a way that will make sure that
it’s very clear that the two paths and the two visions that are
being presented are understood by Americans - I mean, what
President Obama did the other night was he was specific. He
continued the conversation that he started at our convention and
talked about the 1 million manufacturing jobs that his plan has
to create over the next four years and made sure that we talked
about other plans, like cutting oil imports in half and hiring
100,000 math and science teachers.  HUNT: What are your expectations -  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: That’s the kind of stuff you’ll hear in
-  HUNT: What are your expectations this week for the Biden-
Ryan debate?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: Well, you know, I sit on the - on the
Budget Committee with - with  Paul Ryan , so - and I’ve certainly
had an opportunity to debate him there, as well as in interviews
like this one, and, you know, Paul Ryan is -is an experienced
debater. He’s a smart guy. So, you know, he’s going to - he’s
going to certainly be prepared. What is - and president - you
know, Vice President Biden, with 30 years’ experience, certainly
is going to have that experience to draw from and is an
effective and experienced debater, as well. So I expect there to
be a very substantive discussion.  HUNT: Do you think either one has the edge going in?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: You know, I - I think, again, you’re
going to have more practice probably from Paul Ryan, because,
you know, Vice President Biden is - is also doing his day job,
like President Obama. But I expect them both to come in
prepared. They’ll both be effective. I think Paul Ryan has a
pretty huge responsibility. I mean, he wrote the Romney-Ryan
budget, and he’s going to have to defend why he thinks we should
turn Medicare into a voucher system. He’s got to defend why Mitt
Romney - he and Mitt Romney think we should cut benefits for
seniors in Medicare. I mean, Mitt Romney said that in the debate
the other night out loud, that that’s how we need to save
Medicare, is by cutting benefits for senators.  He’s going to have to defend why we need to increase taxes
on the middle class by an average of $2,000 to pay for more tax
breaks, $250,000 tax breaks, for millionaires and billionaires.
It’s just - he’s got a lot on his plate. It’s a tall order.  HUNT: Madame Chair, let me ask you this. I know Democrats
are pleased with the September jobs report showing unemployment
dropped to 7.8 percent, but no president since World War II has
ever been re-elected with a jobless rate that high. This really
isn’t much to crow about, is it?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: Well, Al, Americans should be pleased
about the - about the jobs report. Unfortunately, we’ve seen
Republicans - you know, Mitt Romney and - and  John Boehner  and
other Republicans seem to be rooting against the economy getting
turned around. I mean, we have a 44-month low in the
 unemployment rate , and in the last year, the unemployment rate
has dropped 2 percent. That’s the biggest drop since 1995.  You know, we created 114,000 jobs this month. So we’re
moving in the right direction. We’re making progress. We need to
make more progress. But it’s important to continue to have
policies in place like the ones President Obama has - has put in
-  HUNT: So you think this - is this -  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: - that helps rebuild our economy from
the middle class out.  HUNT: Is this report then good news for the president
politically?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: You know, this isn’t about politics.
What this - what this jobs report is about is progress, about
making sure that we can continue to dig out of the worst
economic crisis that we’ve had since the Great Depression, that
President Obama inherited the economy that, remember, was
hemorrhaging 800,000 jobs a month when he took office. Now,
thanks to his policies, we’ve had 31 straight months of job
growth in the private sector and more than 5.2 million jobs
created.  And so we’ve got to make more progress, but it’s not about
politics. It’s about making sure that we can put people back to
work and deal with the number-one issue on people’s minds, which
is creating jobs and getting the economy turned around. And I
wish that our Republican colleagues on the other side of the
aisle and Mitt Romney were not rooting against our success. And
that’s what they seem to be. Their reaction to these jobs
numbers was really atrocious and irresponsible and incredibly
disappointing. But I guess it’s not surprising.  HUNT: There is a poll out of  Florida  today that shows Mitt
Romney inching ahead. Are you going to have trouble holding your
home state this time?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: You know, I think that Floridians
understand - whether it’s seniors or women or Hispanic voters -
Floridians understand that President Obama has been for four
years in there swinging for the middle class, fighting to
rebuild their economy from the middle class out, understands
that housing is an important component of our economy, support
his plan to continue to create manufacturing jobs -  HUNT: So will he carry Florida?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: - and make sure that we can send more
kids to college. So, yes, I think because of President Obama’s
policies and the progress that we’ve been able to make in
Florida - and because of Mitt Romney’s really extreme position
on immigration, his harmful positions to women’s health and the
issues important to women, and as well as his support for
turning Medicare into a voucher system, President Obama will win
Florida once again.  HUNT: Political - the two political parties have had two
totally different strategies. At the DNC, you funneled out money
to state parties early, a lot more than Republicans. They’ve
hoarded more for the final push and have a lot more cash now.
Which strategy is going to prove smarter?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: Well, what we’ve been doing throughout
our combined efforts with the DNC and the Obama campaign is
standing up the largest, most dynamic, most significant
grassroots presidential campaign in history. So we’ve
aggressively funded field operations and door knocks and
canvassing and, you know, phone banking, our field organizers
and neighborhood team leaders.  And we’ve done that because that’s the kind of campaign
that we know will carry President Obama back to the White House.
It’s people power that fuels our campaign, while the Republicans
have had a handful of billionaires trying to buy them the White
House.  HUNT: I know -  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: So they’re sitting on a whole lot of
money. I’m not sure what they’re going to end up doing with it,
but it was important to get that money into the field and get
people neighbor to neighbor and door to door to talk to their -
to talk to their friends and neighbors about why they support
the president.  HUNT: I know you’re predicting a Democratic sweep across
the board, White House and Congress. Give me an upset
prediction. What’s a race now that most of the conventional
wisdom says Republicans are you going to win and you Democrats
are going to gloat on Nov. 6?  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: Well, I’m here in  Ohio , and I think -the
Republicans are counting on Renacci winning that congressional
seat, and I think Betty Sutton is going to come up the winner.
So you watch for that.  HUNT: OK.  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: That’ll - that’ll be an interesting
race.  HUNT: Madame Chairwoman, thank you so much for being with
us, and we’ll look forward to talking to you again -  WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: My pleasure, as always.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<519242.56910.3.2.1.0.96>#  #<730284.263818.3.2.1.0.25>#
 