-- Pfizer’s U.S. Losses Questioned as Overseas Profit Soars
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-05T17:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/pfizer-s-u-s-losses-questioned-as-overseas-profit-soars.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, was asked by U.S. regulators how it recorded high
profit overseas and losses at home when 40 percent of its sales
were inside the U.S.  In a May 9 letter filed today, Securities and Exchange
Commission staff asked New York-based Pfizer to explain why
earnings before taxes outside the U.S. were $15 billion in 2011
while losses within the country were $2.2 billion. By piling up
profit in low-tax jurisdictions overseas, Pfizer has been able
to cut its tax rate reported to investors and boost results.  “These operating results appear to be inconsistent with
your domestic and international revenues, which in 2011 were
$26.9 billion and $40.5 billion, respectively,” wrote Jim Rosenberg, the commission’s senior assistant chief accountant.  Pfizer is one of the most aggressive U.S. companies
reporting income in countries with lower tax rates than the U.S.
as a way of reducing their effective tax rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The drugmaker had the second-highest
amount of profit kept overseas, $63 billion, behind only General
Electric Co., according to securities filings as of March.  Pfizer is among the companies that have lobbied U.S.
lawmakers for a tax holiday that would allow it to bring some of
the overseas profit back to the country at a lower tax rate.
 Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential nominee, argued for
such a holiday in his Oct. 3 debate with President  Barack Obama .  Not Helpful  In its response to regulators, Pfizer wrote that giving
more information about how it distributed its earnings among
various locations wouldn’t be helpful to investors.  “The geographical mix of revenues is not a good indicator
of the split between domestic and international pretax earnings
for purposes of financial statement presentation, especially for
a multinational company that manages its operations on a global
basis,” wrote Loretta V. Cangialosi, Pfizer’s controller.  “We do not believe that disclosure regarding the reasons
for the geographical split of pretax earnings would be
meaningful or useful to investors,” she wrote on May 22.  In 2009, according to the correspondence, Pfizer cut 9.4
percent from its tax rate by designating profit as overseas. And
in 2011 the company reduced the rate 3.3 percent.  Pfizer is slimming down by divesting its animal health and
infant nutrition units to focus on producing new medicines to
replace revenue from its best-selling cholesterol pill Lipitor,
which until it lost patent protection last year was the top drug
in the world with about $9.6 billion in 2011 sales.  Pfizer has paid all the taxes it is legally obligated to,
said Joan Campion, a company spokeswoman.  150 Countries  “We conduct business in more than 150 countries and face
significant competition from companies located outside the
 United States , including many competitors located in lower tax
jurisdictions,” Campion said in an e-mail. “At all times and
wherever we operate, Pfizer complies with the appropriate tax
law.”  Pfizer said in an Aug. 27 letter that it would add more
disclosure, including a line saying, “the jurisdictional
location of earnings is a significant component of our effective
tax rate each year as tax rates outside of the U.S. are
generally lower than the U.S. statutory income tax rate.” The
company would also explain how tax breaks in Ireland,  Singapore 
and  Puerto Rico  lower its rates.  “We believe the disclosures provided are sufficient and
have received a response from the SEC that it has no further
comments on those filings,” Campion said.  Pfizer is not alone in getting these questions from the
SEC. In December, the commission questioned Google about its
earnings in other countries.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  