-- Philippine Inflation Unexpectedly Slowed in September on Fuel
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-10-05T01:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/philippine-inflation-unexpectedly-slowed-in-september-on-fuel.html
Philippine inflation unexpectedly
slowed in September as fuel prices eased, increasing scope for
the central bank to cut borrowing costs further to shield growth.  Consumer prices  rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier, after
a 3.8 percent advance reported earlier for August, the  National
Statistics Office  said in  Manila  today. The  median estimate  in a
Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists was for a 3.8 percent
gain.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has room to ease monetary
policy should external conditions deteriorate, Governor Amando Tetangco said in September after holding the  benchmark interest
rate  at a record-low 3.75 percent. Policy makers meet later this
month to gauge the need for more stimulus measures after the
 Asian Development Bank  cut its growth estimates for the region
for this year and next.  “Inflation is still well-behaved and will be within the
central bank’s target,” Marc Bautista, head of research at
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. in Manila, said before the report.
“BSP might even cut rates if they see inflation expectations
are not that high.”  The peso climbed 0.2 percent to 41.39 per dollar as of 9:12
a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  The central bank targets inflation to average 3 percent to
5 percent in 2012 and 2013. Policy makers next meet on Oct. 25.  Fuel, electricity and water prices climbed 4.5 percent last
month from a year earlier compared to a 5.6 percent pace in
August, according to today’s release. Clothing and footwear
costs rose 5 percent.  The $225 billion economy expanded  5.9 percent  last quarter
and 6.1 percent in the first half of the year, according to
government data. The ADB forecast  Asia  excluding  Japan  will grow
6.1 percent this year, the slowest pace since 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  