-- Philippine Builders Rise on Interest Rate Outlook: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-10-05T04:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/philippine-builders-rise-on-interest-rate-outlook-manila-mover.html
Megaworld Corp. (MEG)  shares climbed to a
17-month high in Manila, leading gains among property companies,
after central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said interest rates
will remain low and indicated a further cut is possible.  Megaworld, a builder of residential and office towers, rose
4.4 percent to 2.39 pesos at the noon trading break, the biggest
gainer in the 14-member  Philippine Stock Exchange Property
Index (PPROP) , bound for the highest close since April 27, 2011. The
industry gauge added 0.6 percent, heading for a record close
based on data going back to October 1994.  Filinvest Land Inc. (FLI) 
climbed 3 percent, heading for the highest since May 4.  Empire
East Land Holdings Inc. (ELI)  increased 2.4 percent.  Tetangco said price growth in the Philippines this year and
in 2013 will remain within the central bank’s target, giving
monetary authorities space to keep interest rates low. Inflation
slowed to 3.6 percent last month, from 3.8 percent in August,
the National Statistics Office said today. The central bank held
the overnight borrowing rate at a record-low 3.75 percent last
month and holds its next policy meeting on Oct. 25.  “Real estate demand is supported by the low interest-rate
environment,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
Manila-based  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  “Easing inflation allows interest
rates to stay low, and low interest rates allow for more
economic expansion.”  The benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange index climbed for a
fourth day, adding 0.6 percent. The Asian Development Bank
raised on Oct. 3 its forecast for Philippine economic growth
this year to 5.5 percent, from 4.8 percent, and cut its outlook
on inflation to an average 3.5 percent, from an earlier estimate
of 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  