-- Philippine Peso Completes Weekly Gain on Improving U.S. Economy
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-05T08:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/philippine-peso-completes-weekly-gain-on-improving-u-s-economy.html
The Philippine peso completed its
biggest weekly gain in a month as better-than-estimated U.S.
data and pledges by global central banks to bolster growth
spurred demand for emerging-market assets.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
the bank stands ready to buy bonds to ease the region’s debt
crisis. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  renewed his
pledge to sustain record stimulus to support the labor market
even if the U.S. expansion gains strength. The peso has
appreciated 5.7 percent this year, Asia’s best-performing
currency.  Government bonds  fell this week.  “U.S. data and signs global central banks are ready to do
what it takes to limit any downside risks to growth have been
positive for risk,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast
Pte in  Singapore . “Emerging central banks have to be on the
defensive, looking to limit their currency appreciation.”  The peso climbed 0.7 percent this week to 41.427 per dollar
in  Manila , prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. The currency
rose 0.1 percent today. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 20 basis
points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 5.3 percent this week.  The U.S. Labor Department is due to publish jobs numbers
for September later today. Around 162,000 positions were added
by companies last month, figures from ADP Employer Services
showed on Oct. 3, topping the median forecast of 140,000 by
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
climbed to 51.5 last month from 49.6 in August, breaching the
dividing line of 50 that signals expansion and beating the 49.7
predicted in a separate survey, official data showed on Oct. 1.  Slower Inflation  Philippine inflation unexpectedly slowed in September to
3.6 percent from a year earlier, from a 3.8 percent pace in
August, the  National Statistics Office  said in Manila today. The
median estimate was for a 3.8 percent rate.  Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a speech in
Manila today that monetary policy is appropriate and any easing
may fan inflation as global developments encourage inflows to
 emerging markets  like the  Philippines .  “There’s room for the central bank to ease if necessary,”
said Rao. Capital inflows and gains in the peso increase the
odds for a rate cut later this month, she said.  Policy makers will meet on Oct. 25. They have left the
overnight borrowing rate at 3.75 percent since cutting it by 25
basis points in July.  The  Asian Development Bank  raised its 2012 economic growth
forecast for the Philippines this week to 5.5 percent from 4.8
percent. It estimates inflation at 3.5 percent.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 increased 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, in the
past five days to 5.84 percent, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services. The rate rose two basis points
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  