-- Tracking Libor’s Descent From Britain’s 1797 Bank Rate
-- B y   S c o t t   N e l s o n
-- 2012-10-05T15:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/tracking-libor-s-descent-from-britain-s-1797-bank-rate.html
The  London  interbank offered rate --
which is set daily by asking banks what they would charge to
lend to other banks -- has formally existed since the 1970s,
when the acronym Libor was first coined.  As a concept, however, it goes all the way back to 1797. It
was known as “the bank rate,” and it referred to the one that
the Bank of England would charge for an emergency loan. In
effect, this rate became a barometer of market conditions,
measuring the anxiety of borrowers and lenders alike.  The “bank rate” quickly became a trans-Atlantic benchmark,
and by 1798, it was published in every major newspaper in
Britain, the U.S. and  Europe . It became the base rate for loans
to farmers, homeowners and businesses around the world. The
international cost of credit indirectly determined the price of
flour in Baltimore and the price of slaves in New Orleans.  Setting the rate was simple during the 19th century and most
of the 20th century. Britain’s biggest state-sponsored bank
counted the gold in its vaults. If there was too much, the bank
was sitting on unproductive gold and the rate needed to drop. If
there was too little, too many ships were at sea, and the rate
needed to go up. Over time, Bank of England governors (and
government officials in Whitehall) discovered that the bank rate
worked as an accelerator or a brake on the economy: Lower the
rate to speed the economy, raise it to slow things down.  Gold Run  At times, the run on gold was so severe that the rate was
punishingly high: 1839, 1857, 1861 and 1873, for example. Those
were the dates of the worst U.S.  financial crises . Because
Britain was a net lender and the U.S. a net borrower until World
War I, Britain’s bank rate mattered. Or, as Massachusetts
Congressman Benjamin Gorham put it in the 1820s, “The barometer
of the American money market hangs up at the Stock Exchange in
London.”  When “the rate” was high, no  New York  merchant could borrow
from another, and no farmer could get credit to plant the next
year’s crops. Banks failed,  mortgages  were foreclosed, and grass
grew on every Main Street in America. High rates usually
represented some deep problem with bank assets.  Anglo-American conflict over the rate reached a peak in the
1830s with Andrew Jackson’s war against the Second Bank of the
United States, something like our modern Federal Reserve.
Jackson called the bank the “British bank” because of its
dependence on British lenders. When the bank rate rose months
before the 1832 presidential campaign, Jackson believed that it
provoked a brain fever that put him in bed for a month. He told
his vice president from his bed, “The Bank is trying to kill me,
Mr. Van Buren, but I will kill it.”  After his re-election, Jackson dealt a crippling blow to
the Second Bank of the United States by withdrawing federal
deposits and placing them in what his critics called his “pet
banks,” whose managers tended to vote Democrat. But even
Jackson’s pet banks set their interest rates using the Bank of
England’s rates because Britain was still effectively America’s
biggest lender.  The end of the dominance of Britain’s bank rate came with
the panic of 1907. During that crisis, J.P. Morgan controlled
the New York Clearing House, a financial institution that
provided emergency liquidity to New York banks. Using the
clearing House, Morgan picked winners and losers in the panic,
effectively destroying banks whose management he deemed subpar.
That move and the brief panic contributed to a split in the
Republican Party that gave Democrats the presidency and control
of Congress.  Fed Rate  President Woodrow Wilson pushed a bill through Congress
that created the Federal Reserve in 1913, freeing the U.S. from
the British “bank rate.” U.S international financial supremacy
emerged during World War I, allowing Americans to set “the
rate,” which dictated merchants’ interest rates from  China  to
 Peru . The Federal Reserve measured its own gold reserves to set
rates in the same way as the Bank of England had.  After the U.S. went off the gold standard in 1971, lenders
around the world complained about the U.S. government’s tendency
to push down interest rates to keep the economy booming. Lenders
demanded a proxy, a mechanism that resembled the “bank rate”
that the Bank of England had set from 1797 to 1913 and the
Federal Reserve had set from 1913 to 1971. This prompted the
creation of Libor.  Most of the time, Libor numbers are extremely close to the
Fed’s target numbers but different enough to measure one thing:
banks’ fear of other banks. And Libor provided the first portent
of the 2008 crisis. The numbers rose above the Fed’s target rate
beginning in 2006, as large banks learned about other banks’
risky mortgage-based assets. The European Central Bank and the
Fed, seeing a troubling divide between Libor and Fed rates (the
so-called TED spread), nonetheless calmly lowered borrowing
costs and injected billions of dollars and euros, never
comprehending what Libor was telling them: that a financial
panic was brewing.  (Scott Reynolds Nelson teaches history at the College of
William & Mary. He is the author of “A Nation of Deadbeats: An
Uncommon History of America’s Financial Disasters.” The opinions
expressed are his own).  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the author of this post:
Scott Reynolds Nelson at  srnels@wm.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  