-- Rand Worst Performer as Strikes Raise Fiscal Target Concern
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-05T18:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/rand-declines-third-day-to-four-month-low-as-strikes-escalate.html
The rand dropped to a three-year low
as strikes spread across South Africa’s mining and
transportation industries, raising concern the government may
miss fiscal targets and boosting the cost of insuring the
nation’s debt.  The currency retreated 3.1 percent to 8.7941 per dollar at
2:25 p.m. in New York after touching 8.8465, the weakest level
since May 2009. The rand has declined 5.4 percent since Sept.
28, its worst weekly performance since September 2011. The
currency has fallen 7.9 percent this year, vying with the
Brazilian real as the biggest loser among the greenback’s most-
traded counterparts. Yields on benchmark 6.75 percent bonds due
2021 rose 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, today to
6.73 percent, the highest since Sept. 17.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  fired 12,000 workers today as
illegal stoppages increased. The South African Transport and
Allied Workers Union said port and railway workers may join a
road-freight strike. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is
struggling to keep spending in check to control the budget
deficit as the labor unrest cuts output and tax revenue,
prompting Moody’s Investors Service to lower the country’s
credit rating by one level to Baa1 on Sept. 27.  “It’s just general panic-driven pandemonium; I don’t think
any of that news can be good for the rand,” William van Rijn, a
currency dealer at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , said
by phone. “Every dip obviously attracts local importers; they
have reached the point where they are no longer living in hope
and are covering whatever they can.”  Risk Rises  The cost of insuring South Africa’s debt climbed the most
in two weeks as strike action escalated and police said they
found the body of a man near a mine belonging to Anglo American
Platinum .  Credit default swaps over five years surged 10 basis
points, the biggest jump since Sept. 20, when  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  gave
workers pay increases of as much as 22 percent, fueling concern
more workers would use violence to press wage demands, to 161. A
gauge of South Africa’s dollar debt maturing in one to three
years lost 1.2 percent, more than any other sovereign index
compiled by EFFAS and Bloomberg.  Foreign investors  bought  a net 7.35 billion rand of South
African bonds since they were included in Citigroup Inc.’s World
Government Bond Index on Oct. 1. Buying levels of the bonds were
unsustainable, with the rise in inflows attributable to the
inclusion of the country’s debt in the gauge, Reserve Bank
Governor Gill Marcus said Oct. 3.  “The rand could potentially depreciate 5 percent to 10
percent from here as strikes stagnate gross domestic product,
investors and agencies continue to downgrade and incremental
bond portfolio flows dissipate now South Africa has been added
to the WGBI,” Emad Mostaque, London-based strategist at
Religare, said by e-mail.  Deficit  South Africa’s current account deficit, the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, widened to 6.4 percent
in the second quarter and may increase further after the  trade 
deficit jumped to the most in seven months in August.  The central bank cut its growth forecast to South Africa to
2.6 percent this year on Sept. 20, from a previous estimate of
2.7 percent, citing concern over the strikes and  Europe ’s debt
crisis. Gordhan has pledged to reduce the budget deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product by the year ended in March
2015 from 4.6 percent this year. He is scheduled to give revised
revenue and spending targets at a mid-term budget on Oct. 24.  “The strikes are spreading; there is the underlying
backdrop of a large current account deficit; we saw runs in 1996
and 2001 based on local problems,” John Cairns and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments to clients.  “The
impact of strike action on tax revenue cannot be positive and
will increase the probability of the government missing its
fiscal targets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  