-- RBC Capital Said to Hire Citigroup’s Allen Fu to Run CDO Trading
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-10-05T14:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/rbc-capital-said-to-hire-citigroup-s-allen-fu-to-run-cdo-trading.html
RBC Capital Markets  hired Allen Fu to
run collateralized debt obligation trading, a new business for
the bank, according to two people with knowledge of the hire.  Fu joins from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  where he traded CDOs, backed
by speculative-grade loans and bonds, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the hire hasn’t been announced
publicly. Fu, who will be based in  New York , will report to Mike Meyer, global head of credit at the investment-banking arm of
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the people said.  RBC is setting up a CLO trading business as the market for
funds backed by leveraged loans more than doubled since 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank has been
building its credit business and has climbed to the 10th most-
active underwriter of leveraged loans in the U.S. this year,
from 15th in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Sanam Heidary, an RBC spokeswoman, and Scott Helfman, a
Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment. Fu declined to
comment.  There have been $31.5 billion of CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans arranged this year up from $11.7 billion in
2011, Bloomberg data show. At the height of the market in 2007,
$91.1 billion of the funds were sold, according to Morgan
Stanley.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  RBC will look to trade across the CLO capital structure,
from the riskiest portion, or so-called equity piece, to the
highest-rated slice, the AAA debt, the people said.  RBC Expansion  RBC’s is growing its credit business during the last two
years as loan issuance increased 48 percent for the same time
period in 2010, Bloomberg data show. CLOs could help drive
demand for new loans, which fund leveraged buyouts and
acquisitions.  RBC hired Sean Peters from Citigroup last year to build out
its credit trading group as it combined its new-issue and
secondary loan sales teams. It brought on Ryan Atkinson as head
of distressed in January as it also seeks to expand its
offerings in that market.  There have been $412.9 billion of leveraged loans, those
rated below BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  and less than Baa3 at
Moody’s Investors Service, raised this year, Bloomberg data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  