-- RBS Said to Suspend Trader Over Interest Rate Rigging
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-10-05T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/rbs-said-to-suspend-trader-over-interest-rate-rigging.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
suspended a trader for trying to rig the  Singapore  dollar swap
offer rate, indicating employees may have sought to manipulate
more than just Libor, two people briefed on the matter said.  Senior trader Chong Wen Kuang was put on leave earlier this
year for trying to rig the interest rate to benefit his trading
position, said the people who asked not to be identified because
the bank is probing his actions. He is the first RBS employee to
be suspended or fired for attempting to rig a benchmark other
than the  London  interbank offered rate, one of the people said.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, is one of at
least a dozen firms being investigated over allegations they
colluded to influence interest rates so they could profit from
derivatives bets. RBS started its own probe into allegations of
rate-rigging in the middle of 2010, according to one of the
people. The Edinburgh-based lender fired four traders last year
for rigging the yen and Swiss franc Libors, and suspended a
further two, who have since been reinstated, the person said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore, the country’s central
bank, said in July it will examine how banks are setting “key
market  interest rate  benchmarks” amid similar reviews by
regulators in Europe and the U.S.  The  Singapore dollar  swap offer rate, one of two main
benchmark interest rates in the city-state, refers to the
average cost of borrowing Singapore dollars for a set period by
borrowing U.S. dollars and exchanging them into the local
currency. It is calculated by a daily poll overseen by the
Association of Banks in Singapore, a lobby group.  Key Person  An e-mail sent to Chong’s RBS account was returned with a
delivery-failure message. Calls to his office were answered by
colleagues who declined to be identified and said he was away
from the office. A receptionist at RBS in Singapore said there
was no record for Chong in the bank’s global directory. He is
still listed as a  key person  at RBS for Singapore government
securities, according to the MAS’s directory.  Michael Strachan, a spokesman for RBS, declined to comment
on Chong and referred to a previously released statement.  “Our investigations into submissions, communications and
procedures relating to the setting of Libor and other interest
rates are ongoing,” the bank said in the statement. “RBS and
its employees continue to cooperate fully with regulators.”  Chong was identified by Tan Chi Min, the firm’s former
Singapore-based head of Asian delta trading, who is suing the
bank for wrongful dismissal, as one of the bankers whose duties
involved providing rate setters with input on where they should
fix the benchmark on any given day, according to a Dec. 27 court
document. Tan, who was fired last year for trying to manipulate
Libor, alleged in a suit filed at the Singapore High Court in
December that rate manipulation was systemic at RBS.  Internal Probe  RBS derivatives traders and managers, some still employed
by the bank, regularly asked inputters to submit rates favorable
to their trading positions, people with knowledge of the
lender’s probe said last week. Even so, more than two years
after the bank started its investigation, no senior managers
have been fired, though RBS may still take disciplinary action
against some employees, one of the people said.  In a Jan. 18 court filing, RBS detailed its disciplinary
policy, saying suspension will normally be on full pay, doesn’t
amount to disciplinary action in itself, and will be reviewed to
ensure it is not “unnecessarily protracted.”  Libor is calculated by a daily poll carried out daily by
Thomson Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’
Association, a London-based lobby group, that asks firms to
estimate how much it would cost to borrow from each other for
different periods and in different currencies. The top and
bottom quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are
averaged and published for individual currencies before noon in
London.  Barclays Plc, Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets, is
the only bank to have settled with regulators over the rigging
of interest rates. The London-based company paid a record 290
million pound ($469 million) fine in June for manipulating
Libor. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chairman
Marcus Agius resigned in the aftermath.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  