-- U.S. Inflation Bets Set for 2nd-Biggest Weekly 2012 Gain
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-10-05T05:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/treasuries-stay-lower-before-job-data-amid-inflation-bets.html
The  yield spread  between 10-year
notes and inflation-linked bonds was set to complete the second-
biggest weekly gain this year before U.S. data that may show
hiring increased amid monetary easing by the central bank.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard
said measures of inflation expectations indicate bond holders
have doubts the Fed will hold price increases within its 2
percent goal. Demand for Treasuries was supported ahead of
reports that economists said will show German factory orders and
the euro region’s industrial production decreased.  “The Fed’s easing is raising inflation expectations,”
said Shinji Kunibe, chief portfolio manager for fixed-income
investment in  Tokyo  at Nissay Asset Management Corp., which
oversees the equivalent of $65 billion. “Pricing-in risk
premiums on inflation, the yield curve will gradually steepen,”
he said, referring to a faster gain in longer-maturity yields
than that in shorter-term rates.  The  yield gap  between 10-year notes and similar-maturity
inflation-linked bonds, a gauge of expectations for consumer
prices, widened 20 basis points this week to 2.62 percentage
points. It’s poised for the biggest increase this year after a
gain of 27 basis points in the week ended Sept. 14.  The  yield  on 10-year notes was little changed at 1.67
percent as of 6:35 a.m. in  London . It earlier rose to 1.68
percent, the highest level since Sept. 25. The 1.625 percent
security due August 2022 added 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 19/32, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Japan ’s bonds were little changed as the central bank kept
monetary policy unchanged. Five-year note yields were at 0.195
percent, while 10-year rates were at 0.775 percent. Thirty-year
yields added 1 1/2 basis points to 1.92 percent, the highest
since Sept. 21.  U.S. Jobs  U.S. payrolls rose by 115,000 in September, up from 96,000
the prior month, the Labor Department may report today,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The jobless rate is estimated at 8.2 percent,
compared with 8.1 percent in August.  Applications for jobless benefits rose by 4,000 to 367,000
in the week ended Sept. 29, government figures showed yesterday.
Economists had forecast an increase to 370,000.  The Fed unveiled a third round of so-called quantitative
easing last month with open-ended purchases of $40 billion a
month in mortgage-backed securities. In the first two rounds,
the central bank bought Treasury and mortgage debt valued at
$2.3 trillion.  Inflation Outlook  Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities “seem to suggest
that investors do not completely trust the Fed to deliver on its
2 percent inflation target,” Bullard said yesterday in a speech
in  Memphis ,  Tennessee .  “The Fed is uber-dovish right now,” said Aaron Kohli, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. “The Fed’s
going to be very focused on its job creation given they feel
they have a very strong hold on their inflation mandate.”  Ten-year yields were still about 30 basis points from a
record low amid increasing signs that the prolonged debt crisis
in the euro area is hurting the region’s economies.  Government data today may show today German  factory orders 
slid 0.5 percent in August from the previous month, economists
forecast.  Industrial production  in the currency bloc is
projected to have fallen 0.3 percent in August from July,
according to economist estimates compiled before the figure is
released on Oct. 12.  ‘Further Deterioration’  “The euro region’s economy is undoubtedly on a path to
further deterioration,” giving downward pressure on Treasury
yields in the longer term, said Kunibe of Nissay Asset.  Ten-year Treasury rates touched the all-time low of 1.38
percent on July 25.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings based on the implied volatility of Treasury
options, was at 59.8 basis points yesterday. It fell to 57.5
basis points on Sept. 19, the lowest since May.  “We expect the decline of implied volatility to slow down
now, although volatility may keep trading at current cheap
levels for some time,”  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rates
strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris, wrote in a research
note yesterday. “Those in need of a hedge should find current
levels of implied volatility quite attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  