-- FSB Said to Weigh Shorter List of Too-Big-to-Fail Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-05T09:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/regulators-said-to-weigh-shorter-list-of-too-big-to-fail-banks.html
Global regulators may trim their list
of 29 too-big-to-fail  banks  earmarked for capital surcharges,
according to two people familiar with the talks.  The Financial Stability Board is scheduled to agree on an
update of the list at a meeting next week in Tokyo, according to
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks
aren’t public. The list may be revised because the potential
failure of some of the lenders is no longer deemed to pose a
threat to the world economy and because others have
restructured, the people said.  The FSB last year published a list of 29 so-called globally
systemic banks that should have to hold more capital than
required by other international agreements.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  were provisionally earmarked to
face the top level of surcharges, set at 2.5 percent of risk-
weighted assets.  “Policymakers are grappling with raising bank capital
levels and reducing the risks in the financial system without
trying to choke off economic growth,” said Huw Van Steenis,
head of European banking analysis at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which is
also on the list of 29 lenders.  One of the banks that is almost certain to drop off the
updated list is  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the Franco-Belgian lender that is
being broken up after losing access to unsecured funding, said
 Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies in Brussels.  Balance Sheets  “There might be two or three others” in a similar
situation, he said. Still, “total balance sheets remain
enormous” at the very largest banks, Lannoo said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  prepared a draft
update of the list at a meeting last month in Istanbul,
according to the people. Its proposals will now be weighed by
the FSB at its Tokyo meeting, which takes place on Oct. 10 and
Oct. 11.  The possible slimming down of the list is a result of
 restructuring  at some lenders in return for public bailouts, and
shifts in banks’ strategies, the people said.  They declined to say  which banks  might be removed, as the
plans still need to be reviewed. The updated list will be sent
for endorsement to finance ministers and central bank chiefs
from the Group of 20 nations, who are scheduled to meet next
month.  Shadow Banks  The FSB said last year that regulators would update the
list on an annual basis, with each revision to be published in
November. The first version that will determine which banks face
a surcharge will be the one published in 2014.  The FSB will also assess nations’ progress in regulating
over-the-counter derivatives and discuss rules for shadow banks
at the  Tokyo  meeting, said the people.  The FSB brings together central bankers, regulators and
government officials from G-20 nations to coordinate financial
rulemaking.  The capital surcharges for systemic banks come on top of
agreements by the Basel committee to more than triple the core
reserves that lenders have to hold against possible losses.
These so-called Basel III rules are intended to apply to all
internationally active banks, and are scheduled to fully apply
from 2019.  Large international lenders would have faced a 374.1
billion euro shortfall ($486.6 billion) in the capital needed to
meet Basel III had it been in force at the end of 2011,
according to data published by the Basel group last month. The
figure factors in the surcharges for globally systemic banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  