-- Retirement Planning 2.0: Retrain Your Brain for Financial Success
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-10-08T23:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/retirement-planning-2-0-retrain-your-brain-for-financial-success.html
     Dismal market returns haven’t exactly created a tailwind
for 401(k) and IRA portfolios over the last decade or so, but
an equally pernicious -- and more entrenched -- problem is
that our brains are messing with our retirement plans.  “We are wired for financial defeat,” says Rapid
City, South Dakota, certified financial planner Rick Kahler.
“Whatever has the most emotional juice right now is what gets
our attention. Invest $5,000 in your IRA for a retirement that
is 10, 20, 30 years away? Or spend the $5,000 for a vacation
to the Bahamas?” All too often, the Bahamas wins out.  William Meyer, founder of Social Security
Solutions, notes that our thirst for immediate gratification
can easily take a six-figure toll. More than two-thirds of
folks opt to claim a lower Social Security benefit starting as
early as age 62. For a married couple, than can mean leaving
as much as $100,000 on the table. “If you wait to claim until
age 70, you’re locking in a benefit that is 76 percent
larger," says Meyer.  More productive planning  Forever tweaking your asset allocation probably won’t get
you near the retirement payoff that tweaking your brain will
achieve. Consider these strategies for engaging your brain in
more productive retirement planning:  Get Thee to a Calculator, Pronto: OK, you know you
probably should be saving more for retirement. And when life
keeps intervening -- that Bahamas vacation you and yours
really really need, or the realization that the kid’s
orthodontia isn’t covered by insurance -- you tell yourself
that next year, you’ll ramp up your savings rate. You’ve got
plenty of time, right?  What you may not realize is how expensive that time is.
Research conducted by Craig McKenzie, a psychology professor
at the University of California, San Diego, shows that we have
a tendency to “massively underestimate the cost of waiting to
save. It’s difficult to appreciate the difference between
giving yourself 20 years to save and 40 years.”  For example, a 30-year-old who is saving $10,000 a year
and earning an annualized 6 percent will have $1.2 million at
age 65. Care to guess what someone starting at 45 will have?
About $390,000. The younger saver invests $150,000 more than
the 45-year-old does, and in return has an ending balance
that's $800,000 larger. Even if you’re already past your 20s
and 30s, you might find it eye-opening to see how extending
your investment timeline by delaying retirement on the back
end of the calculation can help matters. Your company
retirement plan probably has an online calculator you can play
with; or try this one.  Make it Personal: How you frame retirement savings
decisions can help boost your ability to delay gratification.
When individuals were asked if they'd prefer to have $3,400 in
one month or $3,800 in two months, 57 percent chose the
latter. When the same scenario was framed in terms of one’s
personal age -- “when you are 2 months older” -- 83 percent
chose to wait for the bigger payoff.  How does that translate to better retirement planning?
Yale School of Management marketing professor Shane
Frederick, one of the study’s authors, says a 50-year-old who
frames a savings goal as “when I am 65” will likely be more
patient to focus on that delayed gratification, than someone
who frames it as a more generic “in 15 years.”  Time Travel: Another unique challenge for retirement
planning is that the end goal is so far away that it’s hard to
see how actions we take or don’t take today will have a huge
impact on our older selves. When researchers showed
individuals doctored photos of their future selves, the human
guinea pigs said they would save more than twice as much for
retirement, compared to a control group that wasn’t given a
glimpse of their older self.  Work is afoot to bring this visual exercise to a 401(k)
plan near you. In the meantime, Hal Hershfield, who led the
research, says he wouldn’t recommending using apps that age
your face. “They're just not accurate enough, and I think
seeing a strange-looking version of your future self may
actually have the perverse effect of causing you to identify
less.”  Hershfield, an assistant professor of marketing at New
York University’s Stern School of Business, says new research
that has yet to be published shows that simply writing a
letter to your future self can help you become more invested
in the welfare of that older person. “In a way, this task is a
very low-tech version of the age-progression [photo morphing]
techniques: Both have the same goal of creating a more vivid
image of the future self.” Hershfield says hanging out with
older folks -- parents, grandparents, volunteering with an
organization for the elderly -- can also have a beneficial
impact on your resolve to save more today.  Channel Ulysses. Most of us suffer from a bad case of
recency bias, the tendency to extrapolate that whatever is
happening today will keep happening. That’s why it’s so hard
to buy low and sell high. If your recent experience is a
falling market and bad returns, it’s not exactly easy to belly
up to the bar and buy stocks, or simply stay committed to what
you already own.  A Ulysses Contract -- a one-page statement that lays out
your long-term strategy and the fact that you’re committed to
staying the course -- can be a line of defense against
over-reacting to current events. Like the Greek warrior, you
are pre-planning for how you will circumvent alluring
emotional sirens that can thwart your retirement plan.  For example, a sample Ulysses contract -- created by the
Allianz Global Investors Center for Behavioral Finance for
financial advisers to use with clients -- includes this
passage: “Should the portfolio value decline by 25 percent, we
commit to avoid the urge to panic and sell the portfolio.
Similarly, should the portfolio value increase by 25
percent, we commit to avoid the urge to chase the hottest
investments.”  Another useful step is to include a clause in your
contract saying that before you ever deviate from your
plan, you will write down your rationale. As Nobel Laureate
Daniel Kahnemann explained in his book, "Thinking, Fast and
Slow," you don’t want to cede all power to the quick-twitch
intuitive part of your brain. Slowing down and simply writing
down why you want to change course triggers more deliberate
rational thinking. That’s the key to getting ahead and staying
ahead.  (Carla Fried is a freelance writer based in California.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Suzanne Woolley, at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net 
 