-- Roche Faces New Foe as Boehringer Plans a Rituxan Copy
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-10-05T12:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/roche-faces-new-foe-as-boehringer-plans-a-rituxan-copy.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH is planning
to test a version of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s top-selling drug Rituxan
with a trial design that may speed the copy to market.  Boehringer is recruiting 306 patients to test its version
of the treatment in rheumatoid arthritis, Asthika Goonewardene,
a London-based analyst for Bloomberg Industries, said in a note
to clients today. The study caters to both European Union and
U.S. regulators by using medicine made in both regions and is
designed to compress the stages of data-gathering needed for
approval into a single trial, Goonewardene said.  Boehringer is muscling into a crowded field.  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
 Celltrion Inc. (068270) , partners  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Quintiles
Transnational Corp., and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
with  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  are among the companies already working on a
Rituxan copy. The streamlined design of the study may give
Boehringer an advantage, Goonewardene said.  “This will significantly decrease the cost of development
in the U.S.,” the analyst said in a telephone interview.  Boehringer declined to comment. According to documents
posted on the website  ClinicalTrials.gov , the study was
announced in September and isn’t yet recruiting patients. The
Ingelheim, Germany-based drugmaker said in the documents it’s
aiming to finish the research by April 2015.  Roche is working on innovations to counter potential copies
of Rituxan, including a subcutaneous administration approach and
GA101, a new compound designed to be better than Rituxan, said
Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman for the Basel, Switzerland-based
company.  Roche’s Patents  Rituxan, also know by its generic name rituximab, had 6
billion Swiss francs ($6.45 billion) in  sales  last year. Roche’s
patents on the medicine expire in 2018 in the U.S. and earlier
in  Europe .  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  helps market the drug in the U.S.
Roche rose 0.5 percent to 181.90 Swiss francs at 2:35 p.m. in
Zurich.  Because Rituxan is a biological drug, made out of living
cells, putting out a copy isn’t as simple as making a generic of
a chemically based pill like  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor or Viagra.
Under EU regulations and draft U.S. guidelines, companies that
want to sell a copy of a biotech drug, a so-called biosimilar,
will need to show that their version of Rituxan does the same
thing as Roche’s.  Teva, Lonza  Teva and Lonza helped show how complicated the process can
be this week. The partners stopped their planned 544-patient,
final-stage trial of a Rituxan copy to confer with regulators
about the best way to design the trial program, Bloomberg
Industries reported on Oct. 3.  Patients hadn’t been treated yet in the trial, Teva said in
a statement late yesterday.  “Teva is firmly committed to the development of
biosimilars,” the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said in
the statement. “However, given the changes in the regulatory
and competitive environment, Teva (through its joint venture
with Lonza) is evaluating the path forward for rituximab.”  Regulators might also allow Teva to run one study to meet
both European Union and Food and Drug Administration
requirements, BI said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  