-- Rudd Summons Jesus for Gospel Hotel Chain: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-10-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/rudd-summons-jesus-for-gospel-hotel-chain-jeremy-gerard.html
A guy tells his female partner their
business deal is saved. An unknown foreign financier has
promised to wire them millions of dollars by the next morning.  No, this isn’t the latest on “Rebecca,” the Broadway
musical that can’t open because investors turned out to be dead,
imaginary or both.  This is the premise of “Grace,” Craig Wright’s torpid 10-
year-old drama that, incomprehensibly, has made its way to
Broadway with a stellar cast that includes Paul Rudd, Michael Shannon, Ed Asner and Kate Arrington.  Life really is more gripping than fiction.  Rudd and Arrington play Steve and Sara, an evangelical
couple who have arrived in  Florida  from St. Paul,  Minnesota ,
intent on building a chain of gospel-themed hotels for Christian
wayfarers.  With a promise of $9 million from a certain Mr. Himmelman
in Zurich, they commence work on their first location.  Sara also begins cultivating Sam (Shannon), the next-door
neighbor whose recent car tragedy has left him minus both his
fiancee and half of his face.  “You’re mad at God for not existing!” Steve says to Sam.
“You’re allowed to say it.”  Cynical View  Asner is Karl, the exterminator in their generic apartment
complex, a gruff, wise elder who has seen tragedy (he’s a German
whose family hid Jews during the war) and imparts a cynical view
of the universe.  These actors are so committed that you may find yourself
angry that they have no play to commit to. Dexter Bullard’s
lively staging is sometimes confusing, on a challenging yet
elegant set by the ubiquitous Beowulf Boritt. The long single
act begins with gunshots, adding considerably to the lack of
suspense.  Rudd captures Steve’s free-market spirituality with a
puppyish zeal that can on a dime turn scary. Arrington is
sympathetic as a trapped woman who slowly realizes she’s married
to a fool.  Shannon is riveting in a role that nevertheless strains
credibility (if, for one thing, he’s a computer genius, why
can’t he figure out how to upload precious pictures without
losing them?).  From Where?  Asner nearly steals the show despite an accent from
someplace no GPS could locate, at least on this planet. I wish
Karl wasn’t saddled with a monologue that reeks of Holocaust
porn involving rape and redemption.  And if you believe Himmelman is going to come through with
that $9 million, let me introduce you to a producer I know. He’s
got an investment opportunity you’re sure to find irresistible.  At the Cort Theatre, 138 W. 48th St. Information: +1-212-
239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 