-- Russia Pauses Rate Increases as Downturn Risk Brushed Off
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-10-05T14:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/russia-leaves-main-rates-unchanged-as-inflation-breaches-target.html
Russia’s central bank held back from
raising  interest rates  after a surprise increase last month, a
pause that may prove brief after inflation quickened past the
target range to the fastest in 10 months.  Bank Rossii kept the  refinancing rate  at 8.25 percent at a
meeting today after a quarter-point increase in September, the
central bank in Moscow said in a  statement  on its website. The
decision was forecast by 19 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The main short-term lending and deposit rates will
remain at 5.5 percent and 4.25 percent.  Economists project the central bank will raise borrowing
costs again before the end of 2012 after inflation surged to 6.6
percent in September. Policy makers said in today’s statement
they don’t see risks of a “significant slowdown” to the
economy from monetary tightening, another indication the bank is
preparing further action to curtail price growth.  “The central bank decided to take a pause and see how the
situation with inflation will develop,” said Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie Capital in Moscow. “The
risk of an economic slowdown is there, even though the central
bank is less concerned with economic growth.”  The ruble appreciated 0.4 percent to 30.9427 per dollar as
of 5:53 p.m. in Moscow, heading for the strongest close since
Sept. 17. The Micex Index of 30 stocks was 1.8 percent higher at
1,482.26.  Food, Tariffs  Russia, the only major emerging economy to raise interest
rates this year, is struggling to keep a lid on prices after
droughts in the U.S. and locally drove up food costs. The
government’s top priority is fighting inflation, even at the
expense of short-term growth, President  Vladimir Putin  said Oct.
2 at an investment conference in Moscow.  Consumer prices rose 6.6 percent in September from a year
earlier, led by the cost of bread, meat and alcohol, exceeding
the median forecast of 6.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey, the
Federal Statistics Service said yesterday.  “The acceleration of inflation in recent months is linked
primarily to the pace of growth of food costs and increases in
regulated prices and tariffs,” Bank Rossii said in the
statement. Lending growth and low unemployment “create the
conditions to support stable domestic demand.”  Selling Grain  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said at a government meeting
yesterday that the state should begin selling grain from
stockpiles to stabilize supplies on the domestic market. The
decision is attempting to blunt the effect of an “extremely
meager harvest” in  Russia , said Jenia Ustinova, an analyst at
Eurasia Group in  Washington .  “The government is definitely grappling with how to best
rein in inflation,” she said by e-mail. “The decision to start
grain interventions is probably at least in part linked to that
effort.”  The central bank’s bias toward tighter monetary policy
contradicts their acknowledgment that consumer-price growth is
driven by food and regulated tariffs, said Vladimir Miklashevsky, a Helsinki-based economist at  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   Political Pressure  “Bank Rossii is indicating they are ready to hike again
during the fourth quarter,” he said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “They also realize true reasons for inflation and
its non-monetary character, but Bank Rossii is under political
pressure to act.”  The world’s largest energy exporter will probably grow 3.5
percent this year, less than the 4.3 percent pace in the
previous two years, according to the  Economy Ministry . Retail
sales, a measure of the household consumption that accounts for
about half the Russian economy, advanced 4.3 percent in August,
the weakest level in 29 months.  “We’re seeing a slowdown, not just in agriculture, but
also in consumption and investment,” Anton Struchenevsky, an
economist at OAO Sberbank’s investment banking unit in Moscow,
said by telephone. “The lack of monetary factors of inflation
and slowing growth created the conditions for leaving rates.”  Inflation Target  Bank Rossii is now targeting an inflation range of 5
percent to 6 percent for next year, the same as for 2012 and a
half-point higher than the earlier target, according to a
medium-term monetary-policy strategy published yesterday. Policy
makers will seek to contain consumer-price growth at 4 percent
to 5 percent in 2014 and 2015.  Central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said
Oct. 2 that inflation risks remain greater than the threat of an
economic slowdown.  “The central bank roughly knew what inflation would be in
September, so it raised rates,” said  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of
research at BNP Paribas in Moscow, said by telephone.“That was
three weeks ago, and raising again after just three weeks would
be foolish.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  