-- Saudi Arabia Boosts Supertanker Charters to U.S. Gulf of Mexico
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-10-05T13:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/saudi-arabia-boosts-supertanker-charters-to-u-s-gulf-of-mexico.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
biggest state-owned crude producer, increased the number of
supertankers it hired to haul oil to the U.S.  The company chartered at least seven very large crude
carriers to load a total of about 14 million barrels in October,
compared with about four a month so far this year, according to
data from Athens-based Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. Brokers report
tanker bookings when the deals are provisional and charters are
then sometimes canceled.  Saudi Aramco , as the company is known, may be shipping more
oil before a Texas refinery it owns with Royal Dutch Shell Plc
resumes full output, Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an Oslo-based
shipping analyst at Fearnley Consultants A/S, said by phone. The
extra cargoes could also be because  Saudi Arabia  is compensating
for reduced supplies from  Iran , he said.  Motiva halted a crude unit in June at its 600,000 barrel-a-
day refinery, the largest in the U.S., following contamination
that caused cracks in stainless steel pipes and other areas. The
plant will resume early in 2013, the refinery said the following
month. Oil exports from Iran, once the second-largest producer
in OPEC, have plunged by more than 50 percent compared with 2011
because of western sanctions targeting its nuclear program.  Nesa Subrahmaniyan, a spokesman for Saudi Aramco in  Riyadh ,
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail and phone call today
outside of regular office hours. Saudi Aramco hires vessels
through its Vela International Marine Ltd. unit.  A one-way journey to the U.S. Gulf from Saudi Arabia takes
about 40 days to complete, according to Optima. That implies the
cargoes will probably be discharged in the second or third week
of December.  Vela chartered 11 VLCCs in March to haul crude to the U.S.
from the  Persian Gulf , according to Omar Nokta, a New York-based
analyst at investment bank Dahlman Rose & Co.  VLCCs hauling Middle East crude to the  Gulf Coast  are
 losing  $22,842 a day, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  