-- Sberbank Overcoming Sale Means Discount to End: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-10-05T07:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/sberbank-overcoming-sale-means-discount-to-end-russia-overnight.html
OAO Sberbank (SBRCY)  will extend gains,
eliminating the discount that makes  Russia ’s biggest lender the
cheapest of its peers, as rising profit lures investors,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  State-backed Sberbank jumped the most in almost three weeks
in New York yesterday to trade at 5.5 times estimated earnings,
a 36 percent discount to the average valuation of lenders in the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Banks Index. (MXEF0BK)  The  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian stocks listed in the
U.S. added 0.6 percent yesterday, while  futures  expiring in
December on Russia’s RTS Index rose 1.4 percent to 149,500.  Sberbank’s valuation was at parity with the bank gauge in
May before the government initiated a plan to sell a minority
stake. The $5.1 billion sale, which was completed Sept. 19,
limited gains in Sberbank, leaving it with the  lowest  price-to-
earnings ratio among similar-sized banks tracked by Bloomberg.
The bank, which posted a 5.9 percent profit jump in the first
nine months of the year today, will boost 2012  net income  by 5
percent according to the mean of seven analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Sberbank remains significantly undervalued against
regional peers in spite of a better growth outlook and top-of-
the-range profitability,” Alex Kantarovich, head of Russian
equity research at JPMorgan in Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday.
“The placement is now behind us and, subject to benign market
conditions, we would expect Sberbank valuations to realign with
peers.”  Russia ETF Gains  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 1.2 percent
to $29.38 yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 24. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the index
futures, slid 1.5 percent to 27.67. The Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index rose to 100.15, the highest level since Sept. 21.  Sberbank, which has the  third-biggest weighting  in the
Micex, has climbed 15 percent in Moscow this year and 21 percent
in New York.  American depositary receipts of the lender added 1.7
percent to $11.98 in New York yesterday, gaining by the most
since Sept. 14. The ADRs settled at a 1.3 percent premium versus
the bank’s Moscow-traded shares, the widest gap in a week.
Sberbank  stock  slumped 0.6 percent to 91.44 rubles in Moscow.  ‘Safe Haven’  “Sberbank is a safe haven amid global instability,”
Vladimir Savov, an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp. in
Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “It must cost much more than
what it is now, because it has no problems with liquidity and is
fundamentally very strong.”  Sberbank traded at a price-to-earnings ratio of 6.2 in New
York yesterday, compared with 18.3 for  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) ,  Hungary ’s
largest lender, and 11.3 for  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , the Turkish bank
whose sale to Sberbank was completed last week. VTB Group,
Russia’s second-largest bank, has a so-called P/E of 8.2.  “We attribute Sberbank’s cheapness to the government
showing its cards well before the recent privatization
placement,” JP Morgan’s Kantarovich said yesterday. “This
visible risk prevented valuation recovery to the levels enjoyed
by Turkish and global market peers.”  Commodities climbed the most in two months and the euro
advanced to a two-week high against the dollar after European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the common currency is
“irreversible” and tension between Syria and  Turkey  fanned
concern that Middle East oil output will be disrupted.  Norilsk Nickel  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 2.5 percent to 665.19 in New York yesterday, the biggest
jump since Aug. 3.  ADRs of  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY) , the world’s largest
producer of nickel and palladium, climbed 0.8 percent to $16.09
yesterday. Norilsk stock fell 0.9 percent in Moscow to 4,904
rubles, or equivalent of $158.59 yesterday. One share equals 10
ADRs.  JP Morgan recommended investors buy Norilsk in a research
report yesterday, upgrading the stock from hold.  Crude for November delivery gained 4.1 percent to $91.71 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures have risen
21 percent in the past year. Brent oil for November settlement
also advanced 4.1 percent to $110.58 on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, rallied 4.2
percent to $110.57 per barrel yesterday, gaining by the most
since July 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  