-- Scene Last Night: Ali, Mailer, Caro, Boesky, Dick Cavett
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-10-05T14:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/scene-last-night-ali-mailer-caro-boesky-dick-cavett.html
As the  Norman Mailer Center  and the
 Muhammad Ali Center  passed out cash awards to young writers last
night, literary lions and scions pondered investing.  “Joel and I are always on the phone about our stock
portfolios,”  Robert Caro , author of “The Power Broker” (not
about a stockbroker) said, grinning at Joel Conarroe, former
president of the  John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation .  John Buffalo Mailer was not joking when he recommended
investing in soybeans and water, as lamb cigars were passed
around in the sunken lounge on the 35th floor of the Mandarin
Oriental.  “Water, it’s more important than oil,” he said. “It’s an
essential that is literally a matter of life and death. I take
the sustained-life view.”  A son of the writer  Norman Mailer , he got his “crash
course” in finance acting in  Oliver Stone ’s movie “ Wall
Street : Money Never Sleeps.”  Garrison Keillor, host of “A Prairie Home Companion,”
said he delegates the task of managing his money. “Some Swiss,
bald guy does it. I have faith in him because he’s Swiss.”  Also bridging the bookish and entertainment worlds was
Andrew McCarthy, former Brat Pack movie star and recently
published travel writer.  Chris Napolitano, former editorial director of Playboy,
said he tried investing his money on his own. “I had a sister
that worked at  Goldman Sachs (GS) ,” he said, offering his
credentials. He lost it.  “The best thing for editors and writers is to not play
that game,” Napolitano said. “It’s to go safe, with annuities,
mutual funds.”  Playboy Googles  At Playboy, he did have a run-in with the successful
initial public offering of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  An interview in the
magazine with Google co-founders  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page 
threatened to delay the IPO, as a violation of the “quiet
period.”  “Did I buy Google stock? No, I did not,'' Napolitano said.
``Our copy editor did.”  Investing in a gala ticket -- at prices ranging from $1,500
to $10,000 -- yielded high entertainment value. The program
featured Alec Baldwin indicating with one four-letter word his
feeling after the first presidential debate, and Dick Cavett
recounting how  Muhammad Ali , who sat in a chair nearby, slept in
Cavett’s bed at his Montauk home, to the surprise of his wife.  Arty Armory  The Park Avenue  Armory  celebrated its fifth anniversary as
an art space last night, with a glamorous arrangement of
birthday balloons.  Sharon Jones and the Dap-Kings got guests dancing,
including art dealer Marianne Boesky, daughter of  Ivan Boesky ,
the actor  Patrick Stewart , and Strauss Zelnick, chairman and
chief executive officer of  Take-Two Interactive Software. (TTWO)   The first artistic director of the armory, Alex Poots, said
he’s announcing his initial slate of programming in January, to
begin in the spring.  “I’ve been listening to the space to figure out what will
work here,” said Poots, who maintains his post as director of
the Manchester International Festival in England.  One thing learned last night: The 55,000-square-foot Drill
Hall makes a great party venue. Poots stayed on with the after-
party revelers, a young crowd who flirted over the music of DJ
Mick Boogie and snacked on  Wafels & Dinges  waffles.  Large screens showed videos of past performances in the
hall, everything from Royal Shakespeare Company to Shein Wei
Dance Arts to motorcyclists spinning around as they painted on
the floor.  Members of the After Party Committee included Benjamin
Lerer, partner at venture-capital fund Lerer Ventures and co-
founder and CEO of Thrillist Media Group, and Uma Seshamani of
Barclays Capital Inc.  “Hopefully we helped raise awareness around this amazing
institution,” Seshamani wrote in an instant message this
morning. “The space is amazing -- one of the largest in the
city, unique in style, and the breadth of arts featured I think
resonates with a varied crowd both in age and interests.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and
 Lewis Lapham ’s podcast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  