-- Serbia’s EPS Seeks Seasonal Power Import From Bosnia’s ERS
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-05T15:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/serbia-s-eps-monopoly-seeks-power-imports-from-bosnia-s-ers.html
Elektroprivreda Srbije,  Serbia ’s
state-run power monopoly, is close to arranging the import of
574 gigawatt-hours from Elektroprivreda Republike Srpske in
neighboring Bosnia-Herzegovina.  The monopoly is, “as we speak,” taking part in the tender
in which  Elektroprivreda Republike Srpske  is offering its
surplus production, Energy Minister Zorana Mihajlovic told
reporters in Belgrade today. “It’s practically a done deal,”
even though the tender is officially still open, she said.  The import will be EPS’s first direct purchase of
electricity since 2006, said the minister, who recently pledged
to cut costs of electricity imports by making  EPS  take part
directly in such tenders, bypassing energy traders.  The amount may cover Serbia’s need for electricity imports
during the winter season, Mihajlovic said. If drought hurts
output at Serbian hydro-power plants during the heating season
and consumption exceeds projections, the country may need to
import as much as 200 megawatt-hours more, she said.  The Serbian company is also allowing a 15 percent discount
for customers who consume less than 500 kilowatt hours a month,
to help mostly lower-income households cope with recession and
high inflation, she said.  The discount will apply to 1.9 million out of 3.16 million
households over the six months through March and will cut EPS’s
revenue by 4 million euros to 5 million euros a month, said
Ljubo Macic, the head of Serbia’s  Energy Agency .  The utility agreed to the discount even as it lacks 41
billion dinars for expenses planned this year, said Aleksandar
Obradovic, EPS’s general manager appointed last month.  EPS will have to be reorganized to enhance efficiency, or
face a “hole in  cash flow ” of as much as 80 billion dinar in
2013, which “would definitely mean bankruptcy,” he said, as he
appeared alongside Mihajlovic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  