-- Simmons, Seward & Kissel, Debevoise: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-05T12:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/simmons-seward-kissel-debevoise-business-of-law.html
Simmons & Simmons LLP has entered
into an alliance with U.S. firm Seward & Kissel LLP for hedge
fund and asset-management work.  “Our hedge funds teams have worked closely for many years,
and this alliance will enhance that relationship, with our
partners and senior associates working together on an even more
co-ordinated basis,” Simmons & Simmons senior partner Colin
Passmore said in a statement.  The alliance combines the hedge fund and asset-management
practices of the two firms with lawyers based in  London , New
York and Hong Kong. Lawyers will assist with fund formation and
management and advise on regulation, derivatives, corporate
structures, tax, litigation, employment, intellectual property,
finance, government investigations and transactions.  Both firms will continue to work with other referral firms.
Simmons & Simmons has about 900 lawyers in 17 offices in  Europe ,
the Middle East and Asia.  Seward & Kissel, founded in 1890, has offices in New York
and Washington.  Littler Names Visconti San Diego Office Managing Shareholder  Littler Mendelson PC appointed Denise M. Visconti as
managing shareholder of the firm’s San Diego office.  Visconti succeeds Jeremy Roth, who served as managing
shareholder for a decade. He will take on the role of Littler’s
co-managing director and co-president alongside Thomas Bender in
January.  Marko Mrkonich, president and managing director of Littler,
said of Visconti, “We are excited to have her take the helm of
the San Diego office and continue to build on the momentum
created during Jeremy’s tenure.”  Visconti handles employment-litigation matters, most often
claims arising under the  California  Labor Code and the Fair
Labor Standards Act, the firm said.  Littler Mendelson has more than 900 attorneys in 56
offices.  Deals  Debevoise Advises Global Infrastructure on $8.25 Billion Fund  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP advised Global Infrastructure
Partners, the private-equity firm whose holdings include Gatwick
Airport in the U.K., in raising $8.25 billion for the largest
fund dedicated to infrastructure buyouts.  GIP’s second fund attracted more than its initial target of
$7.5 billion as investors expect cash-strapped governments to
open the door to private acquisitions of assets, Chairman
Adebayo Ogunlesi said in an interview. The firm in 2008 raised
$5.64 billion for its first fund, which owns stakes in
Australia’s Port of Brisbane and East India Petroleum Ltd.  “Governments are under tremendous fiscal pressure, so they
really don’t have the capability to continue to invest,”
Ogunlesi said. “Private-sector investment is going to have to
fill some of that void.”  The Debevoise team was led by partner Erica Berthou and
included partner Peter F.G. Schuur and Richard Ward.  GIP, started by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  and  General Electric
Co. (GE)  in 2006, will use the new fund to invest primarily in
operating businesses in developed markets, said Ogunlesi, who
was head of investment banking at Credit Suisse First  Boston ,
the securities unit of Zurich-based Credit Suisse at the time.
The firm, which oversees $15 billion, has teams dedicated to
investments and the portfolio’s operations and draws on a group
of former executives as senior advisers. It focuses on the
energy, transport and water and waste industries.  GIP surpassed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s $6.5 billion
infrastructure pool as the industry’s largest, according to
Preqin Ltd., a London-based research company. Globally, 142
funds dedicated to infrastructure were raising capital as of
Oct. 1, targeting $91.6 billion, Preqin  said .  For more, click here.  Moves  McCarter & English Hires Joseph E. Bachelder III and Colleague  Joseph E. Bachelder III, founder and senior partner of the
Bachelder Law Firm, and Jerome J. Cohen, a lawyer at the firm,
joined McCarter & English LLP’s New York office as special
counsel.  Bachelder has represented top executives in employment
matters, including former Merrill Lynch & Co. Chief Executive
Officer Stan O’Neal when he left the firm in 2007. He said that
the decision to combine his firm with McCarter was motivated by
a need to expand its expertise.  “Executive compensation today is going through
considerable change due to changes in the law (Dodd-Frank, for
example) and fundamental changes in the direction of our
business enterprises,” he said in an e-mail.  Cohen was of-counsel at the Bachelder Law Firm and advises
companies on tax and other legal aspects of their compensation
programs for directors, senior executives and other management
personnel.  “Joe and Jerry are two of the best executive compensation
attorneys in New York and we are thrilled that they chose to
join our team,” Mark A. Daniele, leader of McCarter’s tax,
employee benefits and private clients group, said in a
statement.  The additions bring the number of lawyers in McCarter’s New
York office to 42. The firm has about 400 attorneys in Boston;
Hartford,  Connecticut ; New York;  Newark , New Jersey;
Philadelphia;  Stamford , Connecticut; and Wilmington,  Delaware .  Steptoe Hires International Arbitration Partner  Steptoe & Johnson LLP hired Pieter Bekker, formerly of
Dewey & LeBouef LLP, in the firm’s international arbitration
group as a partner.  Bekker, who has 20 years of experience in cross-border
dispute resolution, is based in the Brussels office and will
regularly work out of Steptoe’s London,  Washington  and New York
offices, the firm said.  Bekker focuses on international dispute risk management and
resolution. He has practiced in both Europe and the U.S. in
international arbitration matters and advises private and public
sector clients on matters relating to international law.  Steptoe has more than 500 lawyers and other professionals
in offices in Beijing, Brussels, Century City,  Chicago , London,
Los Angeles, New York, Phoenix and Washington.  News  Bank-Friendly U.S. Regulator Shifts to Revamp Reputation  In a stately hearing room stuffed with senators and
bankers, Thomas Curry began his apologies. His agency should
have stopped a major bank from helping drug cartels launder
cash. The violations went on for years while his agency was
overly passive, Bloomberg News’ Jesse Hamilton reports.  “I deeply regret we did not act sooner,” he said.  Curry had been on the job for just over three months on
that day in July, so the mistakes hadn’t been made on his watch.
His apologies were less a confession than a signal the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency -- long seen as the most bank-
friendly of U.S. regulators -- was changing course.  Since Curry took over in March, at least two key staff
members closely associated with the agency’s pro-industry stance
have departed, notably chief counsel Julie Williams. A 19-year
OCC veteran, Williams was known for helping nationally chartered
banks resist state regulation by arguing they were preempted by
often less-stringent federal rules.  Curry has also raised the profile of consumer protection
and shifted focus toward “operational risk” -- the idea that
bank practices and management can pose as much of a threat to
safety and soundness as external forces.  Curry arrived at the OCC in March after eight years on the
board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., a bank regulator
with a different history and mission. The FDIC, founded during
the Great Depression, was created to protect depositors from
bank runs and other threats. The OCC, on the other hand, was
established during the Civil War to create a uniform currency
and a system of national banks.  The OCC has long been tagged by critics as a collaborator
with U.S. financial giants, including those running the largest
national banks:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp .,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Curry’s four predecessors all became advisers to the
banking industry after they left the job -- three as lawyers in
financial-services practices and Eugene Ludwig as founder and
chief executive officer of Promontory Financial Group LLC, a
Washington-based consulting firm.  Curry, 55, got his start in Massachusetts, working as a
lawyer for the secretary of state and rose to serve two stints
as the state’s banking commissioner. He also served as chairman
of the Conference of State Bank Supervisors in 2000 and 2001.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Wal-Mart Asks Judge to Dismiss Texas Discrimination Lawsuit  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  asked a federal judge to dismiss a
proposed class-action lawsuit alleging the company discriminated
against female employees in  Texas .  “This is a copycat rerun,” Theodore Boutrous Jr., a
partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP representing Wal-Mart,
told U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor at a hearing in  Dallas 
yesterday. “This is a process the court should not go
through.”  “This isn’t the second bite at the apple,” Joseph Sellers
of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, told the judge. “It’s the first bite.”  Plaintiffs’ lawyer Hal Gillespie told the court that the
case would bring fresh evidence of practices used in Texas that
discriminated against women in promotions. He said they include
“the tap on the shoulder,” no posting of positions and a
requirement that a promoted employee be willing to relocate, an
option that women are less likely to choose than men.  The case is one of four regional suits filed against Wal-
Mart, the world’s largest retailer, since the U.S. Supreme Court
rejected a nationwide class in June 2011. Similar suits are
pending in California, Florida and in a region comprising
 Tennessee  and parts of  Alabama ,  Arkansas ,  Georgia  and
 Mississippi .  O’Connor didn’t immediately rule on Wal-Mart’s dismissal
motion, which says the class action is barred by the statute of
limitations and repeats claims made in the rejected national
class action.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  