-- Singapore Caps Residential Loan Tenures After Prices Hit Record
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-10-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/singapore-restricts-loan-tenure-for-residential-properties.html
Singapore  will restrict home-loan
maturities in a bid to curb a housing bubble after property
prices in the island-state rose to a record last quarter amid
low interest rates.  The maximum tenure for new residential property loans will
be capped at 35 years, The Monetary Authority of Singapore said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. It will also impose tighter
loan-to-value limits for loans exceeding 30 years, it said. The
rules, which will become effective Oct. 6, will apply to both
private properties and Housing Development Board flats.  “This can be seen as another round of property curbs,”
Nicholas Mak, Singapore-based  executive director  at SLP
International Property Consultants, said in a phone interview.
“The government is taking preventive measures. It’s trying to
reduce the amount of credit to investors. With  interest rates 
expected to remain low, it could encourage more risky
investments.”  The government has been trying to rein in residential
property prices since 2009. It has barred interest-only loans
for some housing projects, stopped allowing developers to absorb
interest payments, imposed additional taxes on foreigners and
companies buying properties, and moved to curb the increasing
trend of so-called shoebox apartments.  Banks in Singapore have been offering home loans with
tenures of as long as 40 years, with United Overseas Bank Ltd.
even extending a 50-year loan. Priyia Paramajothi, a Singapore-
based spokeswoman at UOB,  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest lender,
declined to comment on MAS’s statement yesterday.  Credit Growth  Low interest rates are likely to persist for some time and
will continue to spur demand in the residential  property market ,
pushing up prices beyond sustainable levels, the central bank
said in the statement.  “The new rules aim to curb continued upward pressure on
residential property prices, driven by low interest rates and
rapid credit growth,” the island-state’s central bank said in
the statement. “The eventual correction could be painful to
borrowers and destabilize the economy.”  The three-month Singapore interbank offered rate, or Sibor,
the benchmark used to price most home loans, is at an all-time
low at just under 0.4 percent, compared with a peak 3.56 percent
in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Over the past three years, the average tenure for new
residential property loans has increased from 25 years to 29
years, the central bank said. More than 45 percent of new home
loans had durations that exceeded 30 years, it said.  “We are already aligned with the new regulations on home
loan tenures,” Sherry Leong, head of home financial services at
Citibank Singapore Ltd., said. “Most of our customers take loan
tenures of 30 years although we have granted loan tenures up to
35 years.”  Shoebox Apartments  In September, Singapore said it would cap the number of
homes that can be developed in suburban projects to curb the
increasing trend of what have been dubbed shoebox apartments, or
apartments smaller than 50 square meters (538 square feet).  The island-state in December imposed an additional 10
percent stamp duty on foreigners and corporate entities. The
extra levy is 3 percent for permanent residents purchasing a
second home and for citizens buying their third residential
property.  The government earlier imposed a 1 percent duty on the
first S$180,000 ($147,000) of the property price, 2 percent on
the next S$180,000 and 3 percent for the remainder.  Singapore home prices climbed to a record in the third
quarter after developers sold more homes. The island-state’s
private residential property price index rose 0.5 percent to 208
points in the three months ended Sept. 30, according to
preliminary estimates released by the  Urban Redevelopment
Authority  on Oct. 1. The index advanced 0.4 percent in the
previous quarter, which was also at a record.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  