-- South African Fruit Rots, Fuel Pumps Run Dry as Truckers Strike
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-10-05T07:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/south-african-fruit-rots-fuel-pumps-run-dry-as-truckers-strike.html
A two-week strike by more than 20,000
truck drivers in South Africa has left fuel pumps dry and fruit
rotting at the nation’s largest fresh produce market.  A third of gasoline stations in Gauteng province, South
Africa’s commercial hub that consumes about 60 percent of all
fuel, have run out of at least one of three products, MC
Lamprecht, chairman of the South African Petroleum Retailers
Association, said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg
today. A shortage of fruit trucked from the southwestern region
has boosted prices at the Johannesburg Fresh Produce Market,
said Paul Botha, a market agent.  Truck drivers went on strike on Sept. 24 demanding a 12
percent annual wage increase over the next two years, while
employers are offering 18 percent over the full period.  The price of an 18-kilogram carton of apples, which is
produced 1,400 kilometers (870 miles) away, has jumped 27
percent to 140 rand ($16.26) at the Johannesburg market since
the strike started, Botha said.  “There is no fruit coming in and no fruit leaving the
market,” Linda Engelbrecht, a market agent at the JFPM, said by
phone. “The farmers are taking losses because no one is
taking the fruit away.”  Employers and striking workers are due to meet in the labor
court today, Vincent Masoga, spokesman for the South African
Transport and Allied Workers’ Union, said by phone from
Johannesburg.  There are no talks scheduled between the Road Freight
Employers’ Association and Satawu, Magretia Brown-Engelbrecht,
spokesman for the truck owners, said by phone from Johannesburg.
 The association represents 600 companies that employ 60
percent of the workers affected by the wage agreement.  Employers and workers were ready to broker a deal on Oct. 3
when the union “reneged” on the agreement, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  