-- South Africa Refuses to Disclose Cost of Upgrading Zuma’s Home
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-05T15:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/south-africa-refuses-to-disclose-cost-of-upgrading-zuma-s-home.html
South Africa’s government said it was
obliged to pay for additional security, new roads, a clinic and
helicopter pads at President Jacob Zuma’s rural homestead, while
refusing to disclose how much it would cost taxpayers.  “We need to be mindful that it’s the president of the
republic,” Mandisa Fatyela-Lindie, the acting director-general
of the Public Works Department, told reporters in  Pretoria 
today. “It’s classified information” what the facilities have
cost.  Zuma, who became president in May 2009, is a Zulu
traditionalist who has four wives and 21 children. His family
home is situated in the hills of Nkandla in the northeast of
KwaZulu-Natal province, where most homes and schools have no
running water or electricity and are accessed by dirt roads or
footpaths.  The security and infrastructure upgrade at Nkandla will
cost 240 million rand ($27.7 million), Johannesburg’s Mail &
Guardian newspaper reported today, citing government documents.
On Sept. 30, the Johannesburg-based City Press newspaper cited a
government report as saying the cost was 203 million rand. Those
figures were incorrect, Fatyela-Lindie said.  The police, defense force and intelligence agencies carried
out a security assessment at Nkandla and decided what upgrades
were necessary, Public Works Minister Thulas Nxesi told
reporters.  “The president does not implement these measures for
himself,” Nxesi said. “There are certain costs we have to
carry. The same is done for all presidents” of South Africa,
past and present.  While government guidelines restrict state spending on
security for public officials’ private homes to 100,000 rand,
the minister said those provisions were not applicable to the
president, who conducted official business at all his dwellings.
“There is no way you can classify the president’s residence as
private or official like any other residence,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  