-- Spain Sees Divorce Driving Breakup of Towns in Recession
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-10-05T11:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/spain-sees-divorce-driving-breakup-of-towns-as-recession-deepens.html
At 10 a.m. on a hot Friday, Antonio
Rodriguez Alvarez and his brother, Francisco, sit outside a bar
in Ecija,  Spain , drinking an anise liquor with water. Unemployed
laborers, they visit the job center daily at 9 a.m. in search of
work. When there is none, they repair to the bar and worry.  Antonio, 44, is divorced and living with his mother. He
split with his wife partly because of constant fights about
money and his lack of a job. He now weighs going to  France ,
where he heard there is work picking fruit. His 22-year-old
daughter is planning a move to the  Canary Islands  to work in the
 tourism industry . He said he doesn’t blame her.  “Young people are leaving this town,” he said. “There’s
no hope, no jobs. Days are long. You wake up, it’s the crisis.
You go to bed, it’s the crisis. It’s always the same around
here.”  While crowds in  Madrid  and Barcelona take to the streets to
protest austerity measures triggered by the European crisis,
Spain’s small towns and rural areas are quietly disintegrating.
The despair of Ecija, a city of 40,000 in the southern region of
Andalusia, is measured in rising divorce rates and fleeing young
people. Pride in Spain’s four-decade rise has been replaced with
bitterness over the collapse of an economy built on construction
and real-estate speculation that has left wreckage deep in the
Spanish heartland.  ‘Science Fiction’  “Spain’s economic miracle was science fiction,” said
Javier Madero Garfias, 67, an architect who has designed
hundreds of Ecija’s buildings since 1973. “I don’t think we’ll
ever go back to what we used to be. This is the first time the
kids are worse off than their parents in Spain.”  Spain is in its second recession since 2009 and its economy
is predicted to contract 1.3 percent in 2013. Industrial output
has declined for 12 consecutive months. On Sept. 27, the
government revealed its fifth austerity package in nine months
that includes 13 billion euros ($16.9 billion) in tax increases
and budget cuts. The government has already reduced  unemployment
benefits  and civil servant salaries while raising sales taxes.  In Ecija, the  unemployment rate  has soared to 30 percent
after mattress and furniture factories that supplied the housing
industry closed, said Juan Wic Moral, mayor from 2003 to 2011.  “Four years ago we wanted to build a 3 million-euro public
swimming pool, a new town hall and three new bridges,” Wic
said. “These days we’re talking about a new soup kitchen.”  Once Thriving  Ecija is a town of white-washed homes in a maze of narrow,
winding streets that date to the Roman era. Its  culture  is also
centuries old, from the horse breeding that began in the region
600 years ago to the 11 Baroque church towers that mark the
skyline.  Rural Spain, the land of  Don Quixote  and El Cid, has long
been romanticized by politicians and in popular culture.
Andalusia is particularly celebrated, with its traditions of
bull fighting and flamenco dancing regarded as uniquely Spanish.  During the boom years between 2000 and 2006, Ecija thrived.
Employment grew as factories built home fixtures and
furnishings. Madero, the architect, added as many as 10
freelancers to his permanent staff of five to keep up with his
building projects. Construction and real estate “acted as a
vacuum cleaner,” sucking up all the local capital and talent,
said  Fernando Fernandez , an economist at IE Business School in
Madrid.  Brother Fired  When the boom ended, Ecija had nothing to fall back on.
Spain went from  building  60,000 houses a month in 2006 to fewer
than 5,000 a month this year. In 2004, Madero’s firm designed
buildings that contained between 500 and 600 apartments. This
year, he expects just 25 units will be built. His firm has
shrunk to three employees: Madero, his daughter and his son-in-
law. He fired his own brother.  “I never imagined construction would end so abruptly,”
Madero said. “One day the phone stopped ringing.”  Called “the  frying pan of Andalusia ,” Ecija often records
Spain’s hottest temperatures. In August, when the thermometer
reaches 44 degrees Celsius (111 Fahrenheit), the city’s streets
are empty for much of the day, as residents with the means
escape to the beach or retreat into air-conditioned homes.  At a bar devoted to  Ecija Balompie , the town’s third
division football team, they still talk about the time in 2006
when  David Beckham ’s Real Madrid team played the locals, and
came in for drinks after. Both the team and the town haven’t
been the same. Business at the bar has fallen 50 percent in two
years, said the owner, Antonio Lopez.  “Factory workers used to come after their shift,” Lopez
said. Since the plants closed “there are no customers.”  Ancient Times  When he was mayor, Wic had ambitious plans for Ecija. He
envisioned building on its manufacturing base by adding jobs in
renewable energy. He said he hoped the city’s population would
grow by as much as 50 percent to 60,000.  “The best times for Ecija were the  Roman Empire , the 18th
century and five years ago,” Wic said. “I don’t think we’ll
ever go back to that kind of richness.”  Wic lost his re-election bid last year when his party was
swept out of office across Andalusia. Now he works as a school
administrator, and has seen his pay cut along with other civil
servants. This year, he makes 1,800 euros ($2,339) a month after
taxes, down from 2,200 last year, he said.  “I’ll be buying one shirt this year instead of five and I
won’t be fixing my car,” he said.  As the economy collapses, the city has become obsessed with
once arcane concepts such as  Spanish debt yields , Wic said.  “Even the taxi drivers are talking about bond yields,” he
said.  No Mortgages  Short and bearded, Madero, the architect, drives around
Ecija’s narrow streets in his  Mini Cooper . He points out the
buildings he’s designed over 40 years: a donut-shaped apartment
complex, a downtown plaza, private homes tucked behind imposing
walls, a 40-bed hospital. A new project for two buildings with
56 apartments has been stalled because banks won’t make loans
for mortgages, Madero said.  As he drives down Calle de  Santa Cruz , once a busy shopping
street, he notes that more than a dozen stores have closed.  “Calle de Santa Cruz makes me want to cry,” he said.  Madero was born in 1945 to a well-connected Ecija lawyer.
After attending university in Seville, Madero opened his
architecture firm in 1973, just as Spain was shaking off the
rust of the Franco era.  Bigger Homes  Much of Spain’s growth was built on tourism and
construction fueled by cheap credit, Madero said. Madero said he
succumbed to that temptation, spending more than he should have
on his dream house, which he designed and had built in 2006. The
three-story home, in downtown Ecija, incorporates a 12th century
city wall, a pool and a room for his collection of 93 singing
canaries.  “There was a lot of speculation,” he said. “Banks would
encourage you to ask for more. It was always about buying more,
moving to a bigger home, buying a new car.”  At the 18th century  Our Lady of Santa Maria , where Madero
oversaw a renovation, Father Antonio Jesus Rodriguez Baez
oversees the city’s catholic churches. Demand for the church’s
charity has increased, with families receiving aid in various
ways, including meals, clothing and help paying utilities.  Families also need counseling as the strain of unemployment
frays marriages and divorces increase, Rodriguez said.  In 2004, there were 60 weddings in Ecija’s churches,
Rodriguez said. This year there will be 22, as couples delay
marriages they can’t afford, he said.  “We’ve booked 12 weddings for next year and I don’t think
we’ll make it to 20,” Rodriguez said.  Men Suffer  The crisis has been particularly hard for Ecija’s men, he
said, who are accustomed to being providers.  “There are men who ask their wives to come to church and
ask for help because they feel ashamed of not being able to
provide for their family,” Rodriguez said. “Women sometimes
come by themselves asking for help without their husbands
knowing.”  Agustin Nunez Heredia is a former construction worker who
said his marriage is strained because he’s without work. Nunez,
31, left school at 16 to work in the  construction industry , and
helped build a mall that opened outside Ecija in 2008. Dropping
out of school was an easy decision, he said.  “Back then, the money was too good,” he said, standing
outside the city’s unemployment office. “A lot of my friends
dropped out too. I’ve seen law school dropouts working in
construction.”  Working more than 200 hours a month, sometimes until 3 a.m.
Nunez went from making as much as 2,800 euros a month to living
on 420 euros in monthly  unemployment insurance . He never felt
his pay was too good to be true.  “I worked hard for it,” Nunez said. “This wasn’t some
gift from heaven. I worked hard to make a decent living for my
family.”  Back outside the bar, Rodriguez Alvarez, the divorced,
unemployed laborer drinking on a Friday morning, remembers
Ecija’s more cheerful past.  “Five years ago, this was a happier town and people smiled
more,” he said. “People would go out, bars were always packed
with people. These days people stay home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  