-- Sprint Stock Surge Lends Some Sway to MetroPCS Counterbid
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-10-05T21:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/sprint-said-to-take-fresh-look-at-metropcs-after-february-talks.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s  Dan Hesse  and
his board are expected to meet for the second time this year to
consider whether to buy  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  The verdict
may be different this time.  Hesse, Sprint’s president and chief executive officer, is
evaluating a bid after watching  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  swoop in
with a deal to merge its T-Mobile USA business with MetroPCS,
according to people familiar with the matter. Sprint’s board
rejected a MetroPCS takeover plan in February because it was too
costly, people with knowledge of the talks said at the time.  Following a surge in its stock price, Sprint may be more
likely to make a deal now, said  Chris Larsen , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray & Co. The shares have more than doubled since
February, giving Sprint more buying power. Investors also are
signaling that they want the company to be part of the
industry’s consolidation, Larsen said. That could put pressure
on the board to act.  “A Sprint counteroffer may just make sense,” Larsen, who
is based in  New York , said in a report. The company could pay
$15 a share for MetroPCS, which closed at $12.65 today, and
still profit from the deal, he said.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, is
crunching the numbers and holding talks with its advisers to
weigh the feasibility of a higher offer, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.
The  Overland Park , Kansas-based company’s board is meeting to
discuss the matter and could decide as early as next week
whether to pursue a deal, the people said.  M&A Executive  Sprint also said yesterday that Keith Cowan, its president
of strategic planning and corporate initiatives, will delay his
planned departure by three months until January. Since he
handles mergers and acquisitions, the move may suggest Sprint is
considering a bid,  Jennifer Fritzsche , a Wells Fargo & Co.
analyst in  Chicago , said in a note.  Scott Sloat , a Sprint spokesman, declined to comment on
whether the company is evaluating potential counterbids. Andreas Fuchs, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, also declined to comment on
a potential bid by Sprint, as did MetroPCS.  Deutsche Telekom is proposing a reverse merger that would
make T-Mobile a publicly held company. Investors haven’t
responded favorably to the complex deal, sending MetroPCS shares
down 9.8 percent on the day the details of the transaction was
announced. Shareholders would rather see a straight acquisition
than a reverse merger, Larsen said.  Deal Terms  Deutsche Telekom’s deal would leave MetroPCS investors with
26 percent of the new entity and $1.5 billion in cash. The
ultimate value would hinge on how much synergy the two sides can
realize.  Sprint may have an edge because it uses the same kind of
network standard as MetroPCS: code division multiple access, or
CDMA. T-Mobile relies on the global system for mobile
communications, or GSM. All the companies are moving toward a
new standard called long-term evolution, or LTE. Still, having
different networks may cause headaches in the interim, making a
Sprint-MetroPCS tie-up more palatable, Larsen said.  “A merger of these two would be able to attain synergies
faster and have less network integration risk,” he said.  Sprint also is No. 3 in the industry, with more than 56
million customers at the end of June, while T-Mobile is a
distant fourth. By absorbing MetroPCS’s 9.3 million customers,
Sprint would close the gap with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless .
T-Mobile had 33 million customers at the end of June, so it
would remain No. 4 after a merger with MetroPCS.  Stock Rebound  MetroPCS’s stock  declined less than 1 percent to close at
$12.65 in New York. The shares have advanced after  Bloomberg
News  reported that Sprint was considering an offer, rebounding
15 percent from an intraday low of $10.96 yesterday. Sprint
shares rose 2.2 percent to close at $5.20.  A challenge for either buyer would be hanging on to
MetroPCS’s customers, who are prepaid users without long-term
contracts. The carrier offers a pay-as-you-go service that
appeals to young people and consumers with poor credit. That
makes it a difficult business, Larsen said.  Another potential obstacle to a counteroffer is the breakup
fee, said one of the people familiar with the discussions.
MetroPCS would pay $150 million if it backs out of its current
deal. The reverse breakup fee for T-Mobile is $250 million.  Deutsche Telekom is prepared for a counterbid from Sprint
and would consider better terms if necessary, according to
another person familiar with the matter.  Previous Talks  When Sprint abandoned plans earlier this year to buy
MetroPCS, the deal was expected to cost as much as $8 billion,
including debt, the people familiar with the plan said. Since
then, Sprint’s stock has outpaced shares of the acquisition
target. MetroPCS currently has a market value of $4.61 billion,
while Sprint is valued at about $15.3 billion.  The wireless industry has considered other ways to
consolidate. Sprint has held talks with Deutsche Telekom about a
deal with T-Mobile, and the German company has considered buying
another prepaid carrier,  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) ,
people familiar with the discussions said.  Greg Lund , a Leap
spokesman, declined to comment on those talks.  AT&T had sought to buy T-Mobile for $39 billion last year,
though it walked away from the deal after regulators objected.
Soon after, Deutsche Telekom started talking with MetroPCS and
other potential partners, people with knowledge of the
negotiations said. The talks with MetroPCS accelerated after it
reported better-than-expected second-quarter earnings on July
26, they said.  “Sprint might be in a position to offer PCS shareholders a
more favorable deal,” Wells Fargo’s Fritzsche said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  