-- Standard Life Considers Raising Indian Stake After Rule Change
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-10-05T12:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/standard-life-considers-raising-indian-stake-after-rule-change.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/) ,  Scotland ’s biggest
insurer, may almost double its stake in its joint venture in
 India  after the government proposed to raise caps on foreign
investment.  The firm may increase its holding in HDFC Life Ltd. to 49
percent from 26 percent if government proposals to lift
restrictions on foreign investment are agreed by lawmakers,
Nathan Parnaby, chief executive officer of Standard Life
International, said in an interview today.  “We would be interested in increasing our stake,” Parnaby
said. “It depends on the details of the rules, it depends on
the price and it depends on our perception of the economy at the
time.”  Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh yesterday unveiled
policy changes to increase foreign investment and bolster a
slumping economy. The proposals, to allow overseas firms to
increase ownership of insurance companies to as much as 49
percent from 26 percent and to permit foreign investment in
pension funds, would be the biggest opening of the economy to
global investors since 2004.  “There’s no question this is a big step for  life insurance 
in India if goes through,” Parnaby said. “There are a lot of
technical changes that are very encouraging on top of the
foreign direct investment change.”  Standard Life only gets about 2.6 percent of operating
profit from India because it’s more focused on investing in the
business for future growth, it said in its half-year report.
Revenue from the division rose 25 percent to 233 million pounds
($377 million) in the first half of 2012, it said.  Increasing the stake in HDFC Life at a fair price would be
received positively by shareholders because “the high savings
rate and low penetration of insurance products in India means
the potential is huge,” according to Gordon Aitken, a London-
based analyst at Royal Bank of Canada with a hold rating on the
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 