-- Sweden Riksbank Website Shut Down by Suspected Hacker Attack
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-05T13:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/sweden-riksbank-website-shut-down-by-suspected-hacker-attack-1-.html
The Swedish central bank’s  website 
was probably attacked again by hackers who forced it to shut for
a second day this week.  The site has been under intermittent disruptions since noon
likely as a result of an “overload attack,” Fredrik Andersson,
a  Riksbank  spokesman, said today by phone in Stockholm.  “We’re now trying to limit the effects of these attacks”
because “we can probably not completely protect ourselves,” he
said. “There are no direct connections between our external web
and other IT-systems” such as RIX, the central hub of the
Swedish financial infrastructure, he said.  The website stopped working on Oct. 3 after three rounds of
suspected hacker assaults against a number of government
websites. Sympathizers of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange are
the most probable suspects in the distributed denial-of-service
attacks intended to make a network resource unavailable to
users, Swedish news agency TT reported.  Assange sought asylum in  Ecuador ’s embassy in  London  on
June 19 after exhausting options in U.K. courts to avert
extradition to  Sweden , where he is wanted for questioning over
allegations of rape and sexual molestation.  Hacker group Anonymous in an Oct. 3 YouTube video claimed
responsibility for the attacks on “some Swedish government or
affiliate sites” and threatened “the biggest thing ever done”
today after police searched PRQ AB, an Internet server hosting
company, on Oct. 1 to Oct. 3 as part of investigations into
suspected copyright infringements.  Servers were seized at PRQ’s Solna premises, while no one
at the company is suspected of a crime, according to the Swedish
Prosecution Authority.  PRQ was started by Pirate Bay website co-foundersGottfrid Svartholm Warg and Fredrik Neij and hosts or has hosted a number
of file sharing sites, including Pirate Bay and Wikileaks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net 
1083Z SS <Equity> 