-- Swiss Stocks Extend 19-Month High After U.S. Jobs Report
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-10-05T15:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-before-u-s-payrolls-data.html
Swiss stocks  advanced for a second
day, extending a 19-month high, as a report showed the
unemployment rate in the world’s largest economy unexpectedly
dropped to the lowest since January 2009.  Givaudan SA, the largest maker of flavors and fragrances,
climbed 1.8 percent as  UBS AG (UBSN)  recommended the shares.  Basilea
Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG increased 2.3 percent.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) 
dropped for a fourth straight day as Kepler Capital Markets cut
its rating on the maker of dental implants.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.7 percent to 6,674.82 at the
close of trading in Zurich. That’s the highest level since Feb.
21, 2011, and brings this week’s rally to 2.8 percent. The
benchmark gauge has surged 17 percent from this year’s low on
June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers agreed on an
unlimited asset-purchase program and the Federal Reserve
announced a third round of quantitative easing. The broader
Swiss Performance Index added 0.6 percent today.  “Stocks are riding high as traders welcomed the latest
employment report from the U.S.,” David Madden, a market
analyst at IG in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments.  A Labor Department report showed U.S. unemployment fell to
7.8 percent in September from 8.1 percent the previous month.
The economy added 114,000 workers last month after a revised
142,000 gain in August that was more than initially estimated.
The median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for an advance of 115,000.  “Job growth was in line with expectations, but the
revision from the previous month is a positive surprise,” Viola Julien, an analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
 Frankfurt , wrote in e-mailed comments.  Economic Conditions  The Fed signaled it’s moving toward linking its outlook for
near-zero interest rates to specific economic conditions, such
as a decline in the unemployment rate, rather than giving
calendar-based forecasts. At its last meeting, the Federal Open
Market Committee extended its time horizon at least through the
middle of 2015 from late 2014, a decision that some policy
makers said could be misinterpreted as a downgrade of their
economic outlook, according to minutes of the Sept. 12-13  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will travel to  Athens  next
week for the first time since  Europe ’s financial crisis broke
out there three years ago, a sign she’s seeking to silence the
debate on pushing  Greece  out of the euro.  Merkel Visit  Merkel’s visit to the Greek capital on Oct. 9 to meet with
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras underscores the shift in her
stance since she held out the prospect last year of Greece
exiting the 17-nation currency regime.  Switzerland’s economy may grow more slowly in 2012,
expanding 0.9 percent compared to a previous forecast of 1.2
percent, according to Zurich-based KOF research institute. The
forecast for 2013 was 1.3 percent, down from a previously
estimated 1.7 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 12 percent less than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Givaudan (GIVN)  increased 1.8 percent to 926 Swiss francs after
UBS added the stock to its most preferred list of European
chemical companies.  Basilea Pharmaceutica advanced 2.3 percent to 48.05 francs
as the company said the European Marketing Authorization
Application for its ceftobiprole pneumonia treatment was
accepted for review.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s second-biggest bank,
gained 1.1 percent to 21.24 francs. A gauge of European lenders
was the best performer of the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  added 0.8 percent to
32.60 francs, snapping three days of losses.  Nobel, Lonza  Nobel Biocare dropped 1.4 percent to 8.90 francs, posting
its longest losing streak in nearly four months, as Kepler
downgraded the world’s second-largest maker of dental implants
to hold from buy. The stock slumped 4.3 percent yesterday after
the company cut its profit forecast.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  slid 4.2 percent to 48.48 francs, the
biggest decline since May 23. Lonza and Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. are still evaluating the path forward for a
phase III trial of its rituximab generic drug based on the
latest changes in the regulatory environment, the drug-
ingredient maker said in a statement today.  “The development of biosimilars is very cost intensive,
which could be a burden for Lonza to reduce net debt in the
future,” Carla Baenziger, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG,
wrote in a note to clients today.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  fell 2 percent to 98.55 francs, the
largest drop in more than a week. Simon Goetschmann, an analyst
at Helvea AG, cut the maker of hearing aids to reduce from
neutral, meaning investors should sell the company’s shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  