-- Syria Agrees to Buffer Zone on Border, Turkish Media Say
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-10-05T23:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/syria-agrees-to-buffer-zone-on-border-turkish-media-say.html
The Syrian government has told its
military to keep aircraft at least six miles (10 kilometers)
from  Turkey ’s borders after a deadly shelling incident left five
Turks dead, according to the Turkish news website  Today’s Zaman .  The news site cited Turkey’s ntvmsnbc.com, which quoted
“reliable sources” yesterday as saying that Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime has ordered its warplanes and
helicopters to honor the buffer. Neither Turkey’s government nor
Syrian officials confirmed the report.  Tensions have escalated since initial Syrian shelling Oct.
2 left two Turkish women and three children dead. Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  warned  Syria  yesterday not to test Turkey’s
patience, as Turkish troops fired at Syrian targets for the
second day and another Syrian mortar round hit Turkish
territory. Turkish shells already have killed 14 Syrian
soldiers.  The clashes are the most direct confrontation between the
neighbors to date, underscoring the risk that Turkey, a member
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, could be drawn into
Syria’s civil war. Turkey has positioned extra troops near its
border since June, when Syrian forces downed a Turkish plane.  Turkey’s parliament voted Oct. 4 to allow cross-border
military operations. The government in Ankara also has thrown
its support behind the Syrian rebels, letting them use bases
inside Turkey and providing training to political activists.  ‘Grave Impact’  The  United Nations Security Council  has condemned the
Syrian shelling “in the strongest terms” and called on both
sides to show restraint.  “This incident highlighted the grave impact the crisis in
Syria has on the security of its neighbors and on regional peace
and security,” according to a statement released Oct. 4. The
council “demanded that such violations of international law
stop immediately and are not repeated.”  International efforts have failed so far to stop the
conflict, which has entered its 19th month and claimed more than
30,000 lives, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights.  Syria’s military turned on a second major city yesterday,
battering the rebel stronghold of Homs with artillery. Photos of
Homs show charred and smoking buildings in a devastated
landscape. The regime has also been using artillery to pummel
Aleppo, the country’s largest city, according to reports by
Western journalists.  Jet Downed  Syrian troops killed 101 people across the country
yesterday, including 28 in or around the capital Damascus, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed
statement that couldn’t be independently verified.  Reflecting an increasingly sophisticated level of weaponry
and training, Syrian rebels downed a Russian-made MiG fighter
jet over the city of Deir Ezzour yesterday, Local Coordination
Committees said in an e-mailed statement.  While that claim also couldn’t be independently verified,
footage on al-Jazeera television showed a MiG warplane on fire
while falling over the city. Activists told al-Jazeera that the
pilot of the MiG was captured and was being interrogated by
rebels.  Rebels also shot down a military helicopter over the
Damascus suburb of al-Ghota al-Sharqiya yesterday, the
Observatory for  Human Rights  in Syria said in an e-mailed
statement. The fate of the four-man crew is unknown, the London-
based group said. Footage on Al-Arabiya television showed the
chopper falling and exploding when it hit the ground.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  