-- Syria Clash Spills Into Markets as Yields Surge: Turkey Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-10-05T06:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/syria-clash-spills-into-markets-as-yields-surge-turkey-credit.html
Bond investors are taking fright
after fighting in  Syria  spilled over the border into  Turkey ,
sending  yields  up by the most in two months as the government in
Ankara retaliated against shelling that claimed five lives.  Yields on Turkey’s benchmark two-year notes rose as much as
18 basis points yesterday, paring the biggest drop in  emerging
markets  this year. The lira weakened the most in two months
after Turkey responded to the attack by bombarding of Syrian
targets. The gap between Turkish dollar bond yields and the
higher emerging-market average narrowed and the cost to insure
Turkish debt against default increased.  The incident shows the mounting risks of the violence in
Syria for Turkey, a country with NATO’s second-biggest army and
the region’s largest economy. More than 100,000 refugees have
fled the fighting into Turkey, where the government says it has
spent around $200 million on providing shelter for them.
Artillery units fired into Syrian territory for a second day
yesterday, while Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  received
authorization from parliament to send in troops.  “The risk premium is increasing in the wake of these
hostilities and it could increase further,” Guillaume Tresca,
an emerging-market strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank, said in e-mailed comments from Paris yesterday.  Military Response  Investors’ concern that Turkey’s 720,000-strong military
will be dragged into the conflict sent the lira down by as much
as 1.1 percent against the dollar in the hours after Turkey’s
retaliation began. The currency gained 0.4 percent yesterday
after Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay said in an NTV
interview that Parliament’s approval of military action was a
deterrent measure, “not for war.”  The Ankara-based legislature passed a measure yesterday
granting Erdogan’s government a one-year mandate for possible
military incursions. “Turkey will never let such provocations
by the regime in Syria go unanswered,” the prime minister’s
office said in a statement on Oct. 3, referring to the killing
of five Turkish citizens when a shell crossed the border from
Syria.  The market’s drop was a “knee-jerk reaction,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps oversee about $9 billion of emerging-market
debt at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  in  London , said in e-
mailed comments yesterday. “I really don’t expect much impact
over the medium term, unless things get really ugly in Syria.”  Lira Rebound  The Turkish currency has gained 5.2 percent this year,
rebounding from its record low of 1.9224 against the dollar on
Dec. 28 to this year’s high of 1.7424 on Feb. 20.  “If it becomes clear that Turkey will step up military
action, we will quickly reach the 1.85 level,” Thu Lan Nguyen,
a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-
mailed comments yesterday. “A war will definitely deter
international investors, and Turkish assets will be sold across
the board.”  The yield on Turkey’s benchmark  two-year debt  closed 4
basis points higher at 7.61 percent yesterday. The  stock market 
in Istanbul dropped as much as 1.8 percent in intraday trading
before closing 0.1 percent higher at 66,909.38.  Credit-default swaps rose for the first time in six days
yesterday, adding 2 basis points to 152, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The premium investors demand to hold
Turkey’s dollar-denominated debt over  U.S. Treasuries  widened 7
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 223, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. Yields on the
country’s dollar bonds maturing in January 2030 jumped 13 basis
points to 4.39 percent.  NATO Meeting  Syria’s shelling on Oct. 3 marked the first time in this
conflict Turkish civilians have been killed in a cross-border
attack. Erdogan called an emergency meeting of Turkey’s North
Atlantic Treaty Organization allies to request action against
the country. Atalay, one of Erdogan’s deputy prime ministers,
said Turkey’s priority was to move together with the
international community against Syria.  An escalation in tensions may lead investors to sell lira-
denominated assets, Suha Yaygin, a director at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  in London, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. People will
“watch the news very carefully,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  