-- U.K. Stocks Rise as U.S. Unemployment Rate Declines
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-05T16:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/u-k-stocks-rise-before-jobs-data-burberry-shares-climb.html
U.K. stocks  climbed, with the FTSE
100 Index advancing for the first week in three, after
unemployment in the U.S. unexpectedly declined last month.  Burberry (BRBY)  Group Plc jumped 2.8 percent after Morgan Stanley
recommended investors buy the retailer’s shares.  John Wood Group
Plc (WG/)  climbed by the same amount after the company said it is
confident of meeting full-year projections.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  fell
amid a report its merger with European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. may fall through.  The FTSE 100 rose 43.24 points, or 0.7 percent, to 5,871.02
at the close in  London , extending its advance this week to 2.3
percent. The gauge swung between gains and losses yesterday as
central-bank policy makers kept borrowing costs at record lows.
The FTSE All-Share Index also increased 0.8 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 1.1 percent.  “Good employment figures from the U.S. were always going
to lift equity markets,” said  Angus Campbell , head of market
analysis at Capital Spreads in London. The unemployment figure
“could almost certainly be enough to keep  Barack Obama  in
office following next month’s U.S. elections. The markets are
likely to be happy with such a result.”  U.S.  jobless rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent in
September, the lowest since President Barack Obama took office
in January 2009, from 8.1 percent as employers took on more
part-time workers, a report showed.  Nonfarm Payrolls  The economy added 114,000 workers last month after a
revised 142,000 gain in August that was more than initially
estimated, according to Labor Department figures. The median
economist estimate called for an advance of 115,000.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  has rallied 12 percent since its  2012 low on
June 1  after European Central Bank officials agreed on an
unlimited asset-purchase program and the U.S. Federal Reserve
announced a third round of quantitative easing to help support
growth and spur hiring.  Burberry rose 2.8 percent to 1,028 pence after Morgan
Stanley upgraded the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods company to
overweight from equalweight, saying the balance between risk and
reward is “attractive” for the stock. The rating is equivalent
to a buy recommendation.  There are “growth concerns, but the Burberry brand remains
intact,” Louise Singlehurst, an analyst at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in a note to clients. “Burberry rarely looks cheap, but
we see 19 percent upside to base case and 60 percent in our bull
scenario.”  The shares slumped 26 percent last month after the company
warned that full-year profit will be at the lower end of analyst
estimates amid a more “challenging” environment.  Energy Market  Wood Group climbed 2.8 percent to 833.5 pence after the
oil-services provider said it’s confident of meeting full-year
forecasts. The company said it continues to deliver growth amid
“favorable” conditions in the energy markets.  Rentokil Initial Plc climbed 1.4 percent to 88.45 pence
amid speculation the world’s biggest pest control company could
become a takeover target. Jefferies Group Inc. analyst, Justin
Jordan, said press reports of a private equity bid of 145p a
share is "certainly possible."  Mining companies also advanced, as a  gauge of basic-
resource producers  rallied 1.1 percent after a three-day
retreat.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  jumped 3.4 percent to 1,101
pence,  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  increased 4.5 percent to 738 pence and Rio
Tinto Group gained 2.2 percent to 2,987 pence.  BAE slid 1.6 percent to 328.10 pence after  Der Spiegel 
reported that merger negotiations with EADS had all but broken
down because the governments in the U.K.,  Germany  and  France 
failed to agree on state involvement in the future entity. The
magazine cited politicians it didn’t identify.  EADS today said it continues to work toward an Oct. 10
deadline to present a merger agreement with BAE, responding to
the article.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  