-- U.K. Civil Servant Suspended on Rail Deal Denies Responsibility
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-10-05T18:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/u-k-civil-servant-suspended-on-rail-deal-denies-responsibility.html
A British civil servant reported by
media as having been suspended for the mishandling of a 5.5
billion-pound ($8.89 billion) rail-network contract denied
responsibility for the failings.  Kate Mingay, who U.K. newspapers had named as one of three
Department for Transport staff suspended, said she was not
responsible for the forecasts that contributed to the West Coast
inter-city rail franchise being awarded to  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  over
 Richard Branson ’s Virgin Group.  The August decision to grant FirstGroup the contract for
London-to-Scotland trains was overturned Oct. 3 because of
“serious flaws” regarding the choice of bid, according to
Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin, who said staff were
suspended and three other franchise tenders frozen. Among errors
cited was a failure to take full account of inflation and
passenger numbers.  “Neither I nor any member of my team had any
responsibility for the economic modeling for this project,”
Mingay, who according to her LinkedIn profile used to work for
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., said in an e-mailed statement. “I
have not been involved in briefing Department for Transport
ministers or other government ministers in respect of this
project.”  Media including the  Daily Telegraph , the Guardian and the
Independent newspapers named Mingay as one of the staff
suspended this week.  Opposition Labour leader  Ed Miliband  described the
withdrawal of the rail contract as a “fiasco” and a
“disgrace” in his speech to the party’s conference on Oct. 3.  The West Coast route, operated by Virgin since 1997, was
due to transfer to FirstGroup for at least 13 years on Dec. 9.  The decision threatened to exclude Branson from the U.K.
rail industry for the first time since its privatization. The
Virgin founder said he made a “strong and deliverable” offer
for the West Coast line, which transports 31 million people a
year to cities including Birmingham, Edinburgh, Glasgow,
Liverpool and Manchester.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  