-- U.K. Abandons Plans to Cap Financial Support for Biomass Plants
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-10-05T16:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/u-k-abandons-plans-to-cap-financial-support-for-biomass-plants.html
The U.K. dropped a plan that may have
led to a cap on the amount of power plants converting to burning
biomass or using a mixture of the feedstock and other fuels if
too many companies applied for funding for the developments.  The earlier plans would have allowed “triggered reviews”
on the level of subsidies received by operators of so-called
biomass conversions and co-firing facilities, the Department of
Energy and Climate Change said today in a  statement .  “The sword of Damocles has now been removed from the
enhanced co-firing band, which is good news for the industry,”
said David Hostert, an analyst at London-based Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. “Developers had to fear that signaling their
intentions on biomass co-firing could lead to an unscheduled
change in banding. It’s time for utilities to show their hand
and decide whether they want to play the biomass game or not.”
Banding is the range of subsidies for different technologies.  The government pulled the proposals as it seeks to lure
investment to meet growing demand for power without adding to
pollution. U.K. energy regulator Ofgem said today electricity
margins, or the amount of spare capacity on the grid, may drop
to 4 percent in 2015 to 2016 from 14 percent now, risking
shortfalls in electricity as aging coal plants are closed.  Eggborough Power Ltd., based in Yorkshire, northern
 England , said the shift would have a “major” effect on its
plan to convert a coal power station to biomass early next year.  ‘One Step Closer’  “Today’s announcement by DECC removes one of the major
barriers for biomass conversion projects like ours, which is now
one step closer to making a significant contribution to energy
security, growth and jobs, and renewable power” Chief Executive
Officer Neil O’Hara said today in a statement.  The original plan, known as a cost-control mechanism, aimed
to curb prices for consumers, who pay for subsidised co-firing
or conversion of biomass plants through their energy bills. The
plan required generators to register units to receive Renewable
Obligation Certificates, or ROCs. It included the possibility of
reviews should too much generation capacity be registered and
the prospect of reduced support, deterring investors.  The proposal was replaced with a “voluntary” requirement
to report intended co-firing or conversion generation. That
won’t trigger reviews of subsidies, or ROCs, DECC said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net 
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  