-- U.S. Natural Gas Advances on Forecasts for Colder Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-10-05T19:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/u-s-natural-gas-futures-advance-on-forecasts-for-colder-weather.html
Natural gas futures declined in New
York for the second time in three days as inventories of the
fuel headed toward an end-of-season record.  Gas dropped 0.3 percent. Stockpiles rose by 77 billion
cubic feet to 3.653 trillion last week, Energy Department data
showed yesterday. Analysts had predicted a gain of 73 billion.
Inventory levels may reach an all-time high of 3.95 trillion
cubic feet before cold weather boosts demand for the heating
fuel, according to the department.  “Supplies are still approaching a record high,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “Pipelines bringing shale gas from all over the
country are adding to stockpiles.”  Natural gas for November delivery fell 1 cent to settle at
$3.396 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The futures have gained 14 percent this
year and 2.3 percent this week, capping a second weekly
increase.  November $3.75 calls, bets that prices will rise, were the
most active gas options in electronic trading. They were down
0.6 cent to 2 cents per million Btu on volume of 617 contracts
at 3:06 p.m.  Stockpiles were 8.3 percent above the five-year average for
the week ended Sept. 28, according to the Energy Department.  Cool weather over the next two weeks may give way to above-
normal temperatures in the northern tier of the U.S. from Oct.
15 through Oct. 19, according to Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland.  Winter Forecast  The high in  New York  on Oct. 18 may be 71 degrees
Fahrenheit (22 Celsius), 8 above normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The high in
Chicago may be 69 degrees, 7 more than the usual reading.  About half of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  The U.S. winter may be the second in a row to produce low
energy demand for heating even while falling short of the record
high temperatures of the 2011-2012 season, MDA EarthSat Weather
predicted in an Oct. 2 outlook.  The winter, measured by meteorologists as running from
December through February, will probably have temperatures above
the 10- and 30-year normal ranges, according to  MDA  in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The result may be less natural gas,
heating oil and electricity needed to warm homes and businesses,
MDA said.  Production Report  The number of rigs drilling for natural gas in the U.S.
rose by two to 437 this week, according to data released today
by Baker Hughes Inc. in Houston. The rig count is down 46
percent this year.  U.S. natural gas production rose to a six-month high in
July as new wells in  New Mexico  were completed and  Gulf of
Mexico  platforms returned to service after a tropical storm, the
Energy Department said Sept. 28.  Gross output, including amounts flared and used for
pressuring, increased 0.4 percent, to 72.58 billion cubic feet a
day in the lower 48 states, the most since January, from a
revised 72.29 billion in June, the department’s Energy
Information Administration said in the monthly  EIA-914 report .
Production in the contiguous states gained for the third time in
four months.  “Storage and production are still at or near record highs
and the weather outlook for mid-October is moderating,” wrote
 Mike Fitzpatrick , editor of the Energy OverView newsletter in
New York. “With so few fundamental price drivers, the necessary
conclusion must be that positioning was, and probably still is,
heavily weighted to the short side.”  Energy Independence  The boom in oil and natural gas production helped the U.S.
cut its reliance on imported fuel. America met 83 percent of its
energy needs in the first six months of the year, department
data show. If the trend goes on through 2012, it will be the
highest level of self-sufficiency since 1991.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
339,657 as of 2:37 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 381,000. Volume was 396,399 yesterday. Open interest was 1.17
million contracts. The three-month average is 1.11 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full
volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  