-- U.S. Consumer Credit Jumps $18.12 Billion in August, Fed Says
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-05T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/u-s-consumer-credit-jumps-18-12-billion-in-august-fed-says.html
Consumer credit in the U.S. rose more
than forecast in August, propelled by a surge in borrowing for
education and automobiles.  The $18.12 billion  rise , the most in three months, followed
a revised $2.5 billion decrease in July, Federal Reserve figures
showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 34 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a $7.25 billion increase. The
pickup in non-revolving borrowing, which includes student and
automobile loans, was accompanied by the first gain in revolving
credit in three months.  Consumers took advantage of declining  interest rates  to buy
vehicles, while higher gasoline prices helped push up the value
of their credit-card borrowing. At the same time, job gains may
be giving households enough confidence to spend.  “Vehicle sales are pretty strong, which is boosting non-
revolving credit,”  Ryan Sweet , senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before
today’s report.  Estimates for consumer credit ranged from gains of $3.7
billion to $11 billion.  Non-revolving debt, such as that for college tuition and
the purchase of vehicles and mobile homes, rose $13.92 billion,
today’s report showed.  Demand for automobiles remains an area of strength for the
economy. Banks are charging U.S. consumers the lowest interest
rates on new-car loans since the Fed began surveying them in
1971.  Auto Sales  Cars and light trucks sold at an annualized rate of 14.9
million in September, the industry’s best sales since March
2008, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
U.S. sales rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier.  “We continue to be encouraged by positive signs” such as
gains in housing and consumer sentiment, and lower jobless
claims, Kurt McNeil, GM’s vice president of U.S. sales, said on
a conference call on Oct. 2. At the same time, “the stiffest
headwinds are uncertainty, some of which is related to the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and concerns about the pace of
growth here at home.”  Payrolls grew by 114,000 workers in September after a
142,000 gain in August, the Labor Department reported today. The
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent, the lowest
since January 2009, from 8.1 percent.  Borrowing through the federal government, which is mainly
for  student loans , climbed by $23.9 billion in August before
adjusting for seasonal variations. President  Barack Obama  signed
into law a bill to keep student-loan interest rates, now at 3.4
percent, from doubling on July 1. The one-year extension on
existing rates affects about 7.4 million students, according to
the White House.  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, climbed by
$4.2 billion. The report doesn’t track debt secured by real
estate, such as home equity lines of credit and home mortgages.  Higher gasoline prices in August may have helped boost
revolving loans. The average price of a gallon of gasoline was
$3.70 in August, up from $3.42 the previous month, according to
AAA, the largest U.S. motoring organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  