-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Pare Decline; Edgen Murray Sells Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-05T21:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/u-s-credit-swaps-fall-for-fifth-day-edgen-murray-plans-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
pared an earlier decrease even after a surprise decline in the
U.S. unemployment rate.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.1
basis point to a mid-price of 95.1 basis points at 4:09 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts
tied to a unit of  Edison International (EIX)  narrowed to the lowest
level since January 2010.  The benchmark reached 93.4 basis points after Labor
Department figures showed that the U.S. unemployment rate fell
to 7.8 percent in September, down from 8.1 percent in August,
allaying concern that the recovery was faltering and boosting
confidence in companies’ ability to repay obligations. The
country added 114,000 nonfarm jobs, after a revised 142,000 gain
in August, fewer than economists estimated.  “The unemployment report helped,” Jon Duensing, head of
corporate credit at Smith Breeden Associates, said in a
telephone interview from Boulder,  Colorado . More significant, he
said, is that “the Fed has established that they’re all-in at
this point and the ECB is doing what they can to reduce tail
risk.”  Quantitative Easing  The  Federal Reserve  said on Sept. 13 it will expand its
holdings of long-term securities in an additional round of so-
called quantitative easing. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said last month policy makers agreed to an
unlimited bond-purchase program to regain control of  interest
rates  in the euro area.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Edgen Murray Corp., the U.S. steel distributor, sold $540
million of 8.75 percent, eight-year bonds, Bloomberg data show.
Proceeds will be used to refinance the  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-
company’s debt.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt
declined 2 basis points, led by spreads on the subordinated
bonds of financial companies, which narrowed 5 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. The average spread on speculative-grade
debt decreased 6 basis points, also led by subordinated bonds of
financial companies, which fell 9.  High Yield  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index fell for the third consecutive day, decreasing 0.4 basis
point to 485.3 basis points, paring an earlier drop to as low as
473.6 basis points. The measure of speculative-grade companies’
default risk switched to a new version on Sept. 27.  Credit swaps tied to Edison International’s Southern
California Edison utility dropped 5.4 basis points to 81.6 basis
points at 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s the lowest
level since January 2010. Edison International yesterday
announced a plan to restart a unit of a nuclear power plant that
has been shuttered since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  