-- UBS, Plural Said to Be in Talks for BNP’s Brazil Business
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-10-06T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/ubs-plural-said-to-be-in-talks-for-bnp-s-brazil-business.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
and Sao Paulo-based Brasil Plural SA Banco Multiplo are in talks
to buy  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s  Brazil  wealth-management unit for about
$50 million, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  BNP, France’s largest bank, is also negotiating with other
potential buyers and no deal has been reached, said the person,
who didn’t name the other companies and asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. The business has about
7 billion reais ($3.47 billion) under management.  European banks such as Paris-based BNP are selling assets
amid a squeeze in dollar funding and to meet stricter  capital
requirements  known as Basel III mandated by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision . BNP sold about 10 percent of its Latin
America loan holdings in the past year, or $1.2 billion, Louis Bazire, the bank’s head of corporate and investment banking for
the region, said last month.  UBS has been seeking a Brazilian bank license for the past
two years, and the Zurich-based company still hasn’t received
approval from the central bank.  Plural, founded as an asset-management and financial-
advisory firm in 2009 by former partners at Banco BTG Pactual
SA, received approval to operate as a bank on Aug. 23. In May,
the company said it would acquire the Brazilian asset-management
firm Geracao Futuro Corretora de Valores SA. The deal hasn’t yet
been approved by the central bank.  Profit Goal  Officials at BNP, Zurich-based UBS and Plural declined to
comment on the negotiations and asked not to be identified in
keeping with company policies. Exame magazine reported Sept. 27
that BNP was seeking to sell its wealth-management business in
Brazil.  The UBS wealth-management divisions represented 50 percent
of the company’s total worldwide revenue in the first half of
2012. The business in the Americas alone accounted for 23
percent.  Brian Hull, vice chairman of the Americas wealth-management
division, said last month he’s confident the business can
achieve a $1 billion pretax profit. The division, headed by
 Robert McCann , reported pretax profit of $420 million in the
first half of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  