-- Unchanged Pumas Seek Rugby Breakthrough Versus Wounded Australia
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-05T01:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/unchanged-pumas-seek-rugby-breakthrough-versus-wounded-australia.html
Argentina named an unchanged starting
team for the third straight match as the Pumas seek to cap their
Rugby Championship debut with a breakthrough win against injury-
depleted  Australia .  Coach Santiago Phelan resisted the temptation to revamp his
lineup following last week’s 54-15 loss to inaugural champion
New Zealand by making two alterations to the bench. Back-rower
Leonardo Senatore replaces Tomas Vallejos and Nicolas Sanchez 
returns in place of injured full-back Martin Rodriguez.  Tournament newcomer Argentina is the favorite to win
tomorrow’s match in Rosario with Australian bookmakers and seal
its first victory in six southern hemisphere championship games.  “Australia is a very demanding rival, the No. 3 team in
the world,” Phelan said on the Argentine rugby union’s website.
“It has many injured players, but the replacements are first
rate. It is a very balanced, complete team, who like us wants to
finish the tournament in the best way.”  Australia yesterday made five changes to the lineup that
started the 31-8 loss in South Africa six days ago. Winger Nick
Cummins will make his debut and Ben Tapuai’s call up lifts the
tally of players used by the Wallabies this season to 38.  First-choice players to have been ruled out by long-term
injuries include lock  James Horwill , open-side flanker David Pocock, scrum-half Will Genia and attacking back James O’Connor,
while Berrick Barnes and Adam Ashley-Cooper joined the casualty
list last week.  Cummins replaces Dominic Shipperley, who drops to the
bench. Elsewhere in the backline, Mike Harris and Tapuai come in
for Barnes and Ashley-Cooper at full-back and outside center,
respectively. Harris, who will be the team’s fifth full-back
this year, takes over as the main goalkicker.  Increased Physicality  In the forwards, Sitaleki Timani replaces Dave Dennis for
his first Test as blindside flanker after playing six matches in
the second row, while James Slipper was chosen at loosehead prop
ahead of Benn Robinson.  “As with the backs, we’ve looked to increase our
physicality to counter the direct force that will undoubtedly be
coming the other way,” Wallabies coach Robbie Deans said in a
team statement.  World champion New Zealand secured the title with a game to
spare and would complete a sweep of victories by beating South
Africa at FNB Stadium in Soweto tomorrow.  ARGENTINA : Lucas Gonzalez Amorosino, Gonzalo Camacho,
Marcelo Bosch, Santiago Fernandez, Horacio Agulla, Juan Martin
Hernandez, Martin Landajo, Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe
(captain), Juan Manuel Leguizamon, Julio Farias Cabello,
Patricio Albacete, Manuel Carizza, Juan Figallo, Eusebio
Guinazu, Rodrigo Roncero.  Replacements: Agustin Creevy, Marcos Ayerza, Leonardo
Senatore, Tomas Leonardi, Nicolas Vergallo, Nicolas Sanchez,
Juan Imhoff.  AUSTRALIA: Mike Harris, Nick Cummins, Ben Tapuai, Pat
McCabe, Digby Ioane, Kurtley Beale, Nick Phipps, Radike Samo,
Michael Hooper, Sitaleki Timani, Nathan Sharpe (captain), Kane
Douglas, Ben Alexander, Tatafu Polota-Nau, James Slipper.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a, Benn Robinson, Dave Dennis,
Scott Higginbotham, Liam Gill, Brett Sheehan, Dominic
Shipperley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  