-- UnitedHealth Said to Seek Brazil’s Amil Participacoes
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-10-05T20:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/unitedhealth-said-to-seek-brazil-s-amil-participacoes.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest
U.S. health insurance company, is in talks to buy a stake or all
of the Brazilian insurer and hospital operator  Amil
Participacoes SA (AMIL3) , according to people familiar with the matter.  Acquiring all or part of  Brazil ’s biggest managed-care
company, which carries a market value of 9.12 billion reais
($4.49 billion), would give Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth access to a growing private-insurance market in the
world’s second-biggest emerging economy. It also may generate
more opportunities for UnitedHealth’s Optum unit, which provides
technology and consulting to health systems in  India ,  China , the
U.K. and elsewhere.  A deal may be announced as soon as next week, according to
the people, who asked to remain anonymous because the talks are
private. While Amil is also talking with other possible bidders,
UnitedHealth has emerged as the likely buyer, the people said.  Brazil has “a sophisticated private-sector hospital system
as well as a private insurance system that’s ripe for
expansion,” said  Sheryl Skolnick , a health-care analyst at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Amil rose 1.2 percent at the close of trading in Sao Paulo,
to 25.30 reais, the highest price on record. The stock has
gained 55 percent in the past 12 months, amid speculation about
a potential sale. UnitedHealth fell 1.5 percent to $57.13 in New
York  trading , for a gain of 29 percent in the past year.  Amil has hired Credit Suisse Group AG to sell a stake in
its business, according to a second person familiar with the
talks. The Pinheiro Neto Law firm is working on UnitedHealth’s
side and Lefosse/Linklaters on the Amil side, one of the people
said.  Company Comments  Amil “doesn’t comment on speculation,” the company said
in an official e-mail statement. Tyler Mason, a UnitedHealth
spokesman, said in a telephone call that the company doesn’t
comment on rumors and speculation  UnitedHealth, which covers 35.9 million people on its
medical plans, has completed 24 deals in the last five years,
for an average disclosed size of $1.13 billion and an average
premium of 12 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The largest was the March 2007 acquisition of Las Vegas-based
insurer Sierra Health Services Inc. for $2.45 billion.  The Brazilian carrier covered 5.9 million people last year
and owns 3,300 hospitals and 55,000 clinics, according to its
 website . Amil’s private insurance enrollment has grown 4.5
percent since 2009, compared with a 13.5 percent rise for the
Brazilian market as a whole, according to an Aug. 31 research
note from Guilherme Assis, a Raymond James analyst in  Sao Paulo .
Discounting acquisitions, its membership would have fallen 1
percent, he said.  Profitability Focus  Troubles with past  acquisitions  and increased competition
have slowed growth and Brazilian antitrust regulators may resist
Amil’s attempts to buy new hospitals, Assis said. The company
had 9.01 billion reais in revenue last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Amil’s strong focus on  profitability  is preventing it
from fully tapping into the secular sector’s strong growth
drivers,” Assis said.  UnitedHealth, which earned three-quarters of its revenue
from managing benefits last year, is “going to the economies
where there’s growth, where there’s a vibrant private sector and
where there are significant health problems that need to be
solved,” Skolnick said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  