-- Vale Follows Steelmaker Cuts on Supply Glut
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-10-05T20:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/vale-follows-steelmaker-cuts-on-supply-glut.html
Vale SA’s (VALE5)  plan to reduce output of
iron-ore pellets by 18 percent is the latest evidence the steel
industry is slowing in Brazil amid weakening demand and a global
supply glut.  Vale, the world’s largest producer of the main raw material
used to make the metal, follows steelmakers from ThyssenKrupp AG
to Belo Horizonte, Brazil-based  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA  in cutting back output and investment. The country’s
steel exports fell 29 percent in August from a year earlier.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, suspended
plans to expand two Brazil plants last year, while Essen,
Germany-based ThyssenKrupp is seeking to sell its 5.2 billion-
euro ($6.8 billion) steel plant in Rio de Janeiro state. A
preliminary accord between Ternium SA and billionaire  Eike Batista ’s logistics unit LLX Logistica SA to build a mill
expired Sept. 30 with no deal.  “I don’t think the future is that bright in the short
term,” HSBC Holdings Plc analyst Jonathan Brandt said in an
interview from New York. “The current utilization rate of the
Brazilian steel industry is very low.”  The reduction in steel output reflects a slackening in
manufacturing from China to the U.S., as well as Brazil. Chinese
industrial production grew at the slowest annual pace in three
years in August, while the U.S.’s monthly decline was the
biggest since March 2009. In Brazil, car sales slumped 31
percent in September from August.  Stocks Slump  Vale has declined 7.5 percent in Sao Paulo trading this
year, the worst-performance of the three biggest iron-ore
producers. Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP) , the world’s largest
mining company, fell 3.2 percent, while London-based Rio Tinto
Group dropped 4.4 percent.  Usiminas, as the second-largest Brazilian steelmaker is
known, and Sao Paulo-based Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA are also
tumbling as Brazilian car production declines. CSN  slumped  35
percent in the past six months, while Usiminas lost 16 percent.
Gerdau SA, which focuses on steel for construction projects,
rose 8.1 percent in the same period.  Vale  dropped  0.1 percent to 34.98 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo today, while CSN dropped 1.5 percent and Usiminas declined
1.6 percent. Porto Alegre-based Gerdau was unchanged from
yesterday.  Usiminas plans to reduce investments in steel next year
while increasing capital expenditures for mining, Chief
Financial Officer Ronald Seckelmann told analyst on July 31. The
company, which in April said it was aiming to invest 2.5 billion
reais this year, cut the plan to 2 billion reais.  ThyssenKrupp in May said it may seek a partner or sell its
Rio plant known as CSA, where Vale has a 26.9 percent stake and
an iron-ore supply contract, as  Brazil  output costs are rising
“disproportionately.”  Batista’s Port  Ternium SA will most likely delay a decision to go ahead
with the project to build a plant at Batista’s Acu port, Chief
Financial Officer Pablo Brizzio told analysts during a
conference call on Aug. 1.  LLX’s press office in Rio de Janeiro declined to comment on
the status of the project. Ternium press official Romina Savini
in Buenos Aires declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News.  ArcelorMittal said in November it will suspend the
expansion plan for its Monlevade plant in Brazil amid a global
slowdown and lower-than-forecast steel demand in the Latin
American country. It also put on hold a $300 million expansion
project at its Santa Catarina plant in southern Brazil.  Halted Output  Vale yesterday said production of iron-ore pellets will be
halted at its Sao Luis unit in northern Brazil Oct. 8 and at the
Tubarao I and Tubarao II plants in the country’s southeast Nov.
13, without saying how long the units will remain idle. The
reduced processing of iron ore into pellets means output of
sinter feed, a rawer form of the material, will expand, Vale
said. Its press office in Rio declined to comment further.  “The company’s decision to shut down some of its
pelletizing facilities is a clear indication of the
deterioration in the market for high-quality iron-ore
products,” Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo Correa said in
a note to clients yesterday. Weakening demand for the pellets
reflects a “drive of steelmakers to maximize cost savings,”
they said.  Vale Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira sold coal,
manganese and logistics assets this year and is reviewing all of
the company’s projects to cut costs as demand wanes amid the
outlook for slower growth in  China , the biggest buyer of iron
ore. Ferreira said Aug. 16 that he will postpone a $3 billion
potash project in  Canada  and may delay other investments to
focus on expanding the company’s biggest mine.  Right Decision  The decision to sell units with lower returns is allaying
concerns that slowing demand from steelmakers and declining
prices for iron ore will pare profits.  “Vale is doing what it has to do,” Leonardo Brito, an
equity analyst at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said in a
telephone interview from Rio.  Iron ore, which accounts for about 90 percent of Vale’s
earnings before items, declined to the lowest since October 2009
last month amid slowing Chinese purchases. Iron ore for
immediate delivery to the Chinese port of Tianjin, a benchmark
for Asia, was unchanged at $104.20 a metric ton today, according
to a price index compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  Morgan Stanley lowered its iron-ore price forecasts for
2013 and 2014 on slower steel production in China, the largest
maker and consumer of the metal, Chief Metals Economist Peter Richardson said in a quarterly report yesterday.  Elsewhere  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, in
August delayed about $68 billion of projects, including an iron-
ore port expansion, amid sluggish global growth.  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,  Australia ’s third-biggest iron-ore producer,
on Sept. 4 cut its full-year spending forecast by 26 percent to
$4.6 billion.  Steelmakers worldwide are trying to cut costs and one way
of doing it is replacing pellets for lower grade iron ore, which
is less expensive, HSBC’s Brandt said.  “Vale will sell more of a product that has a lower price
so revenues will suffer,” he said in the interview. “Global
steel producers are using lower quality grades to save a few
bucks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  