-- Vanguard Clients Miss Some Morning Trades as Website Down
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-10-06T00:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/vanguard-clients-miss-some-morning-trades-as-website-down.html
Clients of Vanguard Group Inc., the
biggest U.S. mutual-fund firm, weren’t able to access their
accounts to make trades for a 20-minute period this morning.  “We had a system outage this morning that did impact our
shareholders’ ability to access their account-related data,”
Katie Henderson, a spokeswoman for the Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based company, said in a telephone interview. About
20,000 customers may have been trying to access their accounts
at the time, said  John Woerth , a Vanguard spokesman.  “All systems were back up and running normally with more
than enough time to take orders before trades are made at 4
p.m,” Henderson said, referring to the time when mutual-fund
transactions go into effect.  Vanguard, which manages almost $1.95 trillion in U.S. fund
assets, is still trying to determine the reason for the
interruption, according to Henderson. Mutual-fund investors were
unable to access their accounts through the company’s website or
call center. Some clients with brokerage accounts were able to
reach the company by phone.  Vanguard, known for its low-cost  index funds , attracted
more money from investors in the first nine months of 2012 than
it has in any full calendar year in its 38-year history, winning
$113 billion in deposits in mutual funds and exchange-traded
funds through September.  The benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than
0.1 percent today, reversing a gain of as much as 0.7 percent
earlier as optimism about an unexpected drop in the  unemployment
rate  faded. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  