-- Vietnam Coffee Seen Switching to Discount on Season Start
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-05T12:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/vietnam-coffee-seen-switching-to-discount-on-season-start.html
Buyers of coffee from  Vietnam , the
largest producer of the robusta variety, are getting a discount
for their beans as pressure to sell stockpiles increases with
the beginning of the new season, Volcafe Ltd. said.  Vietnamese coffee for shipment in October and November was
trading at a discount of $30 a metric ton to the price on the
NYSE Liffe exchange in London, Volcafe, the Winterthur,
Switzerland-based coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F Man
Holdings Ltd. said in a weekly report e-mailed today. That
compares with a premium of $20 a ton last week.  “Differentials are coming down both for the present as
well as new crop,” the trader said in the report, referring to
the discount or premium paid to obtain physical coffee in
relation to the price on the futures market. “Pressure to
liquidate current stock is increasing.”  Vietnam produced a record 27 million bags of coffee, each
weighing 60 kilograms (132 pounds), in the 2011-12 season ended
Sept. 30, the trader estimates. The 2012-13 crop that started
this month is developing “somewhat unevenly” and it’s “in
good shape,” Volcafe said. Initial projections point to a crop
of 26 million bags in Vietnam this year, according to Volcafe.  “The country continues to reap the rewards of renovation
with various new high-yielding robusta hybrids,” it said.
“Demand continues as always strong as the new season gears
up.”  In  Indonesia , the third-biggest robusta grower, bean
deliveries from farms slowed as harvesting approached the end,
according to the report. Arrivals were 4,000 to 4,500 tons this
week, it said, without providing figures for a week earlier.  “According to local estimates, approximately 10 percent to
15 percent of the coffee from the highland areas is still to be
harvested,” Volcafe said. “We expect that the main crop will
finish around the end of October.”  Buyers of Indonesian beans for shipment in October and
November were paying a premium of $10 a ton to the exchange
price, down from $40 a ton last week, it said.  Robusta coffee for November delivery slid 1 percent to
$2,131 a ton by 12:05 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 