-- Vietnam Downgrade Adds Momentum to Clean Up State Loans: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-05T04:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/vietnam-downgrade-adds-momentum-to-clean-up-state-loans-economy.html
As  Vietnam  wins a yearlong battle to
tame inflation and stabilize its currency, the spotlight is
moving to the drag on growth from undercapitalized banks that
have channeled credit to the nation’s state-owned companies.  Failure to clean up the banking system -- a “weakness”
Moody’s Investors Service cited last week when it cut Vietnam’s
debt rating -- could result in slower growth for the next five
to 10 years, said Matt Hildebrandt, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
economist in  Singapore . The economy already faces its smallest
expansion since 1999 after years of unbridled lending saddled
banks with the highest levels of bad debt in  Southeast Asia .  “The broad macroeconomic environment is much more stable
than it was 18 months ago, but part of that reflects the
weakness of the economy,” said Hildebrandt, who met business
and government officials in the country last month. “Phase two,
which will take several years, is restructuring the banks and
reforming the state-owned enterprises.”  Communist Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong pledged
in October 2011 to focus on restructuring public investments,
financial services and state-owned enterprises. After a year of
little progress, Moody’s on Sept. 28 cut the rating on Vietnam’s
debt for the first time since 2010 to B2, leaving it on a par
with Cambodia and five levels below  Indonesia .  ‘Wakeup Call’  “This should be a wakeup call,” said Gene Davis, a
Bangkok-based director at  Finansa Pcl (FNS) , which manages a $5
million Vietnam fund and has invested in the country since 1991.
“They need to get their banking system together.”  Hoang Hai, deputy head of the Ministry of Finance’s debt
management and external finance department, said the government
would try to improve transparency and communication with  ratings
agencies . “We respect Moody’s assessment and we will try to
improve it by trying to achieve our goals of macroeconomic
stability and controlled  inflation ,” he said.  Economic  growth  moderated to 4.7 percent in the first nine
months of 2012 after the government tightened lending -- a move
that helped rein in inflation to a year-on-year rate of 6.48
percent in September, from more than 23 percent in August 2011.  Weaker demand has eroded imports, leaving the nation with a
$34 million  trade  surplus in the first nine months of the year,
according to preliminary figures released Sept. 27 by the
General Statistics Office. Vietnam’s currency has risen more
than 0.6 percent this year, after falling more than 7 percent in
2011. Foreign exchange reserves have also risen, to a point
where they would cover an estimated 2.4 months’ worth of imports,
the  Asian Development Bank  said this week.  Doi Moi  The government is targeting growth of 5.2 percent in 2012,
which would be the slowest since 1999. That would extend the
longest streak of sub-7 percent growth since the doi moi, or
renovation, initiative opened the country’s economy in 1986.  “Until there is credible implementation of the
restructuring agenda and investors’ confidence is restored,
Vietnam will find it difficult to return to 7 percent-plus
growth,” said Deepak Mishra, the  World Bank ’s lead economist
for Vietnam in  Hanoi .  Vietnam isn’t alone in confronting weaker expansion
prospects as the global economic rebound moderates. Malaysia
reported today that its  exports  declined 4.5 percent in August
from a year earlier, the biggest drop since 2009.  The  Bank of Japan  held off from more easing after adding to
stimulus last month, preserving its policy firepower amid
increased political pressure and signs of an economic
contraction. With rates near zero, it kept its asset-purchase
fund, the main policy tool, at 55 trillion yen ($700 billion),
the bank said in a statement in  Tokyo  today.  U.S. Unemployment  In the U.S., a government report may show the  unemployment
rate  in the world’s largest economy increased to 8.2 percent in
September from 8.1 percent the previous month. Nonfarm payrolls
rose by 115,000 in the month, according to a Bloomberg survey,
compared with an average 153,000 gain last year.  Vietnam’s central bank chief, Nguyen Van Binh, said in
April that the level of bad debt at some lenders may be “much
higher” than reported. The bank estimated non-performing loans
were 8.6 percent at the end of March, while the lenders reported
a level of 4.5 percent as of May 31.  Mizuho Corporate Bank  Ltd.
said as much as 20 percent of debts may be bad in a Sept. 4 note.  The financial system needs an injection of 250 trillion
dong to 300 trillion dong ($12 billion to $14.4 billion),
according to a Sept. 4 report published by the National
Assembly’s Economic Committee and compiled by an advisory group.
The  298-page document  outlined options such as selling
 government bonds , trimming state spending, tapping foreign
companies, or seeking funds from the  International Monetary Fund .
The central bank said three days later that the country won’t
borrow from the IMF to resolve lenders’ bad debts.  Stock Slump  The slide in growth contributed to a 21 percent drop in the
benchmark VN-Index of stocks since its peak this year on May 8.
The decline accelerated after the arrest of Asia Commercial Bank
founder Nguyen Duc Kien, one of the country’s wealthiest men, on
Aug. 20, which prompted a run on deposits at the nation’s
largest non-government-owned bank.  The government plans to increase foreign ownership to
bolster the market. It may raise the maximum share that overseas
companies can hold in brokerages and some joint-stock companies
to 100 percent, from 49 percent, according to a draft proposal
on the State Securities Commission’s website on Oct. 2.  Bank liquidity has also improved. Deposits were up 11.2
percent this year on Aug. 31, the government said in a Sept. 27
release. That’s helped Vietnam’s overnight interbank deposit
rate, which measures how much banks charge to lend to each other,
fall to 2.41 percent from a high this year of 12.7 percent on
Jan. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Parking Cash  Rather than increase lending, the banks have put much of
the surplus cash into bonds, said Nguyen Tan Thang, fixed-income
investment director at  Ho Chi Minh City  Securities Joint-Stock
Co.  “If banks have a lot of money, they buy bonds,” said
Thang on Oct. 2. “Liquidity in the system overall is good.”  Government bond yields have stayed little changed since the
Moody’s decision, with those on Vietnam’s five-year notes up 2
basis points, to 10.15 percent, according to a daily fixing rate
from banks compiled by Bloomberg.  “If there is any weakness in the bonds as a result of
Moody’s, we’ll take that as a buying opportunity,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , a portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management who
helps oversee about $9 billion in emerging-market debt,
including Vietnam’s. “The challenges facing the banking sector
are significant. That’s always been the case. Arguably all of
this will make them stronger when they do finally undertake
reforms.”  Capital Needs  Progress in addressing bank lending has been slow and the
capital requirements of the industry may not be known until 2013
or 2014, London-based Gutierrez said.  Government-run banks are often subject to political
pressure to lend to favored state-owned enterprises, or SOEs,
according to a January policy  paper  written by academics at the
Harvard Kennedy School in Ho Chi Minh City.  “The government is serious about cleaning up the banking
sector,” said  Vishnu Varathan , Singapore-based Market Economist
at Mizuho Corporate Bank. “But the linkages with the SOEs
indirectly back to the government and the banking sector makes
this very difficult. They will always lick the visible wounds
first and hope it gets better.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  