-- Vilar Bail Set at $10 Million by Trial Judge in New York
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-17T22:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/vilar-bail-set-at-10-million-by-trial-judge-in-new-york.html
Alberto Vilar and Gary Tanaka, the
technology investors convicted in 2008 of stealing from clients,
were released from prison two weeks after an appeals court
ordered them freed on bail while it considers their case.  Vilar, 71, an opera lover and former philanthropist, was
freed today from a federal prison in Fort Dix,  New Jersey , where
he has about four years remaining on a nine-year sentence.
Tanaka, 69, was released yesterday from prison in  San Pedro ,
 California . He has about two years left on his five-year term.  The federal appeals court in  Manhattan  heard arguments in
August in Vilar and Tanaka’s case. The men, who were partners in
Amerindo Investment Advisors Inc., claim that U.S. law doesn’t
reach off-shore transactions the government claimed were
illegal. They also said the money they were accused of stealing
is in Amerindo’s accounts, which have been out of their control
since they were arrested in 2005.  “It feels pretty good and we’re very encouraged by what
the appeals court has done,” Vilar said in a telephone
interview after his release. Vilar said he has spent his time in
prison reading, teaching other inmates and working on his
appeal. He said he is writing a book.  A jury in 2008 convicted Vilar of all 12 criminal counts
against him, including fraud and conspiracy, and Tanaka of three
counts. Vilar is free on $10 million bond. Tanaka is free on $5
million bond.  “They are relieved to be out, and look forward to the
decision of the court of appeals,” said Vivian Shevitz, Vilar’s
lawyer, in an e-mail today. Shevitz represented both men in
arguing for their release on bail.  The case is U.S. v. Vilar, 10-04639,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 