-- Vincent Reinhart Says Fed Wants More Inflation
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-05T17:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/vincent-reinhart-says-fed-wants-more-inflation.html
The Federal Reserve “wants more
inflation” as it seeks a sustained recovery for an economy
possibly nearing stall speed, said  Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S.
economist at Morgan Stanley.  “We have a real risk that the economy is slowing to a
stall speed as we get into really uncertain times about fiscal
policy,” Reinhart said in a television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Sara Eisen.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month announced a
third round of asset purchases and extended its horizon for
near-zero  interest rates  at least through the middle of 2015.
The Fed is buying $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities a
month to boost housing and fuel growth and employment.  Consumer prices increased 1.7 percent in the 12 months
ended in August, the Labor Department said. The Fed has set a
target of 2 percent inflation.  “The bottom line is the  Federal Reserve  wants more
inflation,” Reinhart said in the Bloomberg interview. “They
said they are going to keep policy accommodative
essentially past the inflection point, until the recovery is
sustained.”  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , which
projects the pace of price increases starting in 2017, rose to
2.88 percent on Sept. 14, the day after Fed policy makers
announced its third round of quantitative easing. That was up
half a percentage point from July 26.  In Expansion  “Last time I checked, we’re in expansion,” Reinhart said.
“So if you describe what the  United States  is right now as in
recovery, you must really think we’re very far behind the
curve.”  Reinhart, a former monetary affairs director at the Fed,
called the central bank’s lack of specifics on its goals for
inflation and unemployment a “collective action problem.”  “Individual FOMC participants are litigating the issue in
public,” said Reinhart. “They each individually think a rule
would be best but because they differ on the dual mandate,
maximum employment and stable prices, they can’t agree on an
individual rule.”  Yesterday, the Fed released minutes of its Sept. 12-13
meeting, which reported policy makers said they could change the
size of the central bank’s monthly bond purchases to reduce
risks possibly associated with the program, including higher
inflation. The report also showed that a few FOMC participants
expressed “skepticism” about whether the bond-buying program
could help.  The  unemployment rate  in the U.S. unexpectedly fell to 7.8
percent in September, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The economy added 114,000 workers last month. The
median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an advance of 115,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Keene  in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  