-- Welch Conspiracy Theory on Jobs Data Not Tied to Reality
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-10-08T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/welch-conspiracy-theory-on-jobs-data-not-tied-to-reality.html
As conspiracy theories go,  Jack Welch ’s had all the elements. There were two opposing sides who
rarely believe each other about anything. There is almost no way
to prove it isn’t true, either.  His assertion that the U.S. unemployment numbers might have
been cooked to help President  Barack Obama ’s re-election effort,
though, collapses under its own weight.  The claim, echoed by some supporters of Republican  Mitt Romney , that Obama’s Chicago-based campaign adjusted September’s
jobless figures was rejected by members of both parties who have
served in the government’s economic-data system.  Welch, the former chief executive officer of  General
Electric Co. (GE) , touched off an Internet-based frenzy on Oct. 5
when he suggested on Twitter that Obama’s team lowered the rate
to 7.8 percent to give the president a boost. “Unbelievable
jobs numbers. . . these Chicago guys will do anything. . . can’t
debate so change numbers,” he wrote.  The charge was picked up by South Carolina Senator  Lindsey Graham  and Florida Representative  Allen West , among other
Republicans.  Welch’s message was re-sent via Twitter 5,000 times,
meaning each of those people re-broadcasted it to their groups
of followers, in the first 10 hours.  ‘Rings True’  His comments were dissected on yesterday’s political talk
shows. Republican former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  rose
to the former CEO’s defense on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  What Welch said “rings true on a deeper level,” Gingrich
said, arguing that business leaders don’t trust Obama.  “So the president of the United States is so deeply
distrusted by people like Jack Welch -- who is hardly a right-
winger, I mean Welch is one of the most successful businessmen
in America -- but Welch instantaneously assumes this is the
Chicago machine,” Gingrich said.  He later said Americans are “losing respect for
Washington” and simply don’t believe the economy is improving,
no matter what a jobs report says.  On the same show,  Robert Gibbs , an Obama campaign adviser,
dismissed Welch’s remarks as “crazy.”  “I assume, David, there’s a number of people that believe
the real unemployment report is somewhere in a safe in Nairobi
with the president’s Kenyan birth certificate,” Gibbs said to
moderator David Gregory. “This stuff is absolutely crazy.”  ‘Time-Out Corner’  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , an economic adviser to Senator  John McCain  during the  Arizona  lawmaker’s 2008 presidential campaign,
said Republicans promoting a jobs report conspiracy theory and
Democratic glee over the number were both cause for concern.  “You should take both the conspiracy theory and the
celebration and send them to the time-out corner,” he said on
CNN’s “ State of the Union .” “This could very well unwind next
month at least in part.”  Romney talked about unemployment Saturday night at an
outdoor rally before 6,000 people in Apopka, Florida. He said
the true unemployment picture is much worse than 7.8 percent.  “If we calculated, by the way, our  unemployment rate  in a
way that was consistent with the way it was calculated when he
came into office, it would be a different number,” he said.
“If the number of people -- if the percentage of the American
population who were in the workforce were the same today as the
day he was elected, our unemployment rate would be above 11
percent. This is inexcusable.”  Tempering Words  Romney appeared to be referring to the workforce-
participation rate, which was 63.6 percent last month, compared
with 65.7 percent in January 2009. That figure isn’t
incorporated into the monthly unemployment number released by
the government, and wasn’t before Obama took office.  Welch tempered his words during a television interview on
Oct. 5, when CNBC host Larry Kudlow said it was unrealistic to
allege the White House adjusted the data.  “Let’s hope that’s totally correct, Larry,” Welch, 76,
said. Still, he said, “This election is too important for one
number that might be corrected next month to determine the
election. I want to see a real debate about this number.”  Five minutes after the U.S. Labor Department reported at
8:30 a.m. that day that the  unemployment rate  fell to 7.8
percent last month, Welch pushed the button on his Twitter
message. He took aim at the figures that may matter most before
Election Day on Nov. 6; the October report due on Nov. 2 may be
too late to change voters’ perceptions about the economy.  ‘Irresponsible’  The Obama administration called the allegation baseless and
defended BLS, which computes the figures. Alan Krueger, chairman
of the White House  Council of Economic Advisers , told Bloomberg
Television that Welch’s remark was “irresponsible.”  “No serious person would question the integrity of the
Bureau of Labor Statistics,” Krueger said in the interview.
“These numbers are put together by career employees.”  Romney campaign aides said they weren’t disputing the data,
keeping their focus on criticism of Obama’s record.  “We’re going to address the numbers as they’ve been
released,” Romney’s policy director, Lanhee Chen, said on Fox
Business Network. “What you see, as you’ve said on the show, is
an anemic trend. This is not a real recovery.”  Each month, federal agencies, staffed by career civil
servants, compile the raw data that eventually become two jobs-
day numbers: the unemployment rate and the total number of jobs
added to the economy.  20 Days  It begins on the Sunday of the week that has the 19th in
it, with 2,000 Census Bureau workers knocking on 60,000 doors,
asking residents if they were employed, or if they were seeking
employment, in the last week, said Nancy Potok, the bureau’s
associate director, in an interview on July 30.  The bureau has 20 days to complete the survey and send it
to the BLS, which then has two or three days to provide the
numbers to the Council of Economic Advisers, said Gary Steinberg, a BLS spokesman, in an Aug. 1 interview. Before
transmitting the numbers to the CEA, the Census Bureau weights
the data to adjust for non-answers and unresponsive households.  At the same time, the BLS is conducting the so-called
establishment survey, by sending and receiving questionnaires to
486,000 work sites. The main question that separate survey seeks
to answer: how many jobs the work sites had on their payrolls on
the 12th of the month.  On the Thursday afternoon before Labor Department’s Friday
release of the numbers, the BLS transmits both data sets to the
Council of Economic Advisers, over a secure system. It then
becomes the CEA chairman’s responsibility to provide the
president with the numbers. All the data is transmitted over
secure systems and it is often walked to the West Wing by the
CEA chairman,  Austan Goolsbee , Obama’s previous CEA chairman
said in a Sept. 5 interview.  ‘Absurd’ Charge  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  dismissed the
conspiracy theory as “absurd.”  “No president, maybe except Nixon, would actually try to
change what the Bureau of Labor Statistics does or what the BEA
does,” Stiglitz said Oct. 6 on  MSNBC , referring to the Bureau
of Economic Analysis. “These are really independent agencies
and the idea that they would do that is literally absurd.”  Decades ago, few guidelines applied to the release of U.S.
economic reports. In 1972, during President  Richard Nixon ’s
term, Senator William Proxmire, a Democrat from Wisconsin and
chairman of Congress’ Joint Economic Committee, called the U.S.
data unreliable. He decried “misleading economic indicators,”
according to press reports at the time.  Gold Standard  After an investigation, the committee concluded that the
Nixon administration had manipulated the packaging and release
of economic data, said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist
at Economic Outlook Group LLC in Princeton, New Jersey.  Since then, “controls have been increasingly made
stricter,” he said.  “There’s no politics that goes into these numbers at
all,” he said. “The way the U.S. collects economic statistics
is viewed around the world as the gold standard.”  “For sure, some conspiracy theorist will contend that the
BLS is cooking the data for political reasons. Such theories are
absolutely garbage,” said Ray Stone, managing director of Stone
& McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, New Jersey, in a
note to clients. “The BLS never lets politics enter the data.”  “I don’t think they could manipulate” the data,” said
 Keith Hennessey , Bush’s last director of the National Economic
Council. Hennessey received the jobs reports on Thursday nights
before their release when he was in government. “Too many
people would have to be involved and they couldn’t coordinate
that many people lying about the data.”  “It would be very difficult,” to manipulate numbers at
the BLS, said Elaine Chao, U.S. Labor secretary from 2001 to
2009.  Senator Graham went so far as to suggest the Obama 
administration might do it again, given the chance.  ``Not that I'm skeptical about today's unemployment report, 
but I bet they'd figure a way to hit 6.0 if we extended the 
election by 30 days,'' he said on Twitter on Oct. 5.  McCain, discussing Welch’s assertion on CNBC, as well as
the White House’s explanations for the assassination of the U.S.
ambassador to Libya and defense industry layoffs, said he
“wouldn’t put anything past this administration.”  He then added that he was “not enough of an economist” to
interpret the jobs data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  