-- Wet Seal Activist Clinton Wants Chain to Consider Sale
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-10-05T20:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/wet-seal-activist-investor-wins-proxy-fight.html
Fresh off its victory to replace
board members at teen-apparel retailer  Wet Seal Inc. (WTSLA) , activist
investor Clinton Group Inc. still wants the company to consider
selling itself.  The Wet Seal board needs to hire a new chief executive
officer, show signs of improving results and then contemplate a
sale, Greg Taxin, a director at Clinton, said in a telephone
interview.  Wet Seal said its chairman and three directors left the
board today to be replaced by four nominees from Clinton, ending
a proxy contest. The New York-based investment firm, which owns
6.9 percent of the stock, had called for a sale earlier this
year after revenue fell and the company fired its CEO after less
than two years. Clinton then proposed replacing board members
after Wet Seal adopted an anti-takeover defense.  “The level of shareholder dissatisfaction was particularly
high,” Taxin said. Votes supporting the removal of the board
members accounted for more than 60 percent of outstanding
shares, he said.  The board changes were made by consent solicitation, a
proxy that doesn’t require a shareholder meeting.  A sale after a new CEO has time to improve results is a
“plausible scenario,” Jeff Van Sinderen, an analyst for B.
Riley & Co. in  Los Angeles , said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a business that can be turned around.”  B. Riley  recommends  buying Wet Seal shares, based in part
on the potential for the business to improve and a sale, Van
Sinderen said.  David Millar , a Wet Seal spokesman who works for RLM
Finsbury, declined to comment when reached by e-mail.  Final Twist  Wet Seal was unchanged at $3.14 at the close in New York.
The shares have dropped 3.7 percent this year.  The resignations are the final twist of a back-and-forth
this week. On Oct. 3, Clinton said in a public filing that Wet
Seal had indicated that four directors were ready to resign, a
proposal that was retracted a few hours later.  Today, the  Foothill Ranch , California-based chain announced
Chairman Hal Kahn, Jonathan Duskin, Sidney Horn, and Henry Winterstern had stepped down from the board. Kahn agreed to stay
as a consultant.  Four nominees from Clinton Group joined the board. They are
Dorrit Bern, who was chairman and CEO of Charming Shoppes Inc.;
Lynda Davey; Mindy Meads, a former co-CEO of  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) ;
and John Mills, former chief operating officer of Aeropostale.  CEO Ousted  Following Clinton’s criticism in June, Wet Seal fired CEO
Susan McGalla in July. That prompted Clinton to call for a sale
to a buyer that can revive the chain.  Wet Seal responded in August by adopting a poison pill and
announcing a turnaround plan that would return to its fast-
fashion roots after so-called same-store sales had declined for
four straight quarters. The next day, Clinton announced its plan
to replace board members.  Same-store sales, a key measure of a retailer’s growth
because only established stores are counted, fell 13 percent in
September, the company said Oct. 2. Revenue by the same measure
sank 18 percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  