-- Wisconsin’s Senate Race Pits Fiery Thompson Versus Cool Baldwin
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/wisconsin-s-senate-race-pits-fiery-thompson-versus-cool-baldwin.html
Former Governor  Tommy Thompson  wound
up an arm-waving speech with a series of “God love yous”
beneath a fluttering American flag amid whistles and cheers.  “Hey, I love ya,” the Senate candidate boomed repeatedly
to the Oct. 2 gathering of homebuilders in  Milwaukee . It was
like old times for Wisconsin’s iconic Republican, a man
accustomed to the warm electoral hug of lopsided victories.  The return embrace isn’t what it was. In Wisconsin, as in
other states, political familiarity can be a hindrance: Polls
show Thompson either trailing or deadlocked with U.S.
Representative Tammy Baldwin, a soft-spoken seven-term Democrat
from Madison who was kindergarten age in 1966 when Thompson, 70,
started his political career.  This isn’t the scenario that Republicans expected after
Governor  Scott Walker  fended off a Democratic-backed recall
effort in June, and Romney selected home-state Representative
 Paul Ryan  as his running mate. Party members said they had a
chance of winning Wisconsin for the first time since 1984.  An hour after Thompson’s tub-thumping speech across town,
Baldwin, 50, hosted a low-volume listening session with eight
college students. Her milder approach had her leading the
Republican 48 percent to 44 percent in a Marquette Law School
poll of 894 likely voters, released Oct. 3. The survey conducted
Sept. 27 through Sept. 30 also showed President  Barack Obama 
holding a 53 percent to 42 percent margin over Republican  Mitt Romney .  Fundamental Question  While Thompson, the state’s longest-serving governor and
former secretary of Health and Human Services under President
 George W. Bush , declared himself the most electable candidate in
November and won the party’s primary, his 3 percentage-point
victory in August over three more conservative candidates
suggested a volatile political climate.  “People are asking the question, ’Who’s fighting for us?’
versus ‘Who’s fighting for the big and powerful,’” Baldwin said
in an Oct. 2 interview in Milwaukee. “Whose side are you on is
a classic question in some elections, and I think it’s coming to
bear very particularly in this.”  Baldwin, a Madison-born lawyer with strong approval ratings
from groups such as the  American Civil Liberties Union  and
Americans for Democratic Action, was the first openly gay
nonincumbent to win election to the U.S. House, in 1998. Sexual
orientation has rarely been discussed in the campaign --“Almost
never, and I can tell you emphatically that people are looking
ahead, getting by in this economy,” she said.  Angry Badgers  At a Sept. 28 debate in Milwaukee, Baldwin argued for
letting the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy expire, while Thompson
promised to retain them.  Wisconsin has been enveloped in turmoil most of the past
two years. Economic disgruntlement propelled the 2010 election
of Walker and the Tea Party-backed Senate candidate  Ron Johnson ,
who ousted three-term Democrat  Russ Feingold .  Walker provoked recall campaigns against state senate
allies and himself when he obtained legislative approval of
restrictions on collective bargaining. In his successful effort
to thwart his own ouster in June, Walker portrayed public
employees as privileged. In the U.S. Senate race, Thompson and
Baldwin each claim to be the champion of the middle class.  Return to Populism  “He’s the best one,” said  Mark Miller , 64, a retired
printing-company worker who attended the Thompson appearance in
Milwaukee. Miller, a self-described conservative, said he
doesn’t like Baldwin. “In fact, I don’t like Democrats at
all.”  Wendy Zetting, 49, who lost her job as a flight attendant
after 21 years in 2009, spent the past three years studying to
be a dietetic technician. Baldwin “is in touch with people’s
wants and needs,” she said at a Milwaukee technical school.  Charles Franklin , a political scientist who runs the
Milwaukee-based Marquette Poll, said Baldwin is trying to “to
recapture the notion that the Democratic candidate is the
populist candidate,” he said. “She’s trying hard to portray
Thompson as the tool of the elite.”  In his 14 years as governor, Thompson overhauled the
state’s welfare system and promoted school choice. Serving from
1987 to 2001, he won his last three elections by yawning
margins, one by 36 percentage points.  Corporate Entanglements  Thompson’s departure from the  Bush administration  in 2005
led to his serving on the boards of health-care companies,
including his chairmanship of TherapeuticsMD, a Florida
pharmaceutical firm. He joined a Washington law firm, Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld. The Baldwin campaign has labeled Thompson
a lobbyist for companies his agency used to oversee, a charge
that Thompson angrily denies.  “I’ve never been a lobbyist,” he said in an interview.
“That’s absolutely a lie.”  Thompson is working to define Baldwin as a big-spender,
calling her “out of the mainstream. She is too liberal, too
radical for  Wisconsin .”  With less than five weeks before Election Day, the race is
about defining the opponent.  “I don’t feel like Tommy’s in touch with where people are
right now,” Baldwin said.  And Thompson replied, “If anybody’s out of touch, she
epitomizes out of touch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  