-- Woolworths to Spinoff Stores Into A$1.4 Billion Trust
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-10-05T06:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-05/woolworths-to-spinoff-stores-into-a-1-4-billion-trust.html
Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) ,  Australia ’s largest
retailer, will spin off A$1.41 billion ($1.44 billion) of stores
and shopping malls into a real estate investment trust as it
seeks to boost shareholder returns.  The company will transfer 69 shopping centers in Australia
and  New Zealand  to a new company, Sydney-based Woolworths said
in a regulatory statement today. Existing investors will be
given shares in the new trust, Shopping Centres Australasia
Property Group, and a public offer of stock will raise as much
as A$506 million, it said.  The share sale will be the largest initial equity raising
in Australia since  Westfield Group (WDC)  hived off ownership of some
of its Australian and New Zealand malls into a new trust in
December 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spinoff will help Woolworths get a better price for the centers,
given the dearth of funding for comparable investments since the
2008 financial crisis, said Ben Clark, a portfolio manager at
TMS Capital in Sydney.  “It’s no secret Woolworths tried to sell these properties
through the private market, but that business model got torn
apart in the global financial crisis and a lot of the natural
players don’t exist any more,” he said. “They would have been
able to sell them, but not get the price they were looking
for.”  Woolworths reported its first annual profit drop in 13
years on Aug. 24 as sales growth slowed and the company wrote
off A$420 million against its Dick Smith electronics chain.  Benefits ‘Modest’  Woolworths stock  climbed  1.3 percent to A$29.63 at the
close in Sydney, taking this year’s advance to 18 percent.  Shareholders will vote on the plan at the company’s annual
meeting on Nov. 22 with the new stock expected to start trading
on the Australian Securities Exchange Nov. 26.  The planned spinoff and share sale will improve the
company’s return on capital by about 60 basis points, according
to Sydney-based UBS AG analyst Ben Gilbert.  “The benefits for shareholders would be modest,” he wrote
in report before today’s announcement. “We see little reason
for a re-rate given the Australian food and liquor market
remains challenging and earnings growth remains subdued.”  The company owned A$4.11 billion of developments and
properties at the end of June, according to its annual report.
It had 872 supermarkets in Australia as well as liquor outlets,
convenience and petrol stations, home improvement stores and the
Big W discount department store chain. The Dick Smith chain,
with 325 stores and 4,500 employees, was sold Sept. 27 to
Anchorage  Capital Partners  for A$20 million.  “The creation of SCA Property Group is in line with our
strategy to act on the Company’s portfolio to maximize
 shareholder value ,” Woolworths Chief Executive Officer Grant O’Brien wrote in the statement today. “Woolworths has
determined that creating SCA Property Group is the best option
to reduce the quantum of property held on the Woolworths balance
sheet, make better use of Woolworths’ capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  