-- 
Labor Board Trims Union-Election Proposal Before Quorum Ends

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-11-29T22:34:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/labor-board-trims-union-election-proposal-before-losing-quorum.html
The  National Labor Relations Board 
proposed scaling back plans for speedier U.S. union elections,
as prospects dimmed for acting on the overhaul before the panel
loses a quorum next month.  NLRB Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce said the board, which runs
union elections and resolves disputes between labor and
management, should consider a proposal tomorrow that applies to
elections “held up by needless litigation,” according to a
statement today. Pearce said the departure of a Democratic
member next month, leaving the board with too few members to
act, led him to offer “a more limited resolution.”  The labor board proposed streamlining labor elections in
June, which Republican board member  Brian Hayes  said would
result in elections within 21 days of a worker request to form a
union. Business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce had
fought the proposal, saying it would give employers less time to
make their case with workers.  “The new resolution is not as far-reaching as it could
have been, but it still gets unions their key goal, which is to
cut the average election time down substantially,” said Phil
Wilson, president of the Labor Relations Institute Inc., a
closely held corporate consultant in Broken Arrow,  Oklahoma .  Time is running short for the NLRB to act. The board has
two vacancies, and the term of Democrat  Craig Becker , a former
lawyer for the AFL-CIO and Service Employees International
Union, will expire next month, leaving two voting members.  Postponing Appeals  The Pearce proposal would shrink the timing of union
elections by eliminating the 25-day period for the NLRB to
review the workers’ request to form a union. It also calls for
postponing any election-related appeals.  “These are modest but important reforms to help ensure
that workers who want to vote to form a union at their workplace
get a fair opportunity to do so,” AFL-CIO spokesman Josh
Goldstein said in an e-mail. “We hope the board will adopt
these measures tomorrow and quickly move to adopt the rest of
its proposed reforms.”  The NLRB is scheduled to vote tomorrow on whether to
advance Pearce’s proposal. After that, a final rule based on his
recommendation will be drafted and circulated for a vote.  “This is not as bad for business as it could have been,
since what the NLRB will vote on tomorrow is only a resolution,
and a final rule will still have to be drafted and circulated
for a subsequent vote,” said Doreen Davis, co-chair of the
labor practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP in Philadelphia.
“It is questionable whether that can be done before Becker’s
term expires, as normally members are given 90 days to write a
dissent.”  The  U.S. Supreme Court  ruled last year that a two-member
board can’t issue rulings.  Hayes, the only Republican on the board, has threatened to
quit, according to Pearce, in a move aimed at blocking action by
the panel on the election proposal. Hayes didn’t return a call
requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  