-- 
Thai Corporate Bond Sales Plunge 91% in November on Floods

-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 
2011-11-30T09:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/thai-corporate-bond-offerings-plunge-91-in-november-as-floods-curb-growth.html
Thai companies sold the least amount
of baht-denominated bonds in November since January 2008, as the
nation’s worst flooding in almost 70 years curbs growth and saps
demand from private investors.  Sales plunged 91 percent to 2.15 billion baht ($68.7
million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as PTT Pcl,
the nation’s biggest company, pulled a planned offering of 20
billion baht of notes because of the disaster.  “People are more worried about their homes than
investing,” Ariya Tiranaprakij, executive vice president of the
 Thai Bond Market Association , said in a phone interview from
Bangkok on Nov. 28. “People tend to try to keep cash ready for
emergency use.”  Flooding has claimed more than 600 lives since July and
disrupted supplies for companies from Cupertino, California-
based Apple Inc. to Toyota Motor Corp. in Toyota City,  Japan .
Industrial output in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy
slumped by the most in more than a decade in October as the
disaster shut thousands of factories and halted manufacturing.  Thai baht-denominated corporate bonds have  returned  0.2
percent this month, down from 1.2 percent in October, according
to Thai Bond Market Association data. Fixed-income securities
issued by companies worldwide have lost 1.8 percent this month
through Nov. 28, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield Index.  Housing Demand Slow  Banpu Pcl and Siam Cement Pcl led offerings of 201.8
billion baht of local currency debt this year, down 18 percent
from the same period last year, Bloomberg data show. Offerings
of corporate bonds globally fell 0.9 percent to $2.98 trillion
in the same period.  “A lot of bank branches are flooded and closed so it is
not a good time to sell bonds to retail investors,” said
Tiranaprakij. “Institutional investors are focusing on short-
term paper as they tend to wait and see of the situation and the
impact of the economy.”  Government bond  trading  fell 46 percent in October from the
previous month when volumes were 170.2 billion baht, according
to TBMA data.  The flooding has caused a slowdown in demand for housing,
which is heightening the risk of lending to developers,
according to Tris Rating Co., the Bangkok-based rating company.  Interest Rate Cut  Ticon Industrial Connection Pcl, a Bangkok-based developer
with 5.15 billion baht of debt outstanding, was put on  review 
for a possible rating downgrade by Tris on Oct. 14 after 30 of
its factories and three warehouses were flooded.  The sites accounted for 22 percent of the A rated
developer’s total rental revenue in the first half of 2011,
according to Tris.  Tris also changed the  outlook  on Prinsiri Pcl, Pruksa Real
Estate Pcl, Property Perfect Pcl and Quality Houses Pcl to
“negative” on Nov. 24, according to a Tris statement.  The slowdown in demand for housing “in the aftermath of
the flood crisis has heightened credit risks of developers with
high leverage and large concentration in low-rise projects,”
the ratings company said in the statement.  The Bank of  Thailand  cut  interest rates  for the first time
in more than two years and lowered its 2011 economic growth
forecast today. The central bank reduced its one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.25
percent. It said gross domestic product will rise 1.8 percent in
2011, less than an earlier 2.6 percent estimate.  “Borrowing costs have gone up from the beginning of the
year,” Nalin Chutchotitham, an economist at Kasikornbank Pcl,
said in a phone interview from Bangkok on Nov. 28. “I think the
corporate sector will wait and see if cheaper borrowing costs
become possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  