-- 
Thai Solar Energy to Spend 14 Billion Baht on New Projects

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-11-29T11:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/thai-solar-energy-to-spend-14-billion-baht-on-new-projects-1-.html
Thai Solar Energy Co. ,  Southeast
Asia ’s only solar-thermal energy producer, plans to spend more
than 14 billion baht ($447 million) over the next five years to
develop projects with a total capacity of 135 megawatts.  The company’s first plant, a 5-megawatt facility in the
Huaykrachao district of Thailand’s Kanchanaburi province, will
start operations next month and supply power to the state-run
Provincial Electricity Authority under a 10-year purchase
contract, Chief Operating Officer Cathleen Maleenont said today.  Thai Solar plans to increase its total capacity to 35
megawatts in the next two years, and develop 11 more projects
within three to five years, she said. The company secured 3
billion baht from Thai banks to fund the first stage of
development and is in talks with potential partners for future
projects, Chief Financial Officer Prapharat Tangkawattana said.  The plants will use a direct-steam generation system that
is as much as 27 percent more efficient than traditional
photovoltaic plants, which convert solar radiation into direct
current electricity. The investment cost for solar-thermal
energy is about 30 percent to 40 percent more expensive per
megawatt than photovoltaics, Prapharat said.  Solar-thermal energy “is definitely a big challenge for a
newcomer as much as it is an opportunity,” Prapharat said.
Costs will fall as the company adds capacity, while  Thailand ’s
government also provides subsidies to solar power developers to
promote investment in alternative energy, she said.  Duckwitz, Germany-based Solarlite GmbH supplied parabolic
mirrors for the plant, Man Diesel & Turbo Se supplied turbines
and Schott AG provided receiver tubes, Prapharat said.  Thai Solar’s second plant, a 9-megawatt facility located in
Dermbang Nangbuad district in Suphunburi province, will start
supplying electricity by the end of next year, generating
revenue of as much as 200 million baht a year, she said.  Thailand’s Maleenont family owns a majority stake in Thai
Solar Energy, which was established in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  