-- 
Taiwan’s Ma Proposes Shorter Work Week and New Laws on Leave

-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-11-29T08:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/taiwan-s-ma-proposes-shorter-work-week-and-new-laws-on-leave-3-.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou
announced plans to reduce the work week and restrict unpaid
leave as he battles slower economic growth, in a move the
opposition said was a campaign ploy ahead of January elections.  The government proposed cutting the work week from 84 hours
every two weeks to 40 hours a week, according to a  statement 
posted on Ma’s website after he met representatives from 10
labor unions yesterday. The proposal would also make it harder
for companies to put employees on unpaid leave.  Ma, whose lead in opinion polls over opposition candidate
Tsai Ing-wen has disappeared in recent weeks, aims to stimulate
a slowing economy and lower  unemployment  that rose for the first
time in five months in October, to 4.3 percent.  Taiwan ’s weekly
work hours are high compared with other nations and the moves
are a logical response to slower growth, said Cheng-mount Cheng,
a Taipei-based economist with Citigroup Inc.  “The proposed changes to the labor policy are reasonable
and beneficial to both employees and employers,” Cheng said.
“Any political party in government would have to come up with
such strategy if faced with similar issues.”  The 61-year-old president, who leads the Kuomintang party
and faces voters on Jan. 14, joins politicians from  Hong Kong  to
 Thailand  who have sought to boost pay to alleviate the impact of
price pressures. Countries including  Singapore  and  South Korea 
introduced a five-day work week in the last decade.  Election Promises  A Nov. 22-Nov. 24 poll by the China Times News Group said
Ma had support of 40.7 percent of voters compared with 40.3
percent for the  Democratic Progressive Party ’s Tsai. The poll,
which had a margin of error of 2.9 percentage points, gave
People First Party’s James Soong 10 percent support.  A spokeswoman for the opposition Democratic Progressive
Party said that by introducing new plans Ma is trying to divert
attention from unfulfilled promises.  “Ma hasn’t met his election pledges on employment and is
now bringing up new policies and this is clearly an attempt to
get votes,” spokeswoman Kang Yu-cheng said in an e-mailed
statement.  KMT spokesman Charles Chen said such criticism isn’t valid
because the vows were made before a global economic slowdown
took hold.  “The president has already apologized for not being able
to achieve the target of a jobless rate of lower than 3 percent
as pledged,” Chen said.  Labor Benefits  Ma’s proposal would make it easier to apply for
 unemployment benefits , according to the statement, while the
government plans to increase subsidies for people under 45 to
learn a second skill, as well as retrain older workers.  Under the Labor Standard Act, the legal number of work
hours every two weeks is 84, meaning employees often work six
days on alternate weeks. Government workers have been on a five-
day work week since 2001.  “The impact will be very marginal to the employees, though
it will affect employers’ flexibility in arranging work
schedules,” Francis Cheung, a senior strategist at Cred
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, said in a telephone interview.
“There won’t be a negative impact on the business environment
or increased costs for employers.”  The new rules will add restrictions on companies looking to
put workers on unpaid leave. As of mid-November, 48 companies
had asked 5,021 workers to take time off as demand falls,
according to Ma’s government.  Unpaid Leave  Lin Ming-che, secretary-general of the Trade Union of
Electrical, Electronic and Information Workers in Taiwan, said
the government data didn’t accurately reflect the true number of
employees put on unpaid leave and the new regulations could help
make such practices a last resort.  “The government can help ensure that unpaid leave won’t be
abused by some firms trying to cut costs,” Lin said in a
telephone interview.  Taiwan’s economy expanded 3.42 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the worst performance since the third
quarter of 2009. The government said in July it will increase
the minimum monthly wage for the second straight year on Jan. 1,
by 5 percent to NT$18,780 ($617), and the hourly wage to NT$103
from NT$98.  Taiwan raised minimum pay by 3.47 percent for 2011, the
first increase since 2007, after the island’s income disparity
widened to the most in almost 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  