-- 
Taiwan Dollar Extends Rebound on Inflows; Five-Year Bonds Gain

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-11-29T08:36:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/taiwan-dollar-extends-rebound-on-inflows-five-year-bonds-gain.html
Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened,
extending its rebound from a six-week low, after overseas
investors boosted their holdings of the island’s shares. The
government’s five-year bonds rose, pushing yields down from the
highest level in almost a month.  Global funds bought $141 million more Taiwanese stocks than
they sold in the past two days, ending an eight-day run of net
sales in which $1.9 billion was pulled from the local market,
exchange data show. Taiwan’s  five-year  debt, the most-traded
securities today, rallied on speculation foreigners are adding
to their holdings.  “There’s a high positive correlation between five-year
bonds and the stock index performance as they’re the assets
foreigners like to hold,” said  Albert Lee , a Taipei-based
fixed-income trader at Cathay United Bank Co. “Now the stock
market has stabilized and there’s money flowing back into Taiwan
shares. That’s fueled a five-year bond rally.”  The  Taiwan dollar  rose 0.1 percent to NT$30.412 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. That’s the
biggest gain since Nov. 11. The currency reached NT$30.505 on
Nov. 25, the weakest level since Oct. 12. The benchmark share
index climbed 1.3 percent today, following a 1.7 percent gain
yesterday.  The yield on the 2 percent bonds due July 2016 dropped one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.04 percent, prices
from Gretai Securities Market show. Volumes have fallen as
traders avoid taking risks toward the end of the year, Lee said.  The  overnight money-market rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, was little changed at 0.398 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  