-- 
Allen Stanford Mental Fitness Hearing Before Fraud Trial Set for December

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-11-29T18:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/allen-stanford-mental-fitness-hearing-before-fraud-trial-set-for-december.html
R. Allen Stanford, the  Texas 
financier accused of leading a $7 billion investment fraud,
faces a Dec. 20 hearing to determine whether he is mentally fit
to stand trial next year.  Stanford, 61, returned to Houston earlier this month after
a nearly nine-month stay at a U.S. Bureau of Prisons hospital at
Butner,  North Carolina . He was treated there for a dependency on
anti-anxiety drugs given to him in prison and evaluated for the
after-effects of a head injury sustained in a jailhouse assault.  Houston U.S. District Judge David Hittner today scheduled
the competency hearing to determine if Stanford can assist in
his defense. In a separate order, the judge said Stanford’s
criminal trial would start with jury selection on Jan. 23.  The former chairman and chief executive officer of Houston-
based Stanford Group Co. is accused of misleading investors
about the nature and oversight of certificates of deposit issued
by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford, who maintains his innocence, has been in custody
since June 2009, when he was indicted by a federal grand jury in
Houston. The court has twice postponed previously scheduled
trial dates.  Aiding Defense  Ali Fazel, one of his defense attorneys, today declined to
comment on the hearing and trial dates, citing an earlier order
from Hittner barring attorneys from discussing the case
publicly.  Justice Department spokeswoman  Laura Sweeney  didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on the trial date.
She has previously declined to comment because of the gag order.  If he’s found unable to help his attorneys prepare his
defense, Stanford could return to Butner for further treatment,
said Eric Sussman, a former federal prosecutor now in private
practice in Chicago, in an interview earlier this month.  If Hittner finds Stanford can’t sufficiently recover his
faculties, the judge would be required to decide whether the
financier must be committed to a long-term care facility, said
Sussman, now a partner in the Chicago office of New York-based
 Kaye Scholer LLP .  For Stanford to be permanently institutionalized, “he’d
have to be deemed a danger to himself or others,” said Sussman,
who isn’t involved in the case. “To the extent the judge finds
he can’t be restored to competency, they may have to drop the
charges,” he said.  Doctors  Houston attorney Wendell Odom, who convinced a jury that
Andrea Yates was insane when she drowned her children, said if
the government’s doctors have found Stanford fit for trial, it
will be difficult for the defense to prove otherwise. Stanford
will have an even tougher time proving he’s so permanently
incapacitated that he can never be tried, Odom said.  “Mental competency is an incredibly low standard, not the
same as insanity,” said Odom, a former federal prosecutor. “It
basically means you are cognizant of what’s going on and you can
talk to your attorney.”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 