-- 
American May Trim Schedule Amid Cost Cuts

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-11-29T20:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/american-follows-peers-by-continuing-flights-during-bankruptcy.html
American Airlines  may eventually
trim some flights as parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  reorganizes in bankruptcy
with an initial plan to continue “business as usual,” new
Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton said.  The reductions, along with job cuts, are likely as the
third-largest U.S. carrier seeks to lower expenses, Horton said
today on a conference call, without elaborating on the scope of
the pullback or a timeline. American said its frequent-flier
benefits remain in place.  Shrinking the schedule would match steps taken by carriers
such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Northwest Airlines Corp., which
filed for Chapter 11 on the same day in 2005. Delta’s seating
capacity in September 2006 was down 5.4 percent from a year
earlier, when it filed for bankruptcy.  “There will be some downsizing, there may be a route or
two eliminated,” said Tom Parsons, CEO of travel website
BestFares.com in Arlington,  Texas . “But overall when it comes
to American, for the flying public -- they should not worry
about their tickets for this Christmas or for next Christmas.”  American moved about 2 million passengers on each of its
two most popular routes, Miami to New York and  Dallas /Fort Worth
to  Los Angeles , during the 12 months through August, according
to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics. The airline
accounted for about 15 percent of total traffic for U.S.
carriers in October, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Some Shrinkage’  “As we optimize the fleet and the network, undoubtedly
there will be some shrinkage,” Horton said today at AMR’s
headquarter’s in Fort Worth, Texas. “I think it will be
modest.”  Dallas/ Fort Worth  is American’s largest hub, with 17.9
million passengers in the 12 months through August, followed by
 Chicago , with 6.5 million.  The carrier’s international partners in the Oneworld
alliance include British Airways and Japan Airlines Co., both of
which said today that AMR’s bankruptcy wouldn’t affect service.  “At least a few” customers may switch to other airlines
because of the Fort Worth-based carrier’s bankruptcy, said Rick Seaney, CEO of Dallas-based FareCompare.com.  “It’s always worrisome when you wake up in the morning and
you hold a holiday ticket and the news headlines say the airline
that you’re going to be flying is in bankruptcy,” Seaney said
by telephone. “It’s bound to have a psychological effect on
fliers.”  Holiday Travel  That impact should be temporary, Parsons said. American
chose the best time to file because most holiday tickets have
already been purchased, and fewer bookings are made now as
January and February are less busy for  air travel .  “Come January and February, when people are looking for
steals for spring break and summer 2012, this will be old
news,” Parsons said.  The airline sent a letter to customers promising that their
frequent-flier miles would remain intact. Parsons said earlier
that American would probably refuse to cut the program, which
builds loyalty by enticing passengers to book more often.  “The most important message of the day is that it will be
business as usual while we focus on doing a great job for our
customers,” Horton said on the conference call. “All of the
people of American Airlines are going to stand tall and deliver
for our customers.”  Delta, Northwest  Delta and Northwest, were the third- and fourth-largest
U.S. airlines, when they sought  bankruptcy protection  in
September 2005. Like Delta, Northwest also shrunk while in
Chapter 11, falling to No. 5 in the U.S. traffic rankings as
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  continued to grow. Delta then bought
Northwest in 2008 after completing restructuring a year earlier.  US Airways Group (LCC)  won court approval in 2005 to combine with
America West Airlines and emerge from its second bankruptcy that
decade.  United Airlines parent UAL Corp., a predecessor to  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , emerged from bankruptcy protection in
2006 after more than three years, and the carrier later merged
with Continental Airlines.  “Airlines like Delta and United who have gone through
recent mergers have come out stronger in the long run in an
extremely tough economic situation,” Seaney said. “This is
probably a good thing for American in the long term.”  The move benefits consumers since it will preserve a major
competitor, said Jay Sorensen, a consultant with IdeaWorks in
Shorewood,  Wisconsin .  “There’s no stigma attached to bankruptcy anymore, and so
I think that the smart customers, i.e., the business travelers,
will probably look at this and say, ‘Thank heaven, this cloud
has been lifted,” Sorensen said in a telephone interview.
“This is not about a company that’s going to suddenly fold up
its tent and go away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  