-- 
AMR Said to Have Begun Bankruptcy Contingency Plans in August

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-11-29T21:37:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/amr-executives-said-to-have-begun-bankruptcy-contingency-plans-in-august.html
American Airlines  executives (AMR)  began
considering a bankruptcy filing in August and were joined by
parent AMR Corp.’s board in October as the carrier prepared a
2012 business plan, people familiar with the matter said.  AMR advisers at law firm Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and
investment bank Rothschild Inc. were asked to review whether a
filing might be needed. Directors looked for ways to further cut
operating costs as AMR worked unsuccessfully in October and
November to reach a new contract with pilots, said the people,
who weren’t authorized to comment publicly.  As American and its board weighed options, financial
pressure built with the uneven economic recovery, volatile fuel
prices and the stalled labor talks. The board began to more
seriously consider a filing in the last few weeks. They met in
 New York  yesterday and later voted by conference call to approve
the filing, new Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton said today.  “This is the right action for the company at the right
time,” Horton said on a conference call with reporters. “The
board has given great consideration to the best path forward for
many, many months. A final decision was reached last night.”  The board vote was unanimous and included the support of
Chairman and CEO Gerard Arpey, Horton said. Arpey, 53, had
struggled for years to keep American out of Chapter 11 and
retired after yesterday’s vote.  AMR is headed for a fourth-straight annual loss -- one that
analysts forecast will top $1 billion -- while other carriers
returned to profit in 2010. Free  cash flow  in the 12 months
ended Sept. 30 fell to negative $1.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Labor-Cost Gap  The company has been negotiating since 2006 with unions in
an attempt to close what it says is an $800 million labor cost
disadvantage to its peers. American still pays into a defined
benefit pension fund and provides retiree medical benefits,
obligations that carriers such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  shed when
they filed bankruptcy earlier in the last decade.  Talks with the pilots stalled Nov. 14, when the Allied
Pilots Association declined to send the company’s last offer to
members for a vote, saying it would clearly be rejected. The
action wasn’t what led to the bankruptcy decision, Horton said.  “It was a variety of factors,” said Horton, 50. “We have
said with increasing urgency in recent weeks that we needed to
address that cost gap. At the same time, we don’t live in a
vacuum. There were a lot of things going on around us, including
global economic turmoil and volatile  oil prices .”  AMR shares tumbled 79 percent this year through Nov. 25 to
$1.62 a share, buffeted by ongoing speculation the carrier might
be forced into bankruptcy.  Preserving Value  AMR’s board saw a filing now as the best way to preserve the
company’s value and ensure a successful restructuring, one of
the people said. The company could use its $4.1 billion in
unrestricted cash and short-term investments to support
operations in bankruptcy instead of seeking outside financing
and giving up some control of its future.  American executives also became more concerned about facing
a greater-than-projected cash burn early next year during the
traditionally slow winter travel season, said one of the people.
The final issue, said this person, was a tightening in September
and October of the debt and financing markets, leading airline
executives to later tell the board they had no confidence they
could tap debt markets in the next few months to refinance
maturing obligations.  A Nov. 17  Standard & Poor’s  debt-rating cut by one step to
CCC+ also weighed in the board’s decision, Horton said.  The Final Decision  Arpey became CEO in 2003 when predecessor Donald Carty
stepped aside when it became known that the airline arranged for
managers’ retention bonuses in the event of a bankruptcy while
seeking concessions from unions. With Carty gone, Arpey won all
the necessary givebacks within a day.  During the Nov. 28 board meeting, Arpey, long a champion of
avoiding the bankruptcy path his rivals had taken, told the
board he felt he had lost some credibility and it made sense to
have another executive run AMR after a filing, one person said.  David Bates, president of the  Allied Pilots Association ,
received a call from Horton at 5 a.m.  Laura Glading , president of the  Association of Professional
Flight Attendants , was aware of “strong rumors” the evening
of Nov. 28 that a filing might be coming. She also received an
early morning call today from Horton relaying the decision.  “I reminded him of the importance of the employees in
turning this thing around,” Glading said in an interview. “We
pledged to work together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at +1-212-617-1708 or  jpickering@bloomberg.net  