-- 
AMR Corp.’s Flight to Safety

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-11-29T20:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/amr-corp-s-flight-to-safety.html
     The parent company of American Airlines became the final
large U.S. full-fare airline to seek court protection. How
protected are you?   What could the AMR bankruptcy do to airfares?   They may continue to climb. AMR's reorganization should
remove unnecessary aircraft/capacity from the industry, which
will allow AMR's competitors to keep flights fuller and prices
higher,  Helane Becker , an analyst with Dahlman Rose &
Co., said in a note to clients today.  "As long as fuel is inconsistent, airlines are still
going to try to raise" rates, said Tom Parsons, CEO of travel
website BestFares.com in Arlington,  Texas .  Still, Parsons said, the company may be forced to reduce
fares if advanced bookings drop.  American is "going to have to remain very competitive and
they're not going to have the ease of saying, 'Oh we're just
going to raise airfares.' I would just say right now, we'll
still see some flying steals and deals and this is actually a
great week to be buying."  What happens to my frequent flier miles?   They are secure.  American Airlines  sent a letter to
AAdvantage customers today saying, "miles that you've earned
are yours and will stay yours, subject to usual
policies, until you choose to redeem them."  How likely or not is an AMR merger with another airline?   AMR's filing with $4.1 billion in cash makes it less likely
that  US Airways  could "persuade creditors to agree to a
merger, as it attempted (unsuccessfully) during Delta's
reorganization," James Higgins, an analyst at New York-based
Ticonderoga Securities LLC, said in a note today.  Still, "American potentially needs a partner to achieve
more scale," and US Airways could be that partner, said  Kevin
Crissey , a UBS Securities LLC analyst in  New York .  Would AMR likely reduce routes and cities serviced?   Yes, CEO Thomas Horton said today that the company will
trim some flights as it reorganizes. "The reason you'll see
maybe some downsizing on routes or the number of flights they
fly on certain routes is because they're going to get rid of
some aircraft," Parsons said.  What happens to my airline tickets for the Christmas and
Easter holidays?   American plans to continue to honor tickets and
reservations, the company said in a statement today.
 