-- 
American Airlines Parent AMR Files for Bankruptcy as Horton Is Named CEO

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d ,   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/amr-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-new-york-as-talks-with-pilots-end.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
filed for bankruptcy after failing to secure cost-cutting labor
agreements and sitting out a round of mergers that dropped it
from the world’s largest airline to No. 3 in the U.S.  With the filing, American became the last of the so-called
U.S. legacy airlines to seek court protection from creditors.
The Fort Worth, Texas-based company, which traces its roots to
1920s air-mail operations in the Midwest, listed $24.7 billion
in assets and $29.6 billion in debt in Chapter 11 papers filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  “It’s painful but probably necessary,”  John Strickland ,
an aviation analyst at JLS Consulting in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “They will have to go through the whole
process that their peers have gone through.”  Job and flight reductions are likely in the future as AMR
seeks to trim expenses and leave bankruptcy in less than 15
months, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton said
yesterday. Normal flight schedules will continue on American and
its American Eagle regional unit for now, along with the
airline’s frequent-flier program, the company said. A spinoff of
American Eagle, which already had been delayed from this year
into 2012, is on hold, Horton said.  Court Hearing  American’s cost structure compared with other airlines had
become “untenable,” said  Harvey Miller , the company’s
bankruptcy lawyer, at a court hearing yesterday in Manhattan.
The airline “fought ferociously” to avoid filing for
bankruptcy, and now planned to use the court process to turn
around its business to become a profitable global airline,
Miller said.  At the hearing, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane approved
American’s requests to pay employees, continue its customer
programs, and pay what the company said are vendors that are
critical to maintaining its operations.  American said in court papers that it needed permission to
pay $50 million in claims from critical vendors. Miller said the
company will later request approval to pay an additional $35
million in claims.  “We are talking about an emergency and the survival of
this company,” Miller said about the request. “We have to
operate this airline and assure customers that when they book on
American, that flight is going to be there and that flight is
going to depart on time.”  Arpey Retires  Horton, 50, most recently AMR’s president, replaced Gerard Arpey yesterday as chairman and CEO. Arpey, 53, opted to retire
after the board asked him to stay, Horton said. Arpey will join
Emerald Creek Group LLC, a private-equity firm founded by former
Continental Airlines Inc. CEO Larry Kellner, on Dec. 1, the firm
said in a statement.  Arpey supported the bankruptcy filing, Horton said. Arpey
decided to leave after concluding that AMR would be better
served with new leadership “because it was going in a different
direction,” Tom Roberts, an attorney at Weil, Gotshal & Manges
LLP who represents AMR, said in a telephone interview. “It was
his decision because he had been the one that had been leading
the charge for so many years to avoid bankruptcy.”  AMR doesn’t plan to seek so-called debtor-in-possession
financing to fund operations during bankruptcy, Horton said at a
news conference at Dallas/ Fort Worth  International Airport.  AMR’s board voted unanimously Monday night to file for
bankruptcy after considering options for months, Horton said.
AMR was determined to avoid Chapter 11 as air travel fell and
losses mounted after the 2001 terrorist attacks, even as peers
used bankruptcy to shed costly pension and retiree benefit plans
and restructure debt. Rival carriers later combined, giving them
larger route networks that were more attractive to lucrative
corporate travel customers.  ‘Untenable’ Gap  “It became increasingly clear that the cost gap between us
and our biggest competitors was untenable,” Horton said on a
conference call. “The economic climate has been most uncertain,
 oil prices  remain high and volatile, and all of that taken
together led to the conclusion that now is the right time to
take this step and put the company back on the path to long-term
success.”  AMR plunged 84 percent to 26 cents in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday. The shares earlier fell as
much as 88 percent. Unlike secured creditors, shareholders
typically get paid last in a bankruptcy and often receive
nothing for their shares.  The stock had declined 79 percent this year on concern that
a Chapter 11 filing was inevitable as AMR’s losses drained cash
reserves. AMR had $4.1 billion in unrestricted cash and short-
term investments as of Nov. 25, Chief Financial Officer Isabella Goren said in an affidavit.  Union Talks  AMR’s bankruptcy filing “resets” the process for union
talks, Horton said. American had been engaged in negotiations
with unions for all of its major work groups as far back as
2006, seeking to boost employee productivity and erase part of
what it said was an $800 million labor-cost disadvantage to
other carriers.  The company has the highest operating costs among the four
surviving major U.S. network airlines, Goren said in court
papers. AMR is set to post its fourth-straight annual loss this
year and analysts had forecast a loss for next year as well.  “AMR cannot continue to progress toward a viable and
stable future without further, significant remediation of its
uncompetitive cost structure,” Goren said.  American fell from its perch as the biggest airline by
traffic after  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  bought Northwest Airlines
Corp. in 2008, then slid to No. 3 last year when UAL Corp.’s
United Airlines and Continental Airlines Inc. merged.  Hub-and-Spoke  All operate traditional hub-and-spoke systems, with their
own regional units or partner airlines ferrying passengers to be
collected at larger airports.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  is the other
major carrier with that kind of route network. It ranks No. 5 in
the U.S. by traffic, behind  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the largest
discounter.  In late 2005, Delta, Northwest and UAL were all under
bankruptcy protection. US Airways left Chapter 11 in September
of that year through a merger with America West Holdings Corp.  American and leaders of its pilots’ union were scheduled to
meet with federal mediators on Dec. 6 to provide an update on
contract talks that stalled two weeks ago. The two sides hadn’t
set a date to resume negotiations since Allied Pilots
Association leaders declined to send a Nov. 14 contract offer to
union members for a vote, saying it “clearly” would be
rejected.  ‘Leaner, Stronger’  “You would expect a leaner, stronger company to emerge
from bankruptcy,” said  Chris Logan , an analyst at Echelon
Research & Advisory LLP in London. “As they are in Chapter 11,
it will be more easy to demand concessions from the labor
force.”  American’s pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and baggage
handlers wanted to use the contract talks to regain some of the
$1.6 billion in annual concessions they gave in 2003 to help the
company avoid bankruptcy.  “We agreed to sacrifice based on the expectation that our
airline would regain its leadership position,” David Bates,
president of the Allied Pilots Association, told members in an
e-mail. “What has transpired since has been nothing short of a
‘perfect storm.’”  The Transport Workers Union, which represents aircraft
mechanics and baggage handlers, “will fight like hell to make
sure that front-line workers don’t pay an unfair price for
management’s failings,” James Little, the union’s international
president, said in a statement.  ‘Loss of Jobs’  “It’s a loss of jobs I worry most about,”  Laura Glading ,
president of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants,
said in an interview. “That’s a horrible, horrible nightmare in
this economy. We’ll do what we can to mitigate that as much as
possible.”  AMR had about 80,800 employees at the end of September,
including 67,100 at American, with the rest at American Eagle,
cargo operations and other units, according to the company’s
October earnings release. American has 8,700 active pilots, with
another 950 on furlough, and 17,000 flight attendants.  Among the company’s largest unsecured creditors listed in
court papers was Wilmington Trust Corp., trustee for holders of
$460 million in 6.25 percent convertible senior notes due in
2014. AMR on Sept. 27 sold $725.7 million of 10-year bonds
backed by aircraft to refinance maturing debt. The company paid
the highest  interest rates  since 2009 to raise the cash.  The 8.625 percent notes due in October 2021 fell 2.5 cents
to 96 cents on the dollar as of 8:20 a.m. in New York, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Sept. 11  After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in 2001, carriers saw
“a dramatic drop in air travel” for 18 months to two years,
FareCompare.com CEO Rick Seaney said in an interview. Airlines
in the U.S. lost about $9.7 billion in the year following the
attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center’s twin towers in
New York and damaged the Pentagon. American, which operated two
of the four hijacked planes used in the attacks, posted losses
for four straight years afterward.  American responded by negotiating the union concessions
that helped to restore profit in 2006 and 2007. The carrier had
blamed losses since then partly on its labor costs and slower-
than-expected gains from business ventures with partners across
the Atlantic and Pacific.  The airline also has a  fleet  of older, less fuel-efficient
planes that put it at a disadvantage when fuel prices rise. AMR
spent $1.56 billion more on fuel through the first nine months
of this year than a year earlier, according to the company’s
third-quarter earnings release.  Flights Shuffled  In September 2009, the carrier shuffled flight schedules to
increase operations in  Chicago , New York, Dallas-Fort Worth,  Los
Angeles  and Miami to attract more high-fare business travelers.  “Airlines still face that fundamental issues of cost
levels versus achievable revenues in the market place,”
Strickland, the JLS analyst, said. “Higher fuel prices and the
weaker  U.S. economy  would have given them the final push.”  AMR said in July it would buy 460 single-aisle jets -- 260
from Airbus SAS and 200 from  Boeing Co. (BA)  -- in the industry’s
biggest-ever order. The orders remain “rock solid,” Horton
said yesterday.  “When we’re completed with this process, our company will
be competitive and poised to grow and prosper and go out and
capitalize on these aircraft orders,” he said.  MD-80s Replaced  American’s mainline jet fleet of 619 planes includes 247
twin-engine MD-80s made by McDonnell Douglas Corp., according to
the airline’s website. Boeing acquired McDonnell Douglas in
1997. Those planes, which are no longer in production, are being
replaced by Boeing 737-800s that are about one-third more fuel
efficient.  Placing an order for aircraft “creates a contract,” and
in bankruptcy accepting or rejecting the contract will be up to
AMR, said Scott Peltz, the national leader of RSM McGladrey’s
Financial Advisory Service in Chicago. Boeing and other
suppliers will probably have representatives at AMR’s bankruptcy
hearings who “will be looking at what their options are,” he
said.  Boeing said it has “no reason to doubt” that the jet
order remains pivotal to AMR. Boeing and Airbus will provide $13
billion of financing on the first 230 jets, American said in
July.  ‘Key Part’  “We anticipate as part of American’s reorganization that
new, fuel-efficient airplanes will be a key part of their
ongoing success,” Mark Hooper, a spokesman for Chicago-based
Boeing, said in an e-mailed statement.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA , a U.K.-based
joint venture partner with AMR that owns British Airways and
 Spain ’s Iberia, said it has “every confidence in the future of
 American Airlines ” and looks forward to working with Horton.  Weil Gotshal , based in New York, is AMR’s lead bankruptcy
counsel. The company’s financial adviser is Rothschild Inc.  American Airlines was formed from companies including
Robertson Aircraft Corp. of Missouri, which employed Charles A. Lindbergh as a mail pilot, according to the carrier’s website.
The companies began consolidating in 1929 and became American
Airlines in 1934.  Company stock began trading in 1939, and during World War
II, half of American’s planes flew for the Air Transport
Command. American pioneered nonstop transcontinental service in
1953 and 20 years later was the first major airline to hire a
woman pilot, according to its website.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  