-- 
AMR Bankruptcy Deals ‘Psychological Blow’ to Region Airline Put on the Map

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-11-29T20:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/amr-bankruptcy-deals-psychological-blow-to-region-airline-put-on-the-map.html
The bankruptcy of  American Airlines 
parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  deals a blow to the  Dallas-Fort Worth region  of
 Texas , a community whose identity and fortunes have been tied to
the company and aviation for more than 80 years.  American Airlines is the second-biggest employer in the
region, with more than 20,000 of its 80,000 workers based there,
and has had a presence in Dallas-Fort Worth since 1929. About
one in six jobs in the region is related to transportation,
trade or airlines, including American and Dallas-based  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV) , according to the North Texas Commission.  “American has been so much a part of who we are,” Allan
Saxe, a professor of political science at the  University of
Texas  at Arlington, said in an interview. The bankruptcy is
“more of a psychological blow, I think, than anything else.”  AMR, once the world’s largest airline, filed for Chapter 11
protection from creditors today, listing $24.7 billion in assets
and $29.6 billion in debt. While American and American Eagle
airlines continue to fly regular schedules, Fort Worth-based AMR
said it may eliminate jobs and trim service to some cities. AMR
has said it wants to renegotiate contracts with labor unions.  “We’ll probably see some cuts in wages and benefits for
local workers and that’ll ripple through the economy,” said
Bernard Weinstein, an economist at Southern Methodist
University’s Cox School of Business in  Dallas .  ‘Block By Block’  Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings said the bankruptcy will be felt
“block by block.”  “I live next door to a pilot and a flight attendant,” he
said in an interview. The bankruptcy “impacts their lives, I
care about that, so it’s more a personal thing as opposed to a
macro-economic level.”  American was created in 1929 by combining smaller airlines,
including Dallas-based Texas Air Transport. American’s southern
division was later based in Fort Worth, and the company’s 1933
 Art Moderne hangar  at Meacham Field is on the National Register
of Historic Places.  AMR moved its headquarters to Fort Worth from  New York  in
1979, according to its website. Other corporate relocations,
including Exxon Mobil Corp. and  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  helped make
Dallas-Fort Worth the fourth-biggest U.S. metropolitan area.  “That was a real coup for the area, it helped put D-FW on
the map,” Weinstein said.  “In a sense that was American coming home.”  Emerging Stronger  American fell from its perch as the biggest airline by
traffic after Delta Air Lines Inc. bought Northwest Airlines
Corp. in 2008, then slid to No. 3 last year when UAL Corp.’s
 United Airlines  and Continental Airlines Inc. merged.  American may be stronger after the bankruptcy, if it can
lower its fuel and labor costs, said Mabrie Jackson, president
of the North Texas Commission, which coordinates the efforts of
local governments for common municipal projects.  Fort Worth  Mayor Betsy Price said she is confident that AMR
will be competitive again.  “It makes everybody nervous,” Price said in an interview
of the bankruptcy filing. “The other airlines that have been
through bankruptcy have all emerged stronger and more efficient
we feel certain American will also.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  