-- 
AMR Unsecured Lenders May Get ‘Next to Nothing,’ in Bankruptcy, Fitch Says

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-11-29T19:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/amr-unsecured-lenders-may-get-next-to-nothing-in-bankruptcy-fitch-says.html
Investors in  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s unsecured
debt may recover “next to nothing” as the parent of  American
Airlines  restructures in  bankruptcy court , according to  Fitch
Ratings .  AMR’s $75.5 million of 9 percent senior unsecured notes due
in August 2012 were trading at 15.5 cents on the dollar at 10:45
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt
has plunged from this year’s high of 93.5 cents on Sept. 14.
Holders of the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company’s unsecured
obligations will likely recover 10 percent or less of face
value, Bill Warlick, an analyst at Fitch, wrote today in a note
to clients.  American became the final large U.S. full-fare airline to
seek court protection from creditors. The company, which traces
its roots to 1920s air-mail operations in the Midwest, listed
$24.7 billion in assets and $29.6 billion in debt in Chapter 11
papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “In a reorganization scenario, the recovery on the secured
debt will be quite strong, but the remaining obligations aren’t
going to do very well,” Warlick said in a telephone interview.
“It’s likely they’ll recover next to nothing,” he said of
investors in AMR’s unsecured debt.  AMR bonds sold two months ago declined after the parent of
American Airlines filed for bankruptcy, and credit-default swap
dealers started the process to trigger payouts on derivatives
tied to its debt.  First-Lien Debt  The company’s $725.7 million of 8.625 percent notes due in
October 2021 fell 2.25 cents to 96.25 cents on the dollar, Trace
data show. The first-lien pass through certificates, which are
backed by airplanes, were issued at face value on Sept. 27. The
company’s $450 million of 10.5 percent secured notes due October
2012 decreased 3 cents to 90 cents, Trace data show.  Holders of secured debt including AMR’s $1 billion of five-
year, 7.5 percent notes sold on March 9 may recover more than 90
percent of par value, Warlick wrote in the note. Those
securities, which are backed by routes between the U.S., U.K.,
 Japan  and  China , traded today at 76.5 cents on the dollar,
according to Bloomberg Valuation data.  AMR Swaps  Credit-default swaps on AMR that pay out after a default or
bankruptcy traded today at 83 percent upfront, according to
broker Phoenix Partners Group in New York. That means it would
cost $8.3 million to protect $10 million of the company’s debt.
The swaps pay the buyer of the contracts face value, minus the
recovery value of the bonds that are set by dealers and
investors in an auction of the securities. The swaps were quoted
at 70 percent upfront yesterday.  Investors bought or sold $363.8 million of protection on
AMR through so-called single-name contracts that bet on
individual companies. AMR was also one of 100 companies in older
versions of the Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, on
which investors bought or sold a net $63.2 billion of protection
using credit-default swaps.  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association’s
determinations committee said today it will consider a request
from UBS AG to resolve whether a  credit event  has occurred. A
vote will be held among the 15-member committee of dealers and
investment firms to decide if there will be a payout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 