-- 
AMR-Backed Municipal Airport Debt Falls on American Air Parent Bankruptcy

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/amr-backed-municipal-airport-debt-falls-on-american-air-parent-bankruptcy.html
Municipal securities backed by
 American Airlines  parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  dropped as much as 68 percent
after the third-largest U.S. carrier declared bankruptcy.  AMR’s $3.2 billion of debt backing airport facilities may
not have much effect on municipal defaults this year, because it
isn’t clear how much will be abandoned, according to analysts
including Phil Villaluz, managing director of municipal research
for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  New York .  AMR and American sold tax-exempt securities called special-
facilities bonds through airports and municipal authorities to
pay for gates and maintenance hangars in cities such as New
York, Los Angeles and  Dallas . American became the final large
U.S. full-fare airline to seek court protection following the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. It listed $29.6 billion in debts in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court papers filed yesterday in  Manhattan .  “We’re already seeing secured bonds getting hit,”
Villaluz said. “The outcome will depend on whether American
wants to keep these facilities or walk away.”  An unsecured bond maturing in December 2029 that backed
maintenance facilities at Fort Worth’s Alliance Airport sank 67
percent to 17.2 cents on the dollar yesterday from 52.5 cents
Nov. 21, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A New York City
Industrial Development Agency bond maturing in August 2031 and
sold for American in 2005 fell 16 percent to 75.9 cents on the
dollar from 94 cents Oct. 27. The bonds are secured by leases.  Whitney’s Outlook  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst who correctly called
Citigroup Inc.’s 2008 dividend cut, last year predicted
“hundreds of billions of dollars” of municipal defaults this
year. Bondholders may not know whether payments will be missed
on their investments until Fort Worth-based AMR decides what it
plans to do with facilities financed with the debt, said  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter.  “It’s a huge amount of debt,” Lehmann said by telephone
from Miami Lakes,  Florida . “Whether they suspend debt is the
question. I don’t think they will, because they will need these
gates.”  AMR lists on its balance sheet the $1.6 billion it
guarantees. The rest relies on leases and other financing
structures for the facilities it financed. The company may try
to use the bankruptcy to wipe out some of its debt, yet if it
decides to continue operating in a city, it probably will cover
payments tied to that area, said  James Spiotto , a partner with
Chapman & Cutler in  Chicago . He has worked on municipal bond
holdings involving other airlines that entered bankruptcy.  Location Key  “If it’s a needed facility they will stick with it,” said
Spiotto. “If it’s a popular destination, other airlines may
come in and take it over.”  Recovery rates on municipal bonds backed by bankrupt
airlines can vary depending on their structure, said  John Miller , co-head, global fixed income, at Nuveen Asset Management
in Chicago. Investors got 100 cents on the dollar plus accrued
interest on  United Airlines ’ Denver airport facility-backed
bonds. However, there is a possibility American could leave some
airports, or, if it decides to stay, to seek lower lease
payments.  Such negotiations carry risks for American, because if the
talks don’t succeed, the carrier may be forced out of certain
airports, Miller said. His company has about $240 million in
debt related to American, spread over 30 funds.  Too Soon  “It’s way too soon to have any sense of whether they’re
going to be fighting with creditors over these leases,” Miller
said. Generally, lease-backed structures have a “considerably
higher” recovery rate in airline bankruptcies, he said.  American’s most-active secured municipal bonds were issued
to finance terminals at  John F. Kennedy International Airport 
and  Los Angeles  International Airport.  “Those are important places for American Airlines to be
operating and I believe they wouldn’t want to give up those
facilities to competitors,” Miller said. Holders of those bonds
should receive “pretty meaningful” recovery, he said.  Investors with American’s unsecured debt should get more
back than those that held similar United securities, because
both United and the  airline industry  were in a weaker financial
position in the years following the 2001 terrorist attacks,
Miller said. Oppenheimer Funds holds about $1.1 billion of
American-backed municipal bonds, the most of any mutual fund
family, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sam Wang, an Oppenheimer spokesman, didn’t respond to a
telephone message seeking comment on the holdings.  ‘Negative’ Effect  “The bankruptcy and uncertainty it brings for the
unsecured bonds in particular could have a significant negative
impact,” J.R. Rieger, vice president for fixed-income indexes
at  Standard & Poor’s , said in a statement. He said 29 American-
backed securities are included in the company’s Municipal Bond
Index, amounting to less than 0.3 percent of its value.  Some unsecured securities for maintenance facilities at
Fort Worth-owned Alliance fell more than 80 percent after the
bankruptcy filing, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Holders of the company’s unsecured debt may recover “next to
nothing” because of the bankruptcy,  Fitch Ratings  said
yesterday in a report.  Alliance officials don’t expect AMR to abandon the airport,
said Jay Chapa,  Fort Worth ’s housing and economic director. “My
understanding is that American will continue to operate as
normal while they restructure,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  