-- 
AMSC Slashes Workers as Turbine-Maker Cuts $50 Million in Costs

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-11-29T21:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/amsc-slashes-workers-as-turbine-maker-cuts-50-million-in-costs.html
American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC)  has
cut about half its workers as the wind-turbine component maker
works to recover from the loss of its largest customer.  In the latest round of cuts, AMSC is firing more than 100
people, bringing annual savings since March to $50 million,
Kerry Farrell, spokeswoman for the Devens, Massachusetts-based
company, said today in an interview.  AMSC has “over 400 employees,” according to a statement
today. The company had 848 workers in March and Farrell said
there are less than 500 now, without giving the exact number.  The company has been working to return to profitability
since a dispute with  China ’s largest turbine-maker,  Sinovel Wind
Group Co. , led to a 79 percent plunge in sales in its second
fiscal quarter of 2012, ended Sept. 30. Sinovel, which stopped
accepting or paying for contracted shipments March 31, had
accounted for about 70 percent of AMSC’s sales.  “They need to match the number of employees to their
expected revenue and margins,” Craig Irwin, an analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc. in  New York , said in an interview. “If
they continue burning cash at $55 million a quarter, it’s not
going to be too many quarters before they’re out of cash.”  Irwin predicts that AMSC will return to profitability in
2012, with earnings of 29 cents a share, excluding restructuring
costs, stock compensation and amortization.  Shares of the company fell 4 percent to $3.84 in New York.
The stock had dropped 86 percent this year before today.  Sinovel Suit  AMSC is suing Beijing-based Sinovel in Chinese courts,
claiming the company broke contracts and stole intellectual
property. A former AMSC employee pleaded guilty to charges
including economic espionage in an Austrian court in September
after being accused of passing software and source code to
Sinovel.  Sinovel has denied that it stole intellectual property from
AMSC and said it stopped accepting AMSC shipments because they
didn’t meet its standards.  AMSC will incur severance-related costs of less than $3
million in the current quarter, the company said today in the
statement. The company expects to meet targets for quarterly
revenue of more than $15 million in the current quarter and a
net loss, excluding certain items, of less than $24 million, set
earlier this month when the company announced its second-quarter
results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  