-- 
Angie’s List Falls Below Its Offering Price, Adding to Woes of Recent IPOs

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   X u   W a n g
-- 
2011-11-29T23:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/angie-s-list-falls-below-ipo-price.html
Angie’s List Inc.  fell 9.2 percent
today, dropping below its initial public offering price for the
first time and joining a crop of Internet companies that have
lost value since their IPOs this year.  Groupon Inc.  has tumbled 20 percent since its offering on
Nov. 3, while Pandora Media Inc. has lost more than a third of
its value since its IPO in June.  HomeAway Inc. , which went
public two weeks after Pandora, has fallen 5.3 percent. Russia’s
Yandex NV and China-based Renren Inc., two IPOs from May, also
have dropped. All are now below their offering prices.  “It seems that there is a virus running through the
sector, with Groupon being the carrier,” said David Menlow,
president of Millburn, New Jersey-based IPOfinancial.com, a site
that tracks stock offerings. “The question now is if the big
valuation given to these companies is unwarranted.”  The broader market also has lost ground since mid-year, as
the European debt crisis and high U.S.  unemployment  push down
consumer sentiment to levels previously reached during
recessions. Still, IPOs have performed worse. Of this year’s
biggest U.S. Internet debuts, only  LinkedIn Corp. , the top
professional-networking site, has stayed above its IPO price.  The  Bloomberg IPO Index , which measures the performance of
stocks during their first publicly traded year, has dropped 26
percent in 2011, compared with a 5 percent decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Facebook’s Plan  Even as stocks slide, Facebook Inc. is considering filing
for an IPO by the end of this year, according to a person
familiar with the matter. It would value the social-networking
site at more than $100 billion, the person said. That would be
twice as high as its valuation in January, when the company
announced a $1.5 billion investment from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and other backers.  Angie’s List, a website that rates plumbers, electricians
and other service providers, fell $1.20 to $11.80 at the close
today in  New York , dropping for the fourth straight day.  Its IPO price of $13 valued the Indianapolis-based company
at more than $900 million, or about 11 times sales in the 12
months through September. That compared with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which
traded at about 5.4 times trailing 12-month sales. Groupon,
which like Google was named as a competitor in Angie’s List’s
filing, traded at about 12 times sales in the same period.  Groupon, the largest daily-deal site, ended a five-day
slide, rising 77 cents to $16.01 today. The Chicago-based
company, which had an IPO price of $20, has dropped 39 percent
from its high on Nov. 18. It’s been hurt by concern that profit
margins will be squeezed by surging marketing costs and rising
competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Xu Wang in New York at 
 xwang206@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  