-- 
Tanker Surplus in Persian Gulf Swells, Survey of Brokers Shows

-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-11-29T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/tanker-surplus-in-persian-gulf-swells-survey-of-brokers-shows.html
A glut of supertankers competing to
load 2 million-barrel cargoes of crude oil in the  Persian Gulf 
expanded, a survey showed.  There are 17  percent more  very large crude carriers, or
VLCCs, available for hire over the next 30 days than there are
likely cargoes, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of five shipbrokers and one owner today. That’s an
increase of 4 percentage points from last week.  “The supply of vessels is just too abundant,” Anders Karlsen, an Oslo-based analyst at  Nordea Markets , said by e-
mail. Still, demand is “high,” with about 65 cargoes for
loading in the first half of December, he said.  Tanker bookings have averaged 117 a month this year,
according to  figures  from London-based shipbroker Galbraith’s
Ltd. The number of the ships available in the gulf over the next
four weeks rose by 10 to 91, Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based
freight-derivatives broker at Marex Spectron Group, said by e-
mail.  The current vessel surplus is equal to the 12-month average
and 14 points below the high for the period, Bloomberg data
show.  Daily returns for VLCCs on the industry’s  benchmark  Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan voyage declined for a fourth session yesterday
to $14,903, the lowest level since Nov. 15, according to the
London-based Baltic Exchange. Earnings reached an eight-month
high of $27,271 on Nov. 22.  Lower Speeds  The exchange’s earnings assessments don’t account for
owners cutting  speeds  to save fuel. The price of ship fuel, or
bunkers, rose 28 percent this year to $650.96 a metric ton, data
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed.  Hire costs  on the benchmark route fell 1.8 percent to 59.43
Worldscale points yesterday, according to the exchange. The
points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat rate, for
more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for every voyage,
quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually by the
Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel costs,
port tariffs and exchange rates.  Global demand to transport oil on VLCCs will rise 5.3
percent this year to 148.2 million deadweight tons as the fleet
expands 8 percent to 173 million tons, according to Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a measure of shipping crude
that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, dropped 0.3 percent to
780, the lowest level since Nov. 11, the exchange’s data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  