-- 
Apple’s Rivals Try to Swipe Sales From IPad With Cheaper Tablets

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-11-29T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/apple-s-rivals-try-to-swipe-sales-from-ipad-with-cheaper-tablets.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992)  are joining  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in selling low-priced
tablets this holiday season, stepping up efforts to grab sales
from Apple Inc.’s market leading iPad.  More than two dozen devices, including Samsung’s Galaxy Tab
7.0 Plus, Lenovo’s IdeaPad A1 and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s Nook
Tablet, are selling at a 30 percent to 80 percent discount to
the iPad, which starts at $499.  Manufacturers of these tablets are also adding features
that previously had been only available on more expensive
models, pitting the devices more directly against the iPad, as
well as posing a challenge to e-readers and netbooks.  Their aim is to narrow Apple’s lead in a market that could
reach  $77.4 billion  by 2015, up from $9.6 billion last year,
according to researcher Gartner Inc. In the third quarter,  Apple (AAPL) 
saw its dominant share of the tablet market slip as devices
running on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software gained ground.  “Customers will be price sensitive,”  Charlie Wolf , an
analyst at Needham & Co., said in an interview. “But there has
to be functionality along with the low price to make these
things sell. From the competitive perspective, all of them are
inferior to the iPad. But some of these cheaper tablets will
take share from the iPad.”  Sub-$400 IPad  To fend off the competition, Apple should offer the iPad at
a lower price, analysts from Goldman Sachs said in a report this
month.  “A sub-$400 iPad 2 with 8GB of capacity could further
limit the competitive prospects of Android tablet vendors in
2012 and attract more cost-sensitive consumers,” the report
said. It could also help Apple compete with lower-cost rivals
whose devices now offer an array of features.  Samsung’s new $349 Galaxy Tab 7 can be used as a remote
control for devices in the home. Lenovo added an always-on GPS
capability to its $199 IdeaPad A1. Archos’s $349 10-inch  G9
tablet  has a built-in stand and a customized video store with
full high-definition playback.  Amazon’s  Kindle Fire , which comes with access to the
company’s digital books and videos, could grab up to 20 percent
of prospective iPad buyers during the Christmas quarter, Wolf
said.  “Some consumers who would have bought an iPad will buy a
Kindle,” Wolf said. “The iPad could lose a half a million in
unit sales because of the Kindle.” Wolf expects Apple to sell
12.5 million iPads during the holiday quarter. Amazon will sell
5 million Kindle Fires this quarter,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said
in a recent note.  Strong Start for IPad  Still, the iPad remains one of the top items on holiday
shopping lists. Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst  Gene Munster  said
yesterday that based on observations, Apple’s stores sold 14.8
iPads per hour on Black Friday, up 68 percent from last year.  In a separate report by Piper Jaffray, a survey of teens
showed that 11 percent mentioned an Apple product at the top of
their wish lists, up from 7 percent in 2008. Among Apple’s
products, the iPhone and iPad were the most popular.  Personal computer makers, faced with slumping sales, have
joined the tablet battle by offering devices at different sizes
and prices. The average selling price of a tablet fell 10
percent in the past year, while the average price of a
smartphone rose 20 percent, said Neil Mawston, director of
global wireless at research firm  Strategy Analytics  Inc.  Android on the Rise  By dropping prices, Apple’s rivals have gained market
share. Android-powered tablet computers accounted for 27 percent
of global sales during the three-month period ending in
September, jumping from 2.3 percent a year earlier, Strategy
Analytics said in October. Samsung, the biggest seller of
Android tablets, accounted for about 9 percent of the overall
market. The iPad’s share fell to 67 percent from 96 percent.  “Customers and businesses love lower-cost devices,”
Mawston said. “As prices come down, the entry-level market will
grow.”  The shift to low-cost tablets could mean the death within a
few years of computing categories such as netbooks and e-
readers, Mawston said.  “At some point in 2012, the black-and-white e-reader is
going to start to look a little bit dated,” he said. “And the
tablet market is crushing the netbook market.”  Already, for every 10 tablets sold this year, researcher
 Canalys  said five netbook or notebook computer sales are lost.
Netbook sales will drop 13 percent this year, to 34 million
units, Canalys said.  E-book reader sales  are expected to rally through the
holiday season, even amid pressure from tablets. E-reader
shipments will reach 27 million units this year, more than
double last year’s  12.8 million units  shipped, according to
researcher IDC.  Best of Both Devices  In the long term, manufacturers may develop hybrid devices
that offer features of both a tablet and an e-reader, according
to a report from Juniper Research. For example, a device could
have a high-resolution screen for watching videos that is also
designed to minimize eyestrain while reading books.  “Hybrid displays could signal the end for dedicated
eReaders,” the report said.  More low-cost tablets will be unveiled at the  Consumer
Electronics Show  in January. Many of them will use the latest
update of Android, named Ice Cream Sandwich. That version of the
software, the first to be designed for both phones and tablets,
may encourage developers to write more applications for the
platform and increase competition in the tablet market.  “There will be a price war,” said  Frederic Balay , vice
president of marketing for tablet maker Archos. “Hopefully, it
won’t bastardize the price seriously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  