-- 
Apple Joins Google in Skipping New Mobile-App Ratings for Sex, Violence

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-11-29T18:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/apple-joins-google-in-skipping-new-mobile-app-ratings-for-sex-violence.html
Mobile applications for smartphones
and tablet computers may carry new ratings for violence and
sexual content under a wireless industry-sponsored system
awaiting backing from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Under the policy unveiled today by CTIA-The Wireless
Association, mobile apps for games and social networking will be
rated for age-appropriate content on a five-point scale from
“everyone” to “adults only.” The voluntary program will be
operated by the Entertainment Software Rating Board, which has
run similar  ratings  for computer and video games since 1994.  The app program is aimed at helping parents monitor
children’s increasing use of wireless technology, an issue
drawing lawmakers’ attention this year. About 52 percent of
children ages 8 and under have access to mobile devices
including smartphones and tablets, according to a  survey  of
parents by San Francisco-based children’s advocacy group Common
Sense Media.  “The mobile application rating system is easy for parents
and consumers to understand while being simple, fast and free
for developers,”  Steve Largent , president of Washington-based
CTIA, said at a news conference. He said the move helps avoid
“unnecessary  government regulation .”  Apple, maker of the iPhone and iPad, and Google, whose
Android software is the most widely used mobile operating
software in the U.S., aren’t taking part in the program and have
their own ratings systems.  Android Market  “We’ve put a lot of effort into Android Market’s rating
system, which now works well globally,” Christopher Katsaros, a
Google spokesman, said in an e-mail. “While we support other
systems, we think it’s best for Android users and developers to
stick with Android’s existing ratings.”  Tom Neumayr , an Apple spokesman, declined to comment. The
Apple App Store currently offers 500,000 apps, while Google’s
Android Market has more than 300,000.  CTIA isn’t concerned that Apple and Google aren’t
participating,  David Diggs , CTIA vice president for wireless
Internet development, said in an interview. The CTIA and company
ratings systems have more in common than not, and the goal is to
get information to consumers, Diggs said.  Revenue from U.S. mobile application stores may reach
almost $9.4 billion in 2015, up from $2.1 billion in 2010,
according to  Yankee Group , a Boston-based technology research
firm. The number of U.S. consumer mobile app downloads will
climb to almost 21.9 billion in 2015 from 2.8 billion in 2010,
Yankee Group data show.  Online Questionnaire  Participating in the new ratings system are  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless , T-Mobile USA Inc.,  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and U.S. Cellular Corp. Of those, only Microsoft,
AT&T and Verizon Wireless now operate app stores, CTIA
spokeswoman Amy Storey said. All the participating companies
except Microsoft sell mobile phones that use Google’s Android
software.  Under the CTIA program, developers submitting mobile
applications will answer online questions including whether the
app includes violence and sexual content, contains social
networking features and permits sharing of user location data.
Once the questionnaire is completed, the app will receive its
rating within seconds, CTIA said in a statement.  The ratings span from suitable for ages six and older to
restricted to 18 years and older. Developers can appeal a rating
if they don’t agree with it. The Entertainment Software Rating
Board, developer of the ratings system, said it will routinely
test the most popular applications and monitor consumer
complaints.  Lawmakers’ Scrutiny  The explosive spread of mobile devices has drawn scrutiny
from lawmakers concerned that the technology raises privacy
issues. Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said apps “have to
be regulated” during a May hearing that  explored how apps
collect data on users, including their location.  “Our concern with this system is still the fact that it is
industry-run and driven,” James Steyer, chief executive officer
of Common Sense Media, said about the new program in an e-mail.
Common Sense favors “third-party, independent reviews to truly
help parents,” he said. The group has rated almost 1,500 mobile
apps according to its own standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  