-- 
Stocks, Oil Advance on Confidence Data

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-11-29T21:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/asian-stocks-gain-for-second-day-yen-aussie-weaken-as-oil-copper-fall.html
Stocks (SXXP)  and commodities rose for a
second day as U.S. consumer confidence increased by the most
since 2003 and European finance ministers discussed efforts to
tame the region’s debt crisis. Treasuries pared losses.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.2 percent to
1,195.19 at 4 p.m. in New York, trimming its rally from 0.9
percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.8 percent. The euro
climbed 0.1 percent $1.3329 after earlier erasing a gain of as
much as 0.9 percent. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24  commodities 
advanced 1.3 percent as oil approached $100 a barrel. Ten-year
U.S. Treasury yields rose two basis points to 2 percent after
dropping 1 point.  U.S. equities added to yesterday’s rally after the
Conference Board’s sentiment gauge climbed to 56 from a revised
40.9 in October as consumers grew more optimistic about jobs and
income prospects. Europe’s effort to expand its bailout fund to
1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) is falling short and finance
ministers tonight will discuss channeling European  Central Bank 
loans to struggling nations through the International Monetary
Fund.  “The economic reports have shown that the U.S. has been
insulated from all the noise coming out of  Europe ,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING
Investment Management, said in a telephone interview. His firm
oversees $550 billion. “Consumers are not really bothered by
that, at least not yet.”  Rally Extended  The  S&P 500  snapped a seven-day slump yesterday, rallying
2.9 percent for its largest gain in a month, after Thanksgiving-
weekend retail sales rose to a record and speculation grew that
European leaders would increase efforts to fight the region’s
debt crisis.  Today’s gains were led by energy, utility and consumer
staples companies. Hewlett-Packard Co., Home Depot Inc. and
Exxon Mobil Corp. climbed at least 1.3 percent to pace gains in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  AMR Corp., the parent of  American Airlines , tumbled 79
percent after filing for bankruptcy as it failed to secure cost-
cutting labor agreements. Corning Inc., the world’s largest
maker of glass for flat-panel televisions, plunged 11 percent to
lead a drop in  technology shares (S5INFT)  after cutting its fourth-
quarter earnings forecast because of the loss of a contract and
lower glass prices.  Confidence Beats  The reading of 56 in the Conference Board’s  confidence
gauge  topped the most optimistic economist forecast in a
Bloomberg survey and compared with the median estimate of 44.
The report was the third-strongest relative to expectations
since at least 1999, Bespoke Investment Group LLC said in a note
to clients today, and the S&P 500 has rallied on average 1.3
percent on days when the number beat the consensus forecast by
10 or more.  “What it may indicate is that the U.S. equity market has
made its low for 2011 since major lows in the equity market do
often coincide with lows in  consumer confidence ,”  Michael
Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New York,
said in a note to clients.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, declined 0.3 percent. The S&P
GSCI index extended yesterday’s 1.4 percent rally as wheat and
natural gas climbed more than 2.9 percent to lead gains in 18 of
24 commodities.  Yellen, Lockhart  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the central
bank has leeway to spur the U.S. recovery and reduce
unemployment by purchasing more assets and clarifying its plan
to sustain record-low borrowing costs. Fed Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said expanding securities purchases is
unlikely to give a sufficient boost to U.S. growth, without
ruling out the strategy or other easing options.  Oil climbed 1.6 percent to $99.79 a barrel and earlier
topped $100 a barrel in  New York  as Iranian protesters broke
into and vandalized the British Embassy’s compound in Tehran.  Among European  stocks , Remy Cointreau jumped 2.9 percent
after France’s second-biggest distiller predicted “a
substantial increase” in full-year earnings. BASF SE and K+S AG
pulled a gauge of chemical makers higher, rising more than 2
percent. IG Group Holdings Plc rallied 9.3 percent, the most
since 2010.  Italy was again forced to sell bonds at rates exceeding 7
percent today, a level that led  Greece , Portugal and Ireland to
seek bailouts.  Italian Yields  Italy sold 3.5 billion euros in three-year debt, 2.5
billion euros of 2022 bonds and 1.5 billion euros in 2020 bonds.
The 2014 note yielded 7.89 percent, the highest since 1996 for a
three-year bond and up from 4.93 percent when similar-maturity
debt was sold last month. Demand for the 2014 bond was 1.5 times
the amount sold and the bid-to-cover for the 2022 bond was 1.34
times, both higher than Oct. 28 auctions.  “High yields are not a real surprise, given the recent
developments in Italian yields,” Annalisa Piazza, a strategist
at Newedge Group in  London , wrote in a report. “Bid-cover was
higher than at the previous auction at the end of October as
very cheap valuations might have attracted some interest.”  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds increased less than one
basis point to 7.24 percent after rising as high as 7.38
percent, while two-year yields slipped one basis point to 7.10
percent after increasing to as high as 7.37 percent earlier.  German 10-year bund yields increased three basis points to
2.33 percent, while yields on U.K. and French 10-year debt
decreased. U.S. 30-year bond yields rose three points to 2.96
percent after earlier dropping below German counterparts for the
first time since 2009.  IMF Role  Finance ministers tonight are holding an initial discussion
on channeling ECB loans to cash-strapped euro nations through
the  International Monetary Fund , aiming to bring the central
bank onto the front lines without violating its ban on direct
lending to governments, said people familiar with the situation,
who declined to be identified because the talks are at an early
stage.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said the European
Financial Stability Facility alone won’t be able to solve the
euro region’s debt crisis. The EFSF will need help from the IMF
and the European Central bank, Frieden told reporters in
Brussels today before a meeting of euro area finance chiefs.  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars rose to the
highest level since October 2008 for a fifth day. The three-
month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks pay to convert
euro payments into dollars, was 158 basis points below the euro
interbank offered rate, from minus 149 basis points yesterday.
The gap has widened from as little as minus 8 basis points on
May 4.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1 percent.
Benchmark gauges for  China ,  South Korea , Taiwan and Indonesia
gained more than 1 percent, while indexes in Russia and  India 
dropped. Egypt’s EGX-30 Index jumped 5.5 percent, the most since
2009 on a closing basis, after a peaceful first day of
parliamentary elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  