-- 
AT&T May Shed 50 Percent of T-Mobile Users to Gain Capacity for IPhones

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-11-29T21:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/at-t-seen-to-shed-50-of-t-mobile-users-for-u-s-approval-added-capacity.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , under pressure from
regulators over its bid for  T-Mobile USA , may be willing to shed
up to half of the smaller company’s customers to close the deal and 
gain control of assets including wireless spectrum, analysts said.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless operator, is
weighing the sale of customers and spectrum to address U.S.
 Justice Department  concerns that the acquisition of the fourth-
largest operator will undercut competition. The company may
propose total divestitures of as much as 40 percent of T-Mobile
assets, a person familiar with the plan said last week.  AT&T could sell a higher percentage of T-Mobile’s customers
and smaller share of other assets, said  Roger Entner , founder of
market-research firm Recon Analytics LLC. Most important for
AT&T is getting T-Mobile spectrum, or licenses to airwaves that
provide more capacity for wireless traffic, he said.  “It’s still a good deal even if they have to give up half
the customers,” said Entner. “AT&T desperately needs spectrum
in larger cities and would give it up elsewhere.”  AT&T wants to work out an agreement with the Justice
Department, which sued on Aug. 31 to block the deal. If the two
sides can’t reach a compromise, they’re scheduled to go to trial
in February.  AT&T also needs approval from the Federal Communications
Commission to proceed with the deal. The company said last week
it would withdraw its application for approval to the FCC to
focus first on winning clearance from the Justice Department.
The FCC said it is considering whether to grant AT&T’s request.  AT&T, based in  Dallas , gained 0.4 percent to $28.06 at the
close in New York. The stock has dropped 4.5 percent this year.  Smartphone Surge  AT&T, the first U.S. wireless company to offer Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, has seen a surge in data traffic as more customers
switch to smartphones, which can stream Pandora Media Inc.’s
music and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  movies. Data usage on the company’s
network has soared 8,000 percent over the past four years and
may accelerate over the next four years,  Glenn Lurie , emerging
devices president, said this month.  T-Mobile’s network could provide AT&T with additional
capacity to alleviate the data crunch in short order, Entner
said. Buying additional spectrum from the government and then
installing network infrastructure to handle wireless calls could
take five years or more.  “This deal isn’t about changing the competitive dynamics,
it’s about getting spectrum in larger markets as fast as
possible,” said Entner, who is based in Dedham,  Massachusetts .  Price Change  Divesting 50 percent of T-Mobile’s customers probably makes
sense to save the deal, though AT&T is unlikely to go beyond
that point, said Colby Synesael, an analyst at Cowen & Co.  “It would be a surprise if it went further,” said
Synesael, who has a neutral rating on AT&T. “We are already at
the precipice where it is so much divestiture that it stops
looking like it worth doing the deal.”  Whether a smaller-scaled deal makes sense for AT&T and T-
Mobile parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  will depend in part on how
much the original purchase price is reduced. Deutsche Telekom
may receive less than the original $39 billion with substantial
divestitures.  According to a term in the merger agreement, AT&T would be
able to pay less than that value if regulators demand asset
sales that surpass 20 percent of the figure, or about $7.8
billion, three people with direct knowledge of the situation
said in September. AT&T could walk away from the deal and pay
Deutsche Telekom a breakup fee if the concessions requested top
40 percent of that value, the people said.  ‘Only Card’  Brad Burns , a spokesman for AT&T, declined to comment.
Andreas Fuchs, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, said the company is
bound by the terms of the purchase agreement and declined to
comment further.  An AT&T proposal for substantial asset sales may also have
a tactical reason. The company could signal that it is making a
significant concession to negotiate a solution before the trial
date with the Justice Department, said Justin Serafini, an
analyst with Height Analytics LLC.  “This is the only card left at this point,” said
Serafini, who is based in  Washington . “AT&T is hoping that the
big asset divestiture will be enough to get an agreement before
the trial. If it goes to trial it might be useful to get
sympathy from the judge.”  ‘Won’t Work’  Even selling off 50 percent of T-Mobile’s customers and a
lower percentage of other assets such as spectrum may not be
enough to win over the Justice Department, said Robert W. Doyle,
an antitrust attorney in Washington. The issue is that selling
off such customers won’t necessarily replace the competitive
force of T-Mobile, he said.  “The key question that needs to be answered is does the
proposed divestiture package replace the lost competition
resulting from the elimination of a significant competitor?  My
answer is a no, it won’t work,” said Doyle, a former official
at the Federal Trade Commission.  AT&T and Deutsche Telekom need to find companies willing to
buy such a large slice of assets. AT&T has been negotiating over
divestitures with regional operators  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS)  and  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , two people close to
the situation said this month.  MetroPCS, the larger of the two, had 9.1 million customers
at the end of September and its executives have said they don’t
have ambitions for building a national network. Leap had 5.8
million customers, compared with T-Mobile’s 33.7 million.  Little Overlap  MetroPCS operates in  just four  of the 17 cities where the
combined AT&T/T-Mobile would control more than 50 percent of the
market,  Michael Nelson , an analyst with Mizuho Securities USA
Inc. in New York, wrote in a research note yesterday. Leap
offers mobile service in six of the 17 cities.  Even with the regional carriers participating in the asset
sales it’s “unlikely to be enough to satisfy regulatory
concerns,” said Nelson, who put the likelihood of a deal going
through at about 10 percent.  AT&T’s proposed acquisition of T-Mobile would create two
industry giants in AT&T, with about 137 million subscribers, and
Verizon, with about 107.7 million. Sprint had 53.4 million at
the end of September.  AT&T’s spectrum shortage argument doesn’t address the
Justice Department’s concern with a market that would lose a
fourth national competitor, said Serafini.  “I don’t think DOJ could go for any deal that results in
only three national wireless providers,” said Serafini.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net :
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  