-- 
Austria’s Government Decides to Sell Nationalized Lender Kommunalkredit

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-11-29T10:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/austrian-government-to-start-sale-of-nationalized-lender-kommunalkredit.html
Austria  has decided to sell
Kommunalkredit Austria AG, the lender nationalized shortly after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., in the country’s
first privatization since 2008.  Chancellor Werner Faymann and Finance Minister Maria Fekter
agreed to sell the bank, which mainly lends to municipalities,
by June 2013, according to a document due to be approved at the
government meeting in Vienna today. The document, drafted by the
 finance ministry , was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Kommunalkredit, then owned by  Oesterreichische Volksbanken
AG (VBPS)  and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , was nationalized in October 2008 to avoid a
collapse when liquidity dried up. It was split into the
municipal lending unit that now will be put up for sale, and KA
Finanz AG, a “bad bank” that took on securities, loans and
credit default swaps that are not part of that main business
business and is winding down those assets.  The European Union required Austria to sell Kommunalkredit
by June 30, 2013, when it approved the state aid for the lender
and its restructuring plan in March, according to the ministry
document.  Kommunalkredit’s net income halved in the six months ended
June to 866,600 euros ($1.2 million) because of writedowns on
Greek  government bonds . It had 16.5 billion euros of assets. KA
Finanz, which is not being sold, had a loss of 71.3 million
euros in the six months ended June, according to Austrian
accounting rules. It has 13.8 billion euros in assets as well as
10 billion euros in contingent liabilities, mainly due to its
CDS portfolio, according to KA Finanz’s half-year report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  