-- 
Tauzin’s $11.6 Million Made Him Highest-Paid Health-Law Lobbyist

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/tauzin-s-11-6-million-made-him-highest-paid-health-law-lobbyist.html
Billy Tauzin, the former congressman
turned pharmaceutical industry lobbyist, was paid $11.6 million
in 2010, the year he brokered a deal with President  Barack Obama 
that helped pass the health-care overhaul.  After the law was signed, Tauzin left his job as head of
the  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America , or
PhRMA, as the highest-paid lobbyist among groups most involved
in the overhaul debate.  Karen Ignagni , leader of the insurer
lobby, was paid $1.5 million in 2010 while Tom Donahue at the
Chamber of Commerce made $4.8 million, tax records show.  Tauzin did “what loads of other politicians have done --
trading on his expertise and connections to amass great personal
wealth,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center
for Responsive Politics in Washington, in a telephone interview.
“He’s just more successful at it than others.”  The disclosure of Tauzin’s salary, reported in Internal
Revenue Service filings, is renewing questions about the
revolving door between government and industry. Last week,
Bloomberg News reported that companies founded by Republican
presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich , a former House speaker,
grossed $55 million from 2001 to 2010 for consulting services
and memberships in a health-policy center.  It’s alarmingly common for members of Congress to depart
for highly paid lobbying jobs, said  Melanie Sloan , executive
director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics.  ‘Cash Out’  “It feeds the public perception that members are doing big
industry’s bidding so they can cash out,” said Sloan, whose
nonprofit group is based in Washington, in a telephone
interview. “It seems like being a member of Congress is just a
way-station on the way to a highly paid lobbying job.”  Tauzin, a former Republican U.S. representative from
 Louisiana , joined PhRMA in 2004, a year after he wrote the law
creating Medicare’s prescription drug benefit, a boon to the
pharmaceutical industry, while he served as chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce committee.  In 2009, as the leader of PhRMA, he brokered a deal capping
at $80 billion the amount drugmakers would contribute to the
overhaul in return for his organization’s support of the law.  The agreement drew Republican ire and may have contributed
to his ouster last year.  The deal was “very influential in getting key patient
groups to see that, on balance, the Affordable Care Act was
going to be a benefit for them,” Joseph Antos, who studies
health policy at the  American Enterprise Institute  in
Washington, said in a telephone interview.  Drugs for Seniors  The $80 billion contribution, to be made over 10 years,
helped the Obama administration close a gap in Medicare funding,
called the donut hole, and allowed health-law supporters to say
they were lowering seniors’ costs for  prescription drugs .
Medicare is the U.S. government health program for the elderly
and disabled.  In 2007, Tauzin received $2.06 million as PhRMA’s CEO. His
compensation grew to $4.48 million in 2008 and $4.62 million in
2009 before he left in June 2010. The health overhaul was signed
into law in March 2010 after more than a year of debate.  Brendan O’Connor, a spokesman for Tauzin’s lobbying firm,
Tauzin Consultants, said in an e-mail that the former lawmaker
wouldn’t comment on his PhRMA compensation. Matt Bennett, a
PhRMA spokesman, said the payout came as a result of Tauzin’s
overall contributions, not as a severance payment.  Tauzin joined Congress as a Democrat in 1980, then became a
Republican in 1994. According to a press release announcing his
2011 move to the lobbying firm  Alston & Bird LLP , he is the only
member of Congress to serve in the leadership of both parties.  Reason for Departure  PhRMA said in 2010 that Tauzin’s departure as chief
executive officer was voluntary and long planned. His decision
to quickly cut a deal with Obama instead of keeping industry
options open, though, drew criticism from PhRMA members and
contributed to his leaving, said three people familiar with the
departure who asked not to be named because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  While Tauzin made less in 2010 than the $17 million paid to
 Ian Read , CEO of New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, he outpaced Merck & Co.’s Ken Frazier at $9.4
million, and James Cornelius, the chairman of Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., with $3.6 million, according to Bloomberg data.  Tauzin’s pay in his final year at PhRMA was first reported
on the website of CEO Update, which collects trade association
compensation data. The group said Tauzin’s final pay was
comparable to payouts made to Jack Valenti, the former CEO of
the  Motion Picture Association  of America, and Ed Kavanaugh, the
former top executive at the Personal Care Products Council.  Unlike Tauzin, though, Valenti and Kavanaugh both retired
after “decades of service” to their associations, CEO Update
wrote on its website.  “To the layman, severance just sounds bad,” said Mark
Graham, managing director at CEO Update, in a telephone
interview. “To the more sophisticated compensation analysis,
that could be kind of what it is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  