-- 
Axtel Falls Most on Mexico’s IPC Stock Index After Downgrades; Yields Soar

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T21:39:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/axtel-falls-most-on-mexico-s-ipc-stock-index-after-downgrades-yields-soar.html
Axtel SAB (AXTELCPO) ,  Mexico ’s second-largest
land-line phone company, led declines among the 35 stocks on
Mexico’s benchmark gauge after  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded its debt.  The stock fell 4.3 percent to 4.27 pesos at the close of
trading in Mexico City, making it the worst performer on the IPC
index, which gained 0.4 percent on the day. Yields on the
company’s dollar bonds due in 2019 surged 227 basis points, or
2.27 percentage points, to 14.36 percent, the highest on record.  Moody’s and S&P downgraded the company within minutes of
each other yesterday. Moody’s cut Axtel’s corporate rating one
step to Caa1, seven levels below investment grade, saying the
company had a “higher probability of default” because of
limited cash. S&P trimmed its rating one step to B, five levels
into junk status.  “They have very significant maturities, and that squeezes
their liquidity situation,” said  Martin Gonzalez , an equity
analyst at Invex Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City, who recommends
selling Axtel stock. “That’s something the market doesn’t
like.”  Moody’s also reduced its rating on Axtel’s global bonds two
levels to Caa2, citing the subordination of those notes to
creditors in a $60 million syndicated loan obtained this month.
That agreement also included a $40 million revolving facility.  The loan’s maturity in November 2013 could be moved to an
earlier date if Axtel’s debt reaches more than 3.5 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
creating a “high possibility” for a breach, New York-based
Moody’s said.  Axtel is spending about $200 million next year to extend
fiber-optic lines to homes and businesses, boosting Internet
speeds to compete with  Telefonos de Mexico SAB (TELMEXL) , Chief Financial
Officer Felipe Canales said on an Oct. 28 conference call.
Axtel, based near Monterrey, Mexico, will end 2012 with a cash-
flow surplus after a 2011 deficit of as much as $20 million,
Canales said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  