-- 
Frank Exit May Leave Wall Street Rules Vulnerable to Republicans

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-11-29T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/barney-frank-s-exit-may-leave-wall-street-rules-vulnerable-to-republicans.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank ’s
decision to retire at the end of his term will leave House
Democrats without one of their most skillful debaters and their
chief negotiator on banking and finance.  Frank has been at the forefront as Congress tried to prop
up and reform the financial system during the most distressed
economy since the Great Depression.  During 30 years in Congress, the 71-year-old Massachusetts
Democrat has inflamed Republican critics with his advocacy for
gay rights, cuts in defense spending and a strong government
role in housing for low-income people. He led the Financial
Services Committee during the 2008 credit crisis and was
instrumental in passing the $700 billion bank bailout. He co-
authored what would become the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act -- a 2,300
page overhaul of Washington’s rules for Wall Street.  Frank had “the capacity to work with people on the other
side,” said Bill Delahunt, a former Democratic congressman from
Massachusetts. “While he could be a stern voice, at the same
time his real talent was to be able to get things done.”  Republicans, who almost unanimously opposed Dodd-Frank, may
find it easier to weaken regulations the banking industry sees
as too intrusive, said  Jaret Seiberg , a senior policy analyst
with the Washington Research Group at Guggenheim Partners.  “Frank was probably the most articulate defender of the
law in the House,” Seiberg wrote in a note yesterday to
clients. “His removal from the debate should make it
incrementally more likely” that changes to the law could be
made.  Writing and Teaching  One of the first openly gay members of Congress, Frank has
served in the House since 1981, representing a district that
includes Boston suburbs Newton and Brookline and stretches out
to cities including Taunton and Fall River. He said he plans to
write, teach and lecture, and would not be retiring from
commenting on public policy.  Representative Maxine Waters, a California Democrat, is
next in line by seniority to take Frank’s position on the
committee. Among others down the list are Carolyn Maloney of  New
York , Mel Watt of  North Carolina  and Gregory Meeks of New York.
All three lawmakers were among the final negotiators for what
would become the Dodd-Frank Act.  Seiberg said in his note to clients that Waters “at times
is very hostile to the banks so this is a situation worth
watching.”  Whoever steps into his shoes will be replacing a
“legislative giant,” said Representative  Edward Markey , a
 Massachusetts  Democrat who served with Frank in the state house.  Pelosi’s Praise  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , the California Democrat
who served as speaker from 2007 to 2010, said Frank’s ability to
push through the regulatory overhaul “exemplified his time as
Chairman of the Financial Services Committee during one of its
most productive periods of legislating in recent memory.”  President  Barack Obama  said of Frank that it is “only
thanks to his leadership” that the law made it to Obama’s desk.
Dodd said in a statement that Frank was “irreplaceable.”  During the 2008 financial crisis, Frank worked with  House
Republicans  to win passage of President  George W. Bush ’s $700
billion financial-market rescue package. Opposition in both
parties created “significant difficulty” for the legislation,
said lobbyist and Democratic strategist Steve Elmendorf. The
bill wouldn’t have passed without Frank, he said.  Frank “gave the issue great credibility on the left” by
“making sure it was done right,” Elmendorf said in a telephone
interview.  Partisanship  At a press conference yesterday in Newton, Frank cited
increased partisanship in Congress as a reason for his
retirement. “The kind of work I felt best at is not going to be
as productive for the foreseeable future,” he said.  Also contributing to his decision, Frank said, was that he
would have faced a demanding re-election campaign after
Massachusetts, which lost one congressional seat as a result of
the census, re-shaped his district.  Paul Lindsay, a spokesman for the National Republican
Congressional Campaign Committee, didn’t join in the praise for
Frank’s resume. Frank “has been responsible for much of the big
government agenda that Democrats have pursued,” Lindsay said.  In the runup to the financial crisis, Frank became a target
of Republicans for supporting  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage companies that were taken into government
conservatorship in 2008 after their stake in failed subprime
loans pushed them to the brink of collapse. Frank defended
himself yesterday, saying the Democrats weren’t in the majority
from 1995 through 2006 and had little power to control
legislation to rein in the firms. He acknowledged that he didn’t
see the financial crisis coming and said he didn’t become
concerned about the mortgage firms until 2004.  Reprimand  Frank’s congressional career survived a 1990 House
reprimand for using his office to help a male prostitute. The
House voted against more severe punishments, including
expulsion, after Frank was accused of using his influence to fix
parking tickets that the man had accumulated. Frank, at the
time, said he “should have known better.”  While Frank has spent plenty of time sparring with  Wall
Street  over compensation, income inequality and their trading
strategies, Frank Keating, the president and chief executive
officer of the  American Bankers Association , said the lawmaker’s
“depth of knowledge and willingness to be open to opposing
viewpoints will be greatly missed.”  At an August 2009 town-hall meeting with constituents,
Frank’s pugnacious debating style was on display when a
questioner compared Obama’s health-care legislation to the
policies of Nazi  Germany .  ‘What Planet?’  “On what planet do you spend most of your time?” Frank
 said  in response to the woman’s question. Her comparison was “a
tribute to the First Amendment that this kind of vile,
contemptible nonsense is so freely propagated,” Frank replied.  Frank will in all likelihood be succeeded by a Democrat in
the House, said Delahunt, who is now a Boston-based special
counsel to the firm of Eckert Seamons Cherin & Mellot LLC. Setti
Warren, the mayor of Newton who ended his campaign for Senate
after  Elizabeth Warren  entered the race, and Jesse Mermell, a
Brookline selectwoman, have been mentioned as possible
successors.  Still, “Congress won’t be the same without him,” Delahunt
said in a telephone interview.  Libya Vote  Reflecting the anti-war sentiment of his overwhelmingly
Democratic congressional district outside  Boston , Frank was one
of 61 Democrats who voted in favor of ending the U.S. support
for rebel forces fighting to topple Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  Frank played an important role in the 2009 passage of
legislation that made attacks on people because of sexual
orientation a federal hate crime. He “introduced a lot of
members to this issue” and his departure will be an “enormous
loss for the gay and lesbian community,” Elmendorf said.  Frank didn’t give specific plans for his next job. One
profession Frank said he won’t pursue is lobbying. Displaying
his characteristic wit, he said he would be temperamentally
unsuited for that role.  “One of the advantages of not running for office, I won’t
have to even pretend to be nice to people I don’t like,” Frank
said. “Some of you think I have not been good at that, but I
have been trying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  