-- 
Barney Frank, the Unretiring Character-Legislator, Retires: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-11-29T18:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/barney-frank-the-unretiring-character-legislator-retires-view.html
Barney Frank  announced yesterday
that he will be retiring from Congress after 16 terms. He
probably will be remembered for three things, unfortunately not
in order of importance.  First, for being an out-of-the-closet gay man at a time
when there weren’t any others holding national elected office.
(Frank was first elected in 1980 and came out in 1987.) Second,
for being the co-author of the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill,
passed in response to the near collapse of the nation’s
financial system in 2008. Dodd-Frank will either save us from a
new financial catastrophe or bring one on, depending on whom you
talk to. We hold something closer to the former view.  Third, but not least, Frank will be remembered as the
author of some of the great wisecracks in the history of
American politics, including his remark that anti-abortion
Republicans believe life begins at conception and ends at birth.
Other barbs were aimed at his nemesis,  Newt Gingrich . At the
news conference announcing his retirement, Frank said he didn’t
think he’d led a good enough life to see Gingrich win the
Republican nomination for president, but he still had hopes.  Nevertheless, it’s unavoidably poignant that Frank has
announced his retirement at the same moment that Gingrich is
enjoying his 15 minutes -- or more? -- as a front-running
presidential candidate.  There aren’t many characters left in American politics, at
least at the national level. In labeling Frank a character, we
intend no insult. The label, when applied to a politician, can
be a double-edged compliment that often carries the patronizing
suggestion of unseriousness; a self-important blow-hard,
perhaps, or a self-styled posturer. But this needn’t be. The
late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of  New York  was a
character, although he wrote books that transformed the debate
on a dauntingly wide range of subjects. (Frank, by contrast, has
an unfinished Ph.D. thesis awaiting him at Harvard. Also, he is
a hard-working legislator, which Moynihan was not.)  Eccentricity of dress helps to identify a character, though
this can include the suspiciously dapper, like Moynihan, or the
determinedly sloppy, like Frank, his shirttails hanging out and
glasses perched at a jaunty angle. A bizarre accent is also
useful, be it Moynihan’s (straight out of Oxbridge, but picked
up, somehow, in the slums of Hell’s Kitchen in  Manhattan ) or
Frank’s (learned in  New Jersey  and never unlearned despite
decades in  Massachusetts ). But the essential quality of
characters is that they live their own lives and say what’s on
their minds, and they don’t especially care that other people
may disagree (a possibility that terrifies most politicians).  Barney Frank is just such a character, although he never
got the credit he deserved for being willing to work with the
other side. He retires with the satisfaction of knowing not only
that he has many friends in both parties, but also that he is
cordially disliked by some of the worst people in politics.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 