-- 
BHP to Consider Selling Diamond Unit as Part of Review

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-11-30T06:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/bhp-billiton-to-consider-sale-of-diamond-unit-as-part-of-business-review.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, will probably sell some or all of its
diamond business, saying the operations have limited growth and
may no longer fit its strategy.  BHP owns 80 percent of the Ekati diamond mine in  Canada ’s
 Northwest Territories  and 51 percent of the Chidliak exploration
venture in the territory of Nunavut, the Melbourne-based company
said yesterday in a statement. The Ekati stake is valued at $2.7
billion by BMO Capital Markets using a 10 percent discount rate.  “Ekati is a pretty mature mine and it’s best days are
probably behind it, so they’re probably looking at selling this
when it still has some life left and they can get some money for
it,” said Edward Sterck, a London-based analyst at BMO.  The review comes as  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group said this week it will
writedown the value of its diamond assets this year amid
deteriorating economic conditions. BHP, which spent $319 million
developing the unit last financial year, said the mines may not
fit in its strategy of investing in “large, long life” assets
that have potential for expansion.  BHP shares fell 0.2 percent to A$34.92 at the close in
Sydney. The diamond and specialty products division had an asset
value of $2.8 billion as of June 30, compared with $18.6 billion
for its petroleum business, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Cash Drain’  “Ekati is a world-class operation and Chidliak is a
promising exploration opportunity, but many years of extensive
exploration suggest there are few options to develop new  diamond
mines  that are consistent” with the company’s strategy of
investing in large, expandable assets, the company said.  The review is expected to be completed by the end of
January, BHP said.  BHP and Rio should spin off their diamond units because
they are “major cash drains,” Citigroup Inc. said in a report
in September. “They are cash intensive and if floated they
would have a higher multiple than currently exists within a
larger mining house,” the Sept. 14 report said.  BHP’s diamond business might be worth more than $2 billion,
though it will probably fetch “considerably less than that,”
said  Mark Taylor , an analyst at Morningstar Inc.  “It wouldn’t surprise me if they didn’t get a huge amount
for it,” Taylor said by phone. It’s possible that Rio is
studying a similar move to sell its diamond assets, he said.  Rio spokesman  David Luff  declined to comment today on the
company’s diamond business when contacted.  Potential Buyers  Potential buyers of the Ekati stake may include  OAO Alrosa ,
 Russia ’s diamond-mining monopoly, and  Rio Tinto  and  Harry
Winston Diamond Corp. (HW) , owners of the nearby Diavik diamond mine,
Sterck said.  Andrei Polyakov, a spokesman for Alrosa in Moscow,
declined to comment. Kelley Stamm, a Harry Winston spokeswoman                in
Toronto, didn’t return a call from Bloomberg seeking comment.  Peregrine Diamonds Ltd. (PGD) , owner of 49 percent of the
Chidliak exploration area, fell 15 percent to 70 cents at the
close in Toronto yesterday. Shares of the Vancouver-based
company have declined 72 percent this year.  BHP’s diamond and specialty products unit generated $779
million of earnings before interest, tax, amortization and
depreciation in the year ended June 30, about 2.1 percent of
the group’s total, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  