-- 
Biden Arrives in Iraq on Unannounced Visit as U.S. Pullout Deadline Nears

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-11-29T17:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/biden-arrives-in-iraq-on-unannounced-visit-as-u-s-pullout-deadline-nears.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  arrived in
 Baghdad  today on an unannounced visit as the U.S. is winding
down its military commitment in the country.  Biden is there to meet with political leaders including
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and Iraq’s President Jalal Talabani and to speak to the remaining U.S. troops as they
prepare to withdraw by the end of the year, according to a White
House statement.  The visit marks a transition in the U.S.-Iraq relationship
now that U.S. combat forces are poised to depart. Biden is
scheduled to take part in a meeting of the U.S.-Iraq Higher
Coordinating Committee, intended to strengthen future political,
trade, defense and security cooperation between the countries.  President  Barack Obama  announced last month that all U.S.
troops will be out of Iraq by the end of the year after almost a
decade of war. As of Nov. 21, 20,000 U.S. military personnel
remain in Iraq, down from a peak of almost 170,000 in 2007.  The vice president’s arrival in Baghdad, which wasn’t
announced beforehand because of security concerns, is the first
stop on a trip with planned stops in Turkey and  Greece .  Biden, making his eighth trip to the country as vice
president, will give remarks at an event thanking U.S. troops
for their sacrifices, the White House statement said.  Iraq Security  When asked by a reporter why the White House didn’t
announce Biden’s trip in advance if the security situation has
improved in  Iraq , Pentagon spokesman Navy Captain John Kirby
said that though security in the country is “enormously
better” than it has been in the past, the U.S. still must take
“prudent” precautions.  “I don’t think it says anything in terms of the larger
message about the security situation in Iraq,” Kirby told
reporters at the Pentagon today.  “We believe that the security situation in Iraq is
enormously better than it was, and that the Iraqi Security
Forces are capable and competent at protecting their people and
their country,” he said.  Biden is scheduled to arrive in Ankara, Turkey on Dec. 2
for talks on the situation in Syria, keeping up pressure on Iran
and the impact of the Arab Spring on countries in the  Middle
East  and North Africa, according to the administration. He’ll
also take part in a summit on global entrepreneurship in
Istanbul.  “We’ll talk about the support for political and economic
reform in the countries of the Arab Spring, including the
situation in Syria,” Antony Blinken, Biden’s national security
adviser, said in a briefing yesterday.  He is scheduled to visit  Athens , Greece on Dec. 5 where he
will hold the administration’s first meeting with Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos .  ---With assistance from Viola Gienger in  Washington . Editors:
Joe Sobczyk, Laurie Asseo  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  