-- 
Gross Dominance in Jeopardy as Indexing Revolution Engulfs Bonds

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-11-29T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/bill-gross-dominance-in-jeopardy-as-indexing-revolution-engulfs-bond-funds.html
Stock pickers in the U.S. have
suffered half a trillion dollars in withdrawals since they
started losing ground to index-tracking funds five years ago.
Now, active bond-fund managers are beginning to feel the heat.  Passive funds won 39 percent of all new money garnered by
bond strategies this year, up from 22 percent two years earlier,
according to data compiled by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago.
Assets in exchange-traded funds that track bond markets more
than quadrupled since the beginning of 2008 to $168.3 billion,
data from the Investment Company Institute show.  Investors are paying closer attention to the value added by
active managers as yields hover near record lows and top long-
term performers such as  Bill Gross  and  Dan Fuss  are trailing
markets this year. Eight out of 10 bond-fund managers have
underperformed the U.S. market in the past 20 years, compared
with 72 percent of stock-fund managers, according to research
compiled by  Vanguard Group  Inc., the firm best known for its
low-cost  index funds . BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset
manager, and Legg Mason Inc. said their clients are shifting
bond investments increasingly to passive products.  “We’re moving to the second phase of the index
revolution,”  Peter Fisher , head of fixed-income at BlackRock,
said in an interview. “The world is a frightening, uncertain
place and investors want to make their portfolios much simpler
so they can sleep at night.”  Shielded From Competition  Bond funds have largely been shielded from passive, low-
cost competitors because investors had few incentives to
scrutinize fees as the 30-year rally in Treasuries lifted
returns. Active bond mutual funds garnered $537 billion in
deposits between 2008 and 2010 as investors rushed to the
perceived safety of bonds, according to Morningstar. This year,
active bond funds attracted $52.1 billion in estimated net
deposits through September.  Bond markets are also harder to track because of the number
of securities in many bond indexes. The  Barclays Capital  U.S.
Aggregate Index has more than 7,500 securities, 15 times the
number in the U.S. benchmark stock index, which contains the 500
largest U.S. companies.  Active U.S. stock pickers such as Fidelity Investments’
Harry Lange and  Legg Mason (LM) ’s  Bill Miller , who at their peak
collectively managed $4.2 trillion, have suffered $537 billion
in withdrawals industrywide since redemptions started in 2006.
Miller, whose main fund ended a 15-year record streak
outperforming the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that year, has
seen assets tumble from a peak of $21 billion in 2007 to $2.5
billion. Miller on Nov. 17 said he would step down as manager of
the fund in 2012 after a 30-year career running it.  ‘Active Is Better’  For most bond investors, active managers such as Gross and
Fuss, who are unconstrained in their ability to invest in the
sectors they deem attractive, are still able to add more value
over long periods of time than “plain vanilla” funds that
don’t have the same flexibility, said  Geoff Bobroff , an
independent fund consultant based in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode
Island . Deposits into bond index funds may be more driven by
institutions rather than individual investors, he said.  “In a less volatile environment, active management in
fixed-income is better and the primary reason for that is that
they are more nimble and not constrained by their benchmarks,”
Bobroff said in an interview. “Indexation in bonds is very
different from equities as you’re seeing more institutional
investors wanting to mix and match ETFs in their bond portfolios
whereas on the equity side you see more retail investors.”  Driving Flows  Pimco’s Total Return strategies have driven deposits since
the 2008 credit crisis, as investors flocked to top-performing
bond managers. Gross’s Total Return open-end strategies drew
$15.4 billion in 2008, $51.2 billion in 2009, and $23 billion in
2010, according to estimates by Morningstar. This year that
Pimco strategy has had $2.9 billion in redemptions, according to
Morningstar.  “Pimco Total Return has been a large driver of all bond
fund flows,” Timothy Strauts, an ETF analyst at Morningstar,
said in an interview. “The poor performance of that fund may
have something to do with it, but also as yields have fallen,
lower fees become more and more important.”  Gross, who runs the $244 billion Pimco Total Return Fund,
has advanced 1.9 percent this year through Nov. 25 at less than
one-third the pace of the benchmark, in part because of his
avoidance early this year of U.S. Treasuries. The $18.8 billion
 Loomis Sayles Bond Fund (LSBDX) , co-managed by Fuss and Kathleen
Gaffney, rose 0.8 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Loomis Sayles fund holds no Treasuries.  Gross’s ETF  Gross earlier this year announced plans to open his first
actively managed ETF, the Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded
Fund, as Newport Beach, California-based Pimco seeks to expand
in the fastest-growing segment of the industry. The new ETF
would charge annual fees of 0.55 percent, the firm said in a
July filing. The institutional share class of Gross’s mutual
fund, available in some retirement accounts, carries an annual
expense ratio of 0.46 percent, while the firm’s most widely used
retail share classes charge fees ranging from 0.75 percent to
0.85 percent.  Industrywide, the number of bond ETFs has grown from just
six in 2006 to more than 160, according to data from Washington-
based ICI, including those that invest in government bonds,
emerging markets, high-yield bonds and other specific
categories.  ‘Unsung Heroes’  “Bond index funds have been the unsung heroes in the index
wars,” Dan Wiener, chairman of Adviser Investments in Newton,
Massachusetts, said in an interview. “The worry for active
managers should be whether their cost structure is too high and
whether they are adding value.”  The average intermediate-term bond fund has returned about
4.7 percent this year through Nov. 25, according to Morningstar.
That compares with the 6.8 percent advance in Barclays Capital
U.S. Aggregate bond market index in the same period.  Many of the bond-fund managers were hurt this year as the
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe combined with concerns that the
 U.S. economy  is slowing sent investors to the safety of
government-backed securities.  “I think you’re going to see a huge movement into
indexation of bonds, much lower fees,”  BlackRock (BLK) ’s Chief
Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said during a Oct. 19
conference call with investors and analysts. “If you don’t
believe  interest rates  have that much further to go down over
the next few years, you’re only earning a few hundred basis
points of return.”  ‘Moving to Passive’  Legg Mason’s CEO  Mark Fetting  also noted that clients
increasingly shifted to passive bond products. Legg Mason, based
in Baltimore, manages active stock and bond funds. In an Oct. 27
call with investors and analysts, Fetting said he noted a
“couple of clients moving to passive.”  “Although, if we get into a more sustained, less volatile
environment, I think clients will appreciate the value that
comes from active strategies,” Fetting said.  New York-based BlackRock, the world’s biggest provider of
ETFs, and Vanguard Group, the  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
firm best known for its index funds, are among firms that stand
to benefit from a shift in investor preferences.  BlackRock’s iShares ETFs drew $15.8 billion into fixed-
income products this year through Sept. 30, even as investors
pulled $3.3 billion from active bond funds at the firm,
according to a quarterly filing.  Top Seller  The top-selling bond fund this year is the $46.6 billion
Vanguard Total Bond Market II Index Fund, which tracks the U.S.
bond market. The fund has taken in $4.8 billion in investor
money this year through Oct. 31, data from Morningstar show.  Overall, index funds and ETFs have attracted $34.5 billion
of the $88.4 billion that all U.S. fixed-income funds have
gathered so far this year, according to Morningstar.  “We’re in the very early stages of index domination in the
bond world,” Francis Kinniry, a principal in Vanguard’s
investment-strategy group, said in an interview. “It’s very
difficult for active bond managers to add value over time as
it’s less about security selection and more about big decisions
on sectors and interest rates.”  Over the past 10 years, 71 percent of active bond funds
have performed worse than the U.S. fixed-income market, Kinniry
said, citing numbers compiled by Vanguard using data from
Morningstar and Barclays Capital. Over the past 15 years, 85
percent have trailed the benchmark, he said.  Trailing Markets  On the stock side, 62 percent of active managers lagged
behind the U.S. stock market over the past 10 years, according
to Vanguard using data from Morningstar and Dow Jones Inc. Over
the past 15 years, 67 percent of the active U.S. managers
performed worse than the market, the data show.  The $10.7 billion  Vanguard Intermediate-Term Bond Index (VBIIX) 
fund, which tracks an index rather than trying to beat it, has
topped 99 percent of intermediate-term bond funds this year,
according to data from Morningstar. The fund, which has an
expense ratio of 22 basis points, has returned 9.2 percent,
trouncing the returns earned by Gross and Fuss this year. Over
the past five years, the fund has advanced at an annual rate of
7.5 percent, in line with Gross’s fund.  Gross and Fuss have beaten indexes over a longer period.
Over the past 10 years, the Vanguard fund has advanced 6.58
percent annually, according to Morningstar, behind Gross’s
return of 6.64 percent. Fuss’s 10-year record is even better,
rising at an average annual rate of 9.84 percent over the past
decade.  Beating Vanguard  Only two intermediate-term funds have beaten the Vanguard
index fund this year. One is an actively managed bond fund run
by  Jeffrey Gundlach , the $1.2 billion DoubleLine Core Fixed-
Income fund, which has advanced 10.3 percent this year. The
other is the $328 million BlackRock Bond Allocation Target
Shares, which has advanced 13 percent this year.  BlackRock’s Fisher said the move to bond indexing reflects
a shift in the way investors, both retail and institutional, are
allocating money. Investors understand that asset-allocation,
the process of dividing money between stocks and bonds or
between sectors such as high-yield and government bonds,
accounts for anywhere from 60 percent to 80 percent of their
returns, he said. With ETFs, investors are able to build their
own portfolios, according to Fisher.  As bond-market returns are falling, investors are also
paying a lot of attention to fees, Morningstar’s Strauts said in
an interview. The average fee charged by a fixed-income ETF is
0.31 percent, compared with the 0.4 percent average fee for
index mutual funds and the 1.05 percent fee for active bond
funds, he said.  “In an environment when yields are so low, the fees can
result in a sizable difference for investors,” Strauts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  