-- 
BlackBerry-Maker RIM Plans IPhone, Android Service Support

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-11-29T21:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/blackberry-maker-rim-plans-e-mail-support-for-iphones-android.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  will offer
companies software to manage the iPhones and other handsets that
are increasingly displacing its once-dominant BlackBerry,
seeking to bolster relationships with corporate customers.  BlackBerry Mobile Fusion, as the device-management software
is known, will be available in the first quarter and can run
alongside or replace the BlackBerry Enterprise Server networks
RIM now operates for companies and government agencies, said
Alan Panezic, vice president of platform product management.  “This is a really, really important strategic move,” he
said in an interview. RIM is conducting trials with financial-
services, manufacturing and pharmaceutical companies, he said.  The flow of devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone into the
workplace is accelerating as companies seek to save money by
letting workers use their own devices and making those more
secure, rather than giving workers corporate-issued BlackBerrys.
With the new software, RIM is offering a solution that lets
corporations manage BlackBerrys as well as rival devices.  “There’s big demand for this area and the big advantage
RIM will have is the idea you can not only manage your
BlackBerry but manage your other platforms from a single
console,” said Phil Redman, an analyst with Gartner Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “In the end though, it’s not going to
help them sell more BlackBerrys and that’s what they need to
do.”  Two Businesses  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, posted its first quarterly
revenue decline in nine years in September and its U.S. market
share sank to 9.2 percent in the third quarter from 24 percent a
year earlier, according to research firm Canalys.  That happened as rivals like Apple and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , which uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, offered phones
with better Web-browsing and a wider selection of downloadable
apps. RIM’s struggles prompted  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , to suggest the company could create more value
for shareholders by splitting into a network-management business
and a handset business.  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
raised his rating on RIM today to “market perform” from
“underperform,” saying the stock may climb if the company gets
bought or shakes up management.  “As the failure of RIM’s current strategy becomes more
obvious, we see shareholder activism leading to a change in
management and a takeover, or at least the anticipation of it,”
Ferragu said in a note.  RIM  rose (RIMM)  5.4 percent to $17.37 at the close in  New York ,
the most since Oct. 5. The stock has lost 70 percent this year.  ‘Different Space’  Panezic, who has been at RIM for 11 years, said BlackBerry
Mobile Fusion isn’t a major strategic shift in the company’s
direction. RIM is well-placed to offer such software given its
track record of building and operating servers for its clients.  “Everything we do is a combination of hardware and
software and the integration of those together with a network
experience,” Panezic said. “All we’re doing is stepping into a
different space here.”  Currently, a company that allows employees to bring in an
iPhone or Samsung Galaxy will pay a  software company  such as
Good Technology Inc. to build a security system for managing
corporate e-mail on those devices.  RIM’s new software was driven by customers saying, “‘we
really would like one console that shows us everything, be it
iOS devices, be it Android devices, be it BlackBerry devices,’”
Panezic said.  PlayBook Software  He wouldn’t say how much BlackBerry Mobile Fusion will
cost, only describing the price as “competitive.” Each of the
servers will be able to support 10,000 devices, or five times as
many as RIM’s current corporate servers.  Panezic also said RIM’s BlackBerry Balance software, which
allows companies to give employees freer rein to use their
company-issued BlackBerrys for personal e-mail, will be
available for its PlayBook tablet computer in February.  The PlayBook, which competes with Apple’s iPad, has
struggled to gain popularity among business users. RIM shipped
200,000 of the tablets last quarter, fewer than half of what it
sold the quarter before. To spur sales, RIM has cut the price by
$300 to $199 and offered it free to some businesses.  “Companies are always changing their security priorities,
but having BlackBerry Balance is a good step in the right
direction,” said Christian Kane, an analyst at Forrester
Research in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  