-- 
BNP, SocGen Lose Europe Loans Share as Post-Lehman Wins Fade

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-11-30T14:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/bnp-socgen-lose-european-loans-share-as-post-lehman-gains-fade.html
France’s three biggest banks’ share
of underwriting European loans tumbled to the lowest in five
years as the region’s deepening crisis forces their retreat.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Societe Generale
SA’s combined share of the $933 billion in syndicated loans this
year in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa fell to 14.9 percent
from 16 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as they gave
back gains made after emerging stronger than rivals following
the 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  In France,
the banks had the smallest slice of loans since at least 1999.  “French banks benefitted from the post-Lehman fragility of
U.S. and U.K. banks, but now they’ve been knocked down by the
euro zone’s weakness,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps
manage 600 million euros ($799 million) at Ofi Gestion Privee in
Paris and holds BNP Paribas shares. “Today their obsession is:
capital, capital, capital.”  The banks emerged from the U.S. subprime crisis strong
enough to make $45 billion in acquisitions and were among the
front runners in the 2009 rebound, chalking up market share
gains in European syndicated loans, equity underwritings and
initial public offerings. Now, as the euro-area crisis squeezes
their funding options and puts them on the defensive, BNP
Paribas and Societe Generale are trimming about 300 billion
euros in assets to comply with new capital rules.  ‘Image Squeeze’  “The French banks are pulling in their horns,” said
Matthew Czepliewicz, an analyst at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc
in  London . “This is going to continue into the first half of
next year.”  BNP Paribas’s Paris-based spokeswoman Julia Boyce declined
to comment as did  Credit Agricole ’s corporate- and-investment-
banking spokeswoman Anne Robert and Societe Generale’s spokesman
Antoine Lheritier.  French financial institutions hold the most debt in the
region’s five troubled countries --  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,
 Spain  and  Italy  -- at about $681 billion in public and private
borrowings as of June, according to the  Bank for International
Settlements . Concern about their holdings made U.S. money-market
funds reluctant to lend to them in dollars, narrowing options
for international corporate-lending and trading operations.  “It’s a liquidity squeeze that damaged their image and is
hurting them as a consequence,” said Christophe Nijdam, an
analyst at AlphaValue in Paris. “After Lehman’s collapse,
French banks benefited as companies viewed them as among the
soundest banks in the region, but things have lately turned the
other way around.”  Borrowing Costs  French banks rose, more than recouping earlier losses,
after the  Federal Reserve  cut the cost of emergency dollar
funding for European banks as part of a globally coordinated
effort. BNP Paribas rose as much as 7.4 percent in Paris to
30.24 euros, Societe Generale gained as much as 6.9 percent to
18.48 euros and Credit Agricole increased as much as 7.4 percent
to 4.71 euros.  Before today, BNP Paribas had fallen 41 percent this year,
Societe Generale 57 percent and Credit Agricole 54 percent. That
compares with a 36 percent drop in the 46-member  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. (BEBANKS)   French banks’ borrowing costs have risen on investor
concern about European sovereign debt. Any increase in France’s
borrowing costs weighs on its banks’ funding capacities. The
extra yield to lend to AAA rated France for 10 years rather than
 Germany  was 200 basis points on Nov. 17, the most since 1990.  Banks will cut bond sales in Europe by 60 percent next year
as the sovereign-debt crisis drives up issuance costs, Societe
Generale predicts.  Long-Term Commitment  The extra yield that investors demand to hold European bank
bonds is the highest since May 5, 2009, widening to 424 basis
points on Nov. 25 from 336 on Oct. 31, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s EUR Corporates Banking index shows.  Societe Generale,  France ’s third-largest bank by assets,
plans to raise as much as 15 billion euros for its long-term
funding next year, or about 50 percent less than this year.  “Syndicated loans are long-term commitments, so French
banks are likely to be on the back foot as long as funding is
under pressure,” said Collins Stewart’s Czepliewicz. The
analyst, who has a “buy” rating on BNP Paribas and Societe
Generale, said the former may recover its market share sooner
than the latter.  French banks don’t breakdown syndicated loan underwriting
revenue. BNP Paribas’s revenue from corporate financing, which
includes such loans, fell 14 percent in the third quarter to
1.01 billion euros, while  Societe Generale’s (GLE)  financing-and
advisory revenue slid 16 percent to 616 million euros. Credit
Agricole’s commercial lending, part of its corporate financing
operations, fell 16 percent to 241 million euros.  U.S. Banks Gain  The collective market share of the three banks this year in
syndicated loans is back at its pre-Lehman-collapse level. BNP
Paribas and Credit Agricole remained the top lenders in Europe,
while Societe Generale slipped back to its No. 6 ranking of 2009
from the fourth position last year.  The top five U.S. banks, led by Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , captured 13 percent of the loans arranged this year
in Europe, up from 9.9 percent in 2010.  In their home market in France, the three Paris-based banks
have lost ground, with their combined share of the loans market
this year of 30 percent the lowest since Bloomberg began
compiling such data in 1999. The share was 36 percent in 2010
and 48 percent in 2009.  Citigroup and JPMorgan were hired by Paris-based  Danone SA (BN) ,
the world’s biggest yoghurt maker to help coordinate a 2
billion-euro  credit line  in July, according to Bloomberg data.
BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole and Societe Generale were among the
leaders of Danone’s last loan in December 2007.  ‘Bread-and-Butter’  The decline in the French banks’ share comes even as the
market reaches its highest volume since 2007 with companies
refinancing before lending rates increase further as Europe’s
spreading sovereign crisis endangers France’s top credit rating.  Rebuilding their share will be critical for French banks as
they try to regain their place at the center of economic
activity, said  Pierre Flabbee , an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Paris.  “It is the bread-and-butter of corporate lending --
classical and simple loans securing ties with clients: you can
modulate it, not stop it overnight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  