-- 
Boeing’s Albaugh Expects Long-Term Benefits From AMR Bankruptcy Filing

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/boeing-sees-no-reason-to-doubt-amr-s-jet-order-still-pivotal.html
Boeing Co.’s (BA)  commercial jet chief
expects both planemakers and American Airlines to benefit from
parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s bankruptcy reorganization, which may hone the
carrier’s competitive edge.  AMR sought court protection from creditors after grappling
with soaring fuel expenses while failing to secure cost-cutting
labor agreements. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based carrier was on
track for its fourth consecutive yearly loss.  “I’m really confident that American’s going to come
through this restructuring a better company, a more competitive
company, and if they’re more competitive and making more money,
they’re going to buy more airplanes,”  Jim Albaugh , president of
Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “Longer term, it’s going
to be good for them and good for us.”  The airline’s fleet of older, gas-guzzling planes left it
at a disadvantage as fuel prices increased 19 percent this year.
American took steps to remedy that this summer with a record
contract for more efficient aircraft, and those orders remain
“rock solid,” Chief Executive Officer Thomas Horton said
yesterday.  “When we’re completed with this process, our company will
be competitive and poised to grow and prosper and go out and
capitalize on these aircraft orders,” Horton said on a
conference call.  AMR announced plans to buy 460 single-aisle jets in July,
with 200 from  Chicago-based Boeing  and 260 from Toulouse,
France-based Airbus SAS. The planes had a list value of $38.5
billion based on average prices, and the deal included options
and future purchase rights for 465 more.  American Jet Leases  “If they’re going to be cost-competitive going forward,
they’re going to do it with new equipment,” Albaugh said. “We
are very much part of their long-term plan for turning around
American Airlines.”  American expects to continue regular operations during the
restructuring, which is positive for the approximately $350
million in jets leased from Boeing Capital Corp., Albaugh said.  “I anticipate they’ll continue to fly those airplanes,”
which make up about 10 percent of Boeing Capital’s portfolio by
value, he said. “I also anticipate they’ll probably come back
and want to renegotiate some terms, and we’ll work with them on
that.”  The carrier has firm, unfilled orders for 13 777s and 143
of the current 737s, according to Boeing’s website.  American
Airlines  also tentatively agreed in 2008 to buy 42 787
Dreamliners, pending an agreement with pilots to operate the new
model.  ‘A Great Customer’  “We’re assuming that we’ll deliver all of those,” Albaugh
said of the firm orders. “They’ve been a great customer, and we
want to work with them and make them successful.”  Boeing was still working with American on financing for its
planned purchase of 100 737 MAX jets, an upgrade of the single-
aisle plane with more fuel-efficient engines that will compete
with the revamped A320neo from Airbus. The arrangements for
those jets, included in the July announcement, had not been
completed.  “They think their future is tied to the neo and the MAX
order,” Albaugh said. “So I’m assuming that they will go
through this and they will emerge and sign the deal and take the
planes.”  The airline will probably take about 30 single-aisle 737
jets and two twin-aisle 777s slated for delivery next year, said
Robert Spingarn, a New York-based analyst with Credit Suisse
Group AG.  “If not, high demand and tight availability should allow
others to step in,” he wrote in a note to clients.  ‘Airline-Specific Situation’  AMR’s filing was an “airline-specific situation” that
doesn’t reflect demand or healthy global traffic growth, so
backlogs at Boeing and Airbus remain safe, Noah Poponak, a New
York-based analyst for Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a note
to clients.  Boeing has experience dealing with airline companies in
bankruptcy, Albaugh said. “It’s not like it’s the first time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at   edufner@bloomberg.net  