-- 
Bovespa Falls as Usiminas Leads Steelmakers Lower; Vale Slumps

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-11-29T20:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/bovespa-rises-as-u-s-europe-outlook-outweighs-steelmaker-rout.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index retreated from the
biggest gain in two weeks as  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA (USIM5)  led a rout for steelmakers on speculation minority investors
won’t benefit from the Techint Group’s stake purchase.  Usiminas, as Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker is known,
and  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA , which had been buying shares
in its rival before the deal was announced, both slumped more
than 4 percent.  Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer,
contributed most to the index’s drop after Barclays Plc cut its
share-price forecast.  The Bovespa slipped 1.3 percent to 55,299.76 at the close
in Sao Paulo. Forty-nine stocks dropped on the index while 19
rose. The real strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.8454 per dollar.  “Steelmakers are being dragged down by Usiminas,” said
Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 80 million reais ($43.3
million) at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,  Brazil . “The
market is not very confident on yesterday’s gains. With the
world growing slower, Vale ends up being impacted.”  Techint, through its Ternium SA and Tenaris SA units,
agreed to buy a 27.7 percent voting stake in Usiminas from
Camargo Correa SA, Grupo Votorantim and Usiminas’s workers
pension fund, according to a Nov. 27 statement. Ternium and
Tenaris join Nippon Steel Corp. in the controlling group,
thwarting takeover efforts by rival CSN, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc analyst Jonathan Brandt.  Shareholder Uncertainty  “It is not clear that there will be tag-along rights,”
Raphael Biderman, an analyst at  Banco Bradesco SA , said in a
note to clients, referring to the outlook that an offer for
control would be extended to minority shareholders.
“Theoretically, there is a new shareholder in the control
group, but not a full change in the control group. Therefore, we
are not sure.”  Usiminas slipped 6.3 percent to 10.21 reais while CSN
declined 4.1 percent to 14.17 reais.  Vale lost 1.6 percent to 38.85 reais. Barclays cut its
forecast for the American depositary receipts by 8 percent after
the miner presented its investment plan for next year, according
to a note to clients.  Brazil’s monthly inflation, as measured by the IGP-M  price
index , slowed less than economists expected in November, as
price increases for agricultural products and food sped up.
Brazil’s broadest inflation measure climbed 0.5 percent,
compared with a 0.53 increase in October. Economists expected
inflation of 0.46 percent, the median estimate from 38 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bull Market   Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge jumped yesterday as
commodities rose on speculation European leaders are
intensifying efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The Bovespa entered a bull market in October after gaining
22 percent from a two-year low on Aug. 8 as Brazil’s interest-
rate cuts and speculation  Europe  was working toward solving its
debt crisis buoyed demand for equities. Since then, the index
has pared its advance to 14 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark stock gauge trades at 9.9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, in line with the ratio for MSCI
Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders moved 5.9 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average this year of 6.52 billion reais through Nov. 24,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  