-- 
BP Pipeline Rupture May Force It to Pay More for 2006 Spill

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A m a n d a   C o y n e
-- 
2011-11-30T02:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/bp-pipeline-rupture-may-force-company-to-pay-more-for-2006-spill.html
BP Plc , still facing fallout from
the 2010 explosion of its Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico , is
fighting a U.S. bid to revoke its probation over a five-year-old
spill in  Alaska  following a more recent pipeline rupture.  BP pleaded guilty in 2007 to violating the  Clean Water Act 
by spilling 200,000 gallons of oil from its  Prudhoe Bay  field
into water on Alaska’s North Slope in 2006. It paid a $12
million fine and $8 million for restitution and community
service and was put on three years’ probation.  The U.S. government began arguing today in federal court in
Anchorage that the U.K.-based company violated its probation by
allowing a pipeline rupture two years ago in the same area.  Authorities last year filed a petition to revoke BP’s
probation 12 days before it was to expire, claiming the company
failed to take precautions and implement safeguards. Prosecutors
may seek more money from the company if the judge agrees the
terms of the probation were violated.  “BP’s 2006 spill was the result of a lack of maintenance
and a failure to heed warning alarms indicating that the
pipeline was leaking oil,” U.S. lawyers said in a Nov. 14
filing. “The 2009 spill vividly demonstrates that BP has not
adequately addressed the management and environmental compliance
problems that have plagued it for many years.”  The spill “was an unfortunate incident, but it was not a
crime,” the company said in court papers.  No Harm  “It was an accident,”  Steve Rinehart , a BP spokesman,
said in a phone interview. “No one was hurt, and there was
minimal environmental impact.”  BP didn’t violate any conditions of its probation, the
company said in court filings. BP wasn’t negligent and didn’t
discharge oil in the waters of the U.S., the company said.  BP spilled about 13,500 gallons of oil near Prudhoe Bay in
November 2009 when a section of the company’s pipeline at its
Lisburne Processing Center ruptured, “creating a two-foot hole
in the pipe that allowed the contents to spill onto the tundra
and surrounding wetlands,” the U.S. said.  Lisburne, a separate field, is part of BP’s greater Prudhoe
Bay operation.  ‘Predictable and Preventable’  “This rupture was the result of a predictable and
preventable freezing of produced water within the pipeline that
caused the pipe to over-pressurize and burst,” the government
said. “Eerily similar to the 2006 spill, BP ignored alarms that
warned of the pipe’s eventual rupture and leak.”  BP failed to notice that alarms connected to temperature
sensors on the line were “going off” for several months prior
to the rupture, Matt Goers, a government witness, testified at
the hearing today.  Goers, a criminal investigation agent for the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, was the first witness at the
hearing. Neither side made an opening statement.  “A lack of flow” in the line began by May 2009, Goers
said. This allowed the line to freeze and ultimately caused “a
dynamic explosion,” Goers said.  The temperature monitors and alarm in the control room at
the site went off 10 times between June 5, 2009, and November of
that year, Goers said. This indicated a low temperature, a risk
for freezing, and should have alerted BP employees, he said.
“No action was taken.”  BP Executive  Goers said that during his investigation of the spill he
interviewed Gregg Alexander, a BP executive, who told him he
would have expected board operators who received low temperature
readings to “troubleshoot the alarm cause.”  BP’s own safety procedures, laid out in a document based on
lessons learned from a 2001 spill, weren’t implemented, Goers
testified.  Under cross-examination, Gores said the BP employees he
interviewed during his investigation didn’t remember these
alarms going off. BP lawyer Jeff Feldman asked Gores if there
were hundreds of alarms sounding every day.  “Yes,” Gores answered. “There are many alarms in a day,
sometimes less, sometimes more than a hundred.”  Feldman asked Goers if the workers said they ignored alarms
or signals of a stopped flow. “No one told you that the flow
had stopped and they ignored it?” he asked.  “No one told me that,” Gores answered. “If the workers
had known the flow had stopped, they would have taken immediate
action.”  Winter  Winter was approaching when BP recognized the problem,
making a solution harder, Feldman suggested to Goers. “Isn’t it
almost always easier to do things on the North Slope in summer,
except cross-country skiing,” he asked.  “Yes, it would have been easier to deal with in the
summer,” Goers said.  Trying to revoke probation is “very unusual” and may have
been spurred by the 2010 spill in the Gulf of Mexico, said
 Thomas O. McGarity , an environmental-law professor at the
 University of Texas  in Austin.  The blowout of BP’s Macondo well and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history.  “It looks like they decided to get really serious,”
McGarity said of the prosecutors. If probation is revoked, BP
probably will face additional fines, he said.  ‘Extensive Resources’  After two spills in 2006, BP “devoted extensive resources
to improving the reliability and quality of the Prudhoe Bay oil
transit line system,” it said in a Nov. 14 filing.  This included enhancing the pipeline integrity management
systems, upgrading and replacing pipelines and installing a new
leak-detection system, it said.  The 2007 criminal plea to one misdemeanor violation of the
 Clean Water Act  followed two Prudhoe Bay spills in 2006. One was
in March, the other in August.  Prosecutors claimed that sludge built up in a corroded
pipeline involved in the March spill, creating an environment
for bacteria to grow and eat an almond-size hole in the line.  The company should have run devices called “pigs” through
the pipeline to inspect and clean out sludge, Nelson Cohen, then
U.S. attorney for Alaska, said at November 2007 hearing on BP’s
criminal plea. The company hadn’t “pigged” the line in eight
years before the first spill, he said.  Second Spill  The second spill prompted BP to shut production temporarily
at half of the Prudhoe Bay oil field. The plea covered the March
2006  oil spill , Cohen said at the time.  The U.S. didn’t prosecute BP for the later, smaller spill
because the company acted promptly to contain it, Cohen said.  Prosecutors said they will call a former BP compliance and
ethics officer in Alaska as a witness. The employee wrote to the
government alleging that “budget constraints and lack of
maintenance resources” had become a problem at the Lisburne
facility, prosecutors said.  The 2009 rupture wasn’t predictable, BP argued in court
papers. The rupture occurred in an 18-inch common line in the
Lisburne field and resulted in an unpermitted discharge of oil
onto state land, BP said in its Nov. 14 filing.  This didn’t violate the federal Clean Water Act because
none of the discharge polluted waters of the U.S., BP said.
Alaska state law violations require a finding of criminal
negligence and the company wasn’t negligent at all, much less
criminally so, BP said.  ‘Unprecedented Event’  The spill was “an unprecedented event,” the company said.  “Contrary to the government’s claims, the conditions that
led to this spill had never previously been encountered on the
North Slope,” BP said. The pipeline that ruptured “had
performed flawlessly for decades,” it said.  The spill didn’t go far, barred by a roadway and by the
contents of the line, which “were mostly frozen or congealed
before the pipeline broke,” BP said.  An agent from EPA described the discharge as “like a very
stiff Slurpee, or like a very stiff snow cone if you will,” BP
said, referring to a statement at a December 2009 press
briefing. “This stuff leaked down on the ground and it’s just
sitting there,” the agent, Matt Carr, also said, according to
BP.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., 3:07-
cr-00125, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Coyne in Anchorage, Alaska,
t .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 