-- 
BP to Secure $240 Million for Future U.S. Cleanups, EPA Says

-- B y   V i v e k   S h a n k a r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-11-29T21:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/bp-to-secure-240m-for-resolving-epa-violations.html
BP Plc  units agreed to pay a
$426,500 penalty and ensure that more than $240 million is
available to resolve future hazardous-waste violations, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency said.  The EPA said in a statement today that it found
subsidiaries of BP America Inc. didn’t meet requirements from
2006 through 2010 for so-called financial assurance.  “Today’s settlement will ensure that BP’s subsidiaries
have the funds available to cover any necessary cleanup costs
today and into the future,” Cynthia Giles, assistant
administrator for the agency’s Office of Enforcement and
Compliance Assurance, said in a statement.  The mandates are aimed at ensuring that the company will
meet environmental obligations at sites no longer in operation.  BP has set aside about $40 billion for costs from the 2010
explosion of its Macondo oil well that spewed almost 5 million
barrels of oil into the  Gulf of Mexico .  The company based in  London  pleaded guilty in 2007 to
violating the  Clean Water Act  by spilling 200,000 gallons of oil
from its Prudhoe Bay field on  Alaska ’s North Slope in 2006. It
paid a $12 million fine and $8 million for restitution and
community service and was put on three years’ probation.  The Gulf accident and the Prudhoe Bay spill weren’t part of
the settlement announced today.  “At no point did BP fail to perform any environmental
measures required by any applicable law, and EPA has not
asserted any such failure,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement about the agreement. “BP is committed to meeting its
environmental obligations and is pleased that the present matter
could be resolved cooperatively.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivek Shankar in  San Francisco  at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  