-- 
Brazil’s Inflation Target May Be Nearer After Agency Changes Price Index

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-11-29T15:33:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/brazil-s-inflation-target-may-be-nearer-after-agency-alters-price-index.html
A change in the way  Brazil  gauges
inflation will help the central bank near its targets, enabling
it to keep cutting interest rates, said Guilherme Figueiredo,
hedge fund director at M. Safra & Co.  Figueiredo’s fund trimmed its 2012 inflation forecast to
5.35 percent from 5.65 percent, after the national statistics
agency yesterday released new weightings for items in its
benchmark IPCA price index, he said.  Yields on interest rates futures show investors expect the
central bank to cut the overnight rate for a third straight time
by a half-point to 11 percent this week. While the re-weighting
of the IPCA index will help policy makers bring  inflation  closer
to their 4.5 percent target for 2012, Figueiredo doesn’t see the
changes speeding up bank President Alexandre Tombini’s policy of
“moderate” interest rate cuts.  The new weights “give the central bank more room to
continue cutting  interest rates ,” Figueiredo, who manages $1.5
billion, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  He called the changes in the index “legitimate” because
they were based on a survey that shows adjustments in consumers’
spending patterns. “Coincidently, it took weight from items
that had bigger price increases,” Figueiredo said.  Slowing Down  The central bank has cut interest rates as the European
debt crisis threatens to crimp global growth. Economists in a
Nov. 25 central bank survey cut their 2011 Brazil economic
growth forecast to 3.1 percent, from the previous week’s
forecast of 3.16 percent, according to the median estimate of
about 100 economists. At the end of August, analysts were
predicting growth of 3.79 percent.  Third-quarter Brazilian business confidence fell to its
lowest level since the start of 2009.  The yield on the interest-rate future contract due January
2013 fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 9.68
percent yesterday on speculation that the changes will rein in
inflation, which has exceeded the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
government’s target range since April.  The yield on the contract rose one basis point to 9.69
percent at 1:20 p.m. Brasilia time after inflation, as measured
by the  IGP-M   price index , rose more than analysts expected.  Rate Horizon  Itau Unibanco Holding SA,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by
market value, estimates the new weights for the IPCA will reduce
next year’s inflation by half a percentage point to 5.25
percent.  The impact of the statistical change increases the chance
that the central bank will step up the pace of rate cuts at some
point, the bank said in an e-mailed report to clients.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. may trim its 2012 inflation
forecast by as much as 0.3 percentage point to 4.9 percent,
Paulo Leme, the bank’s head of  emerging markets , wrote in a note
to clients.  To be sure, Leme said the statistical change is neutral for
the central bank’s policy because it doesn’t alter the
“determinants” of inflation.  “The economy is slowing faster than anticipated and the
risk of negative external shocks is rising,” Leme said in the
note to clients. The central bank “may end up lengthening the
easing cycle.”  Breakeven rates, the difference between yields on 2015
inflation-linked and fixed rate bonds, show traders are betting
on average inflation of 5.55 percent over the next four years,
down from 6.197 percent at the end of September.  Weightings  The weights published yesterday are not final and may be
adjusted, said Eulina Nunes, coordinator of the IPCA index at
the Rio de Janeiro-based statistics agency, IBGE.  The agency reviews the weight of items in its basket every
five years to better reflect family consumption patterns
detected by its surveys, she said. The weighting of cable TV and
consumer electronic goods will increase in the consumer-price
basket, while that of cigarettes will decline, Nunes said.  Following the new weightings, Espirito Santo Investment
Bank may also trim its 2012 inflation forecast by 30 basis
points to 5.6 percent, chief economist  Jankiel Santos  said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  “The change in methodology is justifiable and is part of
the game,” Santos said. Brazil isn’t manipulating the inflation
figures, he said.  ‘Flight Plan’  The central bank won’t alter its strategy of reducing rates
by half a point based on the new criteria, said  Andre Perfeito ,
chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual Investimentos. He
expects policy makers to lower the key rate to 10 percent by
March.  “They already had a flight plan and will stick to it,”
Perfeito said.  Analysts were initially expecting the update to the
consumer price-basket to trim inflation by as much as 0.2
percentage point, Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa said
Nov. 22.  “Since people typically begin to switch out of the
products with the most inflation and use other products, the
goods that saw a bigger price increase are reduced in the
index,” Barbosa said yesterday. “That’s why it typically
causes a reduction in inflation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 