-- 
Broad, Gagosian, Qatar Sheikha, Ai Weiwei Make Art Power List

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/broad-gagosian-qatar-sheikha-ai-weiwei-make-art-power-list.html
The most influential person in the
art world is Sheikha Al-Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani,
daughter of the Emir of Qatar.  That’s according to  Art & Auction ’s top-10 list in the
ninth annual Power 100 issue, published by New York-based  Louise
Blouin Media . The magazine will be launched at a private party
today at the Shore Club in Miami, ahead of the  Art Basel Miami
Beach  fair that opens to VIPs tomorrow. It will hit the
newsstands on Dec. 13.  This is the first year the magazine has broken out a ranked
list from its annual issue on 100 movers and shakers, grouped
into categories such as auctions, dealers and curators.  Only one artist was included:  China ’s dissident Ai Weiwei,
whose 81-day detention this year made a global symbol of
cultural activism.  Sheikha Al-Mayassa is the chairwoman of the Qatar  Museums
Authority , an organization overseeing the country’s ambitious
cultural initiatives. In June 2011, Edward J. Dolman quit his
job as chairman of Christie’s International to join the
organization’s board. In February 2012, the group will present
Takashi Murakami’s first solo exhibition in the  Middle East .  “Sheikha Al-Mayassa has the resources of an entire country
at her disposal,” said Benjamin Genocchio, a vice president at
Louise Blouin Media and editor in chief of Art & Auction. “They
have hired Ed Dolman to be their personal shopper. And the
budget has no limit.”  The top 10 list comprises six art collectors, two art
dealers and two auction-house executives. They were selected by
a four-person jury that included Genocchio and Sotheby’s
chairman of North and South America, Lisa Dennison.  Broad, Zhukova  The collectors are: billionaire  Eli Broad ; Dasha Zhukova,
partner of Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich ; French
billionaire and Christie’s owner  Francois Pinault ; Peter Brant,
Greenwich, Connecticut-based newsprint magnate; and Indonesian-
Chinese agribusiness tycoon Budiardjo Tek.  “Those people are far beyond ‘Oh, I am a private collector
and I have a private museum,’” said Genocchio. “They can
transform the image of an entire region.”  Art dealer  Larry Gagosian , with 11 galleries worldwide,
ranks second.  David Zwirner , who is beefing up his gallery
presence in Manhattan’s Chelsea district with an additional
25,000 square feet, is sixth.  The jury picked Christie’s Asia President Francois Curiel
to reflect the region’s increasing significance and Sotheby’s
worldwide head of private sales  Stephane Cosman Connery  to
acknowledge growth in that business area, Genocchio said.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 