-- 
Bronfman Says Israel’s High Food Prices Due to Government Taxes

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-11-29T19:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/bronfman-says-israel-s-high-food-prices-due-to-government-taxes.html
Matthew Bronfman, the chairman of
 Israel Discount Bank (DSCT)  Ltd., said high food prices that sparked
demonstrations in  Israel  this year are due to a steep value-
added tax and protestors are wrong to blame retailers.  A government panel that explored how to address the
concentration of financial power among 20 families in Israel
following mass protests over rising prices recommended
eliminating major cross holdings by groups and strengthening
antitrust rules in a September report. The demonstrations and
boycotts, which started in June as the price of cottage cheese
increased, prodded Tnuva Food Industries Agricultural Co-Op In
Israel Ltd. and Strauss Group Ltd. to offer discounts.  “The food-prices protests in Israel have to do with the
fact that there’s a 16 percent VAT on food prices,” Bronfman
said in an interview in  New York  today. “The imbalances don’t
come from our side. It’s the government.”  Israeli billionaire Nochi Dankner’s  Discount Investment
Corp. (DISI)  ended talks on Nov. 21 to sell  Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , Israel’s
largest supermarket chain, to Bronfman’s Isralom Properties Ltd.
and  England ’s Noe family after no solution was found to satisfy
a government committee that could force Bronfman and perhaps his
partner to sell their holdings in Israel Discount Bank if they
went through with the purchase.  Discount Investment said Oct. 16 it would sell its 46
percent Shufersal stake for 2.42 billion shekels ($638 million).  Isralom, which owns 18.56 percent of Shufersal, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, is controlled by the Bronfman
family, which also has a stake in Discount Bank, Israel’s third-
largest lender.  Tent Protests  Tent camps spread in Israel during the summer as part of
the social protests asking for lower prices for food and
housing. More than 250,000 people filled the streets outside the
 Defense Ministry  on Aug. 6 at the “Rally for Social Justice”
after housing prices increased about 40 percent in the past
three years.  “It’s true that it’s very hard for young people to buy an
apartment,” Bronfman said. “It’s a problem that has to do with
supply and demand in the real estate in Israel. Still people
should spend less time in tents and more time working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  