-- 
BSkyB Chairman James Murdoch Loses One Third of Independent Owner Vote

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T18:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/bskyb-chairman-james-murdoch-loses-one-third-of-independent-owner-vote.html
James Murdoch failed to win the
support of almost one third of independent shareholders in his
re-election as chairman of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
amid a phone-hacking scandal.  Murdoch was re-elected with 81.2 percent of votes cast at
the company’s annual shareholder meeting in  London  today. He is
also deputy chief operating officer of News Corp., which owns 39
percent of BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV company.  Murdoch, 38, faced investors after two parliamentary
hearings into his role at News Corp.’s U.K. unit where tabloid
employees hacked into the phones of celebrities and politicians
and bribed police. His failure to act promptly triggered a
scandal that engulfed News Corp. and thwarted a 7.8 billion-
pound ($12.2 billion) bid to buy all of BSkyB.  “James Murdoch will have to work hard in the years to come
to overcome this issue,” Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Claudio Aspesi  said via phone. At the shareholder meeting last year,
Murdoch was re-elected with 98.2 percent of the vote.  Of almost 2,500 director elections at companies in the
U.K.’s FTSE 350 Index this year, only 1 percent of executives
were opposed by 15 percent or more of shareholders, according to
research compiled by investment adviser PIRC.  ‘Murdoch Mafia’  Outside the venue of BSkyB’s shareholders meeting in
central London, a small group of protesters waved banners
referring to the “Murdoch mafia.”  Tom Watson , a Labour Party member who has led Parliament’s
inquiry into phone hacking, said this month that Murdoch “must
be the first mafia boss in history who didn’t know he was
running a criminal enterprise.”  CCLA Investment Management Ltd . said today  James Murdoch 
shouldn’t be chairman because of his News Corp. role.  “Can he genuinely be independent when actually he is an
employee of News Corporation?”  James Bevan , who oversees $10
billion as CCLA chief investment officer, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .  PIRC said on Nov. 15 that it does not support the
appointment of a chairman linked to the controlling shareholder
and that his involvement in the hacking inquiry raises concerns
over whether he is fit to fulfill his role.  Opposition  Murdoch’s re-election was also opposed by New York-based
proxy advisory firm  Glass Lewis & Co. , which said his “powerful
position” at News Corp. compromised his ability to act in
BSkyB’s interest. Franklin Resources Mutual Series, which owns
about 3 percent of BSkyB according to Bloomberg data, said in
October that Murdoch should step down as chairman.  BSkyB’s board backed James Murdoch on Nov. 11 and the
company’s senior independent director  Nicholas Ferguson  said
that Murdoch’s handling of the scandal at parent company News
Corp. had “no effect on sales, customers or suppliers over the
last five months.”  Speaking at today’s meeting, Guy Jubb, head of corporate
governance at Standard Life Investments, which voted against
Murdoch’s re-election, said he is “deeply disappointed that not
one of the independent directors, not a single one, shares our
belief.”  Ferguson today reiterated his support for Murdoch, saying
“we have seen nothing that makes us question his honesty. We
believe he’s telling the truth.”  Grilling  Testifying for a second time before a U.K. parliamentary
committee, Murdoch this month blamed executives at the News
Corp.’s News of the World tabloid for not telling him in 2008
that intercepting the phones of celebrities and politicians went
beyond a single reporter.  Murdoch’s second testimony came after News Corp. investors
lodged a protest vote at the annual meeting against  Rupert Murdoch , the company’s chairman and CEO, and his sons. James
received the highest percentage of votes against his election to
the board, at 35 percent.  James Murdoch joined News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit News
International as chairman in December 2007, after the hacking
took place. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes
with News Corp. units in providing financial news and
information.  BSkyB today also appointed Martin Gilbert and Matthieu Pigasse as independent directors to its board to replace
retiring members  David Evans  and Allan Leighton.  BSkyB dropped 0.1 percent to 745 pence in London trading.
The stock had fallen 12 percent from this year’s high of 850
pence before the Guardian reported July 4 that  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News
of the World employees intercepted murder victim Milly Dowler’s
voice mails in 2002.  “The fundamentals at BSkyB remain pretty strong,” Patrick Yau, a media analyst at Peel Hunt, said in an interview.
“What’s going on at board level and elsewhere across the News
Corp. empire, that’s another issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  