-- 
Byogy Seeking Funds to Bring Clean Jet Fuel to Market

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-11-29T16:28:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/byogy-seeking-funds-to-bring-clean-jet-fuel-to-market-correct-.html
(Corrects last name to Weiss in story that moved Nov. 22.)  Byogy Renewables Inc., a  San Jose ,
California-based maker of clean  jet fuel  from alcohol, plans to
raise as much as $30 million from private equity and strategic
investors by mid-2012, its chief executive officer said.  Byogy will use the funds to further commercialize its fuel
and provide enough for testing by the U.S. technical standards
body ASTM International, Kevin Weiss said by phone. Airlines are
not allowed to fly passenger planes using fuel made from
alcohols until the ASTM has granted approval.  “The main goal at the moment is certification of the
alcohol to jet fuel process,” Weiss said. “There are several
steps through the ASTM process and at each point you generate
more data and are required to boost the volume of fuel for the
various testing requirements.” Approval is expected in 2013.  The  International Air Transport Association , which
estimates the aviation industry accounts for  2 percent  of global
carbon dioxide emissions, set a target in 2007 to eliminate
these emissions from  air travel  by 2050.  Airlines on July 1 won approval from ASTM to blend fuel
made from inedible plants and organic waste with traditional
kerosene-based jet fuel. Since approval,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,
 Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  and Air France-KLM Group have flown planes using the
fuel.  ‘Major Airport Hubs’  Byogy has a “very strong” strategic partnership with
Qatar Airways Ltd., Weiss said.  “Our commercialization strategy with Qatar is to develop a
non-competitive global supply chain to provide clean jet fuel to
major airport hubs,” he said. This could include building
biofuel production facilities in the coming years.  The company doesn’t make the alcohol and instead plans to
form partnerships with sugar and ethanol producers, Weiss said.
It’s in discussions with several of the largest suppliers.  The cost of Byogy’s fuel will be comparable to oil-derived
kerosene within five years, without subsidies, he said.
Moreover, unlike the alternative fuels currently approved, it
can be used by itself and doesn’t need blending with kerosene.  “Due to the enormous global demand and our ability to
produce a true replacement fuel at a fraction of the cost of
other processes, we know we will be able to sell every drop of
our fuel,” the chief executive said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  