-- 
HTC Victory in FlashPoint Patent Case Upheld by Trade Agency

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-11-29T23:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/htc-s-victory-in-flashpoint-patent-case-upheld-by-full-itc-panel.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the largest seller of
smartphones in the U.S., won a patent-infringement case brought
by FlashPoint Technology Inc. over digital-camera features.  The U.S. International Trade Commission backed a ruling
from July that HTC didn’t violate two of FlashPoint’s patents,
rejecting the closely held licensing company’s request to halt
sales of some HTC phones.  Notice  of the decision was posted
online today, and the full opinion will be made public after
both companies get a chance to redact confidential data.  The dispute centered on technology related to how digital
cameras work, including focus and flash settings, and automatic
rotation of an image, according to Peterborough, New Hampshire-
based FlashPoint’s complaint. An ITC judge in July said HTC
phones that run Google Inc.’s Android system and Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows Phone 7 weren’t infringing the patents.  “The commission’s determination validates our position
that we respect protected innovations,” HTC General Counsel
Grace Lei said in an e-mailed statement. “We look forward to
returning to doing what we do best: creating innovative mobile
experiences and providing choice to consumers.”  The review looked at infringement of the patent covering
the rotation of images and whether FlashPoint had met the
agency’s requirements that the invention be in use in the U.S.
The six-member commission, which has the power to block imports
of products that violate U.S. patents, let stand the finding of
non-infringement on the other patent without a second look.  Samsung, Nokia  In an Aug. 29 filing, Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC argued that
consumers “would be deprived of the most popular choice of
devices running the Android or Windows Phone 7 operating
system” if such an exclusion order went into effect, and it
could lead to an increase in prices for smartphones.  HTC also argued that FlashPoint doesn’t make any products.
FlashPoint, in its own filing, said enforcement of  patent rights 
is in the public’s interest, and any market decrease from the
loss of HTC-made phones could be made up by companies that
license FlashPoint’s technology, including Apple Inc.,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)   LG Electronics Inc. , RIM and Nokia had also been targeted
by FlashPoint. They settled their cases before the July ruling.  HTC, which makes phones such as the Droid Incredible and
EVO 4G that use Android, sold the most smartphones in the U.S.
in the third quarter, according to market researcher Canalys.  FlashPoint, whose founders include former employees of
Apple’s imaging business, said it developed its own digital
operating system for cameras, and ceased research in 2007 to
focus on licensing its patents.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Imaging
Devices, Complaint 337-726, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  