-- 
Cain Reassesses 2012 Bid After Affair Report

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-11-30T13:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/cain-reassessing-2012-bid-after-affair-report.html
Herman Cain  worked to keep his
Republican presidential campaign on track after fresh
allegations of sexual indiscretions raised questions about
whether he can sustain the backing to continue his bid.  Cain, who is denying an Atlanta woman’s claims to have
carried on an extramarital affair with him during the last 13
years, said yesterday that he was reassessing his campaign as a
result of the story, which came to light about a month after
four women alleged he sexually harassed them in the 1990s --
charges he has also denied.  The former Godfather’s Pizza chief executive told aides in
a conference call that he would decide over the “next several
days” whether to “plow ahead,” according to a transcript of a
staff conference call posted online by the National Review,
which said it was on the five-minute call.  One aide who participated said Cain began the call by
denying the allegation of an affair, leveled Nov. 28 by Ginger
White in an interview with the Atlanta television station Fox 5,
and said it nonetheless called for a “reassessment” of his
bid. Still, Cain indicated that the campaign would go forward,
said the aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid
publicly describing internal discussions.  ‘Troubled’ Woman  In a fundraising letter Cain sent out yesterday, he
referred to White as “a troubled Atlanta businesswoman” who
“used national media outlets to promulgate a fabricated,
unsubstantiated story” that they had an affair. “I am writing
you today to assure you that this woman’s story is completely
false,” he said.  “I am not deterred,” he told supporters. “We will
continue on this journey to make America great once again.”  In an interview today on ABC’s “Good Morning America,”
White described the relationship as “on and off” and said it
began when she was single.  “It was a very casual affair,” she said. “Am I proud to
admit to that? No, I am not.” She said she went on “several
trips with him,” including to a Mike Tyson fight in  Las Vegas .  White, who has acknowledged having financial difficulties,
said that she had accepted gifts of money from Cain for “the
last two and one-half years” and that he didn’t ask for
anything in return.  “This was not sex for cash,” White told ABC.  Contingency Plans  In a speech at Hillsdale College in  Michigan  last night,
Cain made no mention of the affair allegation as he pressed his
case for a foreign policy based on “peace through strength and
clarity.”  At the same time, he appeared to be bracing for the
possibility he would have to make a quick exit from the race.
The cable news network NY1 reported that he told an adviser to
cancel a private dinner scheduled for Dec. 4 in  New York  with
some of the city’s journalists and politicians, in case he
dropped out. The dinner was to have been hosted by New York Post
columnist Cindy Adams, the  report  said.  “We have to do an assessment as to whether or not this is
going to create too much of a cloud, in some people’s minds, as
to whether or not they would be able to support us going
forth,” Cain told his staff on yesterday’s call, according to
the transcript. “If a decision is made different than to plow
ahead, you all will be the first to know.”  J.D. Gordon, the campaign’s communications director, said
Cain’s team was “looking forward to getting back on message,”
starting with the foreign policy speech Cain delivered. Gordon
discounted the significance of Cain’s call to aides, saying the
candidate “told staff simply that, just as every time
significant events occur, a reassessment is prudent.”  Ohio  Rallies Today  Cain, 65, is scheduled to travel to Ohio for rallies today,
continuing his practice of spending time in states that hold no
sway in the early voting in the Republican race.  White said in her Fox 5 television interview that Cain had
treated her to lavish meals and stays at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel
in Atlanta’s Buckhead district during an affair that began after
the two met in Louisville,  Kentucky , in the late 1990s and ended
only eight months ago.  “It wasn’t complicated, and I was aware that he was
married, and I was also aware that I was involved in a very
inappropriate situation, relationship,” White said in the
television interview.  White said that, while she had been reluctant to reveal the
affair, Cain’s indignant denials of recent sexual harassment
allegations against him by four other women persuaded her to go
public. Cain has denied the harassment claims.  ‘Premature’ Talk  Lin Wood, Cain’s Atlanta-based attorney, said in an
interview that the candidate isn’t thinking of abandoning the
presidential campaign.  “It would be premature to say he is contemplating” a
withdrawal, said Wood, who said he talked with Cain after
White’s story aired.  A reassessment of the “present situation” in the wake of
White’s story is reasonable, Wood said, and “to translate that
to ‘withdraw from the race’ is not the right conclusion to
draw.”  Wood also said Cain had given White money after she sent
him a text message saying she couldn’t pay her rent. Wood didn’t
say how much money Cain has given her.  During his call with staff, Cain described his tie to White
as “just a friendship relationship,” and he told CNN on Nov.
28 that he was trying to help her because she didn’t have a job.  Slipping in Polls  Once vying for front-runner status in the Republican race,
Cain slipped to third place in a national poll released last
week by  Quinnipiac University . The poll showed Cain with 14
percent of the vote, trailing former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  A Bloomberg Poll conducted Nov. 10-12 in  Iowa , where
caucuses on Jan. 3 begin the nomination process, indicated that
Gingrich would be positioned to benefit most among Republican
presidential contenders if Cain were to end his bid. Cain was in
a four-way tie for the lead with Gingrich, Romney and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  among likely Iowa Republican
caucus-goers, the survey found. Gingrich led as the second
choice among voters who chose Cain as their favorite, drawing
backing from 28 percent, five percentage points better than
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who drew 23 percent.  A separate Bloomberg Poll at the same time in  New
Hampshire , home of the first primary on Jan. 10, found that more
than a third of Cain’s supporters shift to Gingrich as their
second choice, while Romney attracts more than a quarter.  Other Candidates’ Views  Gingrich, campaigning yesterday in Bluffton,  South
Carolina , told reporters that “this must be a very painful
period” for Cain and his family. Gingrich also said: “He has
to make a decision that he thinks is appropriate.”  Michele Bachmann , another Republican presidential
contender, said of the latest allegation confronting Cain:
“Clearly, it’s not helpful for his campaign.”  Asked if Cain should exit the race, the Minnesota
congresswoman said on  CNN  yesterday, “That’s not for me to
say.”  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. told the Boston Globe
in an interview that Cain should consider dropping his bid.
Huntsman, who is focusing his White House quest on a strong
showing in New Hampshire, said the accusations against Cain are
distracting from the substantive topics that should mark a
presidential contest.  “Given the bandwidth that has been taken out of the
discussion of any other issues pertinent to this campaign, a
reconsideration might be in order,” Huntsman said.  Cain and his wife, Gloria, have been married for 43 years.
In an interview with  Fox News  after the harassment charges
emerged, Gloria Cain said she didn’t think her husband was
capable of such behavior.  “I seriously, in my soul, don’t think he’s that type of
person,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  