-- 
Canadian Currency Advances for Fourth Day as Appetite for Risk Increases

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-11-29T22:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/canada-s-dollar-climbs-for-a-fourth-day-on-better-risk-asset-appetite.html
Canada ’s dollar rose as  oil prices 
climbed and American  consumer confidence  increased in November
by the most in more than eight years, boosting appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  The currency appreciated for a fourth day versus its U.S.
counterpart in its longest stretch of gains since July, trimming
its monthly loss to 3 percent. Canada’s third-quarter current
account deficit narrowed from the second largest on record as
aircraft and metals led a rebound in exports.  “It’s a risk-on story today,” Rahim Madhavji, president
of Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “Consumer confidence in the U.S. has
been surprisingly positive.”  Canada’s currency, also known as the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.2 percent to
C$1.0321 per  U.S. dollar  by 5 p.m. in Toronto. It earlier rose
to C$1.0259, the strongest since Nov. 18. One Canadian dollar
buys 96.89 U.S. cents.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, climbed for
a third day. Oil gained 1.8 percent to $99.48 a barrel in New
York trading. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent,
while Canada’s  S&P/TSX Composite Index  added 0.8 percent.  Canada’s  current account  deficit narrowed in July through
September to C$12.1 billion,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. The current account is the broadest measure of
international trade, encompassing goods, services and
investment. The third-quarter shortfall was the 12th straight
and followed a C$16.1 billion deficit. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast a gap of C$11.1 billion, according to
the median of 17 responses.  ‘Dependent’ on Inflows  “Thanks to the merchandise trade account returning to
surplus, Canada was able to see an improvement in its broadest
measure of trade,”  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at
 National Bank of Canada  in Montreal, said in a note to clients.
“That said, the overall current account deficit is huge,
meaning that the Canadian dollar remains dependent on capital
inflows.”  The yield on 10-year Government of Canada bonds was little
changed at 2.12 percent after earlier gaining seven basis
points. The price of the 3.25 percent securities maturing in
June 2021 rose 2 cents to C$109.70.  The Conference Board’s consumer confidence  index  increased
to 56 from 40.9 in October, the biggest monthly gain since April
2003, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today. The gauge, at a four-month high, exceeded the most
optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trading partner.  The loonie has weakened 3.2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback has gained 0.8
percent, and the yen has advanced 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  