-- 
Canada Third Quarter Current Account Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-11-29T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/canada-third-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada's current account report for the third quarter 
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canada's overall current account deficit (on a
seasonally adjusted basis) narrowed $4.0 billion in the
third quarter to $12.1 billion, largely the result of
higher exports of goods.  Current account balances  In the capital and financial account (unadjusted for
seasonal variation), foreign portfolio investors continued
to supply funds to the Canadian economy, mostly through
the acquisition of short-term debt securities. Foreign
direct investment activity moderated the overall inflows,
as Canadian direct investment abroad exceeded foreign
direct investment in Canada for the first time in 2011.  Current account  Goods balance returns to a surplus  The overall balance on the trade in goods was a $0.7
billion surplus in the third quarter following a $3.5
billion deficit the previous quarter. This was led by a
rebound in exports, mainly industrial goods and machinery
and equipment, while motor vehicles and parts were largely
unchanged and energy products weakened further. As a
result, the majority of the export strength in the quarter
reflected trade with countries other than the  United
States .  Goods balances by geographic areas  Exports of goods were up $4.7 billion to $115.2 billion
in the third quarter, the highest level since the third
quarter of 2008.  The export of industrial goods, which advanced for a
ninth straight quarter, increased $2.3 billion on higher
volumes and prices. Most of the gains during the quarter
were recorded in precious metals and in metal ores.  Exports of machinery and equipment increased $2.2
billion, mostly on higher volumes. In particular, exports
of aircraft rebounded by $0.9 billion in the third quarter
after recording their lowest level in more than 10 years
in the previous quarter.  Lower exports of crude petroleum more than offset the
gains in natural gas and in other energy products as was
the case in the previous quarter.  Imports of goods edged up $0.4 billion in the third
quarter to $114.5 billion. Automotive products rose $1.2
billion, as a result of higher volumes of imports of cars,
trucks and parts. Imports of industrial goods strengthened
for a ninth straight quarter, up $0.6 billion on higher
prices. However, imports of energy products fell $1.7
billion as both prices and volumes decreased. This was the
first decline since the first quarter of 2009.  Trade in services deficit narrows, led by transportation
and travel  The trade in services deficit narrowed $0.2 billion to
$6.3 billion in the third quarter. In both the
transportation and the travel accounts, receipts increased
while payments decreased. The reduction in these deficits
was slightly offset by a lower surplus on trade in
commercial services.  Investment income deficit expands on higher payments  The deficit in investment income went up $0.4 billion
to $5.9 billion, as payments outpaced receipts in the
third quarter.  Profits on foreign direct investment in  Canada  were up
$0.5 billion as both dividends paid and non-distributed
earnings increased, notably in the energy sector. Interest
and dividends paid to non-residents were also up (+$0.2
billion), in line with increased foreign holdings of
Canadian securities.  On the other hand, profits earned by Canadian direct
investors advanced $0.4 billion.  Capital and financial account  Non-resident investment in Canadian securities led by
Treasury bills  Foreign investment in Canadian securities focused on
money market instruments in the third quarter with
purchases of $16.2 billion of these instruments, exceeding
the previous high of $9.9 billion in the fourth quarter of
2008. Non-resident acquisitions of short-term securities
were mainly in the form of federal government paper, for
which foreign holdings increased almost 50% in the
quarter.  Foreign investment in Canadian bonds continued in the
third quarter with non-residents adding $7.4 billion to
their holdings, marking an 11th straight quarter of such
investment. However, this was the lowest quarterly
acquisition of Canadian bonds during this period.  Foreign investors favoured bonds issued by provincial
governments and private corporations in the quarter, both
new issues and secondary market acquisitions. These
inflows were moderated by a $1.9 billion reduction in
foreign holdings of federal bonds, the first such
divestment since the fourth quarter of 2008. Non-residents
also reduced their holdings of federal government
enterprise bonds by $2.1 billion, following five straight
quarters of investment. Nevertheless, non-resident
holdings of federal bonds at the end of September 2011
were almost three times higher than what they were at the
end of December 2008.  Foreign portfolio investment in Canadian debt securities  Foreign acquisitions of Canadian stocks rose to $4.1
billion in the third quarter. Most of this increase
reflected merger and acquisition activity, resulting in
the issuance of Canadian shares to former shareholders of
foreign firms acquired. This was moderated by the first
foreign divestment of Canadian shares on the secondary
market in six quarters. Canadian stock prices declined
12.6% in the third quarter, the largest quarterly drop
since the fourth quarter of 2008.  Canadian investors continue to focus on foreign equities  Canadian investors purchased $4.6 billion of foreign
securities in the third quarter, as the pattern of
investment in equity securities and divestment of debt
securities continued in 2011.  Acquisitions of foreign stocks were $7.8 billion in the
third quarter and mostly targeted the US stock market, led
by demand from Canadian pension funds. Most major world
equity markets posted losses in the third quarter.  Canadians continued to reduce their holdings of foreign
debt securities in the third quarter, but at a slower pace
than in the previous quarter. This was led by a $3.0
billion divestment in foreign bonds, mainly from a
reduction in holdings of US  government securities .
Canadians also continued to reduce their holdings of Maple
bonds, consistent with the general trend observed since
the beginning of 2008.  Outward direct investment exceeds inward direct investment
for the first time in 2011  Canadian direct investment abroad was $15.4 billion in
the third quarter, the largest such outflow recorded in
2011. This was largely related to cross-border merger and
acquisition activity by Canadian financial firms. The US
economy accounted for the bulk of this quarterly
investment at $11.6 billion, the highest in two years.  Canadian direct investment abroad  Foreign direct investment of $6.2 billion in Canada
amounted to the lowest investment since the third quarter
of 2010. The majority of the inflows resulted from profits
reinvested in Canadian subsidiaries by foreign direct
investors. On an industry basis, this was mainly in the
energy and metallic minerals sectors of the Canadian
economy. Withdrawals of foreign funds from the Canadian
financial sector moderated the overall inflows in the
third quarter.  Note to readers  The balance of international payments covers all
economic transactions between Canadian residents and non-
residents in two accounts, the current account and the
capital and financial account.  The current account covers transactions in goods,
services, investment income and current transfers.  The capital and financial account is mainly composed of
transactions in financial assets and liabilities.  In principle, a current account surplus/deficit
corresponds to an equivalent net outflow/inflow in the
capital and financial account. In practice, as
international transactions data are compiled from multiple
sources, this is rarely the case and gives rise to
measurement error. The statistical discrepancy is the
unobserved net inflow or outflow.  For more information about the balance of payments,
consult the "Frequently asked questions" section in the
National economic accounts module of our website. The
module also presents the most recent balance of payments
statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  