-- 
Cantor Fitzgerald Buys Credit Suisse Debt to Boost CMBS Deal Amid Slowdown

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-11-29T16:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/cantor-fitzgerald-buys-credit-suisse-debt-to-boost-cmbs-deal-amid-slowdown.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP plans to sell
$775 million of commercial-mortgage bonds including loans made
by a defunct unit of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , using a shakeout in
the market to bolster its deal.  The largest loan in the pool, $99.3 million in debt tied to
a mall in Grandville,  Michigan , was originated by Credit Suisse
affiliate Column Financial Inc. on June 1, according to a filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cantor acquired the
loan on Oct. 28, according to the filing.  Lenders have struggled to amass enough loans to package
into securities. A slowdown in the U.S. economic recovery and
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis has roiled credit markets in the
past four months, making it harder for banks to gauge how much
cash they will get from future bond sales. Credit Suisse shut
the group dedicated to originating commercial mortgages for bond
sales last month before being able to complete a deal since
entering the market in February.  About 15 percent of Cantor’s deal consists of loans the New
York-based broker dealer purchased from Credit Suisse, according
to the filing. Steven Vames, a Credit Suisse spokesman in New
York, declined to comment. Sandra Lee of  Cantor Fitzgerald  also
declined to comment.  Anthony Orso and Michael Lehrman, who run Cantor’s
commercial mortgage bond business, were previously co-heads of
the CMBS group at Credit Suisse.  Wall Street banks have arranged about $26 billion of
commercial-mortgage backed securities this year. While that’s up
from $11.5 billion in 2010, issuance totaled more than $200
billion in 2007 when commercial-real estate prices peaked,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries has risen 19
basis points to 286 basis points since the end of October,
according to the Barclays Capital CMBS AAA Super Duper Index.
While spreads have declined from 323 on Oct. 18, they’re up from
226 at the end of July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  