-- 
Cargill Makes Biggest Food-Aid Donation to Africa Famine

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-11-29T18:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/cargill-makes-biggest-ever-food-aid-donation-to-africa-famine.html
Cargill Inc. is donating about
10,000 metric tons of rice to alleviate hunger in the Horn of
 Africa  in the largest contribution ever from a company to WFP
USA, the U.S. advocate for the United Nations World Food
Program.  The rice, valued at $5 million, was bought in India and is
destined for northeastern  Kenya , part of a region where about 13
million people are at risk of severe hunger, WFP USA said today
in an e-mail. Minneapolis-based Cargill, the world’s largest
agriculture company, handled procurement and shipping while the
advocacy group raised funds to transport it from  Mombasa , Kenya,
to famine-stricken areas.  “The company has been a consistent philanthropist across a
host of issues,” Cargill Chief Executive Officer Greg Page said
in a telephone interview. The donation both creates income
opportunities for farmers in  India  while helping suffering
people in Africa, he said.  The food crisis in Somalia, the epicenter of hunger in the
Horn of Africa region that also includes Kenya and Ethiopia, has
eased as humanitarian aid has increased, the United Nations
 Famine Early Warning Systems Network  said earlier this month.
Food prices in the region have fallen, the UN said.  India was selected as a sourcing site because of its
proximity to the Horn of Africa, a 23-day voyage across the
 Indian Ocean , Page said. Once in Kenya, the rice, about 22
million pounds, is being handled by the UN World Food Program,
which tries to make sure distribution doesn’t distort local food
prices, he said.  The company’s donation arose from an appeal from the U.S.
Agency for International Development, the company said in a
 statement . The donated food will feed almost 1 million people
for one month, Cargill said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 