-- 
Chevron Delays Brazil Wells as Government Probes Offshore Spill

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-11-29T17:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/chevron-delays-brazil-wells-as-government-probes-offshore-spill.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the third-largest oil
producer in Brazil, has delayed three wells at the offshore
Frade project while it waits for the government to lift a
drilling ban following an oil spill earlier this month.  Chevron put on hold plans to develop the water injection
wells at Frade after the Brazilian oil regulator’s Nov. 23 ban
on the company’s drilling, Ali Moshiri, head of operations in
Latin America and Africa, said in a telephone interview from
Houston yesterday. Water injection wells help to maintain
reservoir pressure and separate water from oil at other wells.  As many as 3,000 barrels of oil were leaked during the Nov.
7 spill, according to the regulator, which suspended Chevron’s
drilling in the country until a probe into the leak is
completed.  San Ramon , California-based Chevron is cooperating
with authorities to investigate the causes of the spill and
still plans to invest $3 billion in existing projects in Brazil
and expand when the country offers new areas, Moshiri said.  “We’re hoping it won’t last very long, because I’m not
quite sure why it was suspended in the first place,” Moshiri
said. “Not even one drop has reached the beach, a reaction of
this magnitudes is really surprising.”  The two largest oil producers in Brazil are state-
controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA) 
Brazil plans to double oil production in the next ten years as
it taps the largest discoveries in the Western Hemisphere in
over 30 years that are located in deep waters of the Atlantic
Ocean.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  