-- 
Chinese Solar Makers Seen Shrinking to 15 on Supply Glut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-29T14:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/chinese-solar-panel-makers-seen-shrinking-to-15-in-5-years-on-supply-glut.html
China ’s solar-panel supply glut is
consolidating the industry and will likely slash the number of
domestic manufacturers to 15 within half a decade, according to
a research group at the nation’s top economic planning agency.  Some producers have cut factory capacity or closed plants
because of the surplus, Li Junfeng, deputy director general of
the Beijing-based Energy Research Institute at the National
Development and Reform Commission, said in an interview.  “There’ll be no more than 15 large manufactures left in
five years,” Li said by phone, without identifying them. There
were 330 panel makers in China in 2008, according to the Chinese
Renewable Energy Society, which said it stopped counting as it
couldn’t keep up with the “multifold” increase since then.  The manufacturing explosion in China in the last decade is
crashing prices for the devices that turn sunlight into power,
shrinking margins for rivals such as  Germany ’s  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and
crimping profit even for Chinese producers. Jiangsu-based
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest manufacturer, is
forecast to report its first loss in at least six years in 2011.  The spot price for photovoltaic panels has plunged about 40
percent this year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, as
producers led by China increased output. The 10 largest makers
of traditional panels that use silicon including Suntech,
China’s  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  and  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , together doubled
capacity last year, New Energy Finance figures show.  Suntech, Solyndra  Suntech will report a $375 million loss in 2011, compared
with a $262 million profit in 2010, according to the median of
26 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales growth will
slow to 6 percent from 71 percent, the estimates show.  Three U.S. solar companies including Solyndra LLC have
failed this year because they can’t compete on price. U.S.
manufacturers led by  Solarworld AG (SWV)  have asked the Obama
administration to slap duties on Chinese companies, saying their
competitors are using Chinese  government aid  to dump solar
panels below production costs on Western markets.  Industry consolidation is “necessary and inevitable” to
eliminate excess capacity, Li said in the Nov. 24 interview. He
said it would be unrealistic for China’s government to direct
the consolidation, saying it would be best left to the market.  Shares of Chinese solar companies including Hanwha SolarOne
Co., Canadian Solar and ReneSola Ltd. have been falling as they
slash forecasts and margins move into negative territory. The
17-member  Bloomberg Large Solar Energy (BISOLAR)  index is down 62 percent
since mid-year, with China’s Hanwha SolarOne Co and Canadian
Solar the worst performers.  Suntech, LDK May Struggle  Prices of panels and the materials that go into making
them, including cells, wafers and the raw material polysilicon,
have all plummeted. Suntech and LDK could struggle, according to
analysts.  Suntech needs to restructure to quicken the process of
lowering the cost of ancillary materials used to make solar
cells, Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst at Auriga USA LLC in
 New York , said by e-mail. The company is aiming to reduce these
costs to 70 cents a watt by end-2012 while rivals like  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL) ,  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  and JinkoSolar
Holding Co. already achieve about 68 cents a watt, he said.  Annual demand for panels is about 25 gigawatts, according
to New Energy Finance. There is a glut of about 10 gigawatts,
K.N. Subramaniam, chief executive officer of  Moser Baer India
Ltd. (MBI) ’s solar power-plant unit, said on Nov. 11.  Wafer Prices  Panel maker LDK, also the world’s second-biggest wafer
producer, is hampered by the vulnerability of that component,
which had the biggest decline in prices among all solar products
since October, Lynda Peng, an analyst from BOCOM, said by phone.  Prices for wafers have declined 25 percent as of the week
of Nov. 14 from the week of Oct. 10, according to New Energy
Finance, a research arm of Bloomberg LP.  Trina and Yingli are the best-suited companies to survive a
shakeout because “they have relatively lower costs,” Peng
said. They have better internal purchasing and processing
structures, and are able to cut costs relatively faster compared
with their competitors, she said.  The number of panel makers in China mushroomed in the last
five years as demand from  Europe , their top market, increased
because of government subsidy programs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 Fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 