-- 
China’s Exports to Europe ‘Falling Off Cliff’: Chart of the Day

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-11-29T11:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/china-s-exports-to-europe-falling-off-cliff-chart-of-the-day.html
Slumping shipping costs show exports
to  Europe  from China are “falling off a cliff” as the euro-
region crisis chokes off  consumer spending , according to RS
Platou Markets AS, a unit of  Norway ’s biggest shipbroking group.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the cost of hauling goods to
Europe from China is falling faster than rates for deliveries to
the U.S. The price for shipments to Europe is down 39 percent to
$511 per twenty-foot box since Aug. 31, according to figures
from Clarkson Securities Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. That’s more than double the 18 percent slide in the
cost to the U.S. West Coast, measured in 40-foot units.  “European imports from  China  will be much, much lower
going forward,” said Rahul Kapoor, a Singapore-based analyst at
Platou Markets. “If you see falling freight rates, that would
imply that European demand is falling off a cliff.”  Growth in euro-area economies will slow to 0.5 percent next
year, compared with 2.2 percent expansion in the U.S., according
to economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup Inc.
also cut its growth forecast for China today, partly citing the
possibility of a European recession.  While shipping rates were affected earlier this year by an
expansion of the fleet that plies the Europe-China route, stable
capacity since August shows the latest drop is a result of weak
demand, Kapoor said in an interview today. U.S. deliveries are
faring better than those to Europe, he said. Kapoor’s company is
a unit of RS Platou ASA, owner of RS Platou Shipbrokers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  