-- 
China Money Rate Drops a Fifth Day on More Government Spending

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-11-29T09:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/china-money-rate-drops-a-fifth-day-on-more-government-spending.html
China ’s money-market rate declined
for a fifth day on speculation the government is spending more
as the end of the year approaches.  The People’s Bank of China sold 15 billion yuan ($2.4
billion) of one-year bills today, keeping the yield at 3.4875
percent for a second week, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “Because of the fiscal spending, which could be as large
as 200 billion yuan, there’s room for the PBOC to drain
liquidity,” said  Ju Wang , a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore . “That would still point to lower money-
market rates.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, declined 32 basis points,
or 0.32 percentage point, to 3.67 percent at the close in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repo rate, was little changed at 3.03 percent. The
yield on the 3.26 percent government bond due June 2014 was
steady at 3.07 percent.  Citigroup Inc. cut its estimate for 2012 Chinese economic
growth to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent, according to a research
note today. The central bank may cut lenders’ reserve
requirements before the Chinese New Year in late January if
recent capital outflows continue, the note said. The PBOC may
also raise  interest rates  to stabilize deposits, economists led
by Hong Kong-based Minggao Shen and Shuang Ding wrote.  The monetary authority sold 10 billion yuan of 28-day
 repurchase agreements  at 2.8 percent today, according to a
statement on its website.  In February, The central bank published a list of 50
primary dealers allowed to participate in open-market operations,
including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp., China Citic Bank Corp., Industrial Bank
Co. and Postal Savings Bank of China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  