-- 
Chinese Solar CEOs Say Government Gives Them No Special Breaks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-29T16:31:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/chinese-solar-ceos-say-government-gives-them-no-special-breaks.html
Top executives at four of  China ’s
biggest solar-panel makers said the government hasn’t given them
special treatment, rebutting a U.S. complaint that they got
benefits including subsidies and preferential loans.  Instead, China’s success in nurturing its solar industry
comes from “the wisdom and intelligence of Chinese
entrepreneurs” who are more sensitive to market trends and use
the best technologies, Suntech Power Holdings Co. Chief
Executive Officer Shi Zhengrong told reporters in Beijing
yesterday.  Shi and three other CEOs defended the country’s solar
industry following the Commerce Department’s Nov. 9 decision to
investigate a complaint led by a U.S. unit of  Germany ’s
 Solarworld AG (SWV)  that could slap duties on more than $1 billion of
Chinese imports. The executives said the duties would harm the
American solar industry and set back environmental protection.  “The Chinese government has accorded fair and equal
treatment to local companies and foreign companies,”  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  Chief Executive Gao Jifan said. “The Chinese
government has opened the door to all companies, including
foreign companies.”  Shi, Gao and  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) ’s Shawn Qu all said
China’s solar industry had to pay higher  interest rates  for bank
loans than U.S. and European competitors, and paid market rates
for loans. With the appreciation of the yuan, “the loan rate we
are paying is probably equivalent to over 10 percent,” Qu said.  SolarWorld’s complaint is “unfair” because it receives
subsidies in  Europe  and the U.S., Shi said.  Solarworld Request  The executives, who also included Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. Chief Executive Officer Miao Liansheng, were
responding to a request by the U.S. unit of Bonn-based
Solarworld and six other companies that President  Barack Obama ’s
administration impose duties on Chinese imports they say are
being dumped with low-cost credit from state-run banks. On Nov.
25, China launched its own investigation into stimulus programs
on renewable energy in five American states.  Five U.S. companies have been awarded $1.56 billion in
guarantees through a Energy Department program championed by
Obama to spur alternative-energy development. That’s a fraction
of the $34.4 billion that Chinese lenders led by the state-run
 China Development Bank  have offered to solar manufacturers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Shi said much of the credit offered by Beijing-based China
Development Bank hadn’t been used. Of the $29 billion in credit
CDB has extended to four solar companies and one wind company,
only $866 million has been drawn, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Prices Fall  The U.S. probe comes as prices for the wafers used to make
cells, the finished cells and the modules installed in  power
plants  have all plummeted due to supply gluts. Monocrystalline
and multicrystalline silicon solar cell costs plunged 12.7
percent and 18.5 percent, respectively, from mid-October to mid-
November, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  A U.S. International Trade Commission panel will vote on
whether there’s a case to continue with a probe on Dec. 2.  China exported $3.5 billion of solar goods, including solar
cells, to  North America  last year, according to the China
Chamber of Commerce for Import & Export of Machinery and
Electronic Products. North America is China’s third biggest
solar export market, following Europe and Asia in 2010,
amounting about 11 percent of China’s global solar exports.  U.S. exports of solar products climbed 83 percent last year
to $5.63 billion as increasing production in China drove up
sales of manufacturing equipment and raw materials, the U.S.
Solar Energy Industries Association said Aug. 29. Polysilicon
producers including  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  and Hemlock
Semiconductor Corp. exported $2.52 billion of the basic material
used to make solar cells and exports of capital equipment were
$1.4 billion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  