-- 
China Gas Net Rises Fourfold as Home, Industrial Users Increase

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-11-29T11:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/china-gas-net-rises-fourfold-as-home-industrial-users-increase.html
China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384) , a supplier
of piped gas on the mainland, posted a fourfold gain in first-
half profit as demand from residential and industrial users rose.  Net income reached HK$374 million ($48 million), or 8.02
Hong Kong cents a share, in the six months ended Sept. 30,
compared with HK$93 million, or 2.3 cents, a year earlier, China
Gas said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  China Gas said Nov. 22 it expected a “significant”
increase in first-half profit because of improved operations at
its natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas units. The utility,
which operates 151 city piped-gas projects, aims to benefit from
demand in  Asia ’s biggest economy for the less polluting fuel.  Household natural-gas connections rose 36 percent during
the period, while industrial connections gained 57 percent,
according to the statement.  Natural-gas sales jumped 40 percent in the first half to
HK$3.4 billion, boosting total revenue by 21 percent to HK$7.9
billion, China Gas said.  The utility also operates 112 compressed natural gas
filling stations for vehicles and 44 liquefied petroleum gas
distribution projects.  The shares fell 4.3 percent to close at HK$2.65 today,
before the earnings announcement. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
gained 1.2 percent.  China Gas has slumped 22 percent this year after former
Managing Director Liu Ming Hui and Executive President Huang
Yong were detained by Shenzhen police in December for suspected
“embezzlement of the assets of an organization in which they
have duties.”  The company removed the two men from its board in April and
said operations were unaffected by the management changes.  The gas supplier said Nov. 14 that an independent investor
is keen to buy a “substantial stake” in the company. China Gas,
which didn’t identify the potential investor, said it has held
no negotiations or reached any agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 