-- 
China’s Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks on Government Support Speculation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-29T08:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/china-s-stocks-rise-for-second-day-on-economy-measures-europe-speculation.html
China stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index up the most in two weeks, on speculation the
government will take measures to bolster the economy and
European leaders will boost efforts to end the debt crisis.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  and Anhui Conch Cement Co. gained among
companies most tied to economic growth after Citigroup Inc. said
the government may shift its attention to stabilizing growth.
 Citic Securities Co. , the nation’s biggest listed brokerage,
added 1.2 percent after Xinhua News Agency said the government
will accelerate a plan to allow Hong Kong-based yuan funds to
invest in mainland securities.  “The government will introduce more pro-growth economic
policies as a slowdown becomes obvious next year with the
weakness in the property market and exports,” said Wei Wei, an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in  Shanghai .  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 29.36 points, or 1.2
percent, to 2,412.39 at the close, its biggest gain since Nov.
14. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 1.4 percent to 2,608.57. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, rallied 3.3 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 2.3 percent in November
on concern growth in China, the world’s second-largest economy,
is cooling and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is deteriorating.
The gauge is valued at 11.4 times estimated earnings, compared
with a four-year average of 17.3 times, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure has fallen 14 percent this
year after the central bank raised rates three times and lifted
the reserve-requirement ratio to curb inflation.  Europe Debt  Global stocks rallied yesterday after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  urged fast-track treaty changes to
tighten budget discipline. European finance ministers meet today
to thrash out details on how to boost the European Financial
Stability Facility.  Europe and the U.S. make up about a total of 35 percent of
China’s exports, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Gauges tracking energy and material stock rose 1.9 percent
and 1.7 percent, respectively, the two best performers among the
CSI 300’s 10 industry groups.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
gained 1.9 percent to 25.92 yuan. Anhui Conch, China’s biggest
cement maker, climbed 1.8 percent to 17.21 yuan.  Zhuzhou Smelter
Group Co. (600961) , China’s biggest producer of refined zinc, advanced
3.2 percent to 11.66 yuan. China Shenhua Energy Co., the
nation’s largest coal producer, added 1.3 percent to 26.15 yuan.  Policy Tone  China is expected to shift from fighting inflation to
stabilizing economic growth, which could lead to more policy
easing, Minggao Shen and Ben Wei, analysts at Citigroup, wrote
in report dated yesterday.  Historically, there’s a better chance that equity market
will gain in December if the policy tone is changed, and the
government may cut the reserve requirement ratio before the
Lunar New Year, the report said.  Citic Securities gained 1.2 percent to 11.27 yuan. Haitong
Securities Co. advanced 1.4 percent to 8.20 yuan.  China
Everbright Securities Co. (601788) , a unit of the nation’s largest state-
owned investment group, climbed 1.3 percent to 11.73 yuan.  Preparations for allowing investment in the nation’s
securities markets by Hong Kong-based yuan funds picked up as
the flow of overseas capital into China slowed, Xinhua reported
yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify.  Yuan Funds  The China Securities Regulatory Commission, the central
bank and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange have
agreed on the plan, which allows qualified investors to raise
money in yuan from  Hong Kong  and invest in bonds and A shares,
Xinhua reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify.  Officials from the People’s Bank of China, CSRC and SAFE
didn’t immediate reply to queries by Bloomberg News about the
Xinhua report.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said clients should exit a bet
that Hong Kong-listed companies in  China  will gain as UBS AG and
Citigroup Inc. cut growth forecasts for the world’s second-
biggest economy.  “We are closing our recommended long position in Chinese
equities” after the trade lost 5 percent, Goldman analysts
including Noah Weisberger wrote in an e-mailed report dated
yesterday. In a Nov. 6 report, the analysts favored shares in
the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index.  Estimates Slashed  Gross domestic product will increase 8 percent in 2012,
less than a previous call of 8.3 percent, Hong Kong-based
economist  Wang Tao , of UBS, said in a note today. Citigroup cut
its forecast to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent. The banks have
also reduced global growth estimates.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
says that growing doubts about the survival of Europe’s monetary
union has caused global growth to stall and represents the main
risk to the world economy.  The Paris-based organization has lowered its estimate for
China’s 2012 expansion to 8.5 percent from a 9.2 percent
forecast in May. A slowdown in property sales could trigger
developer collapses and lead to bad loans, it said.  A Chinese government report due on Dec. 1 may show
manufacturing is likely to contract for the first time since
February 2009 this month. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index may
fall to 49.8 from 50.4 in October, according to the median
forecast of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO)  advanced in U.S. trading yesterday after
completing a $2.1 billion purchase of OPTI Canada Inc. Solar
stocks also climbed after an industry group said it expects
sales in the industry to grow 28 percent this year in China.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  