-- 
Chinese Skiers Lift Japan as Tourism Defies Nuclear Disaster

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-11-30T05:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/chinese-skiers-lift-japan-as-tourism-defies-yen-to-beat-slump.html
Eight months after being turned into
refugee camps for earthquake victims escaping  Japan ’s worst
nuclear accident, some ski resorts in Fukushima say bookings for
the winter are back to about 70 percent of pre-quake levels.  While the earthquake, tsunami and reactor leak caused
almost 230,000 people to flee the country, hotel chains across
Japan are expanding and airlines are adding international
flights, betting Chinese tourists will lead a recovery. Visitor
arrivals, which slumped 63 percent in April from a year earlier,
were down 15 percent in October, with the number of Chinese
already back to year-earlier levels, government figures show.  Four Seasons Hotels Inc.  and  Japan Airlines Co.  are among
companies investing in Japan’s leisure potential even as a
record-high yen and economic crisis make travel to the country
less affordable for European and U.S. tourists. Japan earmarked
stimulus last year for tourism and health industries to bolster
its economy, which has grown an average 1 percent annually in
two decades.  “The earthquake and tsunami will not slow us down,” said
Dan Seymour, head of Japan operations for Singapore-based
developer Pacific Star Group, which announced six days after the
March 11 quake that it would open a Four Seasons-run property in
the ancient capital of Kyoto by the end of 2013. “Chinese
inbound demand is where the market is.”  The recovery is being led by Greater China. Tourists from
 Hong Kong  rose 17 percent in October from a year earlier and 2.6
percent from  Taiwan , according to  Japan National Tourism
Organization . Inbound visitors from China, which fell by 50
percent in April, were unchanged in October from the year before.  Asian Tourists  Asia accounts for about 70 percent of Japan’s foreign
tourists, with 9.5 percent coming from the U.S. While the
Japanese currency appreciated 7.9 percent against the greenback
in the past year, touching a postwar record 75.35 yen per dollar
on Oct. 31, it rose only 3.4 percent against the yuan.  “The yen is very strong right now, so it makes Tokyo more
expensive in the short term,” said Christopher Hart, president
of hotel operations for Asia-Pacific at Four Seasons. With
Chinese demand, “everybody is expecting a significant increase
in travel across the  Asia  region, including Japan.”  Even resorts close to the nuclear accident are seeing
improvement.  Hoshino Resort Co. , which will post radiation
levels along with snow readings on its website, expects
occupancy in its two Fukushima resorts of around 60 to 80
percent of 2009-2010 levels. Aizukogen Resort said bookings at
its three lodges are likely to be about 70 percent of last
year’s.  Safe Cities  Inbound visitors  may return to pre-quake levels by the end
of the year and rise 16 percent to 10 million by 2015, said
Yasushi Tanaka, a senior consultant at industry-funded  Japan
Tourism Marketing Co.  Professor Fuyuhiko Usui at the Center for
Advanced Tourism Studies at  Hokkaido University  said numbers may
recover by March, led by regions less affected by the quake.  “People realize places like Tokyo, Kyoto, Hokkaido and
Okinawa are safe,” said Usui.  About 65 million Chinese are expected to travel abroad this
year, 15 percent more than in 2010, according to the Beijing-
based  China  Tourism Academy.  Danny Hao, 33, a branding manager at a Shanghai-based film
company, is planning a 10-day trip to Japan during the Chinese
New Year in January, taking in Osaka, Kobe and Nara in the
Kansai region, about 500 kilometers (300 miles) southwest of
Fukushima.  ‘Not a Concern’  He said he’s not concerned about radiation. “Kansai is
away from the epicenter. My friends in Japan told me the
situation there isn’t as bad as people imagine.”  Pacific Star  plans to build as many as seven new hotels in
Japan within five years, Seymour said.  Ritz-Carlton Hotel Co. 
and  Hoshino , which manages four properties in Japan owned by
Goldman Sachs Group, are building new luxury properties in Kyoto,
Okinawa and near Mt. Fuji, all to open by 2014.  Four Seasons and Ritz-Carlton also said they are interested
in opening ski resorts in Niseko on Japan’s northern-most island,
which has drawn Kuala Lumpur-based YTL Corp. and Horst Schulze,
founder of U.S.-based Capella Hotels.  Japan Airlines  and Sydney-based Qantas Airways Ltd. formed
Jetstar Japan in August, while All Nippon Airways will start
budget carrier AirAsia Japan with AirAsia Bhd next year.  “Chinese leisure travel to Japan has shown a steady
increase since June,” said Beijing-based travel agent Qunar.com
in a e-mail. “The popularity of Japan is still quite high.”  Growing Business  The company, majority owned by Baidu Inc., said growth in
visitors to Japan rose 1.1 percent in October, year-on-year.  Not everyone expects a rapid recovery. At Hotel Gran Deco,
a ski resort run by Tokyu Hotels less than 80 kilometers from
the Fukushima plant, bookings are still about half of last
year’s level, said spokesman Akihito Abe.  “I don’t see why people are so optimistic about inbound
tourism,” said Michio Kitamura, a senior consultant at Nomura
Research Institute. “With the uncertainty of the world economy
at the moment, people are pessimistic for consumption.”  To help counter the headwinds, Japan cut visa restrictions
for Chinese on Aug. 10 and doubled the maximum stay to 30 days.
The tourism agency asked parliament to approve funds for 10,000
airfares to promote Japan in 2012, spokesman Zensuke Suzuki said.  “In the past there was an industry perception that inbound
demand would grow without us doing anything,” said Hoshino
President Yoshiharu Hoshino, who opened a Beijing sales office
in 2010. “Now’s the time to bring out Japan’s attractiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  