-- 
Citigroup, HSBC, RBS, Rajaratnam, JPMorgan in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-11-29T11:52:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/citigroup-hsbc-rbs-rajaratnam-glaxo-s-p-in-court-news.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s $285 million
settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
mortgage-backed securities was rejected by federal judge who
said he hadn’t been given enough facts to approve it.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  rejected the
settlement in an opinion released yesterday and set a trial
date. He has criticized the SEC’s practice of letting financial
institutions such as New York-based Citigroup settle without
admitting or denying liability.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender, agreed last month
to settle a claim by the SEC that it misled investors in a $1
billion CDO linked to subprime residential mortgage securities.
Investors lost about $700 million, according to the agency. A
trial could establish conclusions that investors could use
against Citigroup, as could a new settlement that includes
admissions by the bank.  “In any case like this that touches on the transparency of
financial markets whose gyrations have so depressed our economy
and debilitated our lives, there is an overriding public
interest in knowing the truth,” Rakoff wrote in the opinion.
The proposed settlement is “neither fair, nor reasonable, nor
adequate, nor in the public interest,” he said.  Rakoff yesterday consolidated the case with another SEC
suit involving former Citigroup employee Brian Stoker and
scheduled the combined case for trial on July 16. The parties
may try to reach a revised settlement, which must be approved by
Rakoff to take effect.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup, said
the bank disagreed with Rakoff’s ruling.  “The proposed settlement is a fair and reasonable
resolution to the SEC’s allegation of negligence,” she said in
an e-mailed statement. “The settlement fully complies with
long-established legal standards. In the event the case is
tried, we would present substantial factual and legal defenses
to the charges.”  “While we respect the court’s ruling, we believe that the
proposed $285 million settlement was fair, adequate, reasonable,
in the public interest, and reasonably reflects the scope of
relief that would be obtained after a successful trial,”  Robert
Khuzami , director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, said in
a statement. Khuzami didn’t say what action the agency will take
in response to Rakoff’s decision.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  HSBC Amends Rejected Madoff Settlement With Thema Investors  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  amended its settlement with investors in
an Irish fund who lost their money in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme after the bank’s original offer was rejected by a U.S.
judge in September.  The amended settlement, which was to be filed in U.S.
District Court in Manhattan yesterday, still offers shareholders
in Thema International Fund Plc as much as $62.5 million, while
addressing the court’s earlier concerns, the London-based lender
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “The amended agreement addresses certain issues identified
by the New York federal court overseeing the case,” HSBC said
in the statement. The amended settlement will still require the
court to certify a settlement class, address any new objections
and approve it before it takes effect, HSBC said. Details on the
settlement weren’t immediately available.  The investors sued Thema, which acted as a so-called
feeder-fund steering money to Madoff’s firm, and other
defendants, including London-based HSBC, which acted as Thema’s
custodian, in January 2009. The plaintiffs are seeking to
represent all Thema investors who lost money when Madoff’s
scheme was exposed in December 2008. They claim HSBC,  Europe ’s
largest bank, should have known Madoff was a fraud.  Jezz Farr, a spokesman for HSBC in  London , didn’t return a
phone message and e-mail seeking comment.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
has been called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He’s in a
federal prison in  North Carolina , serving a 150-year sentence.  U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in Manhattan rejected
the original settlement Sept. 7, saying it was “not fair,
reasonable or adequate, even at this preliminary stage.”  Among the “obvious deficiencies” Berman identified in
denying approval was a provision setting aside $10 million to
pay the fees and expenses of the investors’ lawyers in pursuing
claims against non-settling defendants outside the U.S.  The case is In re Herald, Primeo and Thema Securities
Litigation, 09-CV-289, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Royal Bank of Scotland to Pay $52 Million to Settle Claims  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s RBS Financial Products
unit will pay $52 million to settle claims it financed,
purchased and bundled unfair residential loans, Massachusetts
Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said.  More than $40.2 million will be used for principal
reduction and relief for more than 700 borrowers and more than
$8.9 million will be paid to the state, Coakley said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  “The securitization of subprime loans by investment banks
is a major cause of the economic crisis,” Coakley said.
“Investment banks profited handsomely from those
securitizations at the expense of homeowners.”  The RBS deal, together with previous settlements with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , brings
Massachusetts settlements with investment banks over
securitization practices to more than $200 million, according to
the statement.  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter with the
Massachusetts attorney general,” Mike Geller, an RBS spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The RBS unit was formerly known as Greenwich Capital
Financial Products.  Coakley said the loans were unfair and violated state
consumer law because they had an introductory “teaser” period
of less than three years, an introductory “teaser” rate at
least 2 percent below the fully indexed rate, a debt-to-income
ratio of more than 50 percent and substantial prepayment
penalties.  Associated Bank to Pay $13 Million to Settle Overdraft Suits  An  Associated Banc-Corp (ASBC)  unit agreed to pay $13 million to
settle consumer lawsuits accusing the bank of illegally charging
excessive overdraft fees, according to court papers.  Officials of Green Bay, Wisconsin-based Associated Bank NA
also agreed to pay the funds to wipe out “all claims that were
or could have been brought” over the bank’s overdraft policies,
lawyers for accountholder Pamela Harris said yesterday in a
federal court filing in Miami. Overdraft suits filed across the
U.S. have been consolidated in that court for pre-trial
proceedings.  The settlement comes almost three weeks after  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, won a
judge’s approval of a $410 million settlement aimed at resolving
similar claims over its overdraft policies.  “Since the settlement has not been approved and the
lawsuit is still pending, we cannot comment beyond the
statements” in court papers, Autumn Latimore, an Associated
Banc-Corp spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed release.  Suits against more than 30 banks have been consolidated
before U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King in Miami as part
of a so-called multidistrict litigation. King has been
overseeing pre-trial exchanges of information in the cases since
June 2009. He still must give final approval to the Associated
Bank accord.  Consumers contend that banks, including Bank of America,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Associated had
policies that allowed them to debit account holders’ funds in a
way that made it more likely customers would incur overdraft
fees.  The consolidated case is In re Checking Account Overdraft
Litigation, 09-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Miami).  For more, click here.  MAN Settles IPIC Ferrostaal Dispute for 350 Million Euros  MAN SE , the truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen AG, ended a
dispute with International Petroleum Investment Co. by buying
back former unit Ferrostaal, smoothing VW’s moves to create
Europe’s biggest commercial-vehicle tie-up.  MAN will pay Abu Dhabi’s IPIC 350 million euros ($465
million) to buy back a 70 percent stake in Ferrostaal and
resolve all claims, the Munich-based company said yesterday in a
statement. MAN will then sell all of Ferrostaal to  Muenchmeyer
Petersen & Co. GmbH  for as much as 160 million euros.  Ferrostaal, which manages the development of industrial and
petrochemical plants, has been under investigation by German
prosecutors since 2009 over allegations that it paid bribes to
win contracts. VW previously said unresolved investigations at
Ferrostaal were holding up efforts to integrate MAN with Swedish
rival  Scania AB (SCVB) , which Europe’s biggest carmaker also controls.  “VW has always sought to minimize potential risks and this
settlement is removing outstanding legal qualms,” said Frank
Biller, an analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart, Germany, who recommends buying MAN stock. VW doesn’t
face any more obstacles regarding joint projects with MAN and
Scania, he said.  “We are pleased to have been able to end the talks with
IPIC on a conciliatory note with an outcome that is acceptable
to everyone,” MAN Chief Financial Officer Frank Lutz said in
the statement. “We have set the course for Ferrostaal to make a
successful new start.”  Volkswagen spokesman Marco Dalan declined to comment. His
counterpart at MAN, Stefan Straub, said the agreement with IPIC
has no bearing on VW’s plans to bring about closer cooperation
between MAN and Scania. The deal won’t affect fourth-quarter
results at MAN, which made “sufficient” provisions to cover
any risks, according to Straub.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Trials  Rajaratnam Seeks to Remain Free While Appealing Wiretap Use  Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund co-founder
convicted of directing the biggest insider trading scheme in a
generation, said the use of wiretapped calls by the U.S. raises
“substantial” issues of law that should allow him to remain
free during his appeal.  Rajaratnam, 54, who is scheduled to report to prison on
Dec. 5, is seeking to remain free pending the outcome of his
appeal, according a letter his lawyers sent yesterday to
Catherine O’Hagan Wolfe, clerk of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Manhattan.  ‘Raj Rajaratnam respectfully moves this court to stay his
surrender date and to grant release pending appeal of his
criminal conviction and sentence,’’ his lawyers said in court
papers. They said the evidence they submitted “establishes the
substantiality of Mr. Rajaratnam’s appeal.”  Patricia Millett, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, yesterday filed
a copy of the March 7, 2008, wiretap application request by FBI
special agent B.J. Kang to intercept phones used by Rajaratnam
as part of the insider-trading investigation. Millett said in
the filing that the court may like to see the document “in
anticipation” of a hearing set for Nov. 30.  “This document is of relevance to the upcoming oral
argument and may be referenced by counsel during the argument,”
Millett said in the letter to the court clerk.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers unsuccessfully argued against the use
of the telephone intercept evidence at his trial. He was
convicted by a jury in May and sentenced to 11 years in prison.  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam made more than $72 million by
using illegal tips to trade in stocks of companies including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Intel Corp., Google Inc., ATI
Technologies Inc. and Clearwire Corp.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-4416, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case
is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  First American Case at Top Court May Limit Home-Buyer Suits  The U.S. Supreme Court considered putting new limits on
consumer lawsuits against title-insurance companies, hearing
arguments on a suit that seeks hundreds of millions of dollars
from  First American Financial Corp. (FAF)   The suit accuses First American of operating an illegal
title-insurance kickback scheme. The question for the high court
is whether consumers suffered any injury that would entitle them
to go to court.  The one-hour session yesterday suggested that at least
some, and perhaps a majority, of the nine justices are skeptical
that the Constitution permits the lawsuit in the absence of
indications that consumers paid higher fees.  The suit, filed in federal court in California, centers on
First American’s ownership stake in thousands of title agencies
across the country. The company is accused of acquiring those
interests in exchange for promises that the agencies would refer
customers to a First American unit that sells title insurance.  The case is, First American Financial v. Edwards, 10-708,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Drugmaker Sales Force Overtime Clash Gets Top Court Review  The  U.S. Supreme Court  agreed to consider whether
drugmakers must pay overtime to as many as 90,000 sales
representatives, as the justices heeded calls from both sides
for review of what may be a multibillion-dollar case.  The high court yesterday said it will review a lower
court’s conclusion that salespeople working for a
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  unit aren’t covered by a federal wage-and-
hour law.  The suit is one of more than a dozen similar cases that
have been filed against drugmakers, including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and units of  Novartis AG (NVS)  and  Merck &
Co. (MRK)  With federal appeals courts divided on the issue, business
trade groups joined the Glaxo salespeople in urging review.  “Such suits could potentially lead to billions of dollars
in unexpected liability,” the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said in
a court filing. “Further, they could force the industry to
abandon pay practices that have existed -- virtually
unchallenged --since before the Second World War.”  The dispute turns on the exception in the U.S. Fair Labor
Standards Act for outside salespeople. Two former Glaxo
salesmen, Michael Shane Christopher and Frank Buchanan, contend
that exception doesn’t apply because drug industry sales
representatives don’t actually sell the product during their
visits to doctors’ offices.  The case is Christopher v. SmithKline Beecham, 11-204, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Consultant Facing Insider-Trading Charges Goes on Trial  A management consultant used tips from a hedge fund
employee to profit by betting on shares in companies including
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  and Swatch Group AG, prosecutors said in
a London court yesterday.  Rupinder Sidhu faces 23 insider-trading charges and one
count of money laundering in a jury trial that is expected to
last three weeks. Sidhu pleaded not guilty in April.  The prosecution claims Sidhu got inside information from a
man who worked at a hedge fund about his firm’s trading, said
Michael Brompton, a lawyer for the prosecution. “This
information enabled the defendant to engage in successful spread
betting on stocks and shares.”  Sidhu, 40, was charged with trading securities of companies
such as Julius Baer, Swatch, Reed Elsevier Plc and Michael Page
International Plc, while knowing London hedge fund AKO Capital
LLP planned transactions in the same shares, according to the
indictment.  Before he traded with inside information, Sidhu, who
advised public companies as a management consultant, had
incurred losses of 80,000 pounds ($124,100) by October 2008 in a
personal account with spread-betting firm IG Index, Brompton
said. He told the firm he didn’t have sufficient assets to pay
the debt and would pay monthly installments of 5,000 pounds from
his salary.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  JPMorgan Misled  Assured Guaranty , New Witnesses Say in Lawsuit  Bond insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  has come forward with
three dozen new witnesses who it says will back a legal claim
that it was defrauded by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMC Mortgage
unit in a $337 million mortgage-backed securities deal.  Lawyers for Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured Guaranty filed
a new complaint on Nov. 18, unsealed yesterday, in a lawsuit
accusing EMC and its parent at the time, Bear Stearns & Co., of
misleading the bond insurer. The complaint, which also names
JPMorgan as a defendant, includes a new fraud claim and new
allegations from insiders at EMC and elsewhere.  “The truth is now coming directly from Bear Stearns’ own
former employees,” the insurer said in the complaint. “Seven
confidential witnesses who were responsible for underwriting at
EMC each have affirmed that they faced intense pressure to
approve the purchase of high volumes of loans for Bear Stearns’
securitizations without adequate review.”  Bear Stearns is a defendant in two other lawsuits in
federal court in Manhattan by guarantors of mortgage-backed
deals who say they were defrauded by the bank, which collapsed
in 2008, according to the complaint. Assured Guaranty said its
complaint adds to those suits by citing accounts from insiders
and other sources.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the new complaint.  The suit focuses on a 2005 transaction known as SACO I
Trust 2005-GP1, one of hundreds of securitizations by Bear
Stearns from 2004 to early 2007. Assured Guaranty claims EMC
knew that thousands of home-equity lines of credit that served
as collateral for $337 million in securities it guaranteed were
“junk” or otherwise flawed.  The case is Assured Guaranty Corp. v. EMC Mortgage Corp.,
10-cv-05367, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Lehman Claims $1 Billion From AG Financial on Derivatives  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s U.K. unit sued AG Financial
Products Inc. over derivative transactions, saying it is owed
more than $1 billion.  AG Financial Products improperly calculated termination
payments under derivative deals with Lehman Brothers
International (Europe), the Lehman unit said in a complaint
filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court.  “AGFP has acted in bad faith and far outside the bounds of
commercial reasonability and market practice in determining the
amount payable,” LBIE said.  LBIE said “a proper calculation” shows AG Financial
Products owes it more than $1 billion. AG Financial Products
claimed it was owed $24.8 million from LBIE, according to the
complaint.  AG Financial Products is a unit of Assured Guaranty Ltd.,
according to Assured’s 2010 annual report. Ashweeta Durani, a
spokeswoman for Assured, didn’t immediately comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is Lehman Brothers International (Europe) v. AG
Financial Products Inc., 653284-2011, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  McCormick & Schmick’s Seafood Sued Over Landry’s Buyout  McCormick & Schmick’s Seafood Restaurants Inc. (MSSR)  was sued by
a stockholder who contends the shares are undervalued in a
$131.6 million takeover offer by  Landry’s Inc.   Ray Zahnow contends McCormick directors are duty-bound to
get the best price for the stock, and shirked their obligations
in agreeing to the $8.75-a-share deal.  “The board has breached their fiduciary duties by agreeing
to the proposed transaction for grossly inadequate
consideration,” lawyers for Zahnow said in Delaware Chancery
Court papers made public yesterday in Wilmington.  McCormick of Portland, Oregon, and Houston-based Landry’s
announced the tender offer in a statement Nov. 22, saying the
McCormick board determined the acquisition was fair and in the
best interests of stockholders.  Zahnow asked a judge to stop the transaction and award
damages and legal fees.  The company “believes the claims asserted therein are
meritless and intends to defend the lawsuit,” Joseph Sala, an
outside spokesman for McCormick, said yesterday in an e-mail.  The case is Zahnow v. McCormick & Schmick’s, CA7067,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  S&P Loses German Appeals Court Ruling Over Lehman Ratings  Standard & Poor’s  Financial Services LLC, a unit of  McGraw-
Hill Cos. (MHP) , lost a German appeals court ruling over whether it
can be sued in the country for its ratings of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  The Frankfurt Higher Regional Court overturned a ruling
from a lower court that blocked the lawsuits in April, said Ingo
Noehre, a spokesman for the appeals court. A German pensioner is
seeking compensation for 30,000 euros ($40,000) over losses on
Lehman certificates.  “The lower court now has to rehear the issue and cannot
deny jurisdiction for the same reasons,” Noehre said. “Whether
S&P is liable for damages in the end wasn’t at issue in
yesterday’s ruling and needs to be determined by the lower
court.”  Rating companies have come under fire for their alleged
failure to foresee the financial crisis and for granting top
rankings to mortgage bonds that fell in value after home-loan
defaults. Investors brought cases in Germany after a U.S. court
ruled the ratings companies can’t be held liable because their
ratings are protected speech.  Philippa Melaniphy, a spokeswoman for Standard & Poor’s in
London, declined to immediately comment on the decision.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 