-- 
UBS, Citigroup Cut China Growth Estimates on Europe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-29T11:25:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/citigroup-cuts-china-2012-growth-estimate-to-8-4-from-8-7-.html
(Corrects 10th paragraph to show cut was from 2.8
percent.)  UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. cut  China 
growth forecasts for 2012 as home sales slide and  Europe , the
nation’s biggest export market, faces the risk of a recession.  Gross domestic product will increase 8 percent in 2012,
less than a previous call of 8.3 percent, Hong Kong-based
economist  Wang Tao  said in a note today. Citigroup cut its
forecast to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent. The banks have also
reduced global growth estimates.  Europe’s debt crisis is sapping export demand just as
Premier Wen Jiabao’s crackdown on property speculation damps
construction. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said clients should exit
a bet that Hong Kong-listed China companies will gain because
“the balance of risks is no longer attractive.”  “Much weaker euro zone growth will affect the rest of the
world, including China,” UBS economist Wang said in today’s
report. “We think more obvious and persistent easing will
likely occur in the first quarter of 2012, when export,
construction and industrial production should have decelerated
significantly.”  China’s economy , the world’s second biggest, grew 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. Expansion has
slowed from 11.9 percent in the first quarter of last year.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6 percent as
of 1:25 p.m. local time, paring this year’s decline to about 15
percent.  Hong Kong Shares  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , a gauge of 40
mainland companies listed in Hong Kong, dropped 10 percent from
Nov. 5 through yesterday on concern growth will slow because of
property curbs and Europe’s debt crisis. In a Nov. 6 report,
Goldman Sachs’ analysts had suggested favoring shares in the
index because of their underperformance relative to the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  Morgan Stanley yesterday lowered its China growth estimate
for next year to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent. The nation is
unlikely to be immune from weaker external demand although
domestic demand will “hold up well,” Hong Kong-based
economists led by Helen Qiao and Yuande Zhu said in a note.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for  Hong Kong ’s growth this
year to 4.7 percent from 5 percent, economists led by Denise Yam
said in a report dated yesterday. Morgan Stanley predicts the
city’s economy will grow 2 percent next year, down from a
previous estimate of 4 percent.  Debt Crisis  UBS predicts the world economy will expand 2.7 percent next
year, down from a previous estimate of 3.1 percent. Citigroup’s
cut to 2.5 percent from 2.8 percent, was the sixth consecutive
monthly downgrade, economists led by  Willem Buiter  and  Michael
Saunders  said in a report dated yesterday.  The  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
says that growing doubts about the survival of Europe’s monetary
union has caused global growth to stall and represents the main
risk to the world economy.  The Paris-based organization has lowered its estimate for
China’s 2012 expansion to 8.5 percent from a 9.2 percent
forecast in May. A slowdown in property sales could trigger
developer collapses and lead to bad loans, it said.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , China’s second-largest
developer by market value, said its contracted sales fell 39
percent in October from a year earlier.  Barclays Capital 
estimates  home prices  may decrease by 10 percent to 30 percent
in the next year.  Sliding Prices  Home prices fell in 33 of 70 cities in October, government
data shows. Housing transactions declined 25 percent from
September  “We think a sharper deceleration in property investment is
the biggest risk to China’s economy,” Johanna Chua, Hong Kong-
based chief economist for  Asia  at Citigroup, said in today’s
report. “But a hard landing can be averted in the near term
with sufficient policy flexibility to provide offsetting support
for growth, especially on the fiscal front.”  UBS’ Wang said the government may relax fiscal policy and
bank lending quotas next year.  She estimates additional fiscal spending of about 1 percent
of gross domestic product over a 12-month period and that the
central bank will raise its new lending target for 2012 to 8
trillion yuan ($1.25 trillion) from 7.3 trillion to 7.4 trillion
this year.  Citigroup said the central bank may cut banks’  reserve
requirements  before the Chinese New Year in late January if
recent capital outflows continue and raise  interest rates  to
stabilize deposits.  --Nerys Avery in Beijing. Editor: Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
C US <Equity>
UBSN VX <Equity>
PBCZ CH <Equity> 