-- 
Citigroup Settlement, Fed Loans, MF Global: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-11-29T13:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/citigroup-settlement-fed-loans-mf-global-panels-compliance.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s $285 million
settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
mortgage-backed securities was rejected by a federal judge who
said he hadn’t been given enough facts to approve it.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff rejected the settlement in
an opinion released yesterday and set a trial date. The judge
has criticized the agreement for permitting New York-based
Citigroup to settle without admitting or denying liability in
the matter.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender, agreed last month
to settle a claim by the SEC that it misled investors in a $1
billion CDO linked to subprime residential mortgage securities.
Investors lost about $700 million, according to the agency.  Rakoff wrote in the opinion that in any case like this,
which “touches on the transparency of financial markets,”
there is an “overriding public interest in knowing the truth.”  Robert Khuzami, Director of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement, said in a statement yesterday that while the agency
respects the court’s ruling, his office believes that “the
proposed $285 million settlement was fair, adequate, reasonable,
in the public interest, and reasonably reflects the scope of
relief that would be obtained after a successful trial.”  The SEC will continue to review the ruling and will take
steps that “best serve investors’ interest,” according to the
statement.  Rakoff yesterday consolidated the case with another SEC
suit involving former Citigroup employee Brian Stoker and
scheduled the combined case for trial on July 16, 2012. The
parties may try to reach a revised settlement, which must be
approved by Rakoff to take effect.  Stoker, a former director in Citigroup’s CDO structuring
group, was responsible for structuring and marketing the
investment, according to an SEC complaint filed last month.
Brook Dooley, a lawyer for Stoker, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the SEC allegations.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment pending a review of the decision.  At a hearing this month, Rakoff asked whether the public
interest doesn’t require determining whether Citigroup did what
the SEC claims. Matthew Martens, the SEC’s chief litigation
counsel, told Rakoff that the agency adopted its policy of
allowing settlements without admission or denial of liability in
1972 to avoid having defendants claim publicly they hadn’t done
anything wrong after agreeing to settle. Rakoff said he can’t
endorse the settlement based only on the unproved allegations in
the SEC’s complaint.  He rejected the SEC argument that he should defer to the
agency’s determination that the settlement is fair, particularly
as it asked him to issue an order requiring Citigroup not to
violate the securities laws in the future.  Calling Citigroup “a recidivist,” Rakoff said the SEC
hasn’t tried to enforce such an order against a financial
institution in the past 10 years.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU To Propose Regulation Overhaul for Auditors Tomorrow  The  European Commission  will tomorrow publish plans to
overhaul regulation of the audit industry,  Chantal Hughes , a
spokeswoman for Michel Barnier, the region’s financial services
commissioner, said in an e-mail.  The proposals will address concerns that insufficient
competition between auditors has led to poor quality
assessments, the EU said in a statement on its website.  Compliance Action  Jon Corzine Called to Testify for Senate Agriculture Panel  Jon S. Corzine, the former  New Jersey  Governor and U.S.
senator who led  MF Global Holdings Ltd.  before the firm sought
bankruptcy protection on Oct. 31, has been called to testify
Dec. 13 at a  Senate Agriculture Committee  hearing on the
collapse.  The hearing was announced yesterday in a statement released
by the office of Agriculture Committee Chairman Debbie Stabenow,
a Michigan Democrat.  Corzine has also been asked to testify by the  House
Financial Services Oversight and Investigations  panel at a Dec.
15 hearing “on the decisions and events leading to the collapse
of MF Global,” that panel said in a statement on Nov. 22.  Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission; Robert Cook, director of trading and markets at the
Securities and Exchange Commission; William C. Dudley, the
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; and Bradley
Abelow, MF Global’s president and chief operating officer, have
also been asked to appear at the hearing, a person with direct
knowledge of the House panel’s plans said on Nov. 22.  Corzine, who was co-chief executive officer of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  before seeking public office as a Democrat,
resigned from MF Global on Nov. 4 after the firm filed for
bankruptcy protection.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine in New York,
declined to comment on whether Corzine would appear voluntarily
before the committees. The panels have the authority to subpoena
witnesses.  Fed Gave Banks $13 Billion Undisclosed to Congress  The Federal Reserve and the big banks fought for more than
two years to keep details of the largest bailout in U.S. history
a secret.  No one calculated until now that banks reaped an estimated
$13 billion of income by taking advantage of the Fed’s below-
market rates, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its January
issue. Betty Liu reported on the lending on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  For the report, click here, and for more, click here.  Separately, U.S. Representative Elijah Cummings, the top
Democrat on the  House Oversight and Government Reform Committee ,
is seeking a hearing with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke on the central bank’s loans to Wall Street firms during
the 2008 financial crisis.  Cummings requested the hearing in a letter yesterday to the
panel’s chairman, California Republican Darrell Issa, according
to an e-mailed statement from Cummings’s office. He sent the
letter following the Bloomberg Markets story describing how the
largest U.S. banks benefited from secret Fed lending.  UniCredit Asset Seizure on Alleged Tax Fraud Annulled, Ansa Says  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  won an appeal to have returned 245 million
euros of assets that were seized as part of a probe into alleged
tax fraud, Ansa news agency reported yesterday.  A spokeswoman for UniCredit didn’t have an immediate
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Eurohypo Sale to Germany Should Be ‘Last Option,’ Lawmaker Says  A sale of  Commerzbank AG ’s unprofitable commercial-real
estate unit Eurohypo to the German government should be the
“last option,” according to Bjoern Saenger, a lawmaker from
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Free Democratic Party pro-market
coalition ally.  Saenger, who is also on the parliament’s finance committee,
said in a telephone interview today that there are other
alternatives to the state taking it over. He cited a possible
closure of the lender as one of the options.  Commerzbank is considering a sale of Eurohypo at a loss to
Germany to avoid another European Union state-aid investigation,
Financial Times Deutschland reported today, citing unidentified
people. The EU already ordered the sale of the unit by the end
of 2014 as part of the conditions for 18 billion euros ($24
billion) in rescue funds that Commerzbank received during the
credit crunch.  Spokesman Reiner Rossmann declined to comment.  The German government in 2009 took control of Hypo Real
Estate Holding AG, a commercial-property and public finance
lender that competes with Eurohypo, in the country’s first bank
nationalization since the 1930s after the company ran out of
funding amid the credit crunch.  Commerzbank Chief Financial Officer  Eric Strutz  said in
August that it would be difficult to sell Eurohypo because of
funding challenges. The Eschborn-based lender, which has more
than 200 billion euros in assets, had a first-half pretax loss
of 871 million euros after impairments on Greek government
bonds.  For more, click here.  Capital One to Exit $150 Million in Funds, Citing Volcker Rule  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the top  performer (BKX)  this year in
the KBW Bank Index, plans to sell or restructure hedge-fund and
private-equity investments prohibited by new U.S. regulations.  Capital One holds about $150 million in stakes disallowed
under the so-called Volcker rule, the McLean, Virginia-based
lender said in a letter to the Securities and Exchange
Commission dated July 29 and made public yesterday. The rule
would bar banks from owning more than 3 percent of hedge funds
and private-equity funds and investing more than 3 percent of
Tier 1 capital in such funds.  The bank, which doesn’t have units that sponsor or invest
in hedge funds or private-equity funds, acquired the investments
through the purchase of other lenders and doesn’t expect the
rule to have a “material effect,” according to the letter.  The SEC, as part of a review of the bank’s first-quarter
filing, asked Capital One in a July 19 letter to discuss how the
Volcker rule would affect business units that sponsor or invest
in private-equity or hedge funds. The agency said in an Oct. 12
letter that it had completed its review. Such correspondence is
typically released about 45 days after a review is completed.  Courts/Tribunals  PwC Should Get Record Fine in JPMorgan Case, U.K. Regulator Says  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP should get a record fine of at
least 1.5 million pounds ($2.33 million) for failures concerning
reports on client-money accounts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
London securities unit, the U.K.’s accounting watchdog told a
tribunal yesterday.  The  Accountancy & Actuarial Discipline Board  is seeking
fines that top the 1.2 million-pound sanction against Coopers &
Lybrand LLP in 1999. The independent arbitrators in London will
make a decision within 15 days.  J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd. was fined a record 33.3 million
pounds last year by the Financial Services Authority, Britain’s
banking regulator, for not properly separating client money from
the firm’s accounts. An average of $8.6 billion wasn’t properly
segregated in an error that went undetected by PwC for seven
years.  Tim Dutton, a lawyer for PwC, argued the fine should be
capped at 1 million pounds because the firm had admitted and
apologized for the error, which was a “result of information
technology changes made by JPM treasury staff,” and that no
clients of the bank had lost money.  “We acknowledge that we did not maintain our usual high
standards,” PwC spokesman David Jetuah said in an e-mail. He
added that the firm takes its reporting requirements “very
seriously” and hopes “the regulatory response will be
proportionate to the issue.”  Consultant Facing Insider-Trading Charges Goes on Trial  A management consultant used tips from a hedge fund
employee to profit by betting on shares in companies including
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  and  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , prosecutors said in
a London court yesterday.  Rupinder Sidhu faces 23 insider-trading charges and one
count of  money laundering  in a jury trial that began yesterday
and is expected to last three weeks. Sidhu pleaded not guilty in
April.  The prosecution claims Sidhu got inside information from a
man who worked at a hedge fund about his firm’s trading, said
Michael Brompton, a lawyer for the prosecution. The information
enabled him “to engage in successful spread betting on stocks
and shares.”  Sidhu, 40, was charged with trading securities of companies
such as Julius Baer, Swatch,  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL)  and  Michael Page
International Plc (MPI) , while knowing London hedge fund AKO Capital
LLP planned transactions in the same shares, according to the
indictment.  Film Producer John Bennett Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading  Independent film producer John Bennett pleaded guilty to
participating in a $2.6 million insider-trading scheme in which
he paid a colleague for secret tips about drug-company
takeovers.  Bennett, of Norwalk, Connecticut, who worked for Merrill
Lynch & Co. from 2005 to 2007, was accused of later making
illegal trades using information from a friend about the April
2008 acquisition of  Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc.  by  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  and about the September 2009 purchase of
Sepracor Inc. by  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506) , according to
court filings.  Bennett told the judge he met his colleague, identified by
prosecutors as Scott Allen, a former investment adviser from
Atlanta, at Manhattan restaurants and paid him an unspecified
amount of money for the tips. He pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  and two counts of
securities fraud.  Bennett, who remains free on bond and is scheduled to be
sentenced April 23, gained $1.1 million in profits trading on
the information he got from Allen, according to prosecutors in
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara .  Henry Mazurek , Bennett’s lawyer, said he didn’t have an
immediate comment after court.  The case is U.S. v. Bennett, 11-cr-927, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rajaratnam Seeks to Remain Free While Appealing Wiretap Use  Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund co-founder
convicted of directing the biggest insider trading scheme in a
generation, said the use of wiretapped calls by the U.S. raises
“substantial” issues of law that should allow him to remain
free during his appeal.  Rajaratnam, 54, who is scheduled to report to prison on
Dec. 5, is seeking to remain free pending the outcome of his
appeal, according a letter his lawyers sent yesterday to
Catherine O’Hagan Wolfe, clerk of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Manhattan. Lawyers for the fund manager argue there were
“glaring omissions” in the wiretap affidavit used to monitor
Rajaratnam’s calls that are likely to be grounds for reversing
his conviction.  Before trial, Rajaratnam’s lawyers unsuccessfully argued
against the use of the telephone intercept evidence. He was
convicted by a jury in May and sentenced to 11 years in prison.  Last November, U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who
presided over Rajaratnam’s criminal trial, ruled that the
government had complied with federal wiretapping laws in its
investigation. Prosecutors, who used 45 wiretap recordings at
trial, said it was the first insider-trading case in which the
government made significant use of wiretaps.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
on the letter.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara, whose office prosecuted the case, declined to
comment on yesterday’s filings.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-4416, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case
is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Levitt Says U.S. Financial Regulators Are Underfunded  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the funding of U.S. financial
regulators like the Commodities Futures Trading Commission is
“atrocious.”  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and
Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Barney Frank Won’t Seek Re-Election in 2012, Plans to Retire  U.S. Representative Barney Frank, co-author of the biggest
rewrite of Wall Street rules since the Great Depression, will
retire instead of seeking another term after Massachusetts re-
shapes his congressional district.  Frank, a Democrat serving his 16th term, led the House
Financial Services Committee during the 2008 credit crisis and
was a top negotiator on the $700 billion banking-industry
bailout. In 2009 and 2010, he was the lead House negotiator on
what would become the Dodd-Frank Act -- a 2,300 page overhaul of
the U.S. financial regulatory system.  Frank, 71, said he had “tentatively” decided to retire
after this term when he completed the Dodd-Frank Act last year.
He said he changed his mind when Republicans took control of the
House and he saw their plans for financial regulation.  Frank also said the new congressional map, which
substantially changed his constituency, played a role in his
decision to step down. He said he plans to write, teach and
lecture.  The Massachusetts congressman led the push for the
regulatory overhaul that bears his name along with Christopher
Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who retired from the Senate
instead of seeking re-election in 2010. They shepherded the
measure through a yearlong battle fraught with partisan fights
and fueled by millions of dollars from groups lobbying to shape
the future of financial oversight.  For more, click here and click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 