-- 
Climate Talks Held ‘Hostage’ by Kyoto Debate, Former U.S. Official Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-11-29T15:11:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/climate-talks-held-hostage-by-kyoto-debate-former-u-s-official-says.html
The 195 nations at climate talks in
Durban, South Africa, should focus on a voluntary agreement
reached last year, not on linking a new deal to the existing
 Kyoto Protocol , a former Obama administration official says.  United Nations-led negotiations are tangled over whether
there should be a second phase of emissions cuts under the 1997
Kyoto treaty after the first round expires next year. The U.S.
rejected the accord because it doesn’t require big developing
polluters such as China to reduce  greenhouse gases .  The European Union says extension depends on whether
nations including the U.S. and China agree to forge a new
legally binding treaty in 2015. The U.S. says it won’t unless
all key issues are worked out first, an unlikely scenario given
the current state of negotiations. The U.S. instead wants to
focus on the political deal reached last year in  Mexico  that
includes actions from all major polluters through 2020.  “The cost of the current debate over future legal form is
that it detracts from the tangible work that could be done now
building on the Cancun Agreements,” Trevor Houser, a former
U.S. climate negotiator, said in an interview.  “That kind of practical cooperation would help lay the
foundation for a future legally binding agreement, but instead
it’s getting held hostage because of the debate over the future
of the Kyoto Protocol,” he said.  Blocking Progress  Critics accuse the U.S. of blocking progress on attempts to
craft a new legally binding treaty. World leaders including
President  Barack Obama  failed to agree on such an accord during
2009 negotiations in Copenhagen.  The U.S. says Obama salvaged the climate talks by working
with  India ,  China , South Africa and  Brazil  on a political deal
that became the basis for the Cancun Agreements adopted by the
UN last year.  While many countries and environmentalists support the
Cancun plan as a temporary solution, they say the focus should
be on extending Kyoto and working on a plan for a new, stronger
legally binding accord.  An attempt in 1992 to reduce emissions through a voluntary
regime failed, leading to the creation of the Kyoto Protocol,
Union of Concerned Scientists’ Alden Meyer said.  “We don’t need to repeat that history,” he said.  The U.S. supports the idea of a binding treaty as long as
it applies “fully to all significant players,” U.S. negotiator
 Jonathan Pershing  said yesterday. The dilemma of how to
construct such an accord has been at the center of a negotiating
stalemate that’s spanned almost two decades.  ‘Constructive Ambiguity’  Edward Cameron of the World Resources Institute in
 Washington  says the current debate over the legal form of a new
treaty stems from conflicting views of the Cancun Agreements,
adopted by the UN with support of all countries except  Bolivia .  Some countries see the deal as a “temporary division until
the politics are right to get negotiations back on track toward
a legally binding instrument,” Cameron said in an interview.
“For others, it’s a completely new road being built.  The “constructive ambiguity” in the Cancun plan allowed
all countries to interpret it as they wished, he said  “The problem with Durban is that constructive ambiguity
isn’t going to hold for much longer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Durban,  South Africa  at
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  