-- 
Clinton Myanmar Visit May Augur Business Opening After Apple-to-Pepsi Exit

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-11-30T10:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/clinton-in-myanmar-may-augur-opening-after-apple-to-pepsi-exit.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s
arrival today in Myanmar may give Western companies an opening
to return to the former dictatorship 14 years after her husband
banned new investment on human-rights concerns.  Clinton’s three-day visit, the highest-level U.S. trip in
more than five decades, comes after Myanmar President  Thein Sein 
released political prisoners and eased media censorship. Boycott
threats prompted companies such as PepsiCo Inc., Levi-Strauss &
Co. and Apple Inc. to pull out of Myanmar even before then-
President Bill Clinton imposed sanctions in 1997.  “It’s just a question of whether the little bit of money
you made there was worth being stigmatized, even unfairly,”
said Frances Zwenig, counselor with the  U.S.-Asean Business
Council , a trade group whose members include Google Inc., Coca-
Cola Co. and Citigroup Inc. “What we’re looking at now is a new
world where that might not be the case.”  A political detente would allow U.S. and European companies
greater access to a market of  62 million people , though they are
among  Asia ’s poorest. Until now neighboring  China ,  India  and
Thailand have accounted for most of the investment into Myanmar,
pouring  more than $25 billion  into ports,  power plants  and
pipelines to capitalize on the country’s rich natural resources
and strategic location on the Indian Ocean.  Clinton arrived in the capital Naypyidaw today, the
Associated Press reported.  ‘Very, Very Rich’  “They do have a small stock market, very small, and there
are a few public companies that they are trying to develop more
right now,” Jim Rogers, chairman of Singapore-based Rogers
Holdings, told Bloomberg Television yesterday. “If you can find
ways to invest in Myanmar you will be very, very rich over the
next 20, 30, 40 years.”  Investment has centered around natural gas production. It
has almost quadrupled in the past decade to 12.1 billion cubic
meters in 2010, about a tenth that of China, Asia-Pacific’s
biggest producer, according to the  BP Statistical Review .  China National Petroleum Corp. last year started building
 oil and gas pipelines  across the country, and India last year
approved plans for Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) 
to invest $1.3 billion in a natural gas project led by South
Korea’s Daewoo International Corp.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl (ITD) ,
Thailand’s biggest construction company, signed an $8.6 billion
contract last year with Myanmar’s government to build a deep-sea
port and industrial park.  ‘Vast Opportunities’  “There are a vast amount of opportunities in Myanmar,”
said Chanitr Charnchainarong, executive vice president of the
 Stock Exchange of Thailand  in Bangkok, who has traveled to the
country “many times” in the past year. “Every Western company
complaining about sanctions is looking around quietly. The more
the merrier.”  China,  Hong Kong  and Thailand’s $25 billion account for
more than 70 percent of the total investment into Myanmar,
according to government  statistics  that don’t provide a
timeframe. More than 86 percent of total foreign investment
there has been in the electricity, mining and oil and gas
sectors, government statistics  show .  Some western companies are involved: France’s  Total SA (FP)  and
 Chevron Corp.  own part of a gas field and pipeline that
stretches to Thailand. Chevron, based in San Ramon,  California ,
obtained a 28.3 percent stake in the Total-operated field
through its 2005 purchase of Unocal Corp, which made its
investment prior to the 1997  ban . The EU doesn’t block oil and
gas investments.  Unscrambling Sanctions?  Total spokesman Florent Segura declined to comment on the
Paris-based company’s operations in Myanmar. “Wherever we
operate, we are dedicated to developing economically viable
projects while adhering to national and international laws and
ensuring compliance with our Code of Conduct,” the company said
in a  statement  about Myanmar on its website.  “Sanctions hang like a millstone round our necks, and the
U.S. would have particular problems unscrambling them as they
are so diffuse and Congress could still take a hard line,”
Derek Tonkin, chairman of  Network Myanmar , a U.K.-based
organization that promotes reconciliation in Myanmar, and a
former British ambassador in the region, said by e-mail.  Myanmar produced more than 25,000 metric tons of jade in
2009 and has deposits of tin, zinc, coal and copper, according
to the  U.S. Geological Survey . Even so, decades of military rule
in the Southeast Asian country, where forests cover half of a
total land area equivalent to the size of  Texas , have restricted
exploration.  Suu Kyi Meeting  Clinton is the first U.S. secretary of state to travel to
Myanmar since John Foster Dulles visited the country, then
called  Burma , in 1955. Her trip includes stops in Naypyidaw and
Yangon, where she will meet with opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi.  Clinton’s goal is “to continue the momentum that there’s
been towards greater respect for human rights, greater movement
on political reform in Burma, and also, critically, greater
respect for ethnic minorities in the context of national
reconciliation,”  Ben Rhodes , the White House deputy national
security adviser, told reporters on Nov. 22 in  Washington .  U.S. sanctions against Myanmar have been tightening since
1988, when then-President Ronald Reagan suspended aid and banned
arms sales after soldiers killed about 3,000 student protesters,
according to an estimate by Human Rights Watch. A  series  of
congressional acts and presidential orders since have banned
imports, restricted money transfers, curbed aid money, frozen
assets, prevented engagement from agencies like the World Bank
and targeted jewelry with gemstones originating in Myanmar.  Nothing Without Banks  Thein Sein has freed hundreds of prisoners since taking
power in February. Suu Kyi, who was released from house arrest a
year ago after spending 15 of the previous 21 years in
confinement, has called on him to release more than 500 still
behind bars.  Already unnerved by  Europe ’s debt crisis, investors may be
wary given legal uncertainties and financial constraints
surrounding Myanmar, said Lye Thim Loong, who helps manage about
$770 million at Libra Invest Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  “It can’t happen overnight,” he said. “First of all, you
need banks to do trade financing. Without banking lines nothing
trades.”  Several large European companies operating in Myanmar,
including Total and  Unilever (ULVR) , the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods company, are in talks to form a business
organization modeled on EU chambers of commerce in Southeast
Asia, said Luc de Waegh, founder of  West Indochina Ltd. , which
advises firms in Myanmar.  Trevor Gorin, a spokesman for London- and Rotterdam-based
Unilever, said: “We have no knowledge of this and are not
involved.”  Social Responsibility  De Waegh said the effort is focused on creating quality
jobs as part of corporate social responsibility to help Myanmar
transition. “The visit of Clinton suggests that responsible
investment can contribute to the development of Myanmar,” said
de Waegh, who has done business there since 1993.  Myanmar’s citizens earn an estimated $2.20 per day on
average, about seven times less than the per capita income in
neighboring  Thailand , according to International Monetary Fund
 statistics .  Under Myanmar’s multiple- exchange rate  system, the kyat is
pegged to 8.5 per 1 IMF-issued special drawing right, equivalent
to about 6.4 kyat per dollar. Unofficial rates are more than 100
times higher, trading at 770 kyat per dollar on Oct. 28,
according to the Irrawaddy, an online exile newspaper. The
difference hinders trade and increases costs for foreign
businesses, according to a 2008 IMF working paper.  IMF Advice  Myanmar has sought IMF advice to end its multiple exchange-
rate system and is modernizing its banking system, central bank
governor U Ha Tun said Sept 23. Deputy Governor U Maung Maung
Win attended a workshop on Nov. 28 on developing a bond market,
the state-run New Light of Myanmar reported.  The exchange rate probably will be unified in the first
quarter as the government moves to streamline bureaucratic
procedures and make the investment law more attractive, Nay Zin
Latt, a political adviser to Thein Sein, said in an e-mail
interview on Nov. 26.  “There is a real feeling that Myanmar is the next
destination for regional development opportunities,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Parry International Trading Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “The risk is that the pace of the current reform
does not continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  