-- 
Colorado Plans to Sell $147 Million of Tax-Exempt Certificates for Schools

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-11-29T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/colorado-plans-to-sell-147-million-of-tax-exempt-certificates-for-schools.html
Colorado , which can’t offer general-
obligation bonds without voter approval, plans to pay for school
projects by selling almost $147 million in certificates of
participation, its largest sale of long-term debt this year.  The tax-exempt securities will help pay for construction in
10 school districts, a preliminary offering document shows. The
financing program has aided 22 projects since it began in 2009,
Brett Johnson, the deputy state treasurer, said yesterday.  The certificates to be sold as soon as today are similar to
revenue bonds, since the districts finance their part through
property taxes and back up the debt with collateral, Johnson
said by telephone. Through the program, the state has put up
more than $390 million, with matching funds supplied by
recipients, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The state
pays off the debt from proceeds of leases on the structures.  “The school district has to raise certain funds and then
the state matches that,” Johnson said. “It’s 10 financings in
one; all bundled up with state and local funds and the school
buildings as collateral.”  Moody’s rated the debt Aa2, its third-highest grade, with a
stable outlook. The securities scored one step lower than
 Colorado ’s issuer credit, at Aa1, because the state’s payment is
subject to appropriation, the New York-based company said in a
Nov. 14 report.  Standard & Poor’s  gives the notes an AA- grade,
fourth highest.  RBC Capital Markets  is the issue’s lead manager.  Certificates of participation, also known as COPs, rely on
legislative funding approval to cover debt service each year,
according to the offering document.  The securities will mature from March 2012 to March 2032,
when the largest segment, almost $28.9 million, will be due, the
document shows. General-obligation debt rated one step higher
had yields ranging from 0.43 percent to 4.14 percent yesterday
for similar maturities, according to a Bloomberg Fair Market
Value index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  