-- 
Corzine Pushed Europe Bet to $11.5 Billion

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M a t t   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-11-29T18:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/corzine-pushed-fatal-europe-bet-to-11-5-billion-as-mf-global-board-balked.html
Jon Corzine  bet $11.5 billion on
European sovereign debt in his bid to rebuild profits at MF
Global Holdings Ltd., almost twice the net amount disclosed to
investors, and relied on short-term hedges that left the firm
exposed to larger losses if they couldn’t be rolled over.  Corzine, who was chairman and chief executive officer of
the futures broker before it went bankrupt last month, overcame
resistance from directors, senior traders and risk managers to
accumulate the bonds, according to two people with knowledge of
the situation. He used the hedges, or offsetting trades, to cut
the net risk reported to shareholders to $6.4 billion, according
to an Aug. 3 regulatory filing by the company.  A former New Jersey senator and governor, Corzine joined MF
Global in March 2010 with a plan to remake the company into an
investment bank in the image of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., where
he had been co-chairman before entering politics. He repeatedly
ratcheted up his wager on the debt of countries including Italy
and  Spain , booking gains along the way, according to filings.
The short-term hedges matured before the bonds, meaning the net
amount at risk could increase if investors lost confidence in
either European sovereigns or MF Global and new hedges couldn’t
be bought.  “If that assumption does not come to pass, their risk
mushrooms,” said Matthew Pieniazek, president of Darling
Consulting Group, a Newburyport, Massachusetts, firm that
advises banks on managing their balance sheets. Hedges that
matured along with the bonds would have been prohibitively
expensive, he said.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, and Diana DeSocio, an MF Global spokeswoman, declined to comment for this
story.  ‘My Personal Responsibility’  There was never any doubt about who engineered the
sovereign-debt trade.  “Our positions and the judgment about risk-mediation steps
are my personal responsibility,” Corzine, 64, said on an Oct.
25 conference call to answer questions about a record quarterly
loss and debt-rating downgrade that sliced the firm’s market
value that week by 67 percent, or $410 million, as MF Global
slid toward collapse.  The firm’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-biggest by
a public company in the U.S., led to at least 1,066 workers
losing their jobs, disrupted  commodities markets  and undermined
investor confidence in futures brokers. The trustee liquidating
MF Global’s broker-dealer said more than $1.2 billion in
customer money may be missing, and the company is being
investigated by regulators and the U.S. Justice Department.  Missing Funds  About $200 million of the missing funds have been found at
 JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co., the New York Times reported, citing people
briefed on the matter that it didn’t identify. MF Global had an
overdrawn account at New York-based JPMorgan in its final days,
the newspaper said. The funds were transferred before its
bankruptcy filing, it said.  Marie Cheung, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in  Hong Kong ,
declined to comment today.  U.S. investigators are unaware of any missing funds in the
U.K., according to a person familiar with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  probe of MF Global’s collapse who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. Peter Donald, a
spokesman for the FBI in New York, didn’t immediately return an
e-mail after business hours seeking comment.  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for MF Global trustee James
Giddens, said in a statement that the $1.2 billion estimate of
missing funds is preliminary and may change. He didn’t comment
on whether any of the money may be in the U.K.  Turnaround Strategy  Corzine resigned on Nov. 4, and has hired attorney Andrew
Levander, a partner in the law firm Dechert LLP whose clients
have included money manager  Ezra Merkin  in litigation tied to
 Bernard Madoff ’s fraud scheme. Neither Corzine nor anyone else
at MF Global has been accused of any wrongdoing.  MF Global reported a loss in the four quarters prior to
Corzine’s hiring. Central to his strategy for turning the
futures broker around, Corzine promised to bulk up principal
trading, or the use of the firm’s own capital to make deals for
itself and clients. In the latter half of 2010, within months of
taking the helm, he started buying the Italian and Spanish
bonds, as well as those of Portugal, Ireland and Belgium.  On earnings conference calls with investors, Corzine
described the debt, which matured at various points in 2012, as
a low-risk way to profit from “dislocations” in  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt market. To limit its risk, MF Global entered into
a minimum of $4.9 billion in offsetting wagers that would pay
off if the bonds fell in value, filings with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission show.  Complicated Disclosure  MF Global’s regulatory filings don’t give dollar amounts
for the gross purchases of European sovereign debt or for the
hedges. Instead, the investments are shown as percentages of a
bigger base of assets, leaving investors to calculate the
numbers themselves. Those assets are reported on a market-value
basis.  The firm in filings and an October  investor presentation 
disclosed the net amount at risk from its European bonds after
hedges. Neither the presentation nor regulatory filings
explained that the hedges matured before the bonds and thus
would have to periodically be renewed.  MF Global didn’t have any trouble replenishing the hedges
through the end of October, when its operations were handed over
to trustees, said a person briefed on the matter who asked not
to be identified because the information isn’t public. KPMG LLP,
whose London office is serving as the special administrator for
MF Global’s U.K. unit, said in a Nov. 17 statement that “the
overwhelming majority” of the firm’s European sovereign-debt
portfolio, along with the related hedges, had been liquidated.  Board Pushback  Although the trades didn’t require pre-approval by the
board,  directors (MF)  later questioned Corzine’s investment,
according to a person familiar with the discussions. After
challenging the size of the bets and the concentration on a
small number of countries, the board set dollar limits on the
amount of sovereign debt its chairman could buy. Corzine came
back to the board at least once to get the ceiling raised.  At multiple meetings, Corzine reassured directors that the
trades would work out, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private. Corzine said
the European countries he selected wouldn’t default before the
bonds matured, and that the market was mis-pricing the debt,
according to the person. Underpinning Corzine’s view was the
euro zone’s European Financial Stability Facility, which could
backstop government short-term debt through June 30, 2013.  Directors’ Dilemma  Some risk managers and traders at MF Global shared the
directors’ concerns, according to a former employee with
knowledge of the matter. The risk-management department began
asking for daily prices of credit-default swaps on sovereign
debt to keep track of how the market viewed the underlying
bonds, a second person said.  The demise of MF Global, which was spun off from fund
manager Man Group Plc in 2007, shows how Corzine’s stature made
it hard for the board or underlings to oppose him, even as the
crisis in Europe deepened. Directors believed that rejecting the
trades would have been an affront to the veteran trader and
would have been tantamount to firing him, said the person
familiar with the board’s deliberations.  “This was a board that could not possibly have been more
expert in exposure to risk, a board with at least as much, if
not more, expertise than the CEO,” said  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld ,
senior associate dean at the Yale University School of
Management in New Haven,  Connecticut , and founder of a nonprofit
educational and research institute focused on CEO leadership and
corporate governance. “This was an example of people not having
the courage to stand up to the CEO.”  Trader at Heart  Even after nine years in politics, Corzine never shook the
trading bug. He was a prominent presence on MF Global’s trading
floor, frequently leaving corporate meetings to check on the
markets, according to one person familiar with the firm. He had
a reputation for knowing where prices were minute-by-minute, an
unusual level of detail for the CEO of a global financial
institution.  “He loved to prowl the trading room,” said  Mike Fitzpatrick , a former MF Global oil trader who was recruited by
Corzine to work in its principal strategies group, the unit that
placed proprietary trades. “I find it hard to believe a trader
of Corzine’s experience and longevity didn’t calculate, ‘What’s
the worst that could happen?’” said Fitzpatrick, who left MF
Global in October 2010.  “It got so far out of hand so fast,” he said.  Poor Risk Management  A lack of internal controls eventually doomed the company
after a last-minute purchase of the futures-brokerage unit by
Interactive Brokers Group Inc. was scuttled when it couldn’t
account for hundreds of millions of dollars in customer funds,
 Hans Stoll , an Interactive Brokers board member, said in an
interview earlier this month.  Poor risk management had hurt MF Global before Corzine’s
arrival. The company’s shares fell 40 percent in two days in
February 2008 after it lost about $141 million on unauthorized
wheat trades by an employee in Memphis,  Tennessee .  The company sought to tighten its order-entry systems and
created a chief risk officer position to calm shareholders. In
September 2010, Corzine brought in Bradley Abelow, his chief of
staff as governor, to be MF Global’s chief operating officer.
Abelow’s duties included overseeing risk management.  Eye on Costs  The tension between beefing up internal controls and trying
to improve earnings surfaced during a  conference call  in
November 2010. Then-Chief Financial Officer J. Randy MacDonald
was asked by an analyst about the company’s non-compensation
expenses. MacDonald stressed the importance of building the
“middleware” and distribution platforms across the brokerage’s
businesses, saying the company had “some investments to make.”  As the analyst moved on to his second question, Corzine
interrupted: “Make no mistake, we’re looking to produce
earnings now, and we are keeping a sharp eye on costs.” He said
he was mindful of ensuring the company didn’t “bite too quickly
on running up costs in front of revenue growth.”  Abelow couldn’t be reached for comment.  To execute his European debt trade, Corzine used  repurchase
agreements , a type of transaction that allows investors to
finance most or all of the purchase, depending on the securities
involved, the length of the deal and the credit quality of the
borrower. In earnings calls, the CEO said the firm was seeking
to profit from the difference between the yield it received on
the European bonds and the  interest rates  it paid under the
repurchase agreements.  Favorable Accounting  After setting up the trade so the bonds and the financing
agreements matured on the same dates in 2012, accounting rules
dictated that MF Global treat the transaction as a sale rather
than a collateralized loan. Those rules meant MF Global had to
book all of the profit upfront, rather than recognizing it over
the life of the contracts, and kept the assets and liabilities
from the trades off of its balance sheet, according to Peter
Testaverde, a partner in  New York  at accounting firm EisnerAmper
LLP who does audits of  hedge funds  and brokerages.  The multiple transactions were conceived as a revenue-
generation strategy that would improve the financial results for
MF Global’s nascent trading unit, according to the person
familiar with the board, who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Complicated Disclosure  MF Global disclosed in a May 20 filing that its net
holdings among the five European countries consisted of $6.3
billion in debt at the end of March that had an average maturity
of April 2012. The company said in the Aug. 3 filing that its
European sovereign portfolio had risen to $6.4 billion of debt
with an average maturity of October 2012. In both instances, MF
Global said the figures were “net of hedging transactions the
company has undertaken to mitigate issuer risk.”  While reporting its net holdings had increased 2 percent,
MF Global had expanded its bets to $11.5 billion as of June 30
from $7.64 billion as of March 31, according to data contained
in the SEC filings. The firm didn’t quantify its holdings at the
end of 2010. The firm’s hedges, known as reverse repurchase
agreements, jumped to $4.93 billion at June 30 from $1.08
billion as of March 31, the data show.  Revenue from the European sovereign trades was about $47
million during the fiscal fourth quarter ended March 31, or 16
percent of net revenue, and $38 million, or 12 percent, in the
following quarter, according to an October investor
presentation.  Beginning of End  “This perspective reinforces our strategic view that
diversifying into client dealing and principal trading works to
reduce dependence on a single line of business and allowed us to
grow revenues even in a difficult environment,” Corzine told
analysts during a July 28 conference call.  The deal began to unravel in August when the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority told MF Global to add capital to
its U.S. brokerage to back the trades. Then on Oct. 24, Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded MF Global to one level above junk
status, citing its ongoing inability to meet earnings targets
and concern that it wasn’t sufficiently managing risk. The next
day, MF Global reported its worst-ever quarterly loss.  By the end of that week, the broker’s credit ratings were
cut to junk, its bonds were trading at distressed levels and it
had drawn down its entire $1.3 billion revolving credit
facility.  Corzine’s strategy may ultimately have proven “very
profitable” had the firm been able to hold the trades to
maturity, said Josh Galper, the managing principal at Finadium,
a Concord, Massachusetts, investment research and consulting
firm. The firm’s collapse stemmed from a cash shortage, with
trading partners and lenders seeking more collateral after the
credit downgrade, rather than actual losses on the bonds, Galper
said.  “If MF Global had bought the same trade without leverage,
there would have been no issue,” Galper said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  