-- 
Counterfeits, Tracking Shoppers, Tessera: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-11-29T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/counterfeits-tracking-shoppers-tessera-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. seized 150 domain names of
websites selling counterfeit goods -- including fake Ugg boots
and Nike sneakers -- in a crackdown on retailers violating
 intellectual property  laws, authorities said.  Law enforcement agencies disclosed the seizures yesterday
to coincide with the so-called Cyber Monday online shopping day.
Shoppers visiting the seized sites now see a banner saying
authorities have taken over the websites.  “For these criminals, it’s the season to lure in
unsuspecting holiday shoppers,”  John Morton , director of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a statement.  The seizures are part of a continuing operation that
started in June 2010. On last year’s “Cyber Monday,”
authorities seized 82 domain names.  To go after potential violators, federal agents made
undercover purchases of products that included sports jerseys,
handbags, sunglasses and shoes, said Assistant Attorney General
 Lanny Breuer , in a conference call with reporters. After
conferring with manufacturers to confirm that the goods are
fakes, the government sought court orders to shut down the
sites.  Morton said that the “vast majority” of the sites operate
overseas, adding that the merchandise is “predominantly from
 China .”  Congress is considering legislation to combat foreign
websites that traffic in stolen and counterfeit goods and
content. The measures would give the attorney general power to
seek court orders requiring U.S. Internet-service providers,
 search engines , payment processors and ad networks to block or
cease business with such websites.  Privacy  Cell-Phone Devices to Track Shoppers Halted After Complaints  A trial of technology that uses shoppers’ mobile phones to
track their movements through shopping centers was halted amid
U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer ’s concerns that the practice
violated privacy.  The test, which was scheduled to run from Nov. 25 until
Jan. 1, was stopped after one day, said Julia Yuryev, a
spokeswoman at Forest City Commercial Management in Cleveland.
Forest City owns the two centers where the trial occurred:
Promenade Temecula in the California city of the same name and
Short Pump Town Center in Richmond, Virginia.  FootPath Technology, manufactured by the U.K. company Path
Intelligence Ltd.,  uses  mobile-phone signals to track shoppers,
who were notified by a sign near mall navigation maps. The only
way people can opt out is to turn off their mobile phones,
Yuryev said.  “FootPath would like to address the privacy concerns
before moving forward,” Yuryev said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It’s unclear if they will publish the data they’ve
already used.”  Path Intelligence, based in Portsmouth,  England , has
“temporarily suspended data collection at the two malls,”
Chief Executive Officer Sharon Biggar said in an e-mail.  Schumer, a  New York  Democrat, criticized the technology,
saying the malls were compromising patrons’ privacy. Schumer
planned to ask the Federal Trade Commission to investigate, he
said in a statement yesterday.  J.C. Penney tested the technology in one store and has no
plans to implement it, Rebecca Winter, a spokeswoman for the
chain, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Home Depot isn’t testing or using the technology, Stephen
Holmes, a company spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Privacy Watchdogs Need Greater Powers, EU’s Justice Chief Says  Data-protection authorities in the European Union must have
greater powers to better enforce privacy rules across the 27-
nation region, the EU’s justice commissioner said.  “The authorities responsible for data protection must be
provided with sufficient powers to enforce the law and they must
have sufficient resources to exercise their powers,”  Viviane Reding  said in prepared remarks of a speech in Brussels
yesterday. “We need legal certainty and a level-playing field
for all businesses that handle personal data of our citizens.”  Reding last year proposed an overhaul of the EU’s 16-year-
old data-protection policies to address online advertising and
social-networking sites. The law, which the regulator intends to
formally publish by February, may include stricter sanctions,
such as criminal penalties, and the option for consumer groups
to file lawsuits.  Companies, like consumers, need “a one-stop-shop when it
comes to data-protection matters, one law and one single data
protection authority for each business; that of the member state
in which they have their main establishment,” said Reding.  Current rules mean any company operating in the EU has to
abide by 27 different interpretations of the region’s rules on
privacy.  The commissioner also reiterated her plans to introduce a
general obligation for anyone controlling data to notify
regulators and individuals when a data breach is discovered.  Patents  Tessera Wins Round in Patent Case as Court Rebuffs Qualcomm  The U.S. Supreme Court left intact a ruling that lets
 Tessera Technologies Inc. (TSRA)  seek damages from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and
four other companies for infringing patents covering computer-
chip packaging.  The justices yesterday turned away appeals in the case from
Qualcomm,  Spansion Inc. (CODE) ,  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  and units of
 Freescale Semiconductor Holdings  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   The U.S. International Trade Commission said in 2009 that
those companies, along with  Motorola Inc. (MOT) , infringed patents
owned by Tessera. A federal appeals court upheld that finding
last year. Motorola split into two companies earlier this year,
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  and  Motorola Solutions Inc.   Motorola dropped out of the legal fight by licensing the
Tessera patents in 2009. The patents are now expired, leaving
the companies still in the case to fight over damages for past
infringement.  The cases are Spansion v. International Trade Commission,
11-127, and Qualcomm v. International Trade Commission, 11-128.  Gevo Challenges Validity of Butamax Patent Over Biofuels  Gevo Inc. said the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is
reconsidering a patent that the agency issued in August to
Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC for a fuel additive. The PTO
upheld another patent as final  In a non-final action dated Nov. 25, the PTO said the
patent claims were invalid, according to the agency’s website.
Butamax will have a chance to respond to the agency’s findings,
and by law the patent remains valid and enforceable during the
review process.  Gevo , based in Englewood,  Colorado , said in a statement it
sought the review, adding that “substantial questions exist
regarding whether others invented this technology first and that
several scientific journal publications had described the
technology before Butamax applied for the patent.”  Butamax, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , is a joint venture
of  BP Plc (BP/)  and DuPont Co., according to information on its
website and has brought patent litigation against Gevo. CEO Paul
Beckwith said, in a statement on its website, that “We are
pleased that the U.S. Patent Office found Gevo’s attempts to
invalidate our first patent to be without merit and we are
confident that our second patent, which is a continuation of the
first, will ultimately receive the same revalidation.”  IPCom Will Seek to Block HTC 3G Smartphone Sales in  Germany   IPCom GmbH & Co.  said it will seek to block sales of  HTC
Corp.  3G smartphones in Germany after HTC withdrew an appeal in
a patent lawsuit.  “We will use the right awarded by the courts, likely
resulting in HTC devices disappearing from shops during the
crucial Christmas season,” IPCom managing director Bernhard Frohwitter said in an e-mailed statement.  HTC, the largest seller of smartphones in the U.S., dropped
the appeal of a patent ruling won by IPCom in Germany because a
separate German patent court partially invalidated the patent at
issue, HTC lawyer Martin Chakraborty said Nov. 25.  IPCom, based in Pullach, Germany, is seeking royalties from
a family of mobile-technology patents it acquired in 2007 from
 Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s largest automotive supplier.
IPCom bought the patents after Bosch failed to license them to
Nokia in 2003.  “HTC considers that the appeal had become redundant as the
German Federal Patents Court had previously held the relevant
claim of the patent to be invalid,” HTC said in an e-mailed
statement from an outside spokeswoman for the company in  London .  HTC and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  in December teamed up to overturn most of
one of IPCom’s patents in Germany’s Federal Patent Court in
Munich. The mobile-phone makers had sought to void the patent
entirely. HTC is separately being sued by IPCom in Britain over
claims its products violate a European patent.  Australia  Appeals Judge Questions Fairness of Samsung Tablet Ban  An Australian appeals court judge questioned the fairness
of a ruling that granted Apple Inc.’s request to ban the sale of
the iPad2’s biggest rival in a legal dispute with  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  over patent infringement.  “The result looks terribly fair to Apple and not terribly
fair to Samsung,” Federal Court Justice Lindsay Foster said
last week at a hearing in Sydney on Samsung’s appeal for the ban
to be overturned.  Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett issued an
injunction Oct. 13 barring the sale of the Galaxy 10.1 Tab in
Australia until Apple and Samsung resolve the patent dispute at
trial. Bennett failed to consider the “dire consequences” of
the ban on Samsung, which has been “entirely shut out” from
marketing the device,  Neil Young , Samsung’s lawyer, said Nov.
25.  The suit is part of a legal battle between the companies in
at least four countries that began in April, when Apple accused
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung of “slavishly” copying its
designs. Samsung plans to scrap Australian sales of the newest
Galaxy tablet if it can’t meet the  Christmas shopping season ,
since missing that will render the device “dead,” Young said
at an Oct. 4 hearing.  Justice John Dowsett said the panel would try and rule this
week on Samsung’s request to lift the injunction.  The case is Samsung Electronics Co. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
NSD1792/2011. Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Belgacom Can’t Be Told to Block File Sharing, EU Court Says  Belgacom SA (BELG) ’s Internet-service provider Scarlet can’t be
forced by a national court to block users from illegally sharing
music and video files, the European Union’s highest court said.  “EU law precludes the imposition of an injunction by a
national court which requires an Internet service provider to
install a filtering system with a view to preventing the illegal
downloading of files,” the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg
said in a statement after the Nov. 24 ruling.  A Belgian court last year sought the EU tribunal’s guidance
on whether forcing an ISP to stop illegal file sharing on its
network is in line with the 27-nation bloc’s rules. Belgian
music-copyright group Sabam, which represents authors and
musicians, started the legal fight over the use of so-called
peer-to-peer software for file sharing.  Belgacom, the largest telephone company in  Belgium , won
antitrust approval to acquire Scarlet in 2008. Scarlet is
appealing a June 2007 Belgian court order to “make it
impossible” for users to violate copyright laws, saying it
would entail breaching customers’ privacy rights.  The ruling “underlines the importance of the neutrality of
ISPs with regard to the transmission of information, and
reiterates that the economic and legal responsibility in the
fight against illegal downloading of protected works should not
solely be delegated to ISPs,” Belgacom said in an e-mailed
statement.  The court last week ruled that while intellectual property
owners can seek an injunction against companies such as ISPs
whose services are used to breach their rights, an injunction
forcing an ISP to install a filtering system that monitors all
electronic communications would not be possible.  It would result in “serious infringement of Scarlet’s
freedom to conduct its business” which would not strike a fair
balance between the right to intellectual property and company’s
freedom to do business, the court said.  The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry
said the ruling “does not affect the forms of ISP cooperation
that IFPI advocates, including graduated response and the
blocking of rogue websites, which are already being implemented
in countries across  Europe .”  The case is: C-70/10, Scarlet Extended SA v. Societe Belge
des auteurs, compositeurs et editeurs (SABAM).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 