-- 
Crude Oil Advances as Euro Extends Gains After Italian Treasury-Bond Sale

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-11-29T13:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/crude-oil-advances-as-euro-extends-gains-following-italian-bond-sale.html
Crude oil  rose a third day in  New
York , recouping earlier losses as a strengthening euro and
advancing equities signaled investors were less concerned that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will derail the global recovery.  West Texas Intermediate futures gained as much as 1.1
percent, having earlier lost 1 percent. Demand for 2014 bonds
auctioned by Italy today was 1.5 times the amount sold. The U.S.
Energy Department may say tomorrow  oil inventories  rose for the
first time in a month, while gasoline supplies climbed for a
third week, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Sentiment has improved on news of the successful Italian
bond auction,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in  London . “We’re seeing a stronger euro as a result,
and crude prices gaining alongside the broader commodity market
rebound.”  Oil for January delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was up 11 cents at $98.32 a barrel at 12:56 p.m. London
time after falling as low as $97.23. Brent crude for January
settlement on the ICE Futures Europe Exchange was up 87 cents at
$109.87 a barrel, reversing a 61-cent decline.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.3 percent as of 12:56
a.m. in London. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.5
percent. The euro appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3340.  OPEC Quotas  U.S. crude inventories probably climbed 1 million barrels
last week, according to the median of seven analyst estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies may have increased
1.1 million barrels, the  survey  showed. The Energy Department is
scheduled to release its report tomorrow in  Washington .  The American Petroleum Institute will release its inventory
report today. The API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may keep
oil production quotas at current levels when it meets next
month, Ecuador’s Non-Renewable Natural Resources Minister Wilson Pastor said yesterday. The group is scheduled to meet in Vienna
for an annual conference on Dec. 14.  Venezuela  is seeking to maintain current OPEC quotas, Oil
Minister Rafael Ramirez said yesterday. Member countries
exceeding the limit should lower their output, he said. The
group’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  Speculative Positions  Money managers including  hedge funds  reduced bullish bets
on oil for the week ended Nov. 22, according to data released
yesterday by ICE Futures Europe and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Managers cut bullish bets on Brent crude by 5,356 contracts
in the week ended Nov. 22, London-based ICE said yesterday in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report. Net-long bets on WTI
fell by 26,387, or 12 percent, to 189,688, CFTC data showed. It
was the largest drop since the week ended Aug. 2.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Buckley at 
 johnbuckley@bloomberg.net  