-- 
Crude Oil Retreats From One-Week High on Europe Bank Concern, U.S. Supply

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-11-29T09:58:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/crude-oil-retreats-from-one-week-high-on-europe-bank-concern-u-s-supply.html
Oil dropped from the highest close
in more than a week after Moody’s Investors Service said it may
lower credit ratings for European banks, while analysts forecast
that U.S. crude and gasoline stockpiles increased.  Futures slipped as much as 1 percent, the first decline in
three days, after failing to settle above $100 a barrel
yesterday. A U.S. Energy Department report tomorrow will
probably show  oil inventories  rose for the first time in a
month, while gasoline supplies climbed for a third week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Moody’s Investors Service
said in a statement it’s considering cuts to the ratings of
banks in 15 European nations.  “The euphoria has been taken out of the market,” said
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt  who
forecasts that Brent, the oil benchmark in London, will end the
year at about $100 a barrel. “Bullish factors like geopolitics
and the recent decline in U.S. inventories are being offset by
bearish factors like growth worries and debt concerns.”  Futures for January delivery fell as much as 98 cents to
$97.23 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
and were at $97.96 at 9:49 a.m. London time. The contract
rallied as much as 4.1 percent to $100.74 yesterday on signs of
economic recovery in the U.S. and possible supply disruptions in
the  Middle East , before closing at $98.21, the highest
settlement since Nov. 17.  Brent oil for January settlement was at $108.95 a barrel,
down 5 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $10.99, compared with $10.79 yesterday and a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Technical Resistance  West Texas Intermediate crude will struggle to remain above
$100 a barrel, according to a Commerzbank AG report yesterday.
Futures are unlikely to advance much further after an “emphatic
rejection” from $103.39, the intraday high on May 31, said
London-based technical analyst  Karen Jones , who earlier this
month correctly forecast that Brent oil would fall below $110.
WTI rose as high as $103.37 on Nov. 17 before ending the day
below $99 a barrel.  U.S. crude inventories probably climbed 1 million barrels
last week, according to the median of seven analyst estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies may have increased
1.1 million barrels, the  survey  showed. The Energy Department is
scheduled to release its report tomorrow in  Washington .  The American Petroleum Institute will release its inventory
report today. The API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  OPEC Quotas  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may keep
oil production quotas at current levels when it meets next
month, Ecuador’s Non-Renewable Natural Resources Minister Wilson Pastor said yesterday. The group is scheduled to meet in Vienna
for an annual conference on Dec. 14.  Venezuela  is seeking to maintain current OPEC quotas, Oil
Minister Rafael Ramirez said yesterday. Member countries
exceeding the limit should lower their output, he said. The
group’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola,  Ecuador ,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  Money managers included hedge-funds reduced bullish bets on
oil for the week ended Nov. 22, according to data released
yesterday by ICE Futures Europe and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Managers cut bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 5,356 contracts
in the week ended Nov. 22, London-based ICE said yesterday in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report. Net-long bets on WTI
fell by 26,387, or 12 percent, to 189,688, CFTC data showed. It
was the largest drop since the week ended Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  