-- 
Cybercrime a Threat From Within for Companies, PwC Survey Shows

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-11-29T10:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/cybercrime-a-threat-from-within-for-companies-pwc-survey-shows.html
Cybercrime is one of the top four
economic crimes facing companies and more than half of it comes
from their own information technology departments, according to
a survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Economic crime hit 34 percent of companies around the world
in the last 12 months with 10 percent reporting losses over $5
million, PwC said in the survey published today. While theft
remained the most common crime, with 72 percent reporting
incidents in the past year almost a quarter were victims to
cybercrime, on the rise by 13 percent since 2009, PwC said.  Companies are at risk “from virtually anywhere on the
planet where there is a computer, a smart phone or any other
device able to access the Internet,” Tony Parton, a London-
based partner in PwC’s forensics practice, said in a statement
on the report. “No industry or company in any country is
immune.”  Fifty-six percent of people polled said fraud came from
within the organization, and detection methods are becoming less
effective, PwC said. Watching out for suspicious transactions is
the only tool to have shown greater effectiveness.  While half the respondents to PwC’s annual economic crime
survey said they saw greater awareness of the threat of
cybercrime, most don’t have, or know of, a company plan to deal
with the issue, necessitating a “more cyber-savvy approach,”
Parton said.  PwC queried 3,877 respondents in 78 countries between June
and November for its poll.  Accounting fraud has dropped off, with 27 percent fewer
people reporting it compared with in 2009, bringing the rate to
2005 levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 