-- 
Del Monte, KKR Deal Probed Over Antitrust Claims, Investors’ Lawyer Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/del-monte-kkr-deal-probed-over-antitrust-claims-investors-lawyer-says.html
Del Monte  Foods Co.’s $5.3 billion
sale to a group of private-equity firms led by KKR & Co. is the
target of a U.S. Justice Department antitrust probe, a lawyer
who sued over the deal said in a court filing.  Federal prosecutors have been “investigating the facts and
circumstances surrounding the sale of Del Monte,”  Stuart Grant ,
a lawyer for Del Monte shareholders, said in a Nov. 23 court
filing as part of an $89.4 million settlement of investors’
claims over the deal.  Investors in San Francisco-based Del Monte argued in the
lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington they weren’t
getting enough for their shares in the buyout. Other
shareholders, who filed a related federal court suit in  San
Francisco , questioned whether private-equity firms rigged bids
to artificially lower the price paid for the maker of Meow Mix
cat food and Milk Bone dog biscuits.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment yesterday on whether the antitrust division was
investigating the Del Monte buyout. Kristi Huller, a KKR
spokeswoman, and  Chrissy Stengel , a Del Monte spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment on the filing
yesterday.  The settlement also resolves investors’ claims that
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , which served as Del Monte’s financial adviser
while providing some financing for the buyers, had conflicting
interests in the deal. The private-equity group led by New York-
based KKR included  Vestar Capital Partners  and Centerview
Partners LLP.  Delayed Vote  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster ordered Del
Monte in February to delay a shareholder vote on the deal so
investors could consider whether to back it in light of
disclosures about London-based Barclays’s dual roles. Laster
will decide whether to approve the settlement at a Dec. 1
hearing.  Investors who sued in California alleged that KKR and New
York-based Vestar colluded to suppress the amount paid for Del
Monte. Vestar and KKR had originally competed to buy the
consumer-products maker before joining forces, according to
court filings.  Grant said he got a request from federal prosecutors for
documents and other court filings related to the Delaware case
this year.  “They never said specifically who they were interested
in,” Grant said yesterday in a phone interview.  The investigation came to light after a Cleveland-based
retirement fund for a local pipefitters union objected to the
proposed settlement in Delaware.  California  Claims  The fund, which held more than 8,000 Del Monte shares at
the time of the merger, sued in California to raise the
antitrust allegations. Its lawyers argued in a Nov. 21 court
filing in Delaware that the settlement would wipe out claims
about anti-competitive behavior that could be worth millions to
investors.  In response, Grant said in his Nov. 23 filing that the
California antitrust suit against Del Monte had been dismissed
and lawyers for the fund hadn’t refiled it. He noted that
federal prosecutors could proceed with the antitrust claims if
the suit wasn’t refiled.  Grant said he’d been “working closely with the Department
of Justice’s Antitrust Division in its effort to investigate”
claims of collusion and prosecutors were “capable of addressing
any violation of federal antitrust laws that occurred in
connection with the sale of Del Monte.”  The Delaware case is In re  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM)  Shareholder
Litigation, CA6027, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  