-- 
Dollar May Strengthen to 81 Yen, Ichimoku Chart Shows: Technical Analysis

-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-11-29T23:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/dollar-may-strengthen-to-81-yen-ichimoku-chart-shows-technical-analysis.html
The dollar may reverse its declining
trend against the Japanese currency since April and rise to a
four-month high of about 81 yen, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. said, citing a so-called ichimoku chart.  The U.S. currency reached 85.53 yen on April 6, the
strongest level this year, following Group-of-Seven intervention
in the prior month to stem the yen’s appreciation. It then
dropped to a post-World War II low of 75.35 on Oct. 31, which
prompted  Japan  to sell its own currency to weaken it. The
greenback rose to as high as 79.53 on the day of that
intervention. After sliding back to 76.58 yen on Nov.18, the
dollar climbed to a four-week high of 78.29 yesterday.  The daily ichimoku chart shows the dollar’s conversion line
is crossing above its baseline, as the currency stays above the
so-called cloud, and the greenback’s lagging span line has
broken above the currency’s current level, said Teppei Ino, an
analyst in  Tokyo  at the unit of Japan’s largest financial group.  “The dollar’s three buy signals are lighting up,” Ino
said. “If the currency can stay around 78 yen, it will resume
rising sooner or later.”  The dollar’s five-day moving average is also rising above
its 21-day average, and its 65-day average is climbing above the
90-day line, Ino said.  The dollar will target a July 8 high of 81.48 yen, Ino
said. It may reach that level by year-end or early January, he
said.  Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows. The
baseline plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low in the
preceding 26 trading days. The conversion line is the same
calculation over the past nine trading days. The cloud refers to
the area between the first and second leading-span lines on the
chart and is used to show an area where buy orders may be
clustered.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  