-- 
The Race to Decide Who's Greenest

-- B y   K a r e n   W e i s e
-- 
2011-11-29T12:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/the-race-to-decide-who-s-greenest.html
Every year, Suzanne Fallender’s 
corporate responsibility office at Intel receives dozens of 
requests from sustainability analysts and nonprofits looking to 
rate the company on its water usage,  carbon emissions , workforce
diversity, and scores of other factors. While some queries can
be answered quickly from Intel’s annual sustainability
report, others require further research, so Fallender
prioritizes a core list of about a dozen requests and responds
to the rest when she can get to them. “There are many, many
ratings out there,” she says. “More every year.”  Investors and the public are demanding increasingly
detailed information on nonfinancial metrics that define
sustainability. Companies that take the lead in the field, the
thinking goes, are likely to continue churning out profits in
an era of growing global competition, climate change, and
diminishing resources. In response, scores of data analysis
and rating outfits have sprung up, vying to be the arbiter of
who’s really green. That’s “confusing, congested, chaotic,”
says Allen White, a senior fellow at the Tellus Institute, a
nonprofit research group. “If you are an investor trying to
move $1 billion, you’re left throwing up your hands. In the
worst case, you just ignore all of the ratings.”  White is one of a small cadre of data junkies who have
spent the past decade trying to get executives, investors, and
nonprofit groups to agree on how to distinguish dirty, risky
companies from cleaner, sustainable ones. As more companies
publish annual sustainability reports, many are looking to the
Global Reporting Initiative, a group White co-founded in
1997, for guidance on the most important factors to disclose.
Today, 80 percent of the world’s 250 largest companies use
GRI’s framework for their sustainability reports, according to
consultancy KPMG.  Investment managers say many companies don’t go far
enough in their disclosures. Since GRI’s guidelines are
voluntary and reports are rarely audited, few companies
provide information on all of the group’s 100-plus metrics in
areas such as  workplace safety , use of recycled materials, or
toxic waste spills. “We believe current corporate
sustainability reports are insufficient to form a fully
integrated and long-term investment view,” says Paul
Abberley, CEO of Aviva Investors, an asset manager in  London .  Further complicating the issue: GRI doesn’t judge
performance, leaving raters and analysts to evaluate companies
in ways that are digestible for investors. These groups make
their own determinations as to whether, say, Ford is more
sustainable than Volkswagen or Microsoft is better
than Apple.  Newsweek ’s “Green Rankings” rate companies on
their commitment to the environment, Dow Jones publishes
indexes of companies it deems the most sustainable, and the
Ethisphere Institute ranks the “World’s Most Ethical
Companies.” Others carve out niches such as evaluating
transparency, water usage, or the suitability of the workplace
for employees over 50.  Only a third of these groups rely solely on corporate
sustainability reports; the rest seek extra stats, often
asking companies to slice and dice numbers in ways that
conform to the groups’ metrics. Wayne Balta, IBM’s
environmental affairs chief, says companies need a “rock
solid” commitment to data analysis to ease the hassles of
responding to such queries. (Bloomberg LP, the owner
of Bloomberg Businessweek, compiles sustainability data and
scores companies on how much information they disclose.)  In 2000, the consulting firm SustainAbility, which
advises clients on green business strategies, identified
21 raters; by last year, that number had swelled to 108, both
nonprofits and companies seeking to sell research to
investors. IBM’s Balta says the rankers’ ranks will probably
continue to grow. “It’s in our collective American culture to
rate,” he says. “Look at Dancing with the Stars.”  Many companies face further demands from corporate
customers. Wal-Mart, for instance, in 2009 brought together
retailers, suppliers, and research groups to develop a
sustainability index to track suppliers. The group, a
nonprofit called the Sustainability Consortium, is creating
standards for cotton towels, TVs, yogurt, and nearly 50 other
product categories. For laundry detergents, the biggest factor
is customers using energy to heat water for washing, so the
new metrics favor products for cold-water use. For
laptops, the greatest greenhouse gas emissions come during
manufacturing, not use by consumers, so the standards largely
address production methods. “We want to make sure we are
sending the right signals, measuring the right things,” says
Jeff Rice, Wal-Mart’s director of sustainability.  Some corporations grouse that the raters can lack
transparency, though few want to say so on the record. About a
quarter of the ranking groups disclose no information on their
methods and a majority offer only partial
disclosures, according to “Rate the Raters,” a report
SustainAbility released last year. When companies feel that
groups seeking to rank them on how much information they
disclose aren’t transparent themselves, “that drives them
crazy,” says Michael Sadowski, a vice-president at
SustainAbility. Lynn Brown, a vice-president at trash-hauling
giant Waste Management, says raters understandably want to
compare companies with their peers. But she says she finds it
“perplexing” that in one ranking her company is paired with a
chemical manufacturer and in another it’s listed with Weight
Watchers as a “professional services” company.  Some raters agree the ratings can be too opaque. “There
are more black boxes than should be the case,” says Cary
Krosinsky of Trucost, a sustainability researcher that
helps Newsweek with its ranking.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is tiptoeing into
the fray and last year issued its first guidance on disclosure
of risks related to  climate change . If financial accounting is
any precedent, though, consistent regulations won’t happen
overnight. It took two centuries to develop standards for
tracking corporate finances. With ice caps melting and deserts
growing, a similar timeline won’t work now, says Zoe
Tcholak-Antitch, North America director for the Carbon
Disclosure Project, an investor-led group that has created
standards for company disclosures of greenhouse gas emissions.
“We haven’t got hundreds of years,” she says, “to get climate
change reporting right.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen Weise at
 kweise@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: David Rocks
at  drocks1@bloomberg.net  