-- 
ECB Fails to Attract Sufficient Bids to Mop Up Liquidity From Buying Bonds

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-11-29T15:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/ecb-fails-to-fully-offset-bonds-purchased-under-program-to-finance-eu-debt.html
The  European Central Bank  failed to
fully offset the extra liquidity created by its bond purchases
for the first time in seven months, a sign of mounting tensions
among euro-area banks.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today that 85 banks bid a
total of 194.2 billion euros ($259 billion) for seven-day term
deposits. It had aimed to drain 203.5 billion euros, the amount
its bond purchases have created since the program began in May
last year. It last fell short of its intended total on April 26.  “It’s just another indication of how uncertain the
situation is,” said Michael Schubert, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “At the moment, banks are holding
more cash than necessary. There’s a lot of caution.”  Banks are hoarding cash as the region’s debt crisis
worsens, driving up government borrowing costs and increasing
the risk of sovereign defaults. The ECB’s  balance sheet  rose to
a record 2.42 trillion euros in the week through Nov. 25, about
500 billion euros more than a year ago, as banks tapped it for
funds rather than trading with one another. The ECB, which lends
banks as much cash as they want at its  benchmark interest rate ,
also said today that weekly lending rose to a two-year high.  Euro Declines  While the ECB has failed to “sterilize” its bond program
at least four times before, this is the first time it has
happened since the central bank expanded the program to buy
Italian and Spanish bonds in August.  The euro pared its gain against the dollar after the ECB’s
announcement, falling about half a cent. It traded at $1.3331 as
of 4:04 p.m. in Frankfurt.  The ECB tries to drain the same amount from the banking
system each week that its purchases have created to ensure they
don’t swell the  money supply  and fuel inflation. It says this is
what distinguishes its bond program from those of the  Federal
Reserve  and  Bank of England , which aim to increase the money
supply to boost economic growth.  The ECB began buying Italian and Spanish debt after
 Europe ’s debt crisis spread. It says the purchases are aimed at
ensuring transmission of its interest rates on financial
markets. Bond yields have nevertheless risen across the 17-
nation euro region as investors lose confidence in Europe’s
ability to contain the crisis.  The bond-market intervention has split the ECB council,
with Executive Board member Juergen Stark announcing on Sept. 9
that he will step down at the end of the year and Bundesbank
member Jens Weidmann also opposing the purchases.  ‘Natural Limit’  Rabobank economist Elwin de Groot estimated earlier this
month that there is a “natural limit” of 300 billion euros the
ECB can sterilize. Once it hits the limit, officials will be
forced to decide whether they are willing to go beyond the ECB’s
official mandate of maintaining  price stability , De Groot wrote
in a Nov. 8 note to investors.  Some economists say the ECB’s attempts to offset its bond
purchases are meaningless because it already lends banks as much
cash as they want in its refinancing operations, allowing them
to effectively determine the amount of money in the system.  “It’s irrelevant for monetary policy purposes because in
some sense the liquidity operations already led to a large
expansion of the balance sheet,” said Jens Sondergaard, an
economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “And it’s
expanding irrespective of whether they’re sterilizing or not.”  The ECB loaned banks 265.5 billion euros in its seven-day
main refinancing operation earlier today, the most in more than
two years. The number of bidders was 192 compared with last
week’s 178.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Brussels at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  