-- 
Edison-BrightSource Power Contracts Changed to Use Storage

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-11-29T22:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/edison-brightsource-power-contracts-changed-to-use-storage.html
Edison International (EIX) , owner of
California’s largest electric utility, is revamping its contracts
with  BrightSource Energy Inc.  to include power storage, which
will eliminate the need to build a power plant, the companies
said yesterday.  Adding storage at three BrightSource facilities will allow
Edison to pay less for power, said Marc Ulrich, vice president of
alternative and renewable power at Edison’s Southern California
Edison Co. The company agreed in February 2009 to purchase 1,300
megawatts from seven  BrightSource  plants.  Energy production at each site may improve by at least 30
percent with storage, which will allow plants to have smaller
footprints and use fewer materials, Ulrich said today in a
telephone interview.  “The plant itself can be slightly smaller and still get
more output,” Ulrich said.  BrightSource will build two plants with molten-salt  energy
storage  at its Sonoran West project and add a third at its
Siberia project, John Woolard, the Oakland, California-based
company’s chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview.
The storage will enable electricity production to continue for
two to four hours after sunset, he said.  BrightSource’s plants  operate  differently than those of
other solar-thermal companies, including  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) ,
which have opted to use conventional solar panels at U.S.
projects as prices have declined. Storage capability will enable
BrightSource’s projects to compete with cheap photovoltaic panels
and avoid their intermittency issues, Woolard said.  ‘Hidden Cost’  “There’s a hidden cost on the ratepayer from the
intermittent renewables that’s pretty dramatic, so that’s one
reason why these are desirable contracts,” Woolard said.
“Storage gives you high reliability, which is higher value,” he
said.  BrightSource ’s plants use thousands of mirrors arranged in
circular rows to focus the sun’s heat on a boiler atop a central
tower. The steam that’s produced is fed to a turbine to generate
electricity. Molten-salt tanks enable heat to be stored for later
use, and more steam is generated when the cycle runs in reverse.  Southern  California  Edison, which  served 19.3 percent  of its
2010 load with renewable energy, chose photovoltaic technology
for more than 50 of the last 60 contracts it signed, though that
makes storage even more important, according to Ulrich.  “With photovoltaics dominating the competition these days,
it was important for Edison to keep its customers’ total costs in
mind going forward, which would include the integration costs of
those solar panels,” Ulrich said. “We know those costs are real,
and we’re trying to mitigate those by having a balanced
portfolio,” he said.  The amended contracts require approval from the California
Public Utilities Commission, and the plants are expected to enter
operation in 2016 and 2017, BrightSource said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  