-- 
Lehman Liquidation Plan Backed by $450 Billion in Claims, All Vote Classes

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-11-30T00:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/lehman-liquidation-plan-backed-by-450-billion-in-claims-all-vote-classes.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  won
support for its latest payout plan from more than 150 creditors
holding about $450 billion in claims, moving it closer to paying
some of its debt, the defunct firm said.  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
in September 2008, had said it can probably get a judge’s
approval for a $65 billion liquidation plan next month, with the
first distributions starting early next year. The company, whose
creditors range from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to the  New York  Giants
and individual bondholders, gave its vote count in court filings
today after a Nov. 4 voting deadline.  Lehman quickened its effort to get out of bankruptcy in
July, after being mired in disputes as it neared three years in
Chapter 11 proceedings. The defunct firm settled a fight with
creditors by allotting more money to a group including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to bondholders such as Paulson & Co.
Both groups had proposed rival plans to pay Lehman’s debts.  “It has taken Herculean effort by many people to reach
this point,” Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal said
in a statement. “Reaching a mutual agreement among these
disparate parties was complex and challenging.”  The plan was accepted by every class of creditors that
voted, Lehman said in a filing. Judges often force a dissenting
class to go along with a plan in a so-called cramdown.
Liquidators of 87 of Lehman’s foreign affiliates also are in
support, Lehman said. In all, 95 percent of creditors now back
the payout scheme and related settlements, it said.  ‘Complicated’ Hearing  By October, Lehman had backing from $160 billion in claims,
probably enough already to confirm the plan, said Daniel Ehrmann, head of international operations. Still, disputes
remain that will make the forthcoming Dec. 6 court hearing
“complicated,” said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law professor
at  Seton Hall University  in  Newark ,  New Jersey , in an interview
last week.  Lehman this month subpoenaed Goldman Sachs for documents
relating to derivatives claims. Deutsche Bank AG, after backing
Lehman’s third payout proposal, said last month the plan won’t
succeed unless Lehman upgrades $2.4 billion in claims held by
the German bank. Many banks are fighting Lehman over its
handling of derivatives contracts, including Deutsche. JPMorgan
is battling Lehman over $6 billion in separate claims.  Cash Available  Marsal has said he intends to raise a total of $65 billion
from the firm’s assets in the next few years, including cash
already in hand. Lehman and its affiliates had more than
$23 billion of cash available on Oct. 31 after spending almost
$1.5 billion in fees for managers and advisers, according to a
filing. Marsal has estimated that the final claims will total
$370 billion, making the average recovery less than 18 cents on
the dollar.  Separately, Lehman named a committee to select directors to
oversee the liquidation. The selection committee will include
Thomas Tormey of Goldman Sachs, part of a group that proposed an
alternative liquidation plan; Christian Wyatt of Fir Tree
Partners, representing a so-called ad hoc group; and Noel
Purcell of Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., co-chairman of an
existing creditor committee, according to a court filing
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Lehman has winnowed down claims from 67,000 filed
originally demanding about $1.2 trillion from what was once the
fourth-largest investment bank. Through Oct. 31, it raised
$13.8 billion from derivatives. Real estate sales fetched
$3.9 billion through June 30.  Lehman failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.
The firm filed for bankruptcy with $613 billion in debt.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  