-- 
Emergency Manager Appointed to Take Control of Finances in Flint, Michigan

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-11-29T23:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/emergency-manager-appointed-to-take-control-of-finances-in-flint-michigan.html
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  named
 Michael Brown ,  Flint ’s former interim mayor, as the city’s
emergency manager and charged him with reining in a $25.7
million deficit.  Brown will take control Dec. 1, according to a state
Treasury Department news release. The city of 102,000 is unable
to climb out of its financial hole, a state review found in
October.  “This is my hometown, so this is a personal task,” Brown,
63, said in today’s release. “With the available tools, I am
optimistic we can work cooperatively to restore fiscal
stability.”  A state law approved in March gives emergency managers
sweeping authority over cities and school districts, such as
power to fire employees, nullify union contracts and call for
elections to raise taxes.  Brown will be paid $170,000 a year by the city, under an
agreement with the state. He is president of the Prima Civitas
Foundation, a nonprofit that promotes new businesses and
entrepreneurship, and is director of the Flint Area Reinvestment
Office. Brown will form a five-member advisory committee,
including one elected official and one representative of
business, according to the release.  Local Guy  He is a good choice to restore Flint’s fiscal health, City
Council President Scott Kincaid said.  “He’s a local person,” Kincaid said. “He understands the
ins and outs of the city. He’s got a tough job, but I’ve known
 Mike Brown  for a long time and he’s the type of person who’s up
to the challenge.”  Kincaid, 59, who said he’s been a council member for 27
years, said Flint has experienced declining  tax revenue , reduced
state aid and borrowed from its water and sewer fund to pay for
general operations.  Kincaid said Brown’s biggest challenge will be negotiating
contracts with police and firefighter unions.  The review team’s report said the pension system is less
than 60 percent funded, and that the city hadn’t made all the
staff reductions promised in a deficit elimination plan,
although it did reduce the workforce to 767 from 1,526 since
2001.  Snyder, in the release, said with Brown’s experience in
public, private and non-profit sectors, “I am confident he is
well-equipped to take on this critical post.”  Flint becomes the fourth Michigan city under an emergency
manager, along with  Benton Harbor , Pontiac and Ecorse.  Detroit ’s
public schools also have an emergency manager, and Mayor Dave
Bing has said the city itself may face a state takeover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pete Young at 
 pyoung13@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  