-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise for Second Day on Europe, U.S. Data

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-11-30T00:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/emerging-stocks-climb-for-second-day-on-europe-china-policy-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day for the longest streak of gains in two weeks as U.S.
 consumer confidence  increased by the most since 2003 and
European finance ministers reapproved a loan to Greece, boosting
the outlook for the global economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.8 percent to
909.48 at 4:31 p.m. in  New York , extending yesterday’s 2.8
percent increase, as technology and consumer shares rallied.
Mexico’s IPC stock index gained 0.4 percent while benchmarks in
 China ,  Taiwan  and  South Korea  jumped more than 1 percent.
Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  gained 0.7 percent.  Stocks rose as Italy sold about 7.5 billion euros ($10
billion) of debt as demand for the 2014 bond was 1.5 times the
amount sold, up from 1.35 times at the previous auction. Euro-
area finance ministers reapproved a 5.8 billion-euro loan to
 Greece  under last year’s bailout after eliciting budget-
austerity pledges from Greek political leaders backing a unity
government, a European official said.  “The EU summit next week is the big date on the agenda,”
 Benoit Anne , the London-based head of emerging-markets strategy
at Societe Generale SA said in a phone interview. “G-10
economic news continues to be important, headline risk in Europe
and the state of the U.S. economy are very significant
barometers for global markets.”  MSCI’s emerging-markets index has slumped 21 percent this
year as countries from China to Brazil raised  interest rates  to
stem inflation and concerns grew over debt in Europe and U.S.
economic growth. The MSCI gauge is valued at 10 times estimated
earnings, compared with the four-year average of 12.2 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P Moves  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. had long-term credit grades reduced to A- from A
by  Standard & Poor’s  after the ratings firm revised criteria for
dozens of the largest global lenders.  S&P upgraded Bank of China Ltd. and China Construction Bank
Corp. to A from A- and maintained the A rating on Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., giving all three lenders higher
grades than most big U.S. banks.  Chinese equities advanced after Citigroup Inc. analysts
wrote in a report that the nation is expected to shift from
fighting inflation to stabilizing economic growth, which could
lead to more policy easing.  China, Taiwan, South Korea  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 1.2 percent and
Taiwan’s benchmark gauge increased 1.3 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi rallied 2.3 percent.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540)  climbed 4.2 percent after the
South Korean shipbuilder said it has received more orders.  Acer
Inc. (2353)  rose 2.1 percent after the Taiwanese computer maker said it
cut its inventory.  Mexican stocks rose for a second day as consumer confidence
climbed in the U.S., the destination for about 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports.  Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker in the
Americas, jumped 3.5 percent.  The BUX Index gained 0.7 percent in Budapest after rising
2.2 percent yesterday, with  Magyar Telekom Nyrt. (MTEL) , the former
phone monopoly controlled by Deutsche Telekom AG, rising 2.5
percent.  The country’s Magyar Nemzeti Bank increased the two-week
deposit rate to 6.5 percent from 6 percent today. The forint
dropped to its weakest ever against the euro this month and
government bond yields soared over 9 percent for the first time
in two years as the country on Nov. 24 lost its investment-grade
rating at Moody’s Investors Service after 15 years.  Micex Drops  Russia’s 30-stock  Micex Index  dropped 0.8 percent,
reversing earlier gains.  OAO Severstal , the country’s second-
largest steelmaker, gained 3.7 percent.  The  Mexican peso  soared 1.5 percent against the dollar
while the South Korean won gained 0.8 percent and the Czech
koruna appreciated 0.6 percent. Colombia’s peso weakened 0.7
percent.  The Bovespa fell 1.3 percent, reversing earlier gains. Tim
Participacoes SA, the Brazilian unit of Italy’s largest phone
company, advanced 0.5 percent after saying its board approved a
long-term loan of 200 million euros from the  European Investment
Bank .  South Africa’s All Share index declined 0.6 percent as
Moody’s said it was considering a downgrade of debt ratings for
European banks, weighing on local banking stocks.  Nedbank Group
Ltd. (NED) , the country’s fourth-largest lender by assets, slipped 2.9
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 430, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps was little changed
at 365, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  