-- 
Enbridge Project’s Oil, Terrain Increase Spill Risk, Groups Say

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-11-29T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/enbridge-project-s-oil-terrain-increase-spill-risk-groups-say.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed 1,172-
kilometer (728-mile) Northern Gateway oil pipeline may be more
vulnerable to rupture because of the type of crude it would
carry and the rocky terrain it would cross, according to a study
by three environmental groups.  The C$5.5 billion ($5.34 billion) project faces risks from
bitumen that may be more corrosive to pipelines as well as
landslides on “unstable, steep” slopes through the  Rocky
Mountains , according to a report released today by the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , Pembina Institute and Living Oceans
Society.  Landslides, earthquakes and forest fires are among
conditions that pipeline developers face in British Columbia,
the groups said. Those conditions increase the chance of
pipeline ruptures and put local ecosystems in danger of
contamination, according to the report.  Enbridge, based in Calgary, is proposing to build a twin
pipeline system between  Alberta  and the coast of British
Columbia to help bring crude from  oil-sands  projects to market.
The project, which would be mostly underground, would carry
525,000 barrels a day of crude to Canada’s West Coast and bring
back liquids to dilute petroleum products for shipment.  “We are committed to constructing and operating Northern
Gateway to the highest environmental and safety standards to
ensure environmental protection,” Enbridge said on its project
 website . The company, which transports about 2 million barrels
of oil a day, has “decades of experience in pipeline
construction and environmental protection.”  Keystone Delay  The study highlights potential hurdles and opposition faced
by Enbridge and  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , which are
seeking new markets for Alberta’s oil sands.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
proposed Keystone XL pipeline to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries was
delayed this month after officials in  Nebraska  fought its route
through the state.  The Northern Gateway system would cross more than 785
streams and rivers, putting commercial and recreational salmon
fishing industries with a combined C$800 million in annual
revenue at risk in the event of an  oil spill , according to the
study. Spills in marine areas threaten whales, sea lions and
other animals that attract tourists.  The system’s route must also be selected to avoid
landslide-prone areas because “pipelines cannot be built to
withstand serious landslides,” the report concludes.  In addition, diluted bitumen from the oil sands is “more
likely to cause corrosion” in pipelines because it is more
acidic, thicker and more sulphuric, the groups said.  Once bitumen from the pipeline reaches the coast it would
be shipped via tankers through narrow channels and “dangerous
seas” where spill clean-up would be difficult, according to the
study.  Canada  should reject the Northern Gateway proposal because
of the risks it poses to the environment, the groups said. The
government should restrict further development of oil-sands
pipeline projects until it can evaluate the corrosive effect of
the bitumen, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  