-- 
Lenovo to Offer New Phone, Tablets to Boost China Cloud Service

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-11-29T10:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/lenovo-to-offer-new-phone-tablets-to-boost-china-cloud-service.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal-computers, will offer upgraded
versions of its smartphone and tablet computer in China, where
the company is starting a cloud-computing service for consumers.  The new “Lenovo Cloud” service allows users to store and
download data on remote computer servers with devices including
phones and tablets, the company said in an e-mailed statement
today. Lenovo is aiming to make new devices that offer better
integration with cloud-computing technology, it said.  The computer maker follows Chinese Web companies including
 Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  and  Baidu Inc.  in offering cloud
services in China, the world’s biggest Internet market by users.
Internationally,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  aims to add users to its iCloud
service, which allows online sharing of music, photographs and
documents for iPhone and iPad users, and compete against rival
cloud technology by  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Lenovo will offer new versions of its LePhone and LePad
products, and introduce LeTV, a television device, according to
the statement. LeTV will start selling in the first quarter of
next year, the company said, without indicating when it will
introduce the upgraded smartphone and tablet computer models.  The Chinese company, which acquired the PC unit of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 2005 to expand
overseas, will also upgrade its online applications store.  Lenovo shares rose 3.8 percent to HK$5.42 at close in  Hong
Kong , compared with a 1.2 percent gain in the city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  Alibaba Group, part-owned by  Yahoo! Inc. , in July unveiled
an operating system for mobile devices that lets users access
applications using cloud computing technology. In September,
Baidu said it will offer a new cloud technology aimed at mobile-
phone users.  Lenovo accounted for 13.5 percent of the global PC market
by shipments last quarter, increasing from 11.1 percent a year
earlier, overtaking  Dell Inc. (DELL) , according to researcher Gartner
Inc. The Chinese company trailed only  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , whose
market share rose to 17.7 percent from 17.3 percent, Gartner
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  