-- 
EPA Rule Shows Regulations That Kill Jobs Can Create New Ones

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-11-29T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/epa-rule-shows-regulations-that-kill-jobs-can-create-new-ones.html
Lincoln Paper & Tissue LLC  is
nestled near a pond amid the forested countryside of Maine. 
It’s a 128-year-old mill where third-generation workers are
as deeply rooted as the evergreens.  About 1,100 miles south in  Charlotte , North Carolina, sits
 Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC) , a 144-year-old company that is among the
largest U.S. makers of boilers. Its machinery powered New
York City’s first subway in 1902.  For more than a century, the interests of such companies
were aligned. Now, boiler owners typified by Lincoln and
boiler makers led by Babcock have diverging financial interests
on one matter -- costly federal regulations, which Republicans
have called job-killing and Democrats have hailed as life-saving. The split illustrates how the national debate about
federal rules is more complicated than the rhetoric, and how
changes in standards can create economic winners and losers.  “Any environmental policy is going to have both benefits
and costs,” Robert Stavins, director of Harvard University’s
environmental economics program in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
said in an interview. “The notion of a win-win policy is a
fiction of politicians and advocates.”  The Obama administration’s Environmental Protection Agency,
at the direction of a federal court, announced on Feb. 21
stricter limits on pollution from industrial boilers, which burn
fossil fuels, biomass or other materials to generate electricity
at manufacturing plants. The rule sets emissions levels for
toxins such as mercury, carbon monoxide and dioxins for about
13,800 of the largest boilers.  Estimated $3 Billion  The administration says the regulation would cost 
businesses $3 billion as companies upgrade or replace their
boilers. The EPA may issue its revisions to the rules by
tomorrow. A comment period would follow before the rules could
be implemented.  President  Barack Obama  has acknowledged that the boiler
rule is among the three most expensive regulations the
administration is considering. Republican leaders have called
the administration’s proposed EPA rules examples of “job-killing regulations,” and the House voted Oct. 13 to delay the
boiler standards.  For companies that use boilers, the rule may cost $14.3
billion and put 230,000 jobs at risk in 26 different sectors,
including construction and chemical manufacturing, according to
the Council of Industrial Boiler Owners, based in Warrenton,
 Virginia .  For boiler makers, the new market to build boilers and
supply equipment to meet pending environmental regulations is
valued at $12 billion to $24 billion, Babcock & Wilcox Chief
Executive Officer Brandon C. Bethards told investors on a May 10
conference call.  ‘Powerful Market’  “We expect this to be a powerful market over the next
several years,” Bethards said.  Winners also may include companies that provide
environmental controls, such as Shaw Group Inc. of Baton Rogue,
Louisiana, and  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  of Irving,  Texas , according to John Rogers, head of institutional equity research at D.A. Davidson
& Co. in Lake Oswego,  Oregon .  The EPA has said that, in addition to creating jobs, the
regulation would improve public health by limiting toxins that
people breathe. The rule may prevent as many as 6,500 deaths a
year, according to the administration. The boiler standards are
meant to help protect Americans from cancer, heart disease and
asthma.  The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service says
industry cost estimates are exaggerated. Expenses would mostly
fall on the 13 percent of large boilers fueled by coal, oil and
biomass, CRS said. It said the remaining major boilers, which
mainly burn natural gas, would require periodic tune-ups.  “We must regulate sensibly, in a manner that does not
create undue burdens and that carefully considers both the
benefits and the costs,” EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson told
the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Sept. 22.  Lincoln Mill  The costs may be high for Lincoln Paper, which already is
facing stiff competition because of the globalization of the
paper industry, said Keith Van Scotter, the company’s CEO.  That competition contributed to the Lincoln mill shutting
down for about six months in 2004 and declaring bankruptcy under
previous ownership.  Van Scotter and other investors reopened the mill with 35
percent fewer workers. Lincoln now employs about 400 people, who
produce paper for products such as colored napkins and magazine
reply cards.  It may cost Lincoln as much as $5 million to comply with
the new EPA industrial-boiler regulation, Van Scotter said.  ‘Hog Fuel’  “They’ve come up with rules that are in large part
unattainable,” he said in an interview in his office in
Lincoln, a town of 5,100 located about 50 miles (80 kilometers)
north of Bangor.  The cost to comply is almost double the company’s annual
net income and its yearly budget for capital expenditures, Van
Scotter said. That would mean reductions in investment and
potential layoffs, he said.  Lincoln’s 20-year-old biomass boiler is fed by an average
daily diet of 550 tons of “hog fuel,” a mixture of tree limbs,
wood chips and residue from wastewater collected in the mill’s
paper-making process, Dennis McComb, Lincoln’s environmental and
safety manager, said in an interview.  The plant may have to add technology to reduce carbon-monoxide emissions, buy computer monitoring equipment and build
a second fuel-storage building, he said. Lincoln is waiting on
final rules before determining what actions to take.  Mills at Risk  The EPA’s proposed regulation sets high standards for the
acceptable release of each individual toxin, rather than taking
into consideration a plant’s overall ability to comply, he said.  “You don’t have an operating boiler in the country that’s
consistently meeting all of those limits,” McComb said.  The EPA’s boiler rules may cause 36 U.S. paper mills to
close and risk 20,500 direct jobs in the paper industry,
according to a September study commissioned by the American
Forest & Paper Association. Groups including the American
Chemistry Council also oppose the regulation.  Senators Susan Collins, a  Maine  Republican, and Ron Wyden,
an Oregon Democrat, are sponsoring legislation that would give
the EPA an additional 15 months to write new rules for
industrial boilers. The bill then would give boiler owners as
long as five years to comply.  “I’m hoping EPA will produce regulations that are
realistic and achievable by real-world standards,” Collins, who
has voted against Republican efforts to curtail the agency’s
authority, said in an interview. “I also recognize when EPA has
gone overboard, which regrettably under Lisa Jackson it has had
a tendency to do.”  ‘Delaying the Inevitable’  In May, the EPA postponed implementation of the boiler rule
to give the public more time to comment.  “Delaying the inevitable is only going to increase the
cost of compliance,” W. Randall Rawson, president of the
American Boiler Manufacturers Association, an industry group
based in Vienna, Virginia, said in an interview.  Legislation to delay or kill the boiler rule is adding
uncertainty for investors, Paul Welch Goggins, director of
marketing communications and development for Cleaver-Brooks
Inc., a closely held boiler manufacturer based in Thomasville,
 Georgia , said in an interview.  The debate over the EPA’s boiler standards has become more
of a political than a regulatory issue, said Rawson of the
boiler manufacturers’ group.  Sierra Club Suit  Opponents of the rule may want to delay it until after the
2012 election, in hopes that Republicans win both chambers of
Congress and the White House, he said.  Environmental groups have a “common purpose” with boiler
manufacturers in advocating for the EPA’s rules, John Coequyt,
director of international climate policy for the Sierra Club,
said in an interview.  The San Francisco-based Sierra Club sued the EPA in July in
U.S. District Court in  Washington  to prevent the agency from
postponing rules that a federal judge had ordered it to
implement.  Bills to delay the rules are a “grotesque weakening of the
Clean Air Act that are disguised as temporary time-outs,” John
Walke, director of the  New York  City-based Natural Resources
Defense Council’s clean-air program, said in an interview.  Boiler owners have been on notice for years that these
rules were coming, Conrad Schneider, advocacy director for the
Clean Air Task Force, said in an interview at his Brunswick,
Maine, office.  ‘Mill’s an Anchor’  That’s not the point, said Jarrod Kimball, 33, a third-generation worker at Lincoln Paper.  “They want this mill to spend millions of dollars on
things they’re not going to get any return on,” he said in an
interview.  On the roads outside the red-brick paper mill, tractor-trailers haul flatbeds stacked with tree trunks through
Lincoln’s streets dozens of times a day. Around the mill, a
bitter odor, the by-product of the pulping process, hangs in the
air.  The process of making paper has changed little since the
mill was constructed in 1883. The industry has been reshaped
more by less expensive products from outside the U.S.  “This mill’s been an anchor in the community,” said
Kimball, whose father and grandfather worked at the Lincoln
plant. “Having two young kids and a wife, I would hate the
thought of having to start from scratch and start looking for
work all over again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  