-- 
EPA Said to Give Power Companies Options to Delay Pollution Rule

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-11-29T16:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/epa-proposal-said-to-give-power-companies-option-to-delay-pollution-rules.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
would let  power plants  apply for more time to comply with new
pollution standards under a rule sent to the White House for
review, according to people familiar with the process.  The EPA stopped short of granting an across-the-board delay
in implementing the rules, as sought by companies such as
 American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  and  Southern Co. (SO) , according to the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity while the proposal
is under review by the White House  Office of Management and
Budget . Instead, it’s designed to offer guarantees that the EPA
rule won’t endanger electric reliability by forcing companies to
shut plants that burn coal.  The EPA “will reinforce that an additional year is
available,” Christine Tezak, a senior policy analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co. in McLean,  Virginia , said in an interview. “But
people will still have to ask for it.”  The rule, estimated by the EPA to cost $11 billion in 2015,
is one of the most expensive proposed by President Barack Obama’s administration. It is set to be issued next month and
take effect in 2015.  The EPA says cutting emissions of mercury, arsenic and
other hazardous materials at coal-fired plants would save lives
and create 9,000 more jobs than would be lost, as companies
invest billions of dollars to install pollution-scrubbing
systems or build cleaner natural-gas plants.  The White House budget office is reviewing the EPA’s
proposal, and staff members are meeting with utilities, power
producers, union leaders and environmentalists to discuss the
regulation and the schedule for compliance.  AEP, Southern  AEP of Columbus,  Ohio , and Atlanta-based Southern, the two
largest U.S. producers of electricity from coal, say that they
will have to shutter needed power plants if the EPA pushes ahead
with making the rule effective in 2015.  In a meeting with White House officials set for today,
lobbyists for companies such as Southern and St. Louis-based
 Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  will make the case that the regulation should be
put off for a year so the agency can deal with the more than
900,000 comments submitted and work with the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  on the risks to the delivery of
electricity, according to  Scott Segal , a lobbyist at Bracewell &
Giuliani LLP in Washington. Absent that, the EPA should delay
the deadline for complying beyond 2015, Segal said.  “We need sufficient time for implementation to get this
right,” Segal said in an interview.  The EPA has said it can grant power producers an extra year
to comply if they try and fail to meet the three-year deadline
set out in the  Clean Air Act , or if state or regional officials
say a particular plant is necessary for emergency purposes.  National Security  The law also allows for delays beyond a year that can be
granted by the president for national-security purposes, and the
EPA will say those plants will be able to run in times of peak
demand under particular circumstances.  The EPA’s proposal could still be changed, or rejected, by
the budget office. An EPA proposal to cap ozone pollution
nationwide was scrapped by Obama in September.  AEP has  said  that if the EPA rule goes forward it will mean
the closing of parts or all of 11 power plants, eliminating as
many as 600 jobs. The company has said it will need to spend as
much as $8 billion to upgrade plants.  “Three years is absolutely inadequate -- at least six
years are needed to comply,” Anthony Topazi, chief operating
officer of Southern, said in written testimony for a hearing on
the issue at FERC tomorrow. “We cannot err on the side of
putting the reliability of the system at risk.”  The Obama administration may face other risks if it bows to
the pressures of AEP and Southern, said John Walke, clean-air
director for the New York-based Natural Resources Defense
Council, said in an interview. If the administration accepts the
“fanciful” argument and grants a further delay beyond the
three years stipulated by law, environmentalists will fight that
in court, he said.  Walke joined environmentalists at a White House meeting
yesterday, pressing officials to advance the rule. Unlike the
ozone rule, “they see this as a political asset,” Walke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  