-- 
EFSF Gets Ministers’ Approval for Expansion

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-11-29T23:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/euro-region-s-boost-to-bailout-fund-falls-short-of-1-trillion-euro-target.html
Euro-area finance ministers approved
enhancements to their  bailout fund  while backing off setting a
target for how much firepower they plan to muster to stem a
growing debt crisis.  After a series of stop-gap accords failed to protect Italy
and  Spain  from widening bond yield, the ministers met in
Brussels under growing pressure from U.S. leaders and financial
markets to find ways to boost the  European Financial Stability
Facility ’s effectiveness. They agreed to create certificates
that could guarantee up to 30 percent of new issues from
troubled euro-area governments and to create investment vehicles
that would boost the EFSF’s firepower to intervene in primary
and secondary bond markets.  “It’s impossible to give one number; it’s a process,”
EFSF Chief Executive Officer Klaus Regling told a press
conference in Brussels, backing off an earlier goal of 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion). “We will need money if
countries make a request, and market conditions change over
time.”  While saying it won’t meet the previously stated goal,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the fund’s
capacity will be “very substantial.”  The bond certificates could be up and running next month,
Regling said, while the investment vehicles could be operational
in January. “Many investors are interested and will participate
if we have solidly commercial product,” Regling said. “But
don’t expect massive inflows immediately. The needs will come
over time.”  IMF Resources  Juncker, who heads the euro group of finance ministers,
also said the euro area will work on boosting the resources of
the  International Monetary Fund  so that it can “cooperate”
more closely with the EFSF.  “There are some marginal technical changes regarding
intervention in primary and secondary markets, but overall it’s
very similar” to previously published documents on the EFSF’s
role, said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “Dec. 9 might have more
meat, hopefully, otherwise markets will be yet again
disappointed.”  European heads of government meet Dec. 9 in Brussels, in a
meeting that is likely to be dominated by the debt crisis that
began in  Greece  two years, spread to Ireland and Portugal,
before driving up Italian and Spanish bond yields over the
summer, and now is hurting even  Germany ’s ability to sell debt
and threatening  France ’s top debt rating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  