-- 
European Stocks Climb as Euro-Area Finance Ministers Meet on Debt Crisis

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-11-29T17:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-edf-vodafone-might-be-active.html
European  stocks advanced for a third
day as euro-area finance ministers met to discuss insuring a
portion of bonds issued by debt-stricken countries  and U.S.
 consumer confidence  unexpectedly rose in November.  BASF SE and K+S AG pulled a gauge of chemical makers
higher, rising more than 2 percent. IG Group Holdings Plc
rallied the most since 2010. Colruyt SA,  Belgium ’s biggest
discount-food retailer, plunged to a four-year low after
reporting worse-than-estimated fiscal first-half profit.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 0.8 percent to 231.68 at
the close. The Stoxx 600 rallied 3.8 percent yesterday amid
speculation the euro area’s policy makers are intensifying their
efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  “The finance-minister meeting today will be observed
carefully,” said Trung-Tin Nguyen, a hedge-fund manager at TTN
AG in Zurich. “There is hope, along with increasing pressure,
for indicative measures to be implemented. The Italian auction
went better than expected, so that gives the market support as
well.”  Finance ministers from the 17-member monetary union met in
Brussels to debate using their bailout fund, the  European (SXXP) 
Financial Stability Facility, to insure sovereign debt with
guarantees.  President  Barack Obama  said agreeing on a sufficient
response to  Europe ’s problems is of “huge importance” to the
U.S., after meeting yesterday with European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso .  Euro-Area Integration  “We’ve got a stake in their success, and we will continue
to work in a constructive way to try to resolve this issue in
the near future,” Obama said at the White House after the
annual U.S.-EU summit. Barroso said that “no one in Europe” is
discussing a breakup and that “everybody is speaking” of
further integration among euro-area states.  Italian 10-year bonds fell, pushing yields for the
benchmark securities toward euro-era records as the country sold
7.5 billion euros ($10 billion) of debt maturing in 2014, 2020
and 2022.  In the U.S.,  consumer confidence  climbed in November by the
most in more than eight years as Americans grew more upbeat
about their employment and income prospects. The  Conference
Board’s index  increased to 56 from a revised 40.9 reading in
October, the biggest monthly gain since April 2003, figures
showed today. The gauge, at a four-month high, exceeded the
 most-optimistic forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in 14 of the 18 western-
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 Index and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index climbed 0.5 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX Index advanced 1
percent.  BASF, the world’s largest chemical company, climbed 2.1
percent to 50.56 euros after the company raised its sales target
for the end of this decade as Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock
laid out his strategy after seven months in charge.  K+S, Europe’s biggest potash supplier, increased 3 percent
to 39.46 euros. The company will develop a Canadian mineral
deposit that it acquired this year.  IG Group (IGG)  jumped 9.3 percent to 474 pence, its biggest rally
since June 2010, after forecasting first-half revenue of more
than 193 million pounds ($301 million), at least 23 percent
higher than a year earlier.  G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s largest security company, rose 3.2
percent to 246.8 pence after Alex Magni, an analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc upgraded the stock to “overweight” from
“neutral.”  Remy Cointreau, Oriflame  Remy Cointreau SA, the maker of Remy Martin cognac, climbed
2.9 percent to 61.90 euros after the company  forecast (RCO)  “a
substantial increase” in full-year earnings. Remy Cointreau
also posted first-half current operating profit that jumped 27
percent to 106.2 million euros, topping analysts’ estimates.  Oriflame Cosmetics SA (ORI) , the Swedish maker of cosmetics,
surged 7 percent to 207.70 kronor after Svenska Handelsbanken AB
raised the company’s shares to “buy” from “accumulate.”  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  jumped 5.1 percent to 241.7 pence as its
Parsons Brinckerhoff unit won a 104 million-pound five-year
contract from Qatar’s government.  Colruyt plunged 8 percent to 27.22 euros after reporting a
steeper-than-estimated drop in fiscal first-half profit as its
expansion in France turned unprofitable because of price cuts
and accelerated store openings. The company said  its forecast (COLR) 
for full-year profit close to last year’s 338 million euros
“remains a challenge.”  Lloyds, KBC Groep  Lloyds Banking Plc dropped 2.1 percent to 23.2 pence and
 KBC Groep NV (KBC)  fell 6.9 percent to 8.32 euros as a gauge of
European banks was the worst performer of the 19 industry groups
in the  Stoxx 600 .  The  European Central Bank  failed to fully offset the extra
liquidity created by its bond purchases for the first time in
seven months, a sign of mounting tension among euro-area banks.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest offshore oil driller,
slumped 8.7 percent to 39.20 Swiss francs after announcing it
will sell shares to help refinance its acquisition of Aker
Drilling ASA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  