-- 
Euro-Region Economic Confidence Falls to Two-Year Low: Economy

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-11-29T11:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/euro-region-economic-confidence-declines-to-lowest-in-two-years.html
European confidence  in the economic
outlook dropped more than economists forecast in November as the
17-nation euro region edged closer to a recession and the fiscal
crisis started to hit larger countries.  An index of executive and  consumer sentiment  in the euro
area fell to 93.7 from 94.8 in October, the European Commission
in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest since November 2009.
Economists forecast a drop to 93.9, the median of 31  estimates 
in a Bloomberg survey showed.  Euro-area finance chiefs meeting in Brussels today are
under increasing pressure to step up their crisis response as
the two-year sovereign debt crisis spreads from the periphery to
core countries, clouding growth prospects. Services and
manufacturing contracted in November and the  European Central
Bank  this month unexpectedly trimmed borrowing costs.  Today’s numbers “support the message from other timely
indicators that the  euro zone  is embarking on a deep
recession,” said  Jennifer McKeown , senior European economist at
 Capital Economics  in  London . “We now see gross domestic product
falling by 1 percent next year and perhaps some 2.5 percent in
2013 as the debt crisis escalates and the currency union
undergoes some form of break-up.”  ‘Mild Recession’  The euro advanced after the report, trading at $1.3399 at
11:15 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.6 percent on the day. German 10-
year government bonds pared gains, leaving the yield on the
securities little changed at 2.30 percent.  Italy was again forced to pay above the 7 percent threshold
that led  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek bailouts when it
sold 7.5 billion euros ($10.1 billion) in bonds today, short of
the maximum target for the auction.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
in Paris yesterday lowered its global growth forecast for this
year and next, calling Europe’s fiscal crisis the main threat.
The economy of the 34 OECD nations will expand 1.9 percent this
year and 1.6 percent next instead of a previously projected 2.3
percent and 2.8 percent, respectively, it said.  The euro region is already in a “mild recession,” with
gross domestic product rising just 0.2 percent in 2012, the OECD
said. In 2013, the economy may expand 1.4 percent.  “The euro-area crisis represents the key risk to the world
economy,” the OECD said. “Contagion has entered a new phase
and spread beyond euro-area countries normally seen as fiscally
vulnerable, suggesting that fiscal concerns are no longer the
only driving force behind contagion.”  ‘Moderate’ Sales Growth  A gauge of sentiment among  European manufacturers  dropped
to minus 7.3 from minus 6.5 in October, today’s report showed.
An indicator of services confidence fell to minus 1.7 from 0.1
in the previous month, while a measure of  consumer confidence 
decreased to minus 20.4 from minus 19.9. A gauge of the business
climate fell for a ninth month to minus 0.44 from minus 0.19.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, on Nov.
10 forecast that profit next year won’t advance on “moderate”
sales growth. The Munich-based company joined rivals including
 France ’s  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  in bracing for a slowdown in
spending on infrastructure as cash-strapped governments toughen
austerity measures to counter the fiscal crisis.  “We are currently seeing the first indications of a
slowdown in demand in the European markets,” Juergen Geissinger, chief executive officer of Schaeffler AG, the
roller-bearing maker that controls  Continental AG (CON) , said on Nov.
22. “On a global basis, our orders in hand remain solid.”  Job Cuts  European companies are already cutting spending and
eliminating jobs. Euro-region unemployment unexpectedly
increased in September, pushing the jobless rate to 10.2
percent. The euro region’s economic growth stalled in the third
quarter from the previous three months; the economies of
Portugal and the Netherlands shrank.  A gauge of euro-region manufacturers’ output expectations
dropped to minus 0.7 from 0.2 in the previous month, today’s
report showed. An indicator of order books slumped to minus 14,
while a gauge of employment expectations declined to minus 3.  Fiat SpA (F)  CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said on Nov. 21 that the
outlook for profitability in Europe is uncertain. The Turin,
Italy-based carmaker is “to some degree cautious on what is
possible from Europe next year,” he said.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that the “rapid
escalation” of the fiscal crisis threatens all of the region’s
sovereign ratings. Credit risks will keep increasing without
steps to stabilize markets in the short term, it said.  ‘Too Late’  Spain  last week dropped plans to sell three-year bonds,
 Standard & Poor’s  trimmed  Belgium ’s credit rating and Portugal’s
was cut by  Fitch Ratings  below investment grade.  Leaders are working toward a Dec. 9 summit meeting to
regain investor confidence. Finance ministers meet today to
thrash out details on how the region’s rescue fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility, will boost its muscle by insuring
sovereign debt with guarantees.  Still, Nobel Prize winner  Joseph Stiglitz  said on Nov. 23
that European efforts are “just too little and too late.”  “There’s a significant likelihood that  Europe  will be
facing a recession, there are already signs of economic
downturn,” he said. “European leaders say they’re committed to
preserving the euro, but they’re reluctant to do what’s
necessary.”  ‘Stronger Commitment’  The ECB has introduced a number of unconventional tools to
address the crisis, including flooding the banking system with
cash to prevent a credit crunch and buying government bonds.
While the central bank has rejected calls to start printing
money, it lowered the benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 1.25
percent, reversing two earlier increases this year.  Peter Vanden Houte, an economist at ING Group in Brussels,
said the ECB is likely to “announce a stronger commitment” on
bond purchases in return for a pledge from leaders at a December
summit to boost fiscal integration and monitoring of budgetary
policy.  “As a first step, we expect the ECB to lower  interest
rates  again with 25 basis points at next week’s meeting, while
also announcing longer-term funding operations for the banks,”
he said. “After the European summit, the ECB might go a step
further by announcing specific caps for bond yields.”  The ECB will hold its next monthly meeting on Dec. 8 and
also publish its latest economic projections for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  