-- 
Euro Drops Amid Bets Fund Effort Falling Short; Peso, Aussie, Krona Climb

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-11-29T22:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/euro-drops-amid-wagers-leaders-won-t-agree-on-crisis-steps-krona-advances.html
The euro dropped versus the majority
of its most-traded counterparts amid speculation  Europe ’s effort
to expand its bailout fund to 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
is falling short.  The 17-nation currency pared early gains versus the dollar
after the  European Central Bank  failed to offset extra liquidity
created by its bond purchases. Italy must move quickly to
overhaul its economy, said a European Commission report to the
region’s finance ministers meeting today. Mexico’s peso,
 Australia ’s dollar and Sweden’s krona were the biggest winners
versus the greenback as investors sought higher-yielding assets.  “The uncertainty factor is very high right now, and it’s
hard to see what it is that could actually draw the line firmly
under this crisis,” said  David Mann , regional head of research
for the Americas at Standard Chartered Plc. in  New York . “The
only reason why we haven’t been able to break much lower is
because the market is already so short euros.” A short position
is a bet the price of an asset will fall.  The euro was little changed at $1.3317 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after earlier gaining to as high as $1.3442, the strongest
level since Nov. 23. It appreciated 0.6 percent yesterday. The
shared currency slipped 0.1 percent to 103.77 yen. The dollar
weakened less than 0.1 percent to 77.93 yen.  Futures traders increased  bets  the euro would weaken
against the dollar to 85,068 last week, the most since June
2010, figures from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
showed. Mann said the euro would likely depreciate further if it
breaks through a level where sell orders may be clustered at
$1.3146, last touched on Oct. 4.  Confidence Climbs  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose as high as 0.9 percent
as the Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence
increased to 56 this month from a reading of 40.9 in October,
the biggest monthly gain since April 2003.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was down 0.2 percent to 79.076 after earlier
dropping as much as 0.9 percent.  Australia’s dollar rallied for a second day against the
greenback, rising 1 percent to $1.0004. It fell for the past
four weeks. The Aussie pared its drop for November to 5 percent.
 Canada ’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to C$1.0321 per  U.S. dollar .  The  Mexican peso  climbed 1.5 percent to 13.8230 per dollar.
 Mexico ’s central bank will auction $400 million of reserves
daily starting tomorrow to provide liquidity and as a
preventative measure, according to an e-mailed statement from
the nation’s Currency Exchange Commission.  ‘Difficult to Reach’  Europe’s efforts to expand its temporary rescue fund are
flagging, forcing renewed consideration of a role for the ECB in
insulating  Spain  and Italy from the debt crisis.  An agreement hammered out last month to expand the European
Financial Stability Facility’s firepower to 1 trillion euros
with leveraging will be “very difficult to reach,” Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden told reporters today before euro-
area finance chiefs met in Brussels.  With prodding from the U.S. after a series of stop-gap
accords failed to protect  Italy  and Spain from market turmoil,
the ministers started talks on channeling ECB loans to cash-
strapped euro nations through the  International Monetary Fund ,
aiming to bring the central bank on to the front lines without
violating its ban on direct lending to governments.  Unsure on Changes  “I’m not sure you’re going to be seeing any changes,”
said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. in New York. “I don’t think that
yesterday’s rally in the euro was any long-term conviction that
everything is good.”  The euro had its biggest intraday jump yesterday versus the
dollar in more than two weeks, 1.2 percent, after leaders
including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  urged fast-track
treaty changes to tighten budget discipline. Today’s meeting
precedes a Dec. 9 leaders’ summit.  The ECB failed to fully offset the extra liquidity created
by its bond purchases for the first time in seven months. It was
the first failure since the ECB expanded its program in August
to buy Italian and Spanish bonds. The central bank said 85 banks
bid a total of 194.2 billion euros for seven-day term deposits.
It had aimed to drain 203.5 billion euros.  Italy raised 7.5 billion euros at an auction today. It
agreed to pay a yield of 7.89 percent on three-year notes, up
from 4.93 percent at a sale of similar-maturity debt last month.  “While Italy can weather through a short-lived debt-market
turbulence, the risks of a full-blown sovereign liquidity crisis
can increase rapidly in the absence of a determined policy
response,” the European Commission, the European Union’s
executive, said in the report presented to finance ministers.  Funding Cost Climbs  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars rose for a
fifth day and was at almost the most expensive level since the
depth of the financial crisis. The three-month cross-currency
 basis swap , the rate banks pay to convert euro payments into
dollars, touched 1.59 percentage points below the euro interbank
offered rate today. It reached 1.61 percentage points Nov. 25,
the most expensive on an intraday basis since October 2008. The
average level this year is 0.53 percentage points.  “It’s a death struggle for this currency,”  John Taylor ,
founder of the world’s largest currency hedge fund FX Concepts
LLC, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu. “The outlook is bleak, but there’s
always the hope that the bleaker it gets, the more the
governments are going to wake up and do something.”  The euro fell 0.4 percent over the past month against nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar rose 6.2 percent in the
best performance, while  Sweden ’s krona dropped 2.4 percent.  The krona strengthened today after data showed Sweden’s
economy grew an annual 4.6 percent in the third quarter,
exceeding analyst estimates for a 3.4 percent expansion. The
currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 9.1767 per euro. Against the
dollar, it gained 1.1 percent to 6.8912.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  