-- 
Euro Ministers Agree on Bond Guarantees, Seek Larger IMF Role

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-11-30T07:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/euro-rescue-fund-boost-seen-falling-short-as-focus-on-ecb-support-revived.html
Euro-area finance ministers approved
enhancements to their  bailout fund  while backing off from a
target for its firepower and seeking a greater role for the
 International Monetary Fund  in fighting the debt crisis.  The finance chiefs of the 17 nations using the euro agreed
to work on boosting the resources of the IMF so it can
“cooperate more closely” with the  European Financial Stability
Facility , Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters late
yesterday in Brussels after leading the meeting.  “It’s very important that the IMF globally will increase
its resources either by raising its capital or by bilateral
loans so that it can lend more money to euro-zone countries in
need,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television after the meeting. “If we
open the IMF effort, that will be sufficient together with the
leverage options in the EFSF.”  After a series of stop-gap accords failed to protect  Italy 
and Spain from surging bond yields, the euro-area ministers are
under growing pressure from U.S. leaders and international
financial markets to find ways to boost the EFSF’s
effectiveness. They agreed on a plan to guarantee up to 30
percent of new bond issues from troubled governments and to
develop investment vehicles that would boost the facility’s
ability to intervene in primary and secondary bond markets.  Total Firepower  EFSF Chief Executive OfficerKlaus Regling said it is
“impossible to give one number” for the total firepower of the
fund, backing off an earlier goal of 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion). “Market conditions change over time,” he said.  Juncker said the EFSF’s capacity will be  “very
substantial”  and will be supplemented by the IMF. The ministers
“agreed to rapidly explore an increase of the resources of the
IMF through bilateral loans,” Juncker said, “so that the IMF
could adequately match the new firepower of the EFSF and
cooperate more closely with it.”  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said the issue “needs to be discussed with the IMF
and this work is in progress.” Neither Rehn nor Juncker named
who might provide the loans. “We are together with the IMF
consulting contributors through bilateral loans,” Rehn said.  The Europeans are “not there yet” in terms of fleshing
out their plan enough for emerging-market nations to pledge
funds to the IMF that would then aid the euro region, said
Callum Henderson, global head of foreign-exchange research in
 Singapore  at Standard Chartered Plc. “It does appear that we
are making progress -- the question is are we making progress
fast enough.”  Investment Vehicles  The EFSF bond guarantees and investment vehicles can run
simultaneously and could be functioning by early next year,
according to a document released by the fund. “Many investors
are interested and will participate if we have a solidly
commercial product,” Regling said. “But don’t expect massive
inflows immediately. The needs will come over time.”  European heads of government meet on Dec. 9 in Brussels in
a summit likely to be dominated by the debt crisis that began in
 Greece  two years ago, spread to Ireland and  Portugal , before
driving up Italian and Spanish bond yields over the summer, and
now is hurting even  Germany ’s ability to sell debt and
threatening  France ’s top debt rating.  Short-Term Bills  “These decisions have clearly enhanced the capacity and
flexibility of the EFSF,” said  Charles Dallara , head of the
Institute of International Finance, which represents more than
450 financial companies. “The EFSF can now issue short-term
bills and use  government bonds  it may purchase on secondary
markets for repo transactions.”  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said the moves represent “some
marginal technical changes regarding intervention in primary and
secondary markets, but overall it’s very similar” to previously
published documents on the EFSF’s role. “Dec. 9 might have more
meat, hopefully, otherwise markets will be yet again
disappointed.”  Germany is pushing for  governance changes  at next week’s
summit that would tighten enforcement of budget rules, a move
that might make it easier for the  European Central Bank  to play
a bigger part in supporting euro-area nations.  Greater roles for both the ECB and the IMF are “on the
table,” Belgian Finance Minister Didier Reynders said as he
left yesterday’s meeting.  “The EFSF alone will not be able to solve all the
problems,” Luxembourg’s Luc Frieden said. “We have to do so
together with the IMF and with the ECB in the framework of its
independence.”  Financial Aid  The ministers have started talks on channeling ECB loans to
cash-strapped euro nations through the IMF, aiming to bring the
central bank on to the front lines without violating its ban on
direct lending to governments, according to two officials
familiar with the discussions.  Over the opposition of the two Germans on its 23-member
council, the ECB has bought  203.5 billion euros  of bonds of
three countries receiving financial aid -- Greece, Ireland and
Portugal -- plus Italy and  Spain . Yet yields have continued to
climb.  The U.S. and British central banks have been buying their
country’s debt in much larger quantities, and that’s one reason
their bond yields are at record lows in spite of debt and
deficit figures that in some cases are worse than Italy’s and
Spain’s.  Bond-Buying Program  Four weeks after taking over from  Jean-Claude Trichet , ECB
President  Mario Draghi  hasn’t tipped his hand about a possible
role for the central bank, apart from saying the ECB’s 18-month-
old bond-buying program is temporary and limited.  “From our perspective, we see how the  Bank of England 
operates, and we see how the Fed operates, but I understand it’s
not legally possible for  Frankfurt  to operate in the same way,”
said Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan as he arrived at
yesterday’s meeting. “So we’ll have to see if somebody has come
up with a clever formula to allow that.”  The euro-region finance ministers also approved a 5.8
billion-euro loan to Greece under last year’s bailout after
eliciting budget-austerity pledges from Greek political leaders
backing a unity government.  They agreed to appoint France’s Benoit Coeure to a soon-to-
be empty spot on the ECB’s board and presented new Italian Prime
Minister Mario Monti with a report outlining measures the
country should take to reduce debt and boost economic growth.  Bond Issuance  The euro-area ministers will be joined today by their
counterparts from the rest of the 27-nation EU and will seek
agreement on how to temporarily guarantee banks’ bond issuance
in order to improve funding conditions for lending. EU leaders
agreed last month to provide the guarantees as part of a set of
measures to restore investor confidence in banks.  The IMF is co-funding the bailouts of Greece, Ireland and
Portugal and is preparing to send a team to Italy for an
unprecedented audit of that country’s efforts to cut its debt.  With about $390 billion currently available for lending,
the Washington-based IMF may not have enough money to meet
demand if the global outlook worsens, Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  