-- 
Europe Bank Distress May Offer Insurers Buying Opportunity

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-11-30T12:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/european-bank-distress-may-offer-insurers-buying-opportunity.html
Insurers and reinsurers may join
 hedge funds  and private-equity firms in bidding for assets as
distressed European lenders raise capital to withstand the
region’s debt crisis.  “Insurers have the big advantage that they have abundant
liquidity coming in from customers’ premium payments,” said
Andrew Broadfield, an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in London.
“They could hold assets, which distressed banks may have to
sell, until maturity even if they are illiquid.”  Allianz SE  has already received calls from banks, Chief
Financial Officer Oliver Baete said earlier this month, adding
that Europe’s biggest insurer was “ready” to buy assets.  Commerzbank AG ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and other banks are selling
assets as Europe’s leaders demand they raise capital to bolster
investor confidence after writing down their holdings of Greek
debt. While hedge funds target what Marathon Asset Management LP
co-founder Bruce Richards calls the “motherlode” of distressed
investing, insurers are focusing on forced sales of higher-
quality, longer-term assets, such as  mortgage loans .  Insurers, the  world’s biggest investors  along with mutual
and pension funds, are also considering bank assets as low
 interest rates  weigh on returns and as Solvency II rules cap
investments in equities and real estate.  Under Pressure  “Insurers are under pressure as the current interest
environment is absolute poison for them in the long run,” said
 Philipp Haessler , an analyst with Equinet Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“While they are not going after the most risky distressed
assets, property, infrastructure and public sector loans could
be an interesting diversification for them because of their
stable cash flows.”  Solvency II rules, which the European Union plans to
introduce in 2013 to align insurers’ risks with the capital they
hold to protect policyholders, currently propose higher  capital
requirements  for direct property investments than portfolios of
mortgage loans and bonds, said Carsten Zielke, a Frankfurt-based
insurance analyst at  Societe Generale  SA.  Only a few insurers and reinsurers have the “financial
firepower” to buy sufficient assets to boost the capital ratios
of banks, said Manfred Seitz, managing director of reinsurance
international at Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway.  “We have done quite a few deals with banks in the U.S.
already,” Seitz said. “I think we would also take a look at
the assets that banks in  Europe  may put up for sale.”  Shrinking Balance Sheets  Zurich Financial Services AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest
insurer, won’t comment on its “investment strategy for
individual asset classes,” according to spokeswoman Tatjana
Aepli. Emmanuel Touzeau, a Paris-based spokesman at  Axa SA (CS) ,
Europe’s second-largest insurer, declined to comment.  Banks in  France , the U.K., Ireland,  Germany  and  Spain  plan
to shrink their balance sheets by about 775 billion euros ($1.03
trillion) over two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
European lenders have about 1.3 trillion euros of non-core loans
on their balance sheets, accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP estimated in April. That could include real estate,
commercial and shipping loans.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut the credit ratings of some
of the world’s largest banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , UBS AG and Barclays Plc as the ratings
firm revised its methodology to increase the emphasis on the
strength of each nation’s banking system.  Enormous Supply  European banks, vowing to sell distressed assets, are also
lending money to buyers to get deals done and avoid greater
losses as the sovereign-debt crisis deepens.  Because most buyers of distressed assets fund purchases
with debt, which has become increasingly expensive and difficult
to obtain, banks are financing transactions themselves, even if
it means retaining loans on their balance sheets. That will slow
deleveraging and make more asset sales necessary, analysts say.  While the supply will be “enormous,” the first assets
offered may not be the best quality, according to Allianz’s
Baete.  “Most of the banks are obviously starting with the pieces
they don’t like,” Baete said on a Nov. 11 call to analysts.
“Over time a lot of assets that are less liquid and meet our
requirements for long duration and return will come to the
market.”  Allianz rose 1.3 percent to 73.78 euros at 12:31 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The stock of the Munich-based company has
declined 17 percent this year compared with a 30 percent drop of
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest lender.  Market Opportunities  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said it will
“closely observe” market opportunities resulting from
increased capital requirements for banks, according to Reiner Back, head of fixed income and currency portfolio management at
Munich-based company’s MEAG asset-management unit.  “We are highly receptive to investments that increase the
level of our diversification or offer higher potential returns
than comparable risks,” Back said.  Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , the Guernsey-based financial-services
buyout firm founded by  Clive Cowdery , said on Nov. 9 it may
start a new company to buy bank assets.  “It’s become more intensive as there’s great sense banks
will be looking to reposition and will be looking to raise
capital,” Chief Executive Officer John Tiner said. “We believe
that transactions may become more proximate.”  Risk Appetite  Lured by the prospect of buying banks’ portfolios at
discounts, U.S. hedge funds and private-equity firms such as
 Apollo Global Management LLC  have raised about $7 billion for
funds targeting European distressed assets since 2009 and are
seeking another $7 billion, according to London-based researcher
Preqin Ltd. Insurers probably won’t compete for those assets,
said Zielke of Societe Generale.  “While distressed bank assets can offer very high
returns, they are not suitable as an investment for insurers,”
he said. “They are reserved for investors such as hedge funds
with more risk appetite, who are willing to take those risks.”  Zielke said lenders are being forced to sell assets to
comply with tougher Basel III capital targets. The European
Banking Authority last month said it would require lenders to
boost capital by 106 billion euros after marking their
government debt to market values in stress tests.  “If the banks were not able to raise all the capital they
need, that’s the point when insurers might want to get greedy,
not before,” Broadfield of Barclays said. “It’s a very good
position for the insurers to be in, I’m mostly worried about the
execution.”  Competitive Advantage  Commerzbank , Germany’s second-largest lender, said earlier
this month it could reduce risk-weighted assets by as much as 30
billion euros to meet EBA requirements on capital by the middle
of 2012.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank, plans to wind down 48
billion euros of non-strategic assets in coming years, including
commodity divisions in  Asia  and the U.S. BNP Paribas, based in
Paris, has pledged to reduce its balance sheet by 10 percent,
including cutting $82 billion in corporate-and investment-
banking assets.  “The banking system will be less and less able to hold
either illiquid or spread products,” said Allianz CFO Baete.
“That should give us a competitive advantage.”  Insurers, which invest their customers’ money, held about
$24.6 trillion of assets at the end of 2010, according to
 thecityuk.com , a London-based lobby group run by the City of
London Corp. That compares with global hedge-fund assets of
about $1.8 trillion.  “Allianz has earned itself a reputation of being ahead of
the curve with alternative investments,” said  Ben Cohen , an
analyst at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc in  London . “If these
bank loans come at the right price, buying some of them could be
the thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  