-- 
European Debt Crisis Entering Endgame, Nordvig Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-11-29T19:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/european-debt-crisis-is-entering-endgame-nomura-s-nordvig-says-tom-keene.html
Europe’s debt crisis is entering its
endgame, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.’s  Jens Nordvig , who
expects a tighter fiscal union and steps by the  European Central
Bank  to reduce borrowing costs.  “We’re now heading into a very final phase of this crisis
where we are at a crossroad, where we either have to have a
proper backstop or we’re going to face a breakup,” Nordvig,
managing director for currency research in  New York , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with
Tom Keene. “The most likely scenario is one where the ECB
provides a backstop in the next couple of months.”  The 17-nation euro will likely decline to $1.30 by the end
of the year and will fall to $1.15 in the first three months of
2012 if  Europe ’s central bank “remains reluctant to step in,”
according to Nordvig.  The euro was little changed at $1.3323 at 2:13 p.m. New
York time, after earlier touching $1.3442, the highest level
since Nov. 23. It appreciated 0.6 percent yesterday.  The yield on 10-year Swedish government debt fell to a
euro-era record 64 basis points below that of the 10-year German
bund on Nov. 25, compared with 31 basis points more than German
debt at the end of 2010.  “That really signals that we’re entering a phase that we
can call the endgame,” Nordvig, 37, said. “Core euro-zone
counties including  Germany  are starting to see their bond
markets underperform, and that is really a function of the
mistrust in the whole currency union overall.”  Italy was again forced to pay above the 7 percent threshold
that led  Greece , Portugal and Ireland to seek bailouts when it
sold 7.5 billion euros ($10.1 billion) in bonds. The amount was
short of the top range of 8 billion euros for the sale.  “We need to have some mechanism that brings yields back to
a sustainable level,” Nordvig said. “Otherwise we’re going to
have defaults.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  