-- 
Eurohypo Sale to Germany Should Be ‘Last Option,’ Lawmaker Says

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-11-29T11:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/eurohypo-sale-to-germany-should-be-last-option-lawmaker-says.html
A sale of  Commerzbank AG ’s
unprofitable commercial-real estate unit Eurohypo to the German
government should be the “last option,” according to Bjoern
Saenger, a lawmaker from  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Free
Democratic Party pro-market coalition ally.  “There are other alternatives and the state doesn’t
necessarily need to take it over,” Saenger, who is also on the
parliament’s finance committee, said in a telephone interview
today. “You should never say never, but the other options
haven’t yet been sufficiently explored,” he said, citing a
possible closure of the lender as one of the options.  Commerzbank is considering a sale of Eurohypo at a loss to
 Germany  to avoid another European Union state-aid investigation,
Financial Times Deutschland reported today, citing unidentified
people. The EU already ordered the sale of the unit by the end
of 2014 as part of the conditions for 18 billion euros ($24
billion) in rescue funds that Commerzbank received during the
credit crunch.  Spokesman Reiner Rossmann declined to comment.  The German government in 2009 took control of Hypo Real
Estate Holding AG, a commercial-property and public finance
lender that competes with Eurohypo, in the country’s first bank
nationalization since the 1930s after the company ran out of
funding amid the credit crunch.  Commerzbank Chief Financial Officer  Eric Strutz  said in
August that it would be difficult to sell Eurohypo because of
funding challenges. The Eschborn-based lender, which has more
than 200 billion euros in assets, had a first-half pretax loss
of 871 million euros after impairments on Greek  government
bonds .  ‘Nervous Markets’  European leaders are demanding banks bolster their capacity
to withstand losses after financial firms agreed to accept
writedowns on Greek sovereign debt. Commerzbank, told by the
European Banking Authority last month that it may need 2.94
billion euros in fresh capital, may have to raise as much as 5
billion euros in a worst-case scenario, people familiar with the
situation said last week.  Saenger criticized the latest stress tests, saying the
constant changes in  capital requirements  and test methods were
adding to insecurity on the market and forcing banks to raise
capital at a time when investors won’t invest in the industry.  “At the moment we have very nervous markets and we need to
help calm return,” Saenger said. “The EBA is not doing a good
job at that,” he said, adding that the relationship between
German regulator BaFin and the EBA is “somewhat tense.”  Commerzbank’s supervisory board will meet on Dec. 2 to
discuss measures to boost capital levels to meet EBA
requirements, according to two people familiar with the
discussions. The lender is exploring options including placing
assets such as sovereign holdings in an external entity, or bad
bank, one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  