-- 
Peso Surges as Mexico Turns to ’08 Crisis Measure to Temper Currency Rout

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-11-30T00:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/mexico-s-peso-surges-most-in-month-on-400-million-a-day-auction-program.html
Mexico ’s peso surged the most in
three weeks after policy makers said they’ll tap $140 billion in
reserves to cap declines by  Latin America ’s most-battered
currency over the past six months.  Mexico’s currency exchange commission said the central
bank will auction $400 million daily of its reserves at a peso
 exchange rate  at least 2 percent weaker than the previous day’s
level, providing support for the currency. The mechanism, which
was last used to shore up the peso following the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., is a “preventative” measure
designed to provide liquidity to the foreign exchange market
during times of volatility, the commission said in a  statement .  The announcement “gives some certainty to the peso and all
Mexican assets,”  Ramon Cordova , a currency trader at Base
Internacional Casa de Bolsa in Monterrey, Mexico, said by phone.  The peso climbed 1.5 percent to 13.8230 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Mexico City, from 14.0258 yesterday. It was the
biggest increase since Nov. 3 for the currency which has lost 11
percent this year.  “It’s like a circuit breaker,” said  Win Thin , chief
emerging market strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in  New
York , said in a phone interview. “The signal is that they’re
worried about a weaker currency, they’re worried about
disorderly movements.”  Auctions will take place daily from 9 am to 9:05 a.m., 12
to 12:05 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 3:05 p.m. in Mexico City, the
central bank said on  its website .  Suspending Auctions  Mexico’s currency commission, which is made up of
representatives of the central bank and  Finance Ministry , also
said it was suspending until further notice the sale of dollar
options. The bank had been buying as much as $600 million
through the options every month since March 2010 to bolster
reserves while assuring against capital outflows and curbing
gains by the peso.  Mexico’s foreign currency reserves have climbed $26 billion
since the start of the year to $140 billion in the week ending
Nov. 25, central bank data shows.  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Banco Santander SA in
Mexico City, said policy makers may have planned the
announcement to head off additional volatility as euro-area
finance chiefs meet in Brussels. The central bank’s interest
rate decision on Dec. 2 may also contain signals of increased
concern over spillover from  Europe ’s debt crisis, he said.  While today’s move will help stabilize the foreign exchange
market “this doesn’t mean that the peso depreciation will
end,” Sergio Martin, a Mexico City-based economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc.  ‘Orderly Fluctuation’  “What we are going to see is a more orderly fluctuation”,
Martin said in a telephone interview.  The peso’s decline over the past six months is the second-
worst performance against the dollar among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after  South Africa ’s rand.  Mexico sold all of the 6.5 billion pesos of 28-day Cetes it
offered at auction today, the central bank said on its website.
The government sold all of the 7.5 billion pesos of 91-day bills
and all of the 8 billion pesos of 182-day Cetes, the bank said  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 declined 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to
6.73 percent. The price for the security rose 1.37 centavo today
to 128.35 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at  ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  