-- 
MF Global Trustee to Return Up to $2.1 Billion to Customers

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-11-29T23:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/mf-trustee-to-return-up-to-2-1b-to-customers.html
The trustee liquidating  MF Global
Inc.  will return as much as $2.1 billion to commodity customers,
an amount that’s 66 percent of U.S. customers’ segregated
assets.  The latest, and third, transfer to customers of the defunct
brokerage will bring total distributions to $4.1 billion, or
about three-quarters of customer assets, trustee James Giddens
said in a statement today. The transfer, which will rely on CME
Group Inc. and clearing organizations for data and assistance,
may be completed in two to four weeks, he said.  The trustee’s goal has always been “to make as full and as
prompt a distribution of customer property to MFGI’s former
customers as the circumstances and the law will allow,” Giddens
said in a related court filing today asking a judge to approve
the transfer.  By law, Giddens is required to distribute assets equitably,
and he had said he was holding funds in reserve to cover any
missing customer money. Two previous distributions restored
$2 billion of assets to commodity customers.  MF Global customers have been demanding their assets in
court filings and letters faxed to the judge handling the case.
Giddens previously planned to distribute 60 percent of what
should have been in commodity customers’ accounts in the latest
transfer, saying it would take $1.3 billion to $1.6 billion, or
almost all of the assets he had within his control.  Enough Liquidity  A group of MF Global customers who argued for a larger
distribution said it applauded Giddens’s new plan, which showed
there was enough liquidity in the brokerage “to get clients 75
percent of their funds immediately.” The Commodity Customer
Coalition said it represents more than 7,000 former MF Global
customers whose funds were frozen in the liquidation.  Giddens said today that the larger distribution will leave
him with enough assets in reserve to deal with any missing
customer money. CME, which runs a futures exchange, has offered
to guarantee as much as $550 million of the transfer, he said.  The shortfall in the MF Global brokerage’s U.S. segregated
customer accounts may exceed $1.2 billion, more than double what
was previously expected, Giddens has said. That would mean
customer accounts are missing about 22 percent of their total of
$5.4 billion. A shortfall of 11 percent had been previously
estimated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  ‘Conservative Approach’  “The trustee continues to take a conservative approach to
the shortfall,” spokesman  Kent Jarrell  said in an e-mail today,
responding to questions about reports that some of the missing
money may have been found.  “The amount is still not known with certainty, but there
is no disagreement that it is significant,” he said. “These
have always been presented as preliminary numbers that may well
change, and we of course hope for the benefit of customers that
the number comes down.”  Customers waiting for physical assets including warehouse
receipts and precious-metal certificates are intended to benefit
from the latest transfer, although they may have to wait longer
than customers waiting for cash, Giddens said in the court
filing.  Giddens plans to keep from 15 percent to 20 percent of U.S.
segregated customer assets in reserve for contingencies, he
said.  Customer Objections  Separately, customers of the brokerage are objecting to
plans by bankrupt parent company MF Global Holdings Ltd. to use
cash and continue investments with affiliates including the
brokerage.  Sapere Wealth Management LLC said in a filing today that
commodity customers’ money doesn’t belong to the parent “to be
invested riskily for their benefit.” The money management firm
said its futures account at MF Global included $240 million in
cash in segregated accounts, according to the filing today.  Dominion Resources Inc., whose Virginia Electric and Power
Co. and other affiliates are customers of the MF Global
brokerage, said the parent company shouldn’t be allowed to use
cash securing its loans, because brokerage customers may need to
obtain assets from the parent to make up for an apparent
shortfall in their collateral.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion. The firm
said it has about $26 million in cash. Corzine, the former co-
chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , quit as MF
Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  