-- 
Facebook Settles U.S. Regulator’s Complaints Over Violations of Privacy

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-11-29T20:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/facebook-said-to-reach-settlement-over-privacy-complaints-by-site-s-users.html
Facebook  Inc., the world’s biggest
social networking site, agreed to settle complaints by the
Federal Trade Commission that it failed to protect users’
privacy or disclose how their data could be used.  The proposed 20-year agreement would require  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook to get clear consent from users before
sharing material posted under earlier, more restrictive terms,
the FTC said today in a statement. It would also compel
independent reviews of Facebook’s privacy practices.  “Companies must live up to their promises about privacy,”
FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz said on a conference call with
reporters. The settlement “will protect consumer choices and
ensure they have full and truthful information about their
data.”  The settlement is part of an effort to resolve legal issues
that could be a distraction as Facebook moves toward an initial
public offering, said  Francis Gaskins , president of Los Angeles-
based IPODesktop.com, a Web site that tracks IPOs. Facebook is
considering an IPO that would raise $10 billion and value the
company at more than $100 billion, a person familiar with the
matter said.  ‘Clear the Decks’  “They’re obviously trying to clear the decks to take
off,” Gaskins said in an interview, adding that the settlement
“should give some comfort” to potential investors.  In a blog  posting , Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said the company should have been more vigilant in
protecting users’ privacy.  “I’m the first to admit that we’ve made a bunch of
mistakes,” he said.  The FTC is stepping up enforcement of privacy requirements
at Internet companies and this year has settled complaints with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc.  Marc Rotenberg , executive director of the Electronic
Privacy Information Center, a Washington-based advocacy group
that filed a complaint against Facebook over privacy issues in
2009, said today’s settlement “is a sweeping order that will
prevent Facebook from disregarding the privacy interests of its
users in the future.”  It should also should send a message to the Internet
industry at large, Maneesha Mithal, associate director of the
FTC’s Division of Privacy and Identity Protection, said in an
interview.  ‘Good Practices’  “The provisions of the order are good practices for all
companies to follow,” Mithal said. “Companies should seek
permission from consumers before they make changes to how they
treat personal information.”  Zuckerberg said the company already has addressed many of
the FTC’s concerns. Today he appointed Erin Egan, a former
partner at  Covington & Burling  who specialized in data security,
as chief privacy officer, policy, and Michael Richter, the
company’s head privacy counsel, as chief privacy officer,
products, Zuckerberg said.  The settlement, which the FTC’s commissioners approved 4-0,
requires Facebook to establish a “comprehensive privacy
program” and block access to a user’s account within 30 days of
it being deleted, according to the FTC’s statement. The company
also is barred from making any deceptive claims about its
privacy practices.  Independent Audits  Audits by an independent third party will help build faith
in Facebook’s efforts, said Elliot Schrage, a Facebook
spokesman.  “Oversight fosters trust by providing users with
additional assurances that the commitments we make are being
upheld,” he said in an e-mail.  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Gartner Inc., a Stamford,
Connecticut technology research company, said, “There’s no
doubt Facebook and privacy have not gone well together in the
past.”  The FTC said Facebook shared users’ personal information
with advertisers after promising it wouldn’t. Facebook also
pledged it would restrict sharing of information to designated
“friends” of users while the data also was accessible to
third-party applications used by the friends, the FTC said in
the statement.  Facebook assured users that third-party applications only
had access to data required for them to function, while, in
fact, the applications had access to almost all of a user’s
personal information, according to the agency.  ’Verified Apps’  The company’s “Verified Apps” program to certify the
security of applications didn’t work, the FTC said.  In other FTC actions on  Internet privacy , Google Inc.
agreed in March to settle claims that the  Mountain View ,
California-based company used deceptive tactics and violated its
own privacy policies when it introduced its Buzz social-
networking service last year.  That same month, the agency accepted a settlement with
Twitter, resolving charges that the San Francisco-based company
deceived consumers and put their privacy at risk.  The regulator has said the online-advertising industry’s
self-policing effort allowing  Internet users  to block ads based
on their web browsing fails to protect consumers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 