-- 
Facebook Said to Plan IPO at $100B Valuation

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-11-29T22:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/facebook-said-to-plan-10-billion-ipo-with-100-billion-of-social-network.html
Facebook Inc. is considering raising
about $10 billion in an initial public offering that would value
the world’s largest social-networking site at more than $100
billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The company may file for the IPO before the end of the
year, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the deliberations are private. Exact timing for the filing
hasn’t been determined, the person said.  Facebook’s $100 billion valuation would be twice as high as
it was in January, when the company announced a $1.5 billion
investment from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and other backers. The
IPO is far enough away that the details may change, said  Lise Buyer , principal of the Class V Group, an IPO advisory firm.  “It’s far too early to accurately predict where the
valuation will be on deal day,” Buyer said.  At $10 billion, the offering would raise more money than
any other technology IPO, a sign Facebook expects investors to
clamor for a piece of the social-networking company. The amount
would dwarf that of the previous record holder, Infineon
Technologies AG, which generated $5.23 billion in an offering
announced in 1999 and completed in 2000 -- during the dot-com
heyday. Agere Systems Inc. raised $4.14 billion in 2000, putting
it second.  Time to Grow  Facebook expects to be required by U.S. regulators to
disclose financial results by April 30, 2012, if it doesn’t go
public by then, the company said in January. Facebook decided to
wait until 2012 for its IPO to give Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg more time to gain users and boost sales, people
familiar with the matter said last year.  The company also announced today that it has forged an
agreement with the Federal Trade Commission to settle privacy
complaints. The move may help allay criticism that it prods
users into sharing too much personal information. To help
protect privacy, Facebook has introduced more than 20 tools over
the past 18 months, Zuckerberg said today in a blog posting.  Facebook, which boasts more than 800 million users, is
increasing its focus on mobile technology as well, aiming to
take advantage of the shift to smartphones and tablets. The
company expects its next 1 billion users to come mainly from
mobile devices, rather than desktop computers.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Palo Alto ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment on the IPO plans.  Google’s IPO  Google Inc. (GOOG) , one of Facebook’s chief rivals in the Internet
advertising market, raised $1.67 billion in its IPO in 2004. It
is now valued at $188.7 billion.  Facebook’s revenue will more than double to $4.27 billion
this year from $2 billion in 2010, research firm  EMarketer Inc. 
said in September.  At $100 billion, Facebook would be worth 23 times that
projected revenue, signaling the company expects its faster
growth rate to justify a premium valuation over rivals.  Mountain
View , California-based Google trades at 6.4 times projected
current-year revenue. Apple Inc. is worth 2.5 times sales, while
the multiple for Microsoft Corp. is 2.8.  The valuation Facebook is said to be seeking would  place it (SPX) 
near PepsiCo Inc., which is worth $99.5 billion, and Verizon
Communications Inc., at $103.7 billion. Apple is the world’s
most valuable technology company, at $346.9 billion.  Facebook’s valuation is currently pegged at $66.6 billion
by  SharesPost Inc. , which handles trading of closely held
companies. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that
Facebook was considering the $10 billion IPO with a valuation of
more than $100 billion. The company aims to go public between
April and June, the Journal said.  Groupon’s Slump  Demand for technology IPOs reignited in November after a
summer lull, setting the stage for Groupon Inc. and Angie’s List
Inc. to go public. Groupon, the largest provider of online
coupons, has lost 20 percent of its value since its debut at $20
earlier this month.  Groupon’s decline may be spurring other companies to pursue
IPOs before they lose the chance, said Josef Schuster, founder
of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC. His firm invests in IPOs and
oversees about $2.5 billion in assets.  “Groupon has lost a lot of steam and I believe bankers are
saying, ‘The market is still hot so let’s do it right now,’” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  