-- 
EU Writedown Plan Puts Banks’ Long-Term Debt in Firing Line

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-11-30T18:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/failing-banks-short-term-creditors-may-be-shielded-from-losses-in-eu-plan.html
Owners of long-term unsecured debt
in a collapsing bank would be first in line to take losses under
draft plans from the European Union to protect taxpayers’ money
from future bailouts.  Short-term debt, with a less than one-year maturity, and
derivatives should only be written down by regulators as a last
resort if losses from longer-term debt aren’t “sufficient to
restore the capital of the institution and enable it to operate
as a going concern,” according to a draft European Commission
proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.  “They are terrified of inadvertently killing off the
interbank market,”  Simon Gleeson , a financial services lawyer
at Clifford Chance LLP in London, said in a telephone
conversation. “This is a desperate attempt” to preserve it.  EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  had
delayed proposing the law, which was originally scheduled to be
released in September, because of market turbulence. The
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  has fallen
34.7 percent in the past year on concerns lenders have been
weakened by the European sovereign debt crisis.  The commission may further delay publication of the
measures until the start of next year to avoid them being
unveiled at a time when they could add to volatility on
financial markets, an EU official said earlier this month.  “The commission has to be very careful indeed at this
critical phase of the economic cycle about adding further
burdens on the ability of financial institutions to fund their
operations,” said  Richard Reid , research director for the
International Centre for Financial Regulation.  Liquidity Supply  The EU plan would help “maintain the supply of liquidity
and minimize the negative externalities on the  interbank market 
and  derivatives market ” in the event of the failure of a bank,
according to the draft proposals.  Under the proposals, unsecured senior bondholders of banks
would take losses only after a lender’s capital and then the
rest of its subordinated debt had already been wiped out.  By imposing losses on long-term senior unsecured debt ahead
of short-term debt and derivatives, the proposals go against the
normal principle in insolvency law that creditors in the same
class should be treated equally, according to the EU draft.  Banks would have to pay into national funds to help cover
the costs of bank failure, under the measures. These funds
should have financing equivalent to the higher of 1.5 percent of
deposits that are guaranteed by law or 0.3 percent of banks’
liabilities other than the “own funds of the institutions.”  ‘Going Concern’  The euro area’s bail-out fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, could be used to top up these funds in
exceptional circumstances, the draft says.  Banks that continue as a “going concern” after losses are
imposed on their creditors should be forced to replace their
management and restructure, according to the draft rules.  Banks will have to hold minimum amounts of longer-term
funding to prevent them from exploiting the commission’s plan to
shield short-term debt from writedowns.  Lenders should be forced at all times to hold funding “with
an original maturity of at least one year” equivalent to a
minimum of 10 percent of their liabilities, according to the
document.  The U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking, led by  John Vickers , had similar ideas for financial stability, Bob Penn, a
lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP, said in a telephone interview in
London.  Vickers Report  “This is going in the same direction as Vickers,” Penn
said. “Ten percent sounds like a similar measure to the primary
loss-absorbing capacity in Vickers.”  The draft proposal exempts secured liabilities, as well as
so-called repos and other liabilities secured by collateral,
from the debt-writedown measures.  Bonuses aren’t protected under the plan and may be clawed
back to shore up bank capital, according to the draft.  “That idea is new,” Gleeson said. “What it may do is
accelerate the shift in bankers’ pay from bonus to salary.”  The proposals also include requirements for banks to draw
up so-called living wills showing how they could be wound down
if they fail.  Living Wills  Regulators would have the right to impose “changes to
legal or operational structures” at banks to ensure their
living wills could be executed, the draft says.  Lenders that fail to make living wills and agree on their
content with national regulators may face fines of as much as 10
percent of their annual revenue, the draft says. Banks may also
be punished for failing to alert regulators that they are close
to collapse.  Separately, EU nations said last month that they will
temporarily guarantee lenders’ bond issuance in order to open up
the bank-lending market.  Temporarily protecting creditors from losses “would
help banks continue their lending activities in 2012,” the
European Banking Authority said on Oct. 26 “Banks may find it
difficult to address their funding needs” next year without
support, the EBA said.  A spokeswoman for the commission in Brussels declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 