-- 
AT&T Fails to Show Public Benefit of T-Mobile Acquisition, Regulator Finds

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-11-30T12:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/fcc-allows-at-t-to-withdraw-merger-application.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  failed to demonstrate the
public benefits of its proposed $39 billion purchase of rival T-
Mobile USA Inc. would exceed its costs, U.S. regulators said in
the latest challenge to the deal.  A 109-page Federal Communications Commission report
concludes the combination would cause significant jobs losses
and that AT&T would probably build high-speed wireless Internet
connections without the merger, an agency official said in a
call yesterday outlining findings with ground rules forbidding
identification by name. The conclusion undermines AT&T’s claims
about the deal’s benefits, the official said.  The FCC let AT&T withdraw an application to buy T-Mobile,
combining the second- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless carriers.
The  Justice Department  sued in August to block the merger as
anti-competitive, and a court hearing is set for February. The
FCC moved last week to send the deal for a hearing that may take
much of next year, an outcome avoided with the application
withdrawal.  “The applicants have failed to meet their burden of
demonstrating that the competitive harms that would result from
the proposed transaction are outweighed by the claimed
benefits,” according to the FCC’s report. T-Mobile offers low
prices and innovation, and its potential loss as a competitive
force “is a cause for serious concern,” the FCC found.  The application withdrawal leaves open the possibility AT&T
may again approach the commission with a revised deal, the FCC
officials said. Before the report, analysts had said that to
convince regulators to approve the deal, AT&T may give up half
of T-Mobile’s customers to ease concerns and gain control of
assets including wireless spectrum.  ‘Improper’ Procedure  The release of the report was “troubling,”  Jim Cicconi ,
AT&T’s senior executive vice president-external and legislative
affairs, said in an e-mailed statement. “We have had no
opportunity to address or rebut its claims, which makes its
release all the more improper.”  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest wireless carrier and
an opponent of the deal, said in a statement it applauded the
FCC’s action.  “The investigation’s findings are clear: approval of
AT&T’s bid for T-Mobile would lead to higher prices for
consumers, eliminate jobs, harm competition, and damp innovation
across the wireless industry,” Vonya McCann, Sprint senior vice
president for government affairs, said in the statement.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in an e-mailed
statement that “our review of this merger has had a clear
focus: fostering a competitive market that drives innovation,
promotes investment, encourages  job creation , and protects
consumers.”  AT&T and T-Mobile parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  said last week
they had withdrawn their FCC merger applications. They acted
after Genachowski asked fellow commissioners to send the deal to
the hearing before an agency judge.  The companies plan to focus on objections from antitrust
authorities and to return to the FCC at some point, AT&T said in
 a statement  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  