-- 
FDA to Appeal Order Barring Graphic Cigarette Pack Warnings

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-11-29T22:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/fda-appeals-judge-s-bar-on-graphic-cigarette-package-warnings.html
The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration said it will appeal a judge’s order temporarily
blocking rules requiring cigarette makers to put pictures of
diseased lungs and other graphic images on packaging.  President  Barack Obama  signed the Family Smoking Prevention
and Tobacco Control Act into law in June 2009, empowering the
FDA to regulate the manufacture and sale of tobacco products.
The cigarette makers asked U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in
 Washington  to halt the rules, saying the requirement violates
their free-speech rights.  Leon on Nov. 7 found that  Lorillard (LO)  Inc., Reynolds American
Inc.’s R.J. Reynolds and three other cigarette makers
challenging the measure were likely to prevail on their claims
that the “mandatory graphic images unconstitutionally compel
speech” and would cause them irreparable harm if not blocked.  The FDA, in a filing today, said it would challenge that
decision before the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of
Columbia.  The agency rule includes nine different images -- including
a man exhaling smoke from a tracheotomy hole in his throat and a
male cadaver with staples in its chest -- to be displayed on
cigarette packages on a rotating basis, together with text
warnings, the judge said.  First Amendment  Lorillard, R.J.  Reynolds (RAI) , Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett
Group LLC and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. Inc. sued the FDA in
August, claiming the packaging mandate violated the U.S.
Constitution’s First Amendment, which protects speech.  The companies said in court papers that it would cost them
about $20 million to meet the rule’s Sept. 22, 2012, deadline.  Leon has stayed the effective date of the rule while he
reviews the constitutionality of the rule.  Floyd Abrams , an attorney for Greensboro, North Carolina-
based Lorillard, said in a phone interview that he wasn’t
surprised by the FDA’s notice of appeal.  “We’ll have to wait and see what they have to say” in the
appellate brief, Abrams said. He declined to comment further.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-cv-1482, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  