-- 
Fed’s Lockhart Is ‘Skeptical’ More Bond-Buying Will Help Stimulate Economy

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-11-29T19:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/fed-s-lockhart-is-skeptical-more-bond-buying-will-help-stimulate-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said expanding securities purchases is
unlikely to give a sufficient boost to U.S. growth, without
ruling out the strategy or other easing options.  “I am skeptical that further asset purchases will produce
much gain in terms of increased economic activity,” Lockhart,
who votes on monetary policy next year, said in a speech in
Atlanta. “I don’t believe further bond  purchasing  by the Fed is
a potent policy option given the set of circumstances we
currently face.”  Fed policy makers are discussing whether to increase record
monetary stimulus through a third round of securities purchases
or being more specific about how long  interest rates  will remain
close to zero. Lockhart has supported the use of unconventional
policy instruments in August and September to revive a recovery
that has left the  unemployment rate  stuck near 9 percent or
higher for more than 30 months.  “That is not to say that such a policy action would not be
powerful and appropriate in other circumstances,” Lockhart said
of additional asset purchases. “I don’t think any option should
be taken off the table.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  in August pledged to hold
interest  rates  near zero until mid-2013 and in September
announced it would swap $400 billion of short-term debt for
longer-term securities in a bid to lower borrowing costs.  ‘Steady’ Interest Rate  Lockhart, speaking at an economic outlook conference
sponsored by the University of Georgia’s Terry College of
Business, said that “at this time my notion of appropriate
monetary policy” is “holding steady” the benchmark federal
funds rate near zero and keeping the  balance sheet  “steady at
current scale.”  Stocks pared gains after Lockhart’s remarks. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to 1,195.71 at 2:26 p.m. in
 New York  after increasing as much as 0.9 percent. Yields on 10-
year Treasuries fell less than 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.97 percent.  Lockhart told reporters after his speech that “incipient
recession, rising unemployment and an economy headed toward
deflationary conditions would be conditions in which it might be
appropriate to consider the tool” of additional asset
purchases. “We are not close” to the “severe conditions”
that might prompt such a move, he said.  ‘Encouraging’ Credit Growth  He said it’s “encouraging” that bank credit growth is
“picking up a little bit” even as some financial institutions
are still repairing their finances. “That is reflecting
somewhat improved credit demand. Businesses are more of a mind
to expand,” Lockhart said to reporters.  Fed officials have differed this month over whether more
stimulus may be needed to reduce unemployment more quickly.
Policy makers next meet Dec. 13 in  Washington .  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said today that the central
bank has leeway to spur the U.S. recovery with more action.
“The scope remains to provide additional accommodation through
enhanced guidance on the path of the federal funds rate or
through additional purchases of longer-term financial assets,”
Yellen said in  San Francisco .  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard , by contrast, said
Nov. 15 that it would take a deterioration in the economy to
warrant more easing because action risks a rise in inflation.  Lockhart said he expects an annual pace of 2.5 percent to 3
percent growth in the fourth quarter, compared with 2 percent in
the third period, with “continued moderate growth” in 2012.  ‘Unacceptably High’  “Growth has picked up from earlier in the year,” he said.
“Inflation appears to be settling into a range that I consider
consistent with the FOMC’s price stability mandate. The economy
is producing jobs on a net basis, just not at a pace and volume
sufficient to materially reduce the unacceptably high rate of
unemployment.”  Lockhart said one reason forecasters were wrong earlier in
the recovery is they didn’t give enough weight to research by
economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  finding anemic
growth for long periods after financial crises.  “It is now fairly clear that the Reinhart-Rogoff thesis is
the appropriate one,” he said.  Some data in recent weeks have been better than forecast by
economists.  Consumer confidence  climbed in November by the most
in more than eight years as Americans grew more upbeat about
employment and income prospects, the Conference Board’s index
showed today.  Payrolls may increase by 120,000 workers in November after
rising 80,000 in October, according to the median forecast of 59
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before a Dec. 2 report
from the Labor Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  