-- 
Fed Directors Predicted ‘Slow and Uneven’ Growth, Minutes Show

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-11-29T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/fed-directors-predicted-slow-and-uneven-growth-minutes-show.html
Most directors at the  Federal
Reserve ’s regional banks last month saw “modest gains” in the
 U.S. economy  and expected growth to remain choppy into 2012.  The members of the boards of directors of the 12 banks
“noted modest gains in economic activity, but they were
circumspect about the outlook and expected that economic growth
would continue to be slow and uneven over the coming quarters,”
according to the minutes released in Washington today, which
summarize discussions at the regional banks.  The minutes covered three meetings in October to discuss
the Fed’s discount rate, which it charges on emergency loans to
banks. Eleven regional banks voted to recommend keeping the rate
unchanged, while Kansas City voted to raise it to 1 percent from
0.75 percent. The Fed’s Board of Governors kept the rate
unchanged.  A separate set of minutes for the Federal Open Market
Committee’s Nov. 1-2 discussion about monetary policy was
released last week. The FOMC next meets in  Washington  on
December 13.  The directors “continued to express concerns about
weakness in labor markets and the still-depressed housing
sector,” the minutes showed. They also said that “ongoing
uncertainty about such matters as global financial markets, U.S.
regulatory and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions
had caused consumers and businesses to remain cautious and to
limit increases in spending and economic activity.”  Consumer Confidence   Consumer spending  was “somewhat stronger than anticipated,
despite a generally low level of consumer confidence,” the
minutes said. The directors of the Fed’s regional banks are
mostly bankers and business executives.  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were the same as in
previous meetings at 11 of the Fed’s 12 banks. Ten banks have
preferred no change while the  Kansas City  Fed recommended
raising the rate to 1 percent.  The  Dallas  Fed recommended leaving the rate unchanged in
October, after having requested an increase at the Sept. 19
meeting. Aside from Dallas, the other banks have not changed
their recommendation since at least June 2010. The Fed’s
Washington-based Board of Governors expressed “no sentiment”
for a change last month.  On Nov. 23, banks were borrowing $105 million in primary
credit from the Fed’s discount window.  Each of the Fed’s 12 regional banks has a nine-member board
of directors that requests discount-rate changes. The requests
are subject to final review and determination by the  Fed Board ,
which consists of the central bank’s five Washington-based
governors. They review requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  