-- 
Fed’s Yellen Sees Scope for Further Asset Purchases to Spur U.S. Recovery

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-11-29T18:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/fed-s-yellen-sees-scope-for-further-asset-purchases-to-spur-u-s-recovery.html
Federal Reserve  Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said the central bank has leeway to spur the U.S.
recovery and reduce unemployment by buying more assets or
clarifying its plan to sustain record-low borrowing costs.  “The Federal Reserve has some scope for action,” Yellen
said today. “We are actively considering methods that we could
use to provide greater clarity” on the central bank’s pledge to
keep rates low through at least mid-2013, and new purchases have
the potential to “flatten the yield curve.”  Fed officials are divided over how to reduce a U.S. jobless
rate that’s hovered near 9 percent or higher for more than two
years. Four officials have dissented at policy making meetings
this year, with Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  calling for
more stimulus while Richard Fisher of  Dallas ,  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis  voted
against further easing.  Economic growth in the U.S. and other advanced economies
“has been proceeding too slowly to provide jobs for millions of
unemployed people,” Yellen said in a speech at a San Francisco
Fed conference. She called for “urgent” international action
to combat a “dearth” of global demand and “critical
challenges” that include signs of slowing growth in  emerging
markets .  The Obama administration and Congress need a “credible”
plan to bring the deficit down to sustainable levels, and
there’s a “strong case” for more steps to be taken to remedy a
“dysfunctional” U.S. housing market, she said. In addition,
 Asia  has room to boost domestic demand, while  Europe  needs to
take “forceful” steps to quell its fiscal and financial
crises.  Stronger Recovery  “We at the Federal Reserve are moving vigorously to
promote a stronger economic recovery,” the 65-year-old policy
maker said. “However, monetary policy is not a panacea, and it
is essential for other policy makers to also do their part.”  “This is a very dangerous moment” for the global economy
“and it really calls for global policy coordination,” Yellen
said after her speech at the San Francisco Fed’s annual Asia
Economic Policy Conference. Now, there’s “an urgency to move
forward on it.”  Data released since the Fed’s most recent gathering show
the U.S. jobless rate fell in October to a six-month low of 9
percent from 9.1 percent a month earlier. An 80,000 increase in
payrolls followed gains in the prior two months that were
revised up by 102,000, according to the Labor Department.  Less Than Estimated  The economy expanded less than previously estimated in the
third quarter, reflecting a drop in inventories that points to a
pickup in growth as 2011 comes to a close. Gross domestic
product climbed at a 2 percent annual rate from July through
September, down from a 2.5 percent prior estimate, Commerce
Department figures showed last week.  Stocks in the U.S. rose today following a report that U.S.
consumer confidence increased by the most since 2003. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.5 percent to 1,198.39 at
12:56 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.99 percent.  Minutes of the Fed’s Nov. 1-2 meeting show a few members of
the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  shared the view
that further policy accommodation may be necessary.  At this month’s meeting, Fed officials left the benchmark
 interest rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s
been since December 2008, and affirmed their pledge to keep the
rate very low through at least mid-2013. The central bank also
continued its so-called Operation Twist program to buy $400
billion of longer-term securities and sell an equal amount of
short-term debt.  More Asset Purchases  Additional asset purchases would constitute a third round
of so-called quantitative easing after the Fed bought $2.3
trillion in housing and government debt in two rounds from
December 2008 to June 2011.  “There are some costs associated with expanding the size
of our balance sheet,” Yellen said. “And so there are costs
and benefits to be weighed in doing that.”  “It is not to the world’s interest to have a  U.S. economy 
that is faltering,” she said. “Strong growth in the U.S.
economy, I believe, makes a positive contribution to growth
throughout the world.”  Yellen was president of the  San Francisco  Fed from 2004
through last year, when she became the Fed’s vice chairman. The
former economist at the  University of California  at Berkeley
previously served on the Fed’s Board of Governors from 1994 to
1997 and chaired President  Bill Clinton ’s Council of Economic
Advisers between 1997 and 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  