-- 
Ford Says November U.S. Auto Sales Rose Led by Small SUVs

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-11-29T21:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/ford-says-november-u-s-auto-sales-increased-led-by-small-suvs.html
Ford Motor Co.  said U.S. auto sales
rose in November, led by sales of small sport-utility vehicles.  “There’s reason to feel good about November,” Erich Merkle, Ford’s sales analyst, told reporters today at the
company’s Dearborn, Michigan, headquarters. “We think there’s
probably a level that would put us in the mid-13-million range
as an industry.”  Sales of small SUVs, which include Ford’s Escape, “reign
supreme,” he said. Ford includes medium- and heavy-truck sales
in its industrywide annual selling rate, which adds about
200,000 to the total.  The November 2010 sales rate was 12.3 million, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  General Motors Co. (GM)  also has said it
expects an increase this month.  Don Johnson , vice president of
U.S. sales, said Nov. 15 at an investor conference that the
November sales rate may reach 14 million, which also includes
medium- and heavy-duty truck deliveries.  Ford’s U.S. light-vehicle sales rose 6.2 percent in
October, less than the industrywide gain of 7.5 percent. Ford’s
U.S. market share rose to 16.8 percent this year through
October, from 16.7 percent last year, according to Woodcliff,
New Jersey-based Autodata.  The second-largest U.S. automaker earned $6.6 billion in
the first nine months of the year, as new models like the Fiesta
subcompact and Explorer sport-utility vehicle attracted buyers.  Ford has gained consumer consideration because it managed
to avoid the bankruptcies that befell its U.S. rivals in 2009.
The company borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006 before credit
markets froze, which gave it the cash it needed to weather the
recession and invest in new models.  Ford fell 0.1 percent to $9.99 at the close in  New York .
The shares have fallen 41 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  