-- 
Former Goldman Traders Said to Start Hedge Fund With Mezvinsky

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-11-29T20:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/former-goldman-traders-grau-mallon-are-said-to-start-fund-with-mezvinsky.html
Ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
proprietary traders Bennett Grau and Mark Mallon are teaming up
with former colleague Marc Mezvinsky to start a hedge fund,
according to a person with knowledge of their plans.  The three are raising money for their new firm, Eaglevale
Partners LP, which plans to start trading in the first half of
2012, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. The fund will employ a global macro
strategy, seeking to profit from economic trends by trading
securities from bonds to commodities.  Mezvinsky, 33, who last year married  Chelsea Clinton , 31,
used to work with Grau and Mallon at Goldman Sachs’s global
macro proprietary-trading group before he left in 2008 for
investment firm 3G Capital Inc. The three join Morgan Sze and
Pierre-Henri Flamand, former heads of Goldman Sachs’s global
principal strategies proprietary group, who each started their
own hedge funds in  Hong Kong  and  London  in the past year.  “Those from high-profile prop desks seem to have an edge
over their competition in attracting assets,” said Don
Steinbrugge, managing partner of Agecroft Partners LLC, a
Richmond, Virginia-based firm that advises hedge funds and
investors.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Eaglevale based in New
York, declined to comment.  Goldman Traders  Mezvinsky left 3G Capital last year, according to
Eaglevale’s marketing documents. Grau, 62, and Mallon, 45, left
Goldman Sachs earlier this year as the New York-based firm
shuttered its proprietary-trading business to comply with U.S.
regulations that restrict banks from risking their money on
speculative bets.  Grau in 1973 joined commodities-trading firm J. Aron & Co.,
which was bought by Goldman Sachs in the early 1980s. He was a
portfolio manager for Goldman Sachs’s global macro proprietary-
trading group since he started it in 1988, according to the
marketing documents.  Mallon joined Goldman in 2004 after working for more than a
decade at New York-based hedge fund Caxton Associates LP. He
started his trading career at Commodities Corp., the documents
said.  The trio will be joined by Michael Fox, 31, who left New
York-based hedge fund Woodbine Capital Advisors LP this year,
and will oversee Eaglevale’s business development, according to
the documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  