-- 
Fortress Investment Suit Against Dechert Over Dreier Fraud Is Thrown Out

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-11-29T23:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/fortress-credit-suit-against-dechert-thrown-out-on-appeal-1-.html
Dechert LLP  won an appeal dismissing
a suit by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  that claimed the  law
firm  issued a false opinion letter endorsing a transaction with
Marc Dreier, the lawyer later convicted of fraud.  Fortress claimed that the 2008 letter caused it to lend
$50 million to what it believed was the firm of Sheldon Solow, a
New York developer and a client of Dreier’s defunct law firm,
Dreier LLP. Dreier, 61, is serving a 20-year sentence in federal
prison after pleading guilty to selling more than $400 million
in phony notes to hedge funds.  A state appeals court in  Manhattan  today reversed a ruling
in which a lower-court judge had declined to dismiss New York-
based Fortress’s claims.  “As Dreier was Solow Realty’s attorney and the guarantor
of the loan, defendant had no reason to suspect that Solow
Realty was not in fact a party to the loan transaction or that
Dreier forged the signatures of its principal and CEO,” a
unanimous five-judge appeals panel said.  “This decision is of tremendous importance to the lawyers
and law firms who give closing legal opinions, a fundamental
aspect of many financial transactions,” said Joel Miller, lead
counsel for Philadelphia-based Dechert.  ‘Insurance Policy’  Miller said Fortress tried to use the Dechert letter as an
“insurance policy against anything going wrong with the
transaction, including Fortress’s own lack of due diligence,
which allowed it be defrauded by  Marc Dreier .”  Dreier’s firm, which had 250 attorneys, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in December 2008.  “Dechert told Fortress that it was acting as ‘special
corporate counsel’ to Solow Realty in the transaction -- a
statement that Fortress relied on in entering into the
transaction and that proved to be utterly false,”  Marc Kasowitz , who represents Fortress in the case, said in a
statement today.  The ruling “would permit law firms to provide legal
opinions without so much as knowing who they represent, and
would put parties at their peril in relying on legal opinions in
corporate transactions,” he said.  Fortress is deciding whether to appeal, Kasowitz said.  The case is Fortress Credit Corp. v. Dechert, 603819/2009,
New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division,  First
Department  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 