-- 
France’s Besson Favors Keeping Household Gas Rates Unchanged

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-11-29T17:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/france-s-besson-favors-keeping-household-gas-rates-unchanged-1-.html
The French Industry Minister Eric
Besson wants to keep natural-gas rates unchanged for households
through July even after the country’s highest court ordered the
government to lift a price cap.  The minister “is studying all options and favors a
scenario that would avoid any increase in gas tariffs for
individuals,” according to a statement from Besson’s office.  France’s highest court yesterday suspended a government
decision to freeze regulated  gas prices  for consumers and
ordered the energy ministry to set new tariffs within a month.  The ruling has thrown into question the way regulated
prices are set in France for  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the former monopoly
that is still 36 percent state-owned. The government, facing
presidential elections next April and May, is under pressure
from consumers not to raise tariffs.  The government “will do everything” so as not to raise
gas prices for households this winter, Budget Minister Valerie
Pecresse told parliament today, adding that the administration
wants to protect the purchasing power of consumers and review
the formula to calculate the rates.  The government in April froze household gas prices for a
year, a decision the energy regulator ruled should be reversed
from Oct. 1 to allow GDF Suez to cover supply costs. The
regulator said the rates should have been raised Oct. 1 by 8.8
percent and 10 percent depending on the type of household
consumer. Instead the government kept prices unchanged for
households and raised them 4.9 percent for businesses.  Price Cap  Suppliers competing with the utility, grouped under an
organization called Anode and including Direct Energie SA and
 Poweo (ALPWO) , asked the court to lift the price cap because regulated
rates weren’t high enough to cover costs of supply and hindered
competition. GDF Suez brought a separate case against the
government saying the rates would lead to a 400 million-euro
($533 million) shortfall for the utility.  “We need stable and lasting competition rules,” Anode
said in a statement today. “Only competition will ensure lower
prices for consumers.”  GDF Suez and the government reached a so-called public
service agreement for 2010-2013 that gave partial responsibility
for household prices to the regulator. The regulator would have
a “binding opinion” on rates to take the pressure off the
government, which historically has been reluctant to raise
tariffs.  At the end of 2009, GDF Suez said it hadn’t covered supply
costs in  France  in four of the previous five years because
state-set rates were too low. In August of that year, the
accumulated shortfall was almost 2 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  