-- 
France’s Coeure Said to Be Backed by Ministers for ECB Board

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-11-29T20:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/france-s-coeure-said-to-be-backed-by-ministers-for-ecb-board.html
France ’s Benoit Coeure has been
backed by euro-area finance ministers to succeed Italy’s Lorenzo Bini Smaghi on the European Central Bank’s Executive Board,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Coeure’s nomination must now be approved by European Union
leaders, which is likely to happen when they meet on Dec. 8.  Coeure, currently chief economist at the French Treasury,
would give  Europe ’s second-largest economy a voice on the ECB
board, which it has lacked since Jean-Claude Trichet’s term as
the central bank’s president ended last month. France supported
Italian Mario Draghi taking over from Trichet on condition Italy
get Bini Smaghi to step down early to make way for a Frenchman
in the ECB’s six-member executive.  Bini Smaghi on Nov. 11 resigned from his post, effective at
the end of the year, and will join Harvard University’s Center
for International Affairs in 2012.  Bini Smaghi’s departure will mean four ECB board members
have left this year. In addition to Trichet and  Austria ’s
Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell, whose term ended in May,  Germany ’s
Juergen Stark said he will step down at the end of the year in
protest at the central bank’s bond purchases. His term was due
to end in May, 2014.  Chief Economist Role  Stark will be replaced by German Deputy Finance Minister
 Joerg Asmussen . Germany wants Asmussen to take Stark’s role as
the ECB’s chief economist, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said today. A German has held the position since the bank’s
founding in 1998.  The Handelsblatt newspaper reported earlier today that
France may push for Coeure to take the chief economist post,
without saying where it got the information.  Schaeuble and French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin 
issued a joint statement in Brussels tonight saying it’s up to
the ECB to decide on the roles of its board members.  “We trust that  Mario Draghi  and the Executive Board will
decide what is best for the ECB, in full compliance with its
mandate,” the ministers said.  Coeure, 42, joined the Treasury in 1995 after working for
Insee, France’s national statistics office. By 1999 he became
head of the ministry’s foreign-exchange market and economic-
policies unit, before moving on to Agence France Tresor, where
he gained market experience handling sovereign debt sales. He
became deputy chief executive of the AFT in 2002 and was
appointed chief executive in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  