-- 
Heating Oil, Gasoline Gain on Speculation U.S. Economy Stronger

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-11-29T20:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/gasoline-advances-as-sales-growth-indicates-higher-fuel-demand.html
Heating oil and gasoline rose as a
gain in retail sales increased confidence that the  U.S. economy 
is strengthening and fuel demand will improve.  Futures advanced as U.S. sales at stores open at least a
year rose 5.4 percent in the week ended Nov. 26 from a year
earlier, according to Johnson Redbook Research. Consumer
confidence climbed in November by the most since April 2003,
according to a report from a private research group.  “The Redbook retail sales report is confirming what we’re
seeing at the malls and it’s another sign the U.S. economy is
doing well,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago .  December-delivery heating oil advanced 5.12 cents, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $3.0211 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The more actively traded January contract
rose 5.09 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $3.0336.  Gasoline for December delivery gained 2.1 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $2.5391 a gallon on the exchange. The
January contract advanced 2.21 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
$2.5398.  December heating oil and gasoline contracts will expire at
the end of floor trading tomorrow.  Heating oil’s premium to gasoline widened 3.02 cents to
48.2 cents on speculation inventories of diesel and heating oil
declined to the lowest level in almost three years.  Inventory Survey  Distillate inventories probably fell 1.25 million barrels
last week to 131.7 million, the lowest level since December
2008, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News. Gasoline stockpiles rose 1.45 million
barrels to an eight-week high, the survey showed.  “There’s tightness in distillate supplies in Europe and
 China  and we’re now a net exporter of distillate inventory,
filling the void for other places,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in Chicago.  Same-store sales are considered the best measure of a
retailer’s results because they exclude the effect of store
openings and closings in the past year.  The  National Retail Federation  reported Nov. 27 that
Thanksgiving holiday sales at shopping malls gained 16 percent.  Retail sales totaled a record $52.4 billion during the
holiday weekend and the average shopper spent $398.62, up from
$365.34 a year earlier, the Washington-based National Retail
Federation said, citing a survey conducted by BIGresearch.  Consumer Confidence  Reinforcing the improved retail sales, the Conference
Board’s  index  increased to 56 from a revised 40.9 reading in
October. Confidence increased as Americans grew more upbeat
about employment and income prospects, according to the survey.  “The macro economic data out of the U.S. was better than
expected, and there’s nothing negative out of  Europe  right
now,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in  New York .  European finance ministers from the 17-member monetary
union are meeting in Brussels today to debate using their
bailout find to insure sovereign debt with guarantees.  Prices also gained as crude oil rose on concern  Middle East 
oil supplies would be disrupted after Iranian protesters stormed
the British Embassy’s compound in Tehran, a week after the U.S.
and U.K. imposed additional sanctions on the country over  Iran’s
nuclear program .  Crude oil for January delivery rose $1.58 to settle at
$99.79 a barrel on the Nymex. Brent oil for January settlement
gained $1.82 to $110.82.  “Worries about Iranian oil supplies appears to be aiding
the bullish sentiment today,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst
and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
unchanged at $3.295 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  