-- 
German Stocks Advance as Euro-Area Ministers Meet on Debt Crisis Response

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-11-29T16:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/german-stocks-gain-as-exports-seen-crossing-1-trillion-euro-mark.html
German (UKX)  stocks rose, for the biggest
three-day rally in the benchmark DAX Index in more than seven
weeks, as euro-area finance ministers met in Brussels to discuss
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  BASF SE  gained 2.1 percent as the world’s largest chemical
company raised its sales target for the end of this decade.  K+S
AG (SDF)  added 3 percent after saying it will invest more than $3
billion to develop a Canadian mineral deposit bought this year.  The DAX increased 54.58, or 1 percent, to 5,799.91 at the
close in  Frankfurt . The gauge has advanced 6.9 percent in the
last three days, for its biggest jump since Oct. 7. The broader
HDAX Index climbed 0.9 percent today.  “There is no doubt that the policy debate is edging
towards schemes that address the issues,” said  Dominic Wilson ,
the chief market economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
Frankfurt. We are “still skeptical of a quick euro-zone
solution. We would caution against too much optimism without a
lot more meat on the policy ‘bones’ that are likely to float
out.”  The DAX has still fallen 5.6 percent this month as surging
bond yields in Italy, Spain and France fueled concern that the
debt crisis is spreading. The  gauge (DAX)  has retreated 16 percent
this year.  Europe ’s effort to expand its bailout fund to 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) is falling short, forcing renewed
consideration of a role for the  European Central Bank  in
insulating Spain and Italy from the debt crisis, two officials
familiar with the discussions said.  Finance ministers will hold an initial discussion on
channeling ECB loans to cash-strapped euro nations through the
 International Monetary Fund , aiming to bring the central bank to
the front lines without violating its ban on direct lending to
governments, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are at an early stage.  German Trade Surplus  German exports will cross the 1 trillion-euro ($1.33
billion) mark for the first time in 2011 as demand for
investment goods from developing nations offsets waning demand
in the euro region, the BGA Exporters and Wholesalers Group
forecast today.  Exports will grow an estimated 12 percent this year to 1.08
trillion euros and imports increase 14 percent to 919 billion
euros, creating a trade surplus of 156 billion euros. Exports
may grow at least 6 percent next year to 1.14 trillion euros,
the BGA said.  Italy sold 7.5 billion euros of bonds at average yields
above the 7 percent level that forced  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal to seek bailouts.  BASF SE (BAS)  gained 2.1 percent to 50.56 euros as the world’s
largest chemical company raised its sales target for the end of
this decade. The maker of coatings, polymers and pesticides
forecast sales of 115 billion euros by 2020 and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 23 billion
euros, BASF said today in a statement.  K+S AG advanced 3 percent to 39.46 euros. Europe’s biggest
potash supplier will develop a Canadian mineral deposit acquired
this year, investing C$3.25 billion ($3.1 billion) after
outgrowing reserves in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz at   jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  