-- 
Gilts Gain as Government Cuts U.K.’s Growth Forecast; Pound Strengthens

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-11-29T16:32:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/gilt-yields-drop-to-record-before-osborne-s-budget-statement-pound-gains.html
U.K. gilts advanced as Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said economic growth will be slower
than forecast this year and next, requiring the government to
borrow more and extend spending cuts.  Longer-maturity  bonds  led advances as the Bank of England
bought longer-dated securities under its quantitative-easing
program today. The economy will grow 0.9 percent this year, less
than the 1.7 percent forecast in March, and by 0.7 percent next
year, from a projected 2.5 percent, Osborne said, citing the
 Office for Budget Responsibility . The 10-year yield fell to the
least versus the bund since 2001 as German rates rose.  “It has been fairly well received,” said  Peter Chatwell ,
a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London. “The
statement is a reiteration of the government’s emphasis on
running a tight fiscal ship despite the slippage in forecasts.
The downbeat growth will indeed support gilts.”  Thirty-year  yields  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.06 percent at 4:31 p.m.  London  time,
after reaching a record low 3.022 percent. The 4.25 percent bond
due December 2040 gained 0.98, or 9.8 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,560) face value, to 122.895. Ten-year yields were three
basis points lower at 2.24 percent.  Gilts stayed higher even after the Debt Management Office
revised up its planned bond issuance this fiscal year by 6.8
percent to reflect higher borrowing requirements. The debt
agency said it will sell 178.9 billion pounds of securities for
the year ending in March next year.  Higher Borrowing  Osborne blames the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area
for the deteriorating outlook. King said yesterday said the U.K.
is being “increasingly threatened” by the euro-area crisis,
and authorities must be ready to act if it continues to
escalate.  The government’s forecasts were preceded yesterday by a
similarly gloomy outlook for the U.K. from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, which said Britain may
already be in recession and predicted that the  Bank of England 
will probably add to stimulus through its bond-purchase program
early next year.  The pound strengthened against the euro after the ECB
failed to fully offset the extra liquidity created by its bond
purchases for the first time in seven months, a sign of mounting
tensions among euro-area banks. While the central bank has
failed to “sterilize” its bond program at least four times
before, this is the first time it has happened since the central
bank expanded the program to buy Italian and Spanish bonds.  Pimco Likes Gilts  Sterling gained 0.6 percent against the 17-nation currency
to 85.39 pence. The pound rose for a second day against the
dollar, climbing 0.6 percent to $1.5610, and gained for a third
day versus the yen, appreciating 0.5 percent to 121.57.  The pound rose 1.8 percent in the past month, making it the
second best performer among 10 developed-market peers after the
dollar, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Gilts have returned 15 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German debt gained 6.3 percent and
 U.S. Treasuries  rose 9.4 percent.  Gilts will continue to outperform bunds and Treasuries even
as supply rises “because the Bank of England has got the
clearest support for the government bond market,” Michael Amey,
a London-based portfolio manager at Pacific Investment
Management Co., told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move.” “The U.K. is not in the  euro zone , it has its
own currency, and it has a relatively clear policy framework.
Gilts are cleanest of the dirty shirts.”  Foreign Buyers  Foreign investors boosted their gilt holdings by 12.5
billion pounds in October, after buying a net 9.2 billion pounds
the previous month, according to data from the Bank of England
today. That’s the most since April last year.  Gilts gained even as a report showed U.K. house prices
increased for a third month in November.  The average  cost  of a home rose 0.4 percent from October to
165,798 pounds,  Nationwide Building Society  said. Values
increased 1.6 percent from a year earlier. The Swindon-based
lender said growth in property values will “remain soft.”  A separate report showed mortgage approvals increased more
than economists forecast in October as record-low  interest rates 
helped to support the housing market. Lenders granted 52,743
loans to buy homes, compared with a revised 51,193 in the
previous month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  