-- 
Gingrich’s Former Political Group Ordered to Pay Delinquent Rent

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/gingrich-s-former-political-group-ordered-by-court-to-pay-delinquent-rent.html
American Solutions for Winning the
Future, a tax-exempt political organization  Newt Gingrich 
founded in 2006, went out of business in July and is now $20,000
in debt to its landlord, according to Washington, D.C., Superior
Court records.  No one has turned over the keys to the group’s K Street
offices in downtown Washington, which still contain some
furniture and office equipment. The U.S. Marshals Service will
be sent in next month to retake possession of the group’s
premises if the debt isn’t paid, said Michael R. Cogan, attorney
for B.G.W. Limited Partnership, which leases the space.  Gingrich severed ties with American Solutions earlier this
year to run for president. Still, Cogan said, the former Georgia
congressman should have insisted the dismantling of his complex
network of businesses and independent groups be done in a proper
manner.  “Being a fiscal conservative and having the message of
personal responsibility, you would think that even if you’re not
legally liable, anything you’re involved with at this level you
would want to have an amicable outcome or resolution,” Cogan
said. His client “will be pursuing further legal action,” if
necessary, to collect the back rent.  R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s campaign spokesman, noting that
the former speaker left American Solutions in May, said he is no
longer responsible for its operations. “It was a successful
venture when Gingrich was there,” Hammond said. “We are very
disappointed that it’s no longer successful.”  Gingrich Enterprises  American Solutions was just one of several enterprises
launched by Gingrich after he resigned the speakership and his
House seat in 1999.  His for-profit companies included a health-care policy
operation known as the  Center for Health Transformation  and a
set of entities -- Gingrich Communications and Gingrich
Productions -- that arranged his lucrative public appearances
and marketed his videos and books. Through The Gingrich Group,
he conducted a consulting business that received retainers,
sometimes as much as $30,000 a month, from corporations and
trade groups to advise them on the ways of  Washington .  Gingrich Group and the Center for Health Transformation
brought in $55 million in revenue from more than 300 clients
between 2001 and 2010, the Center said in a statement posted on
its web site last week.  He also helped found a religious group called Renewing
American Leadership, which is dedicated to preserving America’s
“Judeo-Christian” heritage, and launched an Hispanic outreach
website called “The Americano.”  Not Lasting Institutions  Though American Solutions is now defunct, it served its
purpose for Gingrich, said Merle Black, professor of politics
and government at Atlanta-based Emory University.  “He wasn’t really building institutions,” Black said.
“He was into building organizations that he could use for
various purposes. An institution is something that could survive
the departure of the leader.”  Joe Gaylord, a Gingrich adviser of more than two decades,
took over American Solutions earlier this year and said at the
time that the group would continue operating without the former
speaker. Though the organization raised more than $50 million
under Gingrich’s leadership, it raised $2.5 million in the first
half of this year, according to disclosure  statements  filed with
the  Internal Revenue Service .  “When a celebrity or someone of Newt’s stature has an
organization like that, you need a message and a messenger. Once
the messenger is gone, it’s very difficult to convince people to
give money,” said Rick Tyler, a former Gingrich press
secretary.  Mission Statement  Gingrich founded the group with the mission statement that
it would “create the next generation of solutions that will
ensure that the  United States  remains the safest, freest, and
most prosperous country in the world.”  The organization advocated offshore oil drilling and tax
cuts and opposed President  Barack Obama ’s federal health-care
law. It also held more than 300 meetings with Tea Party leaders
throughout the country in the past two years, creating a bridge
between the presidential aspirant and the party’s new activists.
Those ties have helped Gingrich surge in recent polls.  Gingrich’s fundraising and spending practices at American
Solutions drew criticism from government ethics groups,
including the practice of calling potential donors under the
pretext of conducting a poll.  He would send out a mass mailing
to small business owners and offer to name them “entrepreneur
of the year” -- for the fee of $5,000, according to the
 Washington Post .  Fundraising Lists  Gingrich used the organization and his other entities to
build a mailing list of millions of names, which can be tapped
for donations to his presidential bid. The organization also
spent millions of dollars on chartered jet travel for Gingrich,
according to its Internal Revenue Service disclosure reports.  The American Solutions offices are in the same building as
those of the other Gingrich entities, albeit on a separate
floor. At the American Solutions suite, the glass doors are
locked.  A few chairs, a printer, and supplies are still
scattered around inside the reception area and can be seen
beyond in the  office space .  B.G.W. filed its case against American Solutions in the
landlord-tenant division of Washington, D.C., Superior Court on
Sept. 14, alleging that the organization owed $16,000 in back
rent.  No one representing American Solutions appeared at an Oct.
6 court hearing.  Paige Bray, who served as comptroller of the
group until August, said in a telephone interview that she had
“no idea” who was responsible for managing the group’s
affairs.  Superior Court Judge A. Franklin Burgess Jr. ruled Oct. 19
that the organization owed $20,130 in back rent and court fees,
and authorized the U.S. Marshals Service to evict American
Solutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  