-- 
Glencore’s Singapore Unit Pays Tipco Asphalt $20.2 Million Arbitral Award

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-11-30T06:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/glencore-unit-should-be-liquidated-thai-bitumen-says-in-lawsuit.html
Glencore International Plc’s 
Singapore unit has paid a $20.2 million arbitration award to
 Tipco Asphalt (TASCO)  Pcl’s Thai Bitumen Co., which will withdraw a
lawsuit seeking to liquidate the commodities trader in the city.  “Glencore Singapore has only just paid the principal sum
of the award,” Thai Bitumen’s lawyer Lim Chee Wee said in an e-
mailed statement today. “The only outstanding issue now is the
recovery of interest and costs.”  Thai Bitumen filed a winding-up petition on Nov. 23 against
the Singapore unit of Glencore, the largest publicly traded
commodities company, claiming it should be declared insolvent
for being unable to pay its debts. A closed hearing was
scheduled for Dec. 9.  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and calls to
his office outside of regular business hours went unanswered.  Glencore was ordered to pay $20.2 million and interest to
Thai Bitumen by arbitrator  Kenneth Rokison  on Sept. 21,
according to the lawsuit. Glencore failed to deliver 600,000
barrels of Venezuelan crude oil to Thai Bitumen, breaching an
October 2008 sale contract, Rokison ruled in the London
arbitration proceedings.  Thai Bitumen, a unit of  Thailand ’s biggest asphalt producer
Tipco Asphalt, and Glencore couldn’t agree on the interest
amount to be paid on the arbitration award, according to court
papers. Glencore’s lawyers claimed Thai Bitumen had over-
calculated the interest by $42,785, according to court filings.  Glencore declared force majeure on the delivery to Thai
Bitumen, a legal clause that allows delays because of an
incident outside a supplier’s control, after a decision by
Venezuelan state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  to cut
production in 2008, according to the filing.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC,
announced that they were cutting production in December 2008
after  oil prices  fell to their lowest in more than four years.  The case is Thai Bitumen Co. v Glencore Singapore Ltd.
CWU152/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  