-- 
Global Growth Forecasts Cut by Citigroup, UBS on Europe Slump

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-11-29T13:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/global-growth-forecasts-cut-by-citigroup-ubs-on-europe-slump.html
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG cut their
forecasts for global economic growth in 2012, citing the impact
of  Europe ’s debt crisis and the region’s looming recession.  Citigroup reduced its 2012 prediction for global expansion
by 0.3 percentage points to 2.5 percent, economists including
 Willem Buiter  in  London  wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
yesterday. That’s the sixth consecutive month the bank lowered
its 2012 estimate for gross domestic product. UBS now predicts
2.7 percent growth next year instead of 3.1 percent.  “In terms of global growth, we expect that 2012 will be a
modest mid-cycle slowdown, with no rerun of the sharp recession
of 2009,” the Citigroup economists wrote. “We expect  China ’s
growth to slow markedly, but global growth will still be Asia-
led. The euro area is falling back into recession and only
modest growth is likely for the U.S.”  Europe’s debt turmoil and recession will prompt the
 European Central Bank  to cut its  benchmark interest rate  from
1.25 percent to a record-low 0.5 percent next year, Citigroup
said. Data today showed European  confidence  in the economic
outlook dropped more than economists forecast in November as
finance ministers meet in Brussels for talks on a crisis that is
spreading from the periphery to the region’s core countries.  Euro-Area Outlook  UBS economists including London-based Larry Hatheway and
 Paul Donovan  also lowered estimates for the euro area. They
wrote in a note yesterday that the region’s economy will shrink
0.7 percent in 2012, compared with a previous estimate of 0.2
percent growth.  Citigroup cut its prediction for global growth in 2013 by
0.2 percentage points to 3.1 percent. The bank lowered its 2012
forecast for euro-area GDP and now sees the economy shrinking
1.2 percent, compared with an estimate of a 0.3 percent
contraction published last month.  The  U.S. bank  said its central forecast assumes that the
euro-area debt crisis will escalate, prompting a “strong policy
response” from ECB and the region’s political leaders to
prevent a breakup of the single currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  