-- 
GM’s Volt Battery Fires Threaten ‘Moon Shot’

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-11-29T21:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/gm-s-volt-battery-fires-threaten-to-knock-moon-shot-off-target.html
When  General Motors Co. (GM)  announced
plans in June 2008 to build the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid,
executives called it a “moon shot” intended to rocket past
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in technology leadership. Now the car is a
flash-point for concern.  The automaker’s image car is the subject of a U.S. probe
following fires that occurred in its lithium-ion batteries at
least a week after three crash tests. GM yesterday offered
loaner cars to concerned buyers and said its engineers will help
the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  determine the
cause and a way to fix it.  While engineers work on safety issues, the largest U.S.
automaker is racing to ensure that the Volt doesn’t become a
public relations fiasco. The car was dreamed up under now-
retired Vice Chairman Bob Lutz to combat the environmental and
technology praise Toyota received for its Prius hybrid.  “They didn’t introduce the Volt because of its commercial
success,” said  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of
Edmunds.com, an auto research website based in  Santa Monica ,
 California . “It’s their ’can-do’ statement, their counter to
the Prius. They will do everything they can to make sure people
don’t draw negative conclusions.”  The Volt investigation has the potential to harm the
reputation of electrified vehicles. Lithium-ion batteries, such
as those used in the Volt, are also installed in all-electric
cars. Automakers and U.S. and California regulators are looking
to increased use of electric power to meet tightening U.S. fuel-
efficiency standards.  Volt Range  Early in the development of the Volt, Lutz said it would
use less gasoline than a hybrid-electric car like the Prius. At
the same time, its gasoline engine would let motorists continue
to drive without stopping to recharge for hours.  Volt can go about 40 miles on electricity before its
gasoline engine kicks in and powers a generator, which recharges
the battery. It has a range of 379 miles with electric and
gasoline power combined. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency last year estimated the Volt would average 60 miles per
gallon in combined gasoline-electric driving, compared with 50
mpg for the Prius. Volt’s range is about four times what  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf electric car travels on a single charge.  If safety concerns overtake the Volt, none of that will
matter.  “They’ve got to demonstrate that they’re putting their
customers’ safety first,” said Jon Harmon, a former spokesman
for Ford Motor Co. and author of “Feeding Frenzy,” a book
about the Ford-Firestone crisis of the early 2000s. “The focus
needs to be on getting to the bottom of this, not trying to
prove that they’re right.”  ‘Unique Set of Circumstances’  GM may get a break because there have been no Volt fires on
the road, only after lab testing, Anwyl said.  “They are saying that it takes a unique set of
circumstances to cause a fire,” he said. “It will depend on
whether this is a one-time thing or it becomes a regular
occurrence.”  Toyota shows what can happen with a company’s safety image
is hurt. The company, which has sold more than 1 million Prius
hybrids in the U.S. since 2000, saw its U.S. sales plunge for
months in 2010 after recalling millions of vehicles for flaws
linked to gas-pedal interference. Toyota paid $48.8 million in
federal fines for the way some of the recalls were conducted,
the largest ever by an automaker in the U.S., and continues to
work to reassure drivers of the safety and quality of its
vehicles.  Quick Defense  GM has moved quickly to defend the Volt and assuage any
concerns customers may have. NHTSA announced its investigation
late Nov. 25, the day after the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.  Yesterday, the first work day after that announcement, GM
North America President  Mark Reuss  sent a letter to current Volt
owners saying that if they have concerns about their safety, GM
will provide them with another model as a loaner until the
investigation concludes.  Reuss and Mary Barra, senior vice president for global
product development, and Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick ,
held a call with reporters to explain their plans to deal with
the Volt. They maintained that the car is safe and that it has
NHTSA’s top five-star crash rating.  “My daughter drives a Volt every day with two kids,”
Reuss said. “I drive a Volt. We don’t believe there is a fire
risk.”  Not Backing Off  GM also said the Volt is still safe enough to promote its
image as a technology leader.  Chevrolet  features the Volt as a
centerpiece in its advertising and has no plans to back off,
Ewanick said.  “We have been advertising the Volt heavily and we’re not
going to change anything with regard to spending,” he said on
the conference call.  The Volt has been on the market for a year and went on sale
in all 50 states last month. In January, GM plans to boost
production to 60,000 a year from a rate of 10,000 annually. GM
sold 5,003 Volts this year through October, according to
Autodata Corp., a research firm in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  The Detroit-based automaker has engineers working with
NHTSA to establish the cause of the fires and no conclusions
have been reached, Barra said on the call.  “Chevy Volt owners whose vehicles have not been in a
serious crash do not have reason for concern,” NHTSA said in
its Nov. 25 statement. The agency also said there are no
investigations into other cars that have lithium-ion batteries.  ‘Larger Than the Volt’  No Leafs have caught fire, said  Brian Brockman , a Nissan
spokesman. Ricardo Reyes, a  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  spokesman, said
that 10 of the company’s cars have been in accidents and no
fires have been reported. The Leaf and Tesla’s models use
lithium-ion batteries.  The Volt’s fires may scare consumers away from lithium-ion
batteries, said Harmon, the “Feeding Frenzy” author.  “This issue is really larger than the Volt,” Harmon said.
“This could cast a pall over whether customers will trust one
of their vehicles to be electric. A crisis like this can have a
big impact on eroding confidence in the new technology.”  GM slid 2.1 percent to $20.31 at the close in  New York .
They have fallen 45 percent this year.  To help prevent fires, GM is developing a procedure for
drawing down the power in the battery after an accident, Barra
said.  New Process  “We developed a process to depower the battery after a
crash,” Barra said. “The battery assemblies were not
depowered. We believe that if they were depowered the fire would
not have occurred.”  A Volt caught fire three weeks after a side-impact crash
test May 12 while parked at a NHTSA testing center in  Wisconsin ,
leading regulators to conduct more tests. Volt battery packs
were damaged in three more tests last week, causing two fires,
NHTSA said in a statement on its website.  NHTSA, which said it’s working with the U.S. Defense and
Energy departments to analyze the fires, conducted its first new
test on Nov. 16 without a fire. The second test on Nov. 17
resulted in an initial temporary increase in battery temperature
after the crash, and the battery pack caught fire at the test
facility on Nov. 24. In a third test on Nov. 18, the battery was
rotated hours after the crash and “began to smoke and emit
sparks shortly after,” NHTSA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  