-- 
Goldman Ends Bet on China Stocks as Growth Estimates Cut by UBS, Citigroup

-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 
2011-11-29T06:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/goldman-advises-exiting-china-stocks.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
clients should exit a bet that Hong Kong-listed companies in
 China  will gain as UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. cut growth
forecasts for the world’s second-biggest economy.  “We are closing our recommended long position in Chinese
equities” after the trade lost 5 percent, Goldman analysts
including Noah Weisberger wrote in an e-mailed report dated
yesterday. In a Nov. 6 report, the analysts favored shares in
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index. (HSCEI)   Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s crackdown on property speculation is
damping home sales and construction just as Europe’s soveriegn-
debt crisis threatens exports. The central bank triggered
speculation that monetary policy may be further loosened to spur
growth by allowing reserve requirements for some rural credit
cooperatives to fall this month.  Gross domestic product will increase 8 percent in 2012,
less than a previous call of 8.3 percent, Hong Kong-based
economist  Wang Tao , of UBS, said in a note today. Citigroup cut
its forecast to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent. The banks have
also reduced global growth estimates.  “We think the balance of risks is no longer attractive,”
the Goldman analysts wrote in yesterday’s report, referring to
their previous stock call.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, a gauge of 40
mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong , dropped 9.7 percent from
Nov. 5 through yesterday on concern Chinese growth may falter.
It climbed 1.8 percent as of 2:40 p.m. local time today.  Euro Zone Woes  In a Nov. 6 report, the analysts highlighted the shares’
underperformance relative to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Much weaker euro zone growth will affect the rest of the
world, including China,” UBS economist Wang said today. “We
think more obvious and persistent easing will likely occur in
the first quarter of 2012, when export, construction and
industrial production should have decelerated significantly.”  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier. Expansion has slowed from 11.9 percent in the
first quarter of last year.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.1 percent as
of 1:25 p.m. local time, paring this year’s decline to about 14
percent.  Morgan Stanley yesterday lowered its China growth estimate
for next year to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent. The nation is
unlikely to be immune from weaker external demand although
domestic demand will “hold up well,” Hong Kong-based
economists led by Helen Qiao and Yuande Zhu said in a note.  Sliding Sales  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , China’s second-largest
developer by market value, said its contracted sales fell 39
percent in October from a year earlier.  Barclays Capital 
estimates  home prices  may decrease by 10 percent to 30 percent
in the next year. Home prices fell in 33 of 70 cities in
October, government data shows.  “We think a sharper deceleration in property investment is
the biggest risk to China’s economy,” Johanna Chua, Hong Kong-
based chief economist for  Asia  at Citigroup, said in today’s
report. “But a hard landing can be averted in the near term
with sufficient policy flexibility to provide offsetting support
for growth, especially on the fiscal front.”  UBS’ Wang said the government may relax fiscal policy and
bank lending quotas next year.  She estimates additional fiscal
spending of about 1 percent of gross domestic product over a 12-
month period and that the central bank will raise its new
lending target for 2012 to 8 trillion yuan ($1.25 trillion) from
7.3 trillion to 7.4 trillion this year.  Reserve Requirements  Citigroup said the central bank may cut banks’  reserve
requirements  before the Chinese New Year in late January if
recent capital outflows continue and raise  interest rates  to
stabilize deposits.  UBS predicts the world economy will expand 2.7 percent next
year, down from a previous estimate of 3.1 percent. Citigroup is
forecasting 2.5 percent after the sixth consecutive monthly
downgrade, economists led by  Willem Buiter  and  Michael Saunders 
said in a report dated yesterday.  The  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
says that growing doubts about the survival of  Europe ’s monetary
union has caused global growth to stall and represents the main
risk to the world economy.  The Paris-based organization has lowered its estimate for
China’s 2012 expansion to 8.5 percent from a 9.2 percent
forecast in May. A slowdown in property sales could trigger
developer collapses and lead to bad loans, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  