-- 
Goldman’s Head of Global Leveraged Finance Hickey to Retire

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-11-29T19:29:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/goldman-sachs-head-of-global-leveraged-finance-stephen-hickey-will-retire.html
Stephen Hickey, head of global
leveraged finance at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , plans to retire
at the end of the year, after about two decades at the firm.  Hickey, 50, was named a  partner  at the fifth-biggest U.S.
bank by assets in 2004, according to a memo obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman spokesman, confirmed
the contents of the memo and declined further comment.  Hickey has been leading Goldman’s America’s middle-market
lending effort, according to the memo from Richard Gnodde,  David Solomon  and John Weinberg, co-heads of investment banking at the
New York-based firm. That role will now be handled by Craig
Packer, according to the memo. Hickey didn’t immediately return
an e-mail seeking comment.  While at Goldman, Hickey served as global head of loan
trading and head of bank loan syndicate, sales and trading,
according to a 2006  news release . He also was a member of the
board of directors of the New York-based  Loan Syndications and
Trading Association  between 2003 and 2007.  Hickey first joined Goldman in 1987 working in  investment
banking  and the fixed income divisions in New York and  London 
until 1996, according to the memo.  In that year, Hickey helped start the lending business at
Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette where he served as head of  loan 
syndications, sales and trading before returning to Goldman as a
managing director in 2000.  Hickey has worked on a joint venture with the Yale Pre-MBA
Leadership Program, promoting diversity at the Yale School of
Management, through Goldman Sachs Gives, a donor-advised fund,
according to the memo. He will continue in his role as chairman
of that program on behalf of the organization, the Goldman memo
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  