-- 
Greenwich Wealth Managers Collect $254M

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T15:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/greenwich-wealth-managers-collect-254-million.html
Three money managers in one of the
country’s richest towns collected the biggest jackpot in the
history of the  Connecticut  lottery after investing $1 in a
Powerball ticket.  Brandon E. Lacoff, co-founder of Belpointe LLC, an $82
million wealth manager in Greenwich, Connecticut, and his
colleagues Gregory Skidmore and Tim Davidson rode a black
limousine into the lottery headquarters in Rocky Hill yesterday
to claim a $254 million Powerball prize, according to Anne
Noble, president of the lottery.  The jackpot, earned through the purchase of a single ticket
at a gas station in  Stamford , Connecticut, home to  Steven
Cohen ’s $14 billion dollar hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP,
dwarfs the previous biggest prize given out in the state of $59
million, Noble said. Gamblers with an income of more than
$125,000 account for 19 percent of lottery players in
Connecticut, according to a 2009 study by Spectrum Gaming Group.  “I have given away money to people of all walks of life,
some employed and some not,” Noble said in an interview.
“There is one common theme, which is that they are all always
happy to get the money.”  The three men choose to accept an after-tax payment of
about $104 million and collect it through an entity they formed
called the Putnam Avenue Family Trust, Noble said. She declined
to provide details on when the trust was created.  Daily Mail Report  London’s Daily Mail  reported  today that Lacoff, Skidmore
and Davidson may not have purchased the winning ticket, quoting
a Greenwich real estate agent who rents  office space  to Lacoff.
The individual who bought the ticket is a client of Belpointe
who wanted to remain anonymous to avoid media scrutiny and the
three men just collected the winnings on behalf of the trust,
the newspaper said, citing the real estate agent.  Skidmore, Lacoff and Davidson didn’t return phone calls
left at Belpointe yesterday and today seeking comment. Jason
Kurland, a lawyer representing the Putnam Avenue Family Trust,
wrote in an e-mail yesterday that he was out of his office and
unable to discuss the jackpot. Kurland didn’t respond to a
subsequent phone call and e-mail today.  In addition to a wealth-management arm formerly called
Belray Asset Management LLC, Belpointe has advisers licensed to
sell life, disability and health insurance, according to its
 website . The firm also does commercial and residential
development, and provides legal services through another firm
owned by Lacoff.  Town Home Development  Belpointe is registered as an  investment adviser  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Belpointe’s most recent
filing with the regulator said high net-worth individuals make
up more than half of the firm’s clients and that it manages $82
million.  Lacoff, a former Ernst & Young LLP employee, co-founded the
predecessor to Belpointe in 1999 and his initials form the first
part of the company name, according to its website. Belpointe is
best known for its development of Beacon Hill of Greenwich, a
luxury town home development in downtown Greenwich, according to
the company.  Skidmore is listed as president and chief investment
officer for Belpointe Asset Management. In an April 2010 story
posted on Seeking Alpha, a website that offers stock-market
commentary, Skidmore gave an  interview  about the “highest
conviction stock position” in his fund. He said  Tri-Tech
Holding Inc. (TRIT) , a company that designs municipal sewage-treatment
and odor-control systems in  China , was his “great long
opportunity.” Its shares, then trading at about $15, fell below
$10 the following month, and closed yesterday at $4.03.  Competitive Sailor  Skidmore, who graduated from Connecticut College in 1999
with a bachelor’s degree in economics and history, previously
hosted an AM radio show called Greenwich Entrepreneurs,
according to a biography on Belpointe’s website.  The biography states that he is a former member of the U.S.
Sailing team and hoped to compete in the Olympics. Skidmore is
listed in the record as a  Finn-class  sailor on the 2003 team,
Jake Fish, a spokesman for U.S. Sailing, wrote in an e-mail.  Davidson, a senior portfolio manager, started in finance in
1979 with a French bank as a foreign-exchange trader, his
biography on Belpointe’s website says. At Belpointe, he manages
a proprietary equity and asset-allocation strategy.  The three wealth managers waited several weeks to claim the
prize. The winning numbers were drawn on Nov. 2 and Skidmore,
Davidson and Lacoff didn’t come forward until yesterday. A delay
isn’t unusual as lottery winners seek legal and financial
advice, Noble said. The men said they plan to use a portion of
the jackpot to support “philanthropic” causes in Connecticut,
she said.  Connecticut, the wealthiest U.S. state, collected $612.7
million in income taxes from Greenwich residents in 2009, or
about 13 percent of the total and the most from any community,
Revenue Department figures show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  