-- 
Greek Banks’ Losses Worsen as Customers Withdraw Deposits

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-11-29T18:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/greek-banks-losses-worsen-as-customers-withdraw-deposits-1-.html
National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the
country’s biggest lender, and two smaller competitors posted
nine-month losses as they wrote down their holdings of
government debt and clients pulled deposits.  National Bank had a net loss of 1.35 billion euros ($1.8
billion) compared with a 259 million-euro profit in the year-
earlier period, the Athens-based lender said in a statement
today.  Agricultural Bank of Greece SA (ATE)  and  Hellenic Postbank SA (TT) 
said their losses widened by about 10-fold.  The three banks, which own about 36.5 billion euros of
Greek sovereign debt among them, wrote down their holdings by
about 21 percent in July as part of the European Union’s bailout
of the country. They may have to take further losses on their
debt after the Greek government sought to impose bigger
writedowns on investors. As the political crisis worsened in the
third quarter, customers are pulling deposits.  “The current juncture is highly critical for the  Greek
economy ,” National Bank Chief Executive Officer Apostolos Tamvakakis said in a statement. “Such conditions have only been
simulated in worst-case scenarios.”  National Bank said deposits shrank 3 percent over the third
quarter to 43.2 billion euros. Agricultural Bank’s deposits fell
13 percent over the first nine months to 17.2 billion euros at
the end of September, while Postbank posted an 11 percent
decline to 10.9 billion euros over the same period.  Deposit Outflows  The outflows for Greek banks continued after September,
with Greek banks losing as much as 14 billion euros in the two
months to the end of October,  George Provopoulos , head of the
Greek central bank, told lawmakers in  Athens  today. He said the
decline continued in early November and has since stabilized.  State-controlled Agricultural  Bank of Greece (TELL)  posted a 1
billion-euro loss in the nine-month period, compared with a
117.2 million-euro loss a year earlier. Hellenic Postbank’s loss
widened to 543.7 million euros from 53.7 million euros.  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOC)  the island’s biggest lender, reported an
801 million-euro net loss, compared with 248 million-euro profit
in the year-earlier period.  Marfin Popular Bank Pcl (MARFB) , Cyprus’s
second-biggest bank, had a 282.2 million-euro loss, compared
with an 82.7 million-euro profit last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen  at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  