-- 
Greek Bank Withdrawals Accelerated Amid Political Instability

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-11-29T17:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/greek-bank-withdrawals-accelerated-amid-political-instability.html
Greek political instability spurred
an acceleration of bank withdrawals, with the decline stemmed by
the appointment of a new government this month.  Greek banks saw an outflow in deposits of about 13 billion
euros to 14 billion euros ($18.7 billion) in the two months to
the end of October, said  George Provopoulos , the head of the
central bank and a member of the European Central Bank Governing
Council. Deposits totaled 183.2 billion euros at the end of
September.  “One could say these two, two and a half months have been
the worst for deposits since the start of the crisis,”
Provopoulos told lawmakers in Athens today. He said the decline
continued in early November and has since stabilized.  The comments indicate that as much as 8.6 billion euros
moved out of the Greek banking system in October alone, since
the central bank had reported a 5.4 billion-euro outflow in
September. The September figure was the biggest one-month
decline since  Greece  joined the euro as doubts surfaced about
the country’s ability to meet the terms of an EU-led bailout.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , a former vice president of
the  European Central Bank  and former head of the Greek central
bank, was sworn in on Nov. 11, after former Prime Minister
 George Papandreou ’s bid to hold a referendum on the second
financing package angered EU leaders, leading to a freeze on
payments and throwing markets into disarray.  Provopoulos said the economy’s contraction this year was
tilted toward 6 percent, rather than the 5.5 percent figure in
the central bank’s interim monetary policy report last week. The
figure could be 5.8 percent, Provopoulos said.  The central bank warned last week that Greece has one last
chance to reshape its economy and stay in the euro region by
sticking to pledges to implement budget cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  