-- 
Greece’s Sixth Aid Disbursement Will Be Made by Mid-December, Juncker Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-11-30T00:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/greek-aid-of-7-7-billion-is-said-to-be-cleared-by-euro-finance-ministers.html
Euro-area finance ministers approved
a 5.8 billion-euro ($7.7 billion) loan to  Greece  under last
year’s bailout after eliciting budget-austerity pledges from
Greek political leaders backing a unity government.  The go-ahead for the sixth disbursement of funds under the
fully taxpayer-funded package of 110 billion euros shifts the
spotlight to a second rescue of Greece that foresees 50 percent
losses for private investors in Greek bonds. The new aid plan,
crafted at an October summit, also includes 130 billion euros in
extra public funds.  After initially endorsing the next loan for Greece on Oct.
21, the euro area froze the payment this month because former
Socialist Premier  George Papandreou  announced a referendum on
the second rescue plan. He later called off the vote, resigned
and was succeeded by ex-central banker  Lucas Papademos , whose
interim government has the support of three parties to press
ahead with budget cuts needed for continued aid.  “We decided to release the sixth disbursement of the Greek
program now that prior actions have been met,” Luxembourg’s
Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters yesterday in Brussels after
chairing a meeting of the 17 euro-area finance ministers, who
also discussed growing threats to Spain and  Italy  from the debt
crisis triggered by Greece two years ago.  Economic Contraction  Greece, which faces a fifth year of economic contraction in
2012, says it needs the next international aid payment by mid-
December. The euro area’s installment is part of an 8 billion-
euro disbursement, of which the  International Monetary Fund  will
provide the remainder.  The IMF, which is funding almost a third of last year’s
package for Greece, must still approve its 2.2 billion-euro
share of the next payment to the country. Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said in a statement handed out in Brussels
that the IMF planned to give its verdict on Dec. 5 and Juncker
said the funds would be transferred to Greece by the middle of
December.  Since Papademos became prime minister on Nov. 11, the euro
area and IMF have sought assurances from the leaders of the
parties backing the government that they were committed to
reining in Greece’s budget deficit. The gap was 10.6 percent of
gross domestic product in 2010 and is projected to be 9 percent
this year.  Written Pledge  The focus has been on Antonis Samaras, leader of the New
Democracy party, the second-biggest faction in the Greek
parliament, because he hesitated to meet the demands for a
written pledge to support the austerity program. On Nov. 21,
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  told Samaras to quit
playing “political games” and heed the requests.  Two days later, Samaras sent a letter to the commission,
the group of euro-area finance ministers, the  European Central
Bank  and the IMF. The IMF followed with a statement that
welcomed New Democracy’s backing for the “key objectives and
policies” of Greece’s budget program.  “In Greece, we have all the necessary conditions in order
to go ahead with the next disbursement,” Venizelos said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “We have the necessary political
consensus, we have the necessary national unity and also the
national commitment and determination to go ahead.”  Papademos, a former ECB vice president, has vowed to enact
the planned writedown of Greek debt with private investors. That
bond exchange is supposed to be voluntary, take place in early
2012 and help put Greece’s debt on a path to fall to 120 percent
of GDP in 2020 from 145 percent last year.  ‘Complex Process’  “It’s a complex process, but we are committed to complete
it successfully together with the private sector and our
European partners,” Papademos said on Nov. 21. Venizelos said
yesterday that the goal is to complete the procedures in
January.  The initial bailout of Greece was made up of loans from
euro-area governments and the IMF. The euro area’s share of the
new package is set to come from the 440 billion-euro European
Financial Stability Facility, which is already contributing to
international rescues of Ireland and  Portugal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  