-- 
Tiffany Beats Estimates, Raises Annual Forecast

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-11-29T14:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/tiffany-beats-estimates-raises-annual-forecast.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-
largest luxury jewelry retailer, fell the most in almost four
years after citing “weaknesses” in sales in Europe and the
eastern U.S. as the holiday season began.  Tiffany dropped 9.5 percent to $66.60 at 9:55 a.m. in  New
York , after earlier plunging as much as 13 percent for the
biggest intraday decline since January 2008. The shares had
gained 18 percent this year before today.  Fourth-quarter sales will grow in the “low-teens” in
percentage terms after a 21 percent jump in the previous
quarter, the New York-based company said in a statement today.
Sales will have a “low double digit” gain in the Americas,
Chief Financial Officer Patrick McGuiness said on a conference
call today.  “We are, of course, mindful of continued short-term
economic challenges and uncertainties in some markets,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael Kowalski said in the statement.
“Worldwide sales-to-date at this relatively early stage of our
November-December holiday season are tracking in-line with our
current expectations despite recent sales weaknesses in  Europe 
and in the eastern part of the U.S.”  Tiffany also said that a key measure of profitability
shrank as it sold more of its highest-priced diamond jewelry,
which yields a lower gross margin.  Gross Margin  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after the
cost of goods sold, shrank to 57.9 percent from 58.5 percent a
year earlier.  David Schick , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Baltimore, had estimated 59 percent.  “The luxury consumer is slowing down as you might expect
given the financial market turmoil,” Schick said in a telephone
interview. “There was a lot of momentum in sales in the third
quarter and that has clearly slowed down.”  Net income in the three months ended Oct. 31 climbed 63
percent to $89.7 million, or 70 cents a share, from $55.1
million, or 43 cents, a year earlier, Tiffany said. Analysts
projected 61 cents, the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Profit in the year ending January 2012 will be as much as
$3.80 a share, up from a previous forecast of a maximum of
$3.75, Tiffany said. Analysts had projected $3.74, the average
of 19 estimates. It reiterated its forecast for a “high teens”
increase in annual sales.  Third-quarter sales advanced to $821.8 million, exceeding
the $803.8 million average of 13 analysts’ estimates.  “It doesn’t look like the stock is positioned to get any
credit for what was a very good quarter,”  Matt Arnold , an
analyst with St. Louis-based Edward Jones & Co., said in an
interview. “There is plenty to like if you are a longer-term
owner of this business,” said Arnold, who has a “buy” rating
on the shares.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  is the world’s largest luxury
jewelry maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  