-- 
Central Banks Don’t Have to Consider Capital Flows, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-11-29T20:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/imf-sees-no-case-for-central-banks-to-consider-capital-flows.html
The effect of advanced economies’
monetary policies on capital flows to other countries is too
complex to be taken into account by central banks such as the
 Federal Reserve , the  International Monetary Fund  staff said in a
report.  Low  interest rates  in major developed economies including
the U.S. have played a role in boosting capital flows to
emerging markets where interest rates were higher, the IMF said
in a report released today. At the same time, the Fed’s efforts
to ease monetary policy may have helped support the  U.S.
economy , slowing the flow of capital elsewhere, it said.  “The complicated transmission of the multilateral effects
weakens the case for major central banks to consider them
actively in their monetary policy,” IMF staff wrote in the
report. “Using monetary policy to try to achieve a domestic
objective and at the same time offset any negative cross-border
impact, while helpful from a global perspective, might in
practice be extremely difficult.”  The report follows guidelines drafted by the IMF in March
that endorse controls in limited circumstances for countries
striving to manage inflows of overseas capital, which put upward
pressure on their currencies and threaten to inflate asset-price
bubbles. Countries such as  Brazil  have been asking for the IMF
to look at the source of capital flows rather than just the
recipients.  Creating Risks  The report , which was written Oct. 13, recommends that
policy makers in advanced economies pay more attention to the
risks their policies can create for others. Rather than focusing
on monetary policy, the IMF staff recommends implementing
quickly the changes to financial regulation that are in the
works.  “There is strong evidence that in the runup to the crisis
and in its early stages shortcomings in regulation and
supervision allowed banks and other market participants
regulated by advanced economies to take excessive cross-border
risks that led to macrofinancial instability in recipient
countries,” according to the report.  Supervisors in rich countries also didn’t grasp the risks
in activities that fell outside their perimeter and were not
regulated, such as over-the-counter derivative products, IMF
staff said. Better regulation and supervision would have helped
domestic stability and made capital flows safer, they said.  “It’s great the IMF has complemented their existing
research on this by looking at the industrialized world,” said
 Kevin Gallagher , associate professor of international relations
at  Boston University . “It’s yet another wakeup call for the
need to reinvent financial markets towards productive
development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  