-- 
Indian Stocks Decline on Growth Concern

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-11-29T12:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/indian-stocks-decline-on-growth-concern-reliance-lead-retreat.html
Indian stocks declined amid concern
a global economic slowdown will hurt profit of local companies
even as the government takes steps to boost the economy.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the country’s biggest company,
tumbled 2.4 percent after saying it has started arbitration
proceedings against the government.  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) 
led its peers lower after opposition parties stalled parliament
for a sixth day protesting the government’s decision last week
to allow foreign companies like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to set up
shop in partnership with local companies. Pantaloon had jumped
36 percent in the past two weeks.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, lost 1 percent to
16,008.34 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The gauge, which
jumped the most in three months yesterday, is headed for its
biggest monthly slide since January.  “There seem to be some steps taken by the government to
push the economy forward; how long-lasting that push will be we
have to wait and assess,” Saurabh Mukherjea, the Mumbai-based
director of institutional equities at Ambit Capital Pvt., told
Bloomberg UTV. “We are encouraged by the steps taken but not
enough for us to become raging buyers.” He maintained his
target for the Sensex at 14,500.  Opposition parties and government allies rounded on Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s bid to open  India ’s retail sector to
foreigners, stalling parliament for a sixth day. The government
is also debating how much stake overseas airlines be allowed to
buy in local carriers, Civil Aviation Minister Vayalar Ravi told
CNBC-TV18 channel today.  Growth Forecasts  Foreign funds withdrew $798 million out of India’s  bonds 
and  stocks  this month as banks including Morgan Stanley and
Macquarie Group Ltd. cut forecasts for the nation’s economic
growth, fueling the rupee’s tumble to a record low of 52.73 per
dollar on Nov. 22. A weaker rupee will boost import prices and
repayment costs for companies holding foreign-currency debt.  “If global risk appetite picks up people will take a
different perspective; they will start to look for things that
look attractive from a valuation point of view,”  Philip Poole ,
head of investment strategy at HSBC Global Asset Management,
told Bloomberg UTV today. “If that’s the case we can start to
see some money coming back to India. That’s a critical factor
but on top of that we need to see some of the domestic concerns
being addressed as well.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which has lifted  interest rates 
13 times since March 2010 to curb inflation that has exceeded 9
percent since December, last month pared its growth forecast to
7.6 percent from 8 percent. Morgan Stanley reduced its growth
estimate for India to 7 percent for the year ending March 31
from 7.2 percent, according to a report yesterday.  Slowdown  India’s statistics office may say tomorrow  Asia ’s third
largest economy expanded 6.9 percent in the September quarter,
according to the median estimate of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The economy grew 7.7 percent in the quarter
ended June 30 from a year ago, the slowest pace in six quarters.  The Sensex has sunk 22 percent this year, the third-worst
performer among Asian benchmark indexes, amid concern a weaker
rupee, rising borrowing costs and  Europe ’s crisis will combine
to erode earnings. Profits for the 30 Sensex companies may grow
11 percent to 12 percent in the year to March 2013, less than
about 17 percent forecast by analysts, according to Tata Asset
Management Ltd.  “Given the uncertainty on the currency front and the fact
that globally things are not looking good, one has to factor in
more earnings downgrades,” Venugopal Manghat, the Mumbai-based
co-head of equities at Tata Asset, said in an interview. He
manages 35 billion rupees ($673 million).  Valuations Narrow  Forty percent of Sensex companies reported earnings that
missed estimates in the September quarter, in addition to a 47
percent lag in the three months ended June and 33 percent in
March, according to Bloomberg data. Companies on the Sensex
trade at 13.9 times future profits, near the lowest level in 2
1/2 years. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index trades at 10 times.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. retreated 1 percent to 4,805.10. The BSE 200 Index
decreased 1 percent to 1,947.20.  Reliance slumped 2.4 percent to 765 rupees, extending this
year’s decline to 28 percent. The owner of the world’s largest
oil-refining complex started arbitration proceedings against the
government, seeking a decision on its entitlement to recover
investments made in the KG-D6  gas field  from sales, the company
said in a statement yesterday. The stock has sunk 13 percent
this month, the most since January.  ‘Immensely Powerful’  “Perhaps what the market is missing out is the war chest
and balance sheet that Reliance has,” said Ambit’s Mukherjea
said. “The year ahead will be capital-constrained where new
money will hard to find and the cost of capital will be high. A
company with so much  cash flow  will be immensely powerful.”  The asset sales to BP Plc helped boost Reliance’s cash to
615 billion rupees ($12 billion). It holds the third-largest
cash and short-term investments among energy companies in Asia
Pacific, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys Ltd., the second-largest software maker, dropped
1.5 percent to 2,597.95 rupees.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the largest
mobile-phone operator, sank 3.6 percent to 373.7 rupees.  Pantaloon plunged 12 percent to 196.7 rupees. Shoppers Stop
Ltd. slid 3.3 percent to 356.05 rupees.  Trent Ltd. (TRENT)  lost 4
percent to 985.8 rupees.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the largest maker of sport-
utility vehicles, advanced 1.7 percent to 725.6 rupees.
 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the biggest household products maker,
rose 1.7 percent to 388.2 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  