-- 
Lindsey Manufacturing Judge Tentatively Dismisses Executives’ Bribery Case

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T00:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/lindsey-manufacturing-judge-tentatively-dismisses-executives-bribery-case.html
Two Lindsey Manufacturing Co.
executives won a tentative ruling dismissing their convictions
on charges that they bribed officials at a Mexican state-owned
utility.  U.S. District Judge Howard Matz in  Los Angeles  issued the
order at a hearing today dismissing the case against Keith Lindsey, president of the closely held maker of emergency
electricity towers, and Steve Lee, its finance chief. The judge
cited government misconduct including providing false
information to get a search warrant, making unauthorized
searches and giving incorrect testimony to a grand jury.  Jeffrey Goldberg , a Justice Department lawyer, told the
judge the prosecution made honest mistakes that didn’t call for
a misconduct finding.  “We regret those mistakes,” Goldberg said. “We strive to
get it right every time, and in this case we didn’t get it right
every time.”  Matz said he would issue a final order tomorrow without
indicating what if any changes he might make.  A jury in May found Lindsey and Lee guilty of violating the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The defendants faced as long as
five years in prison for each of five counts of bribing a
foreign official, as well as five years for a conspiracy count.  Prosecutors’ Claims  Prosecutors said the men knew that a 30 percent sales
commission they paid  Enrique Aguilar , a Mexican company
representative, was used to cover more than $5 million in bribes
to officials at Comision Federal de Electricidad.  Lindsey Manufacturing, based in Azusa,  California , retained
Aguilar in 2002 after repeatedly failing to win contracts
legitimately in previous years, prosecutors claimed.  “The government is fond of saying that the courts should
send a message to people who might commit a crime,” Jan Handzlik, a lawyer for the defendants, said after the hearing.
“This court has sent a message that there should be fairness
and justice in the process.”  Handzlik said prosecutors “purposefully and deliberately”
withheld from the defense transcripts of an investigator’s
testimony before a grand jury because they wanted to hide the
misstatements the investigator had made.  “We are awaiting the court’s final ruling, and we will
carefully review the order to consider appropriate steps,”  Thom Mrozek , a spokesman for the U.S. attorney in Los Angeles, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. Aguilar, 10-1031, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 