-- 
Billionaire Tinkler Proposes $2.47 Billion Newcastle Coal Export Terminal

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-11-29T06:34:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/tinkler-proposes-competing-a-2-5-billion-nsw-coal-terminal-2-.html
Billionaire Nathan Tinkler proposed
building a A$2.5 billion ($2.47 billion) coal export terminal in
Newcastle,  Australia , to compete with one proposed by Port
Waratah Coal Services Ltd.  The terminal will add 100 million metric tons of export
capacity if approved by the New South Wales state government,
Tinkler’s Hunter Ports Pty said today in a statement on its
website. That would double the amount being shipped annually
from the world’s biggest thermal coal port. Port Waratah has
proposed a A$5 billion plan to add 120 million tons of capacity.  “Port Waratah’s view is that this just does not fit with
the broader plan, and not only that, it seriously risks
jeopardizing the broader Hunter Valley coal industry export
plan,” Matthew Watson, a spokesman for the operator of two
export terminals at Newcastle, said by phone. “Port Waratah has
started entering into contracts with  Hunter Valley  coal
producers.”  Resource companies are planning A$430 billion of projects
in Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of coal, iron ore and
alumina, to meet demand from  Asia . Coal exporters are facing
bottlenecks as railroads and ports have struggled to cope with
the increased demand, resulting in regular queues of ships
waiting to load.  Rail Corridor  The planned terminal, subject to state government approval
to use the proposed site, may start exports from 2015 “or
sooner,” Steve van Barneveld, managing director of Hunter
Ports, told reporters today in Sydney.  Existing coal mines and projects in and around the Hunter
Valley, where Rio Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc own mines, would
support additional annual exports of 65 million to 90 million
tons of coal “if there is the infrastructure,” Hunter Ports
said.  Japanese trading houses and Chinese parties have shown
interest in providing “equity backing” for the project, Mark Rowsthorn, head of Tinkler’s International Ports & Logistics,
said at the meeting. Rowsthorn joined in August after his
previous role as chief executive officer of  Asciano Ltd. (AIO) ,
Australia’s largest port operator.  Tinkler, an electrician-turned-resources entrepreneur, is
also chairman and largest shareholder of Brisbane-based  Aston
Resources Ltd. (AZT) , which is developing the Maules Creek coal mine
in New South Wales. Tinkler, who’s other business interests
include a rail developer and racehorses, said Nov. 17 that he
plans to buy more coal assets in the region. Aston plans to
export coal from Maules Creek through Newcastle.  ‘Inconsistent’ Plan  Port Waratah plans to lodge its environmental assessment
with the state Department of Planning and Newcastle Port
Corporation tomorrow, it said in a statement on its website.  Hunter Ports, which is based in Newcastle, aims to start a
community engagement program and information sessions during the
next two weeks. Following assessment of the proposal by the NSW
government, Hunter Ports will prepare an environmental impact
statement, it said.  Newcastle Port Corporation considers Koorangang Island, the
site of Port Waratah’s proposed terminal as the best location
for an additional loader, it said in an e-mailed statement.
Newcastle Port said it has a lease agreement with Port Waratah
built on the back of the Hunter Coal Export Framework that is
supported by the coal industry and the Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission, the e-mail said.  A spokeswoman at the New South Wales Department of Planning
wasn’t immediately able to comment. The port of Newcastle is
located about 125 kilometers (70 miles) north-northeast of
Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  