-- 
Investment Banks Ask U.S. Supreme Court to Stop IPO Suits

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-11-29T22:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/investment-banks-ask-u-s-supreme-court-to-stop-ipo-suits-1-.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices debated
an effort to make investment banks, including units of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , pay back money they earned
by allegedly manipulating dozens of initial public offerings.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the justices
questioned whether Vanessa Simmonds could press ahead with what
originally were 55 lawsuits filed in federal court in Seattle.  The dispute stems from a provision in federal securities
law that requires corporate insiders to give back “short-
swing” profits -- money from the sale of stock held for less
than six months. The 1934 Securities Exchange Act gives
investors two years to sue over violations.  In letting some of the suits go forward, a federal appeals
court said the time limit hadn’t kicked in because the
defendants didn’t file required disclosure forms. The panel
threw out 30 of the suits on other grounds.  In an hour-long session in Washington, the justices
signaled they were reluctant to erect a rigid rule on the time
limit. Justice Elena Kagan suggested the court might return the
dispute to the lower courts to determine whether Simmonds had
enough information about the alleged wrongdoing to file her suit
earlier, even without the disclosure forms.  The justices are considering an appeal filed by units of
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , as well as
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.  IPO Boom  Simmonds was a college student when she bought the stock in
55 companies that went public at the height of the IPO boom in
the late 1990s and 2000. Her father, David Simmonds, is one of
the lawyers pressing the case.  The short-swing provision is unusual because any money won
in litigation goes to the company, not the plaintiffs. The
driving force behind lawsuits is the prospect of attorney’s
fees, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said in court papers
supporting the investment banks.  Chief Justice John Roberts didn’t participate in today’s
session. He gave no reason, and Kathy Arberg, the  Supreme
Court ’s spokeswoman, declined to say why Roberts didn’t take
part. The chief justice in some previous cases has disqualified
himself from cases because of financial conflicts of interest.  The case is Credit Suisse v. Simmonds, 10-1261.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 