-- 
U.K. Warns Iran After Tehran Embassy Attack

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-11-30T07:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/iranian-demonstrators-target-u-k-embassy-in-tehran-pull-down-union-jack.html
The U.K. will evacuate some of its
diplomatic staff from  Iran  after its embassy in Tehran was
stormed by protesters yesterday, chanting “death to the U.K.”
and burning its flag.  The incursion, which came a week after the U.S. and Britain
imposed additional sanctions due to  Iran’s nuclear program ,
lasted less than two hours before police moved in, according to
the  Associated Press . Detained protesters will be brought before
judiciary authorities, the state-run Mehr news said, citing
Tehran’s police chief, Hossein Sajedinia.  The U.S., which says Iran provides weapons, training and
money to Hamas and Hezbollah, among other Middle East militant
groups, is leading an international effort to tighten an
economic noose on the country. Iran, meantime, is standing firm
with President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  this month saying he won’t
withdraw “an iota” from the atomic program.  “The Iranian government must recognize that there will be
serious consequences for failing to protect our staff,” U.K.
Prime Minster David Cameron said in a statement.  Cameron, who called the event “outrageous and
indefensible,” said all personnel have been accounted for.
Earlier, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said he spoke to
Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  “to protest in the
strongest terms.” Hague said his Iranian counterpart said he
was “sorry” for what happened.  Major Income Source  The Guardian Council, Iran’s highest legislative body, on
Nov. 28 endorsed parliament’s move to downgrade diplomatic ties
with Britain, including the expulsion of its ambassador, after
the U.K. expanded its sanctions last week.  The most recent measures target Iran’s oil -- its major
source of income, with $80 billion in annual revenue from its
daily output of about 3.5 million barrels, according to Iranian
official figures and International Energy Agency estimates. That
makes it the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, after  Saudi Arabia .  The protest took place on the first anniversary of the
killing in Tehran of Majid Shahriari, a nuclear scientist, for
which Iran has blamed foreign intelligence services, including
the U.K.’s. State media said the numbers involved at the embassy
were in the hundreds.  ‘Regime Posturing’  The U.S. and allies including the U.K. have said Iran is
seeking to develop atomic weapons under the cover of a nuclear
program. Iranian officials say the work is purely civilian and
is needed for the development of nuclear power.  European Union foreign ministers are due to meet Dec. 1 to
discuss additional measures against Iran, EU spokeswoman Maja
Kocijancic said Nov. 23.  The protesters’ action is “all part of regime posturing,
but regime posturing with a harder edge,” said  Scott Lucas , an
Iran expert at the University of Birmingham in  England , noting
that they carried photographs of Shahriari. “It was all stage-
managed; they were allowed to go in and cause a ruckus and then
they were cleared out.”  “It looks like they went a bit off-script when they did
not leave and, having been shooed out by the police, twice
returned,” Lucas said.  Oil fell from the highest price in two weeks on signs of
rising U.S. stockpiles. Crude for January delivery slid as much
as 75 cents to $99.04 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile. The contract yesterday advanced 1.6 percent to
$99.79, the highest close since Nov. 16.  Oil has gained 6.8 percent this month amid concern the
sanctions may cut supplies from Iran.  Nuclear Tensions  At the embassy compound, six workers were freed after being
surrounded by protesters, state-run Fars news said. Embassy
staff left through a back door to escape the demonstrators, who
replaced the U.K. flag with an Iranian one,  Mehr  said.  Iran’s Foreign Ministry said the actions of a “small”
number of protesters were “regrettable,” Mehr reported.  In  Washington , President  Barack Obama  called on Iran to
‘hold those who are responsible to task.”  “For rioters essentially to be able to overrun the embassy
and set it on fire is an indication that the Iranian government
is not taking its international obligations seriously,” he said
to reporters in the Oval Office.  Halt Relations  The protesters who entered the embassy property want a
“complete halt of relations between Iran and the U.K,” they
said in a statement carried by Fars.  After the 1979 revolution that ousted pro-western Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and brought Shiite Muslim clerics to
power, students seized the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and held 52
diplomats hostage for 444 days, leading the U.S. to sever ties.
The revolt in Iran sent the price of Saudi Arabia’s Arab light
crude to about $34 a barrel at the end of 1980 from $14 two
years earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lucas cautioned against drawing parallels between the
storming of the U.S. Embassy and yesterday’s incident.  “Recognize this for the theatrics that it is,” he said.
“This is the act of a defensive regime, not one that is feeling
confident.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  