-- 
Iran Nuclear Sabotage Suspected After Reports of Blasts at Atomic Centers

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-11-29T10:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/iran-nuclear-sabotage-suspected-after-reports-of-blasts-at-atomic-centers.html
Reports of a blast in the province
of Isfahan, home to one of  Iran ’s atomic facilities, adds to a
series of unexplained incidents that have raised suspicions of
sabotage against the country’s nuclear program.  An explosion was heard in Isfahan at 2:40 p.m. yesterday
and an investigation is underway, the state-run  Fars  news agency
said. Authorities later played down the report. Gholamreza Ansari, head of the province’s judiciary, said he had heard the
“blast-like sound” and it didn’t seem to be important.
Mohammad-Mehdi Ismaeli, a deputy to Isfahan’s governor, said
reports of a powerful explosion were unfounded. “Maybe
somebody’s water heater exploded,” he told  Mehr  news agency.  Still, coming after the deaths of several people linked to
 Iran’s nuclear program , and amid increased pressure on Iran from
the U.S. and its allies, which accuse the Islamic republic of
seeking to develop atomic weapons, the incident has strengthened
the argument that sabotage is involved.  “While it’s impossible to confirm, recent events in Iran
raise suspicions,” said Gala Riani, a Middle East analyst at
London-based forecaster IHS Global Insight. It’s possible that
“foreign powers would want to carry out clandestine activity to
sabotage Iran’s nuclear and military progress,” she said.
“Diplomacy doesn’t seem to work and military strikes isn’t
something anyone really wants to carry out.”  Uranium Pellets  The central province of Isfahan hosts a nuclear fuel plant,
which produces uranium pellets to feed a reactor. Iran says its
efforts to develop nuclear technology are aimed at securing
energy for its growing population of about 75 million.  A Nov. 12 explosion at a military base west of Tehran
killed at least 17 people, state media reported. The blast took
place as military personnel were transporting munitions and
killed Hassan Tehrani Moqaddam, director of the Revolutionary
Guards’ Jihad Self-Sufficiency Organization, Fars said.  Last year, malicious software known as Stuxnet affected
some of the country’s computer systems and several centrifuges
used in its uranium-enrichment program, Iranian officials have
said.  Several scientists and officials linked to the nuclear
and missile programs have been the target of attacks in the last
two years.  Researcher Massoud Ali-Mohammadi was shot dead outside his
Tehran home in 2010. Majid Shahriari, a scientist involved in
Iran’s nuclear program, died in a Tehran bombing in November
that year. A second blast in the capital on the same day injured
Fereydoun Abasi, a physicist who was linked to the program in a
2007 UN resolution imposing sanctions.  ‘All Options’  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in November
last year that Iran should know “all options are on the table”
to halt its nuclear program. Two weeks ago, Netanyahu called for
an international campaign to stop Iran after an International
Atomic Energy Agency report suggested that the country had
worked on building a nuclear bomb.  This month the U.S, U.K. and  Canada  tightened punitive
measures against Iran, adding to four rounds of United Nations
Security Council sanctions by targeting the country’s oil
industry and its central bank. EU foreign ministers are
scheduled to meet Dec. 1 to discuss measures against Iran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  