-- 
Iran Oil Sanctions Set to Shrink the Circle of Foreign Buyers

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-11-30T14:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/iran-financial-sanctions-set-to-shrink-circle-of-foreign-buyers-of-crude.html
Iran  faces new hurdles to getting
paid for its oil as the U.S. tightens financial sanctions to
deter buyers from the world’s third-largest crude exporter.  The U.S. approved additional curbs on  Iran ’s banking system
and oil industry on Nov. 21, hoping to thwart the country’s
nuclear program, and the European Union may follow. Current
sanctions have led Indian importers to route payments for
Iranian crude through a Turkish bank. These refiners, concerned
 Turkey  may stop cooperating amid the latest U.S. rules, are
asking banks in Russia to arrange alternatives, said three
people with direct knowledge of the situation.  “The idea of the sanctions is to shrink the circle of
buyers and so increase their ability to extract discounts from
Iran,” said Robin Mills, an analyst at Dubai-based Manaar
Energy Consulting, who worked for a decade at  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  in the  Middle East .  The U.S. is stepping up pressure after a Nov. 8 report from
the  United Nations ’ International Atomic Energy Agency concluded
that Iran was working on a nuclear weapons program. At stake is
crude supply from the OPEC nation, whose exports last year were
exceeded only by those of Saudi Arabia and Russia. Oil is Iran’s
main source of income, earning it $56 billion in the first seven
months of 2011, according to U.S. Energy Department estimates.  The country pumped 3.6 million barrels a day last month, a
Bloomberg survey showed, and exported an average 2.58 million
barrels a day in 2010, according to Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries statistics.  European Pressure  “On Iran, we need to step up pressure,” EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  told ambassadors today in Brussels. “The EU
is preparing new restrictive measures,” he said.  France  has proposed that the EU ban Iranian oil, French
Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said Nov. 23. Maja Kocijancic,
an EU spokeswoman, said the same day that European foreign
ministers will discuss the topic at a meeting scheduled for
tomorrow. Iran, which is already subject to some UN and EU
sanctions, denies it is developing nuclear weapons.  Iranian protesters broke into and vandalized the British
Embassy’s compound in Tehran yesterday. U.K. Prime Minister
David Cameron, in a statement, called the attack “outrageous
and indefensible” and said all staff had been accounted for. 
Britain today ordered the closure of Iran's embassy in  London .  Financial Impact  “The latest measures will make it even harder for people
to finance trade with Iran,” said Nick Grandage, a London-based
partner at law firm Norton Rose LLP, who specializes in trade
finance. Sanctions have stifled trading of Iran’s oil in London,
 Europe ’s financial hub, and may have forced importers to pay for
crude in non-dollar currencies, he said in a Nov. 22 interview.  Should Europe adopt more formal restrictions on Iranian
crude, the Persian Gulf nation would likely be forced to offer
oil more cheaply to refiners in  Asia , its biggest market,
 Olivier Jakob , managing director at Oberwil, Switzerland-based
Petromatrix GmbH, said in a Nov. 28 note to investors.  By targeting financial transactions and stopping short of
sanctioning international trade in Iranian oil, the U.S. aims to
pressure Iran without risking a surge in crude prices at a time
of global economic fragility, said Mills of Manaar Energy.  Russia  Option  Indian refiners, which got 11 percent of their imported oil
from Iran in 2010, are trying to arrange a conduit for payments
via Russia, said the three people familiar with the matter,
declining to be identified because the talks are private.  Vladimir Lavrov, a spokesman for Russia’s central bank,
declined to comment this week about the Indian effort. The U.S.
sanctions against Iran are “unacceptable and violate
international law,” Russia’s Foreign Ministry said Nov. 22.
Turkey, which gets half its oil imports from Iran, also
criticized the U.S. action.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , the Ankara-based lender Indian
refiners have used to transfer cash to Iran, declined to comment
on its transactions other than to say Halk complies with UN
rules, according to a bank official, who cited company policy
for declining to be identified.  Iran’s past flexibility over payment terms makes it an
attractive supplier. The country gives Indian refiners 90 days
to pay their bills, compared with 30 days from  Saudi Arabia ,
according to the people with knowledge of those purchases. When
Indian importers were unable to pay on time because of
sanctions, Iran kept supplying them even as they amassed $5
billion in unpaid invoices.  Saudi Crude  Saudi Arabia will increase oil shipments to Indian refiners
next year, four people with knowledge of the plans said Nov. 15.
 India ’s Petroleum Ministry Media Director R. C. Joshi didn’t
answer two calls for comment to his mobile phone yesterday.  Refiners in Europe, collectively the second-largest market
for Iranian oil after  China , may also face difficulties from
tighter constraints on transactions with Iran.  “Europe has been importing crude oil from Iran, and it
certainly hasn’t lowered amounts recently,” Jakob of
Petromatrix said by telephone Nov. 22. “ Greece  is importing
most of its crude oil from Iran.”  A potential EU ban on Iran’s oil would have a smaller
financial impact on European companies than the recent Libyan
crisis because state-run entities control oil output,  Fitch
Ratings  said in a note today. Still, European companies “would
feel the impact of a ban through their refining operations as
they would have to replace Iranian crude,” it said.  Greek Refiners  Motor Oil Hellas SA Chief Executive Officer Petros Tzannetakis said on a conference call yesterday that a potential
ban would not affect it because the Greek refiner sources crude
from other nations such as Saudi Arabia and Russia.  Hellenic
Petroleum SA (ELPE) , Greece’s biggest refiner, declined to comment on
Nov. 25 on its exposure to Iran.  Oil prices rose this year as political turmoil in the
Middle East stoked concern about the reliability of supply. The
price of European benchmark Brent crude rose to more than $125
barrels a day in April as exports from Libya dwindled because of
the rebellion in that country. Brent has risen 18 percent this
year and traded at $111.63 a barrel at 1:59 p.m. in London.  Iran’s three biggest national customers -- China, Japan and
India -- together buy more than half its exported oil, according
to U.S. Energy Department data. This concentration of customers
and Iran’s reliance on oil sales for income make the country
vulnerable to disruptions, Jakob said.  China Wins  An unintended consequence is that China, a critic of the
latest U.S. sanctions, may benefit from any price discounts,
said Mills, the Dubai-based consultant. “It will favor non-U.S.
allies who will be able to get oil somewhat more cheaply.”  China  accounted for 22 percent of Iran’s export volumes in
the first half of this year and increased its purchases by 27
percent over the same period of 2010, U.S. data show. The EU,
Japan and India bought 18 percent, 14 percent and 13 percent of
Iran’s oil, respectively.  China’s economic ties don’t violate UN Security Council
resolutions, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said Nov. 24.  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said in a Nov. 19
television interview with Al Jazeera that any disruption to his
nation’s oil exports would create “severe problems” for global
markets. Iran abuts the Strait of Hormuz, a chokepoint for about
one-fifth of the world’s traded oil supplies.  “If Iran were to respond to outside aggression by sealing
off the Straits of Hormuz, this would severely hamper exports
from Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Iran, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates,” researchers led by  David Wech  at Vienna-based JBC
Energy said in a Nov. 23 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  