-- 
Hitachi Construction, Nissan Motor to Merge Forklift Units

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-11-29T09:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/hitachi-construction-nissan-motor-to-merge-forklift-units-1-.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. ,
the world’s largest maker of giant excavators, and  Nissan Motor
Co.  agreed to merge their forklift operations next year to cut
costs and expand in  Asia .  The venture will be operated by government-backed
Innovation Network Corp. of  Japan , which will invest 30 billion
yen ($386 million) and hold a majority stake, the three
companies said today in a statement. Hitachi Construction
Machinery and Nissan will own the remaining shares, according to
the statement, which didn’t provide more details.  The partners will seek to expand in  Southeast Asia  and
other  emerging markets  that drive global demand, the companies
said. Japanese forklift-truck producers have been battered by
price competition in the domestic market, dominated by  Toyota
Industries Corp. , an affiliate of  Toyota Motor Corp. , a person
familiar with the deal said last month.  “Many Japanese forklift manufacturers do not have
sufficient scale to gain market share, even with their
technological prowess,” according to the statement. Mergers,
acquisitions and restructuring are “vital for them to capture
business in new, growing markets,” it said.  Hitachi Construction Machinery, which has lost 30 percent
of its value this year, closed up 1.7 percent at 1,353 yen on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Nissan Motor  shares gained 2.7 percent
to 693 yen.  Hitachi Construction Machinery, Japan’s second-largest
maker of excavators and wheel loaders, took control of  TCM
Corp. , a forklift maker, in 2005 and acquired all the shares it
didn’t already own in the company in December 2009.  Nissan Forklift Co. , a wholly owned unit of Japan’s second-
largest carmaker, produces 30,000 forklifts a year in Japan,
 Europe  and the U.S., according to its website.  The automaker is scaling back businesses outside its main
vehicle division as Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  seeks
to become the world’s largest electric-car seller.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at   msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ; 