-- 
Lithuania Revises Third-Quarter Economic Growth Higher to 6.7%

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-11-29T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/lithuania-revises-third-quarter-economic-growth-higher-to-6-7-.html
The Lithuanian  economy  expanded at a
faster rate in the third quarter than previously estimated, led
by rising construction output, exports and a recovery in
domestic demand.  Gross domestic product grew a revised 6.7 percent from a
year earlier, compared with a previously reported 6.6 percent,
the  statistics office  in the capital Vilnius said today by e-
mail. That’s the quickest growth rate since the first quarter of
2008. GDP rose a seasonally adjusted 1.4 percent from the second
quarter.  The Baltic economy, which experienced the world’s second
deepest recession in 2009 after  Latvia , is weathering the euro
region’s sovereign-debt crisis and growing at the second-fastest
rate in the European Union this year. Exports, 61 percent of
which are sold to the 27-member bloc, jumped 26 percent in the
third quarter, while retail sales increased 19.5 percent.  The economy grew 6.4 percent through the first nine months
this year from a year earlier, the statistics office said.  Household spending surged 5.9 percent in the third quarter,
while public expenditure grew 0.1 percent, the office said.
Construction output rose 17.6 percent, the most of any category
in the GDP breakdown.  The government may revise down its 4.7 percent economic
growth estimate for next year after the European Commission its
outlook to 3.4 percent, Finance Minister  Ingrida Simonyte  has
said.  The Baltic economies of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia will
probably grow at a faster pace than the rest of  Europe  on public
investment, the commission said on Nov. 10. Estonian GDP rose
7.9 percent in the third quarter, while the Latvian economy
expanded 5.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  