-- 
Jaguars to Stay in Jacksonville as Owner Weaver Sells Team to Shahid Khan

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-11-29T20:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/jaguars-weaver-agrees-to-sell-team-to-shahid-khan-stay-in-jacksonville.html
The  Jacksonville Jaguars  will be
sold to Shahid Khan, the owner of auto-parts maker Flex-N-Gate
Corp. who failed in a bid last year to buy the National Football
League’s St. Louis Rams.  The Jaguars, who have a 3-8 record this season and fired
coach Jack Del Rio today, are the only team in the four major
U.S. professional sports to play in Jacksonville. Khan plans to
keep the franchise in the northeast Florida city rather than
relocate, owner Wayne Weaver said at a news conference.  “It’s a little bittersweet,” said the 76-year-old Weaver,
who called the sale an exit strategy. “I’ll miss it because
it’s been a big part of our lives for 18 years. But it’s the
right time and it’s for the right reasons.”  The Jaguars have an estimated value of $725 million, the
lowest in the NFL, according to Forbes. They rank 26th among the
NFL’s 32 teams in attendance this season.  Khan, a native of  Pakistan  whose company is based in
Urbana,  Illinois , agreed in February 2010 to buy a controlling
interest in the Rams before billionaire  Stan Kroenke  exercised
an option to purchase the 60 percent of the club he didn’t own.  “He said he really wanted to buy a team and do it here in
Jacksonville,” Weaver said. “This gentleman is absolutely the
American story. He’s passionate about football and he’s going to
buy a home here in Jacksonville.”  Weaver, the owner of shoe retailer  Shoe Carnival Inc. (SCVL)  and
chairman of wholesale distributor Liz Claiborne Shoes, bought
the Jaguars for $208 million in 1993, two years before they
started play as an expansion team. Weaver said he refused to
take several calls from interested buyers in  California , where
the city of  Los Angeles  remains without an NFL franchise.  ‘Wasting Time’  “It was wasting my time and their time,” Weaver said
without identifying the interested parties. “We had no
interest. We’re a Jacksonville franchise and we plan to stay a
Jacksonville franchise.”  Khan left Pakistan in 1967 at the age of 16 to attend the
 University of Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign and began working for
Flex-N-Gate three years later while still an engineering
student. Khan left the company in 1978 to begin a business that
designed and manufactured lightweight metal bumper systems, with
no seams to corrode or rust.  Today, almost two-thirds of all North American-built pick-
up trucks and sports utility vehicles have bumper systems based
on Khan’s designs, according to figures released by the Jaguars
today. Khan bought Flex-N-Gate in 1980 and the company now has
more than 10,000 employees at 48 manufacturing plants with
annual sales exceeding $3 billion.  ‘Dream Come True’  “Owning a team in the  National Football League  has long
been my personal and professional goal,” said Khan, whose
purchase could be formally completed in January. “Becoming the
owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars would be a dream come true for
me and my family but, above all, would be a privilege.”  The team made the playoffs in four of its first five
seasons and has been to the postseason twice since. Jacksonville
last finished with a winning record in 2007 and has had a series
of home games “blacked out,” which means they can’t be
televised locally if tickets aren’t sold out 72 hours before
kickoff at EverBank Field.  “We’ve got a lot of tickets to sell before these last few
games,” Weaver said. “I would hope the community would respond
and support us in a positive way. We’re still a small market and
growing.”  The Jaguars cut starting quarterback David Garrard in
September five days before their first regular-season game, a
move that saved the team $9 million.  Del Rio was fired as coach today after going 68-71 since
taking over in 2003. Weaver also said that General Manager  Gene
Smith  was given a three-year contract extension.  “We feel good about the changes we’ve made,” Weaver said.
“Maybe we can light a spark, but we’re a franchise that’s not
far away from being a competitive football team at the highest
level. We’re committed to get there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  