-- 
Japan Accident Plans ‘Inadequate’: Greenpeace

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-11-29T23:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/japan-accident-plans-inadequate-greenpeace.html
Japan ’s plans for containing nuclear
accidents are “completely inadequate” and haven’t been updated
nearly nine months after the disaster at Fukushima,  Greenpeace
International  said.  Government maps simulating a reactor meltdown project a
release of low-level radiation only as far as 10 kilometers (6.2
miles), the environmental group said in a statement yesterday.
The bulk of radioactive contamination extends as far as 30
kilometers from the leaking Fukushima plant, according to
Japan’s science ministry. Some areas may be uninhabitable for
decades, government officials have said.  Japan should keep nuclear plants offline until adequate
plans are in place, Greenpeace said. More than 80 percent of the
country’s reactors are either damaged or idled for repairs and
safety checks after the March tsunami and earthquake caused
meltdowns of three reactors at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station. Atomic power provided about 30
percent of Japan’s energy before the catastrophe.  The government’s maps are based on “a radiation release in
the order of 10,000 times less severe than what could happen
during a major incident,” Jan Vande Putte, a nuclear campaigner
with a degree in radiation protection from the University of
Utrecht, said in the statement. “Hoping for the best is
absolutely the wrong way to devise an emergency response plan.”  Greenpeace cited documents obtained in a freedom of
information request to the  Ministry of Education , Culture,
Sports, Science and Technology.  Mapping Radiation  Japan’s system for projecting the spread of radiation,
called  SPEEDI , is limited to low-level releases and needs
upgrading to cover areas beyond 10 kilometers, Greenpeace said,
citing interviews with government officials it didn’t identify.  Yu Sumikawa, an official in charge of disaster management
for the science ministry agreed the government’s projections on
how far radiation would spread from Fukushima were inadequate.  “SPEEDI can’t be 100 percent accurate, but we need to
improve its accuracy,” he said. The science ministry is
requesting funds to expand the scope of SPEEDI.  “The Fukushima Daiichi emergency response effort was slow,
chaotic and insufficient, and it appears the government has
learned nothing from it,” Junichi Sato, Greenpeace Japan
Executive Director, said in the statement. “There is a strong
risk of reactor restarts being pushed through without a proper,
science-based assessment on the real risks being conducted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  