-- 
Japanese Stocks Rise, Pare Monthly Loss, as Shippers, Steelmakers Rebound

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-11-29T07:52:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/japanese-stocks-rise-toward-highest-close-in-2-weeks-on-european-optimism.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, with the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average paring its biggest monthly loss since
August, as shipping companies and steelmakers rebounded.  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  and other shipping lines
advanced, rising for a third day after the sector plunged by as
much as 25 percent this month.  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)  and  Kobe Steel
Ltd. (5406)  both rebounded for a third day.  Nikon Corp. , a camera maker
that depends on  Europe  for about a quarter of its sales, gained
2.5 percent on optimism leaders in the region will boost efforts
to end the debt crisis. Japanese  stocks (TPX)  extended gains in the
final hour of trading amid daily turnover that was 30 percent
lower than this year’s average.  “Investors are likely to buy shares even on small news
because stocks have been sold too much globally on lingering
debt issues in European countries,” said Seiichiro Iwamoto, who
helps oversee about $35 billion in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. “People in the market are swinging between joy
and sorrow on even the smallest news from the region.”  The Nikkei 225 climbed 2.3 percent to 8,477.82 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo. For the month, the gauge has lost 5.7 percent
amid signs Europe’s crisis is spreading to the region’s major
economies. The broader Topix climbed 2 percent to 729.68 today.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  gained 2.9 percent
yesterday in  New York  after Thanksgiving retail sales climbed to
a record amid speculation European leaders will do more to tame
the debt crisis. U.S. retail sales during the holiday weekend
increased 16 percent to $52.4 billion, the  National Retail
Federation  said on Nov. 27, citing a BIGresearch survey.  Shippers, Steelmakers  Shipping lines and steelmakers gained the most among the 33
Topix industries groups today, rebounding after the sectors
plunged by at least 35 percent this year.  Kawasaki Kisen, which sank by more than 60 percent this
year, jumped 6.2 percent to 138 yen. Shares gained even after
the Nikkei newspaper reported the shipping line will likely post
a net loss of 32 billion yen ($409 million) this fiscal year on
sluggish demand from the U.S. and Europe.  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. , the nation’s No. 2 shipping line
by revenue, rose 3.3 percent to 248 yen. The shares have fallen
by more than half this year.  JFE Holdings advanced 5.6 percent to 1,399 yen. Kobe Steel
climbed 3.5 percent to 118 yen. The companies have dropped more
than 40 percent this year.  Lower Turnover  Japanese stocks climbed even after the jobless rate rose
for the first time in three months, adding to evidence that the
nation’s post-earthquake rebound is fading. The  unemployment
rate  increased to 4.5 percent in October.  Shares extended gains in the final hour trading amid lower-
than-average  turnover . The value of shares traded on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange’s first section totaled 941 billion yen, about 30
percent less than this year’s average of 1.3 trillion yen.  Investors covering shorts may have also contributed to the
Nikkei’s climb in afternoon trading, according to Koichi Kurose,
chief economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which oversees the
equivalent of $68 billion.  “When short positions are accumulating in the market,
investors tend to react quickly and buy back shares even on
trivial news,” said Kurose. “Short positions are accumulating
not only in Japan but also in  Hong Kong  and  China .”  Among companies in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) , an average of 2 percent
of the shares available for trading have been borrowed,
according to Data Explorers, a London-based research firm.
That’s down from 3 percent on Oct. 3. Short selling is when
traders borrow shares and sell them with the hope of
repurchasing the securities later at a lower price and pocketing
the difference.  Exporters to Europe  Japanese exporters to Europe advanced today.  Nikon  gained
2.5 percent to 1,788 yen. Ricoh Co., a maker of cameras and
office-equipment that depends on the region for more than 20
percent of its sales, rose 3.2 percent to 688 yen.  In Europe, German newspaper Welt am Sonntag reported German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy
are discussing an agreement under which member states will
commit to tighter budget discipline without waiting for treaty
changes. The newspaper did not say where it got the information.  “There are increasing expectations that some additional
support for the European debt crisis will come out at the
European summit meeting next month,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a
strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “The
expectations won’t last long and the markets will likely react
nervously to European news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  