-- 
Japan Cuisine Beats France as Michelin Adds Three to Top Tier

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/japan-cuisine-beats-france-as-michelin-adds-three-to-top-tier.html
Three more restaurants in the
 Tokyo  region won their third Michelin star today, taking the
total for  Japan  to 32 after 15 were named in the west of the
country last month. That compares to 25 in France in 2011.  Sushi Yoshitake  in Tokyo joins the selection with three
stars; Ryugin in Tokyo is promoted from two; and Koan in
Shonan (Fujisawa) joins the selection with three. Thirteen
more gain two stars, for a total of 57. They include a Korean
venue, Moranbong, the first in the world to gain that status.  Another 54 establishments win a first star, raising the
number in the Tokyo region to 219, Michelin said today in an
e-mailed release. The guide is expanded this year to include
the areas of Yokosuka, Hayama, Zushi, Fujisawa, Chigasaki,
Hiratsuka, Oiso, Odawara and Yugawara for the first time.  The guide for  France  is published in February, at the end
of the cycle of volumes, and it won’t be until then that
comparisons may be made for the same year. In 2011, 25 French
restaurants held three stars, 76 had two and 470 held one.  The same criteria are used for awarding stars whatever
the country or city: product quality, preparation and flavors;
the chef’s personality as revealed through his or her cuisine;
value for money and consistency over time and across the
entire menu, Michelin said. The criteria are adapted to each
type of cuisine.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie. (ML)  is the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and intended for
chauffeurs. The guide contained practical information,
including street maps and tips on using and repairing tires.  “The Michelin Guide Tokyo Yokohama Shonan 2012” is
available in Japanese and English and goes on sale in Japan on
Dec. 2.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and
Ireland chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards.
Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 