-- 
Japan Stock Futures, Australian Share Fall as S&P Cuts Bank Credit Grades

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 
2011-11-29T23:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/japan-stock-futures-australian-share-fall-as-s-p-cuts-bank-credit-grades.html
Japanese  stock (MXAP)   futures  and
Australian shares fell after Standard & Poor’s cut credit
ratings for lenders including Bank of America Corp., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc.  American depositary receipts of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s two
biggest lenders by market value, fell 1.8 percent from the
closing share price in Tokyo yesterday.  Honda Motor Co. , a
Japanese carmaker that gets almost 85 percent of its sales
abroad, lost 1.3 percent. Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the
nation’s biggest lender by market value, declined 1.2 percent in
Sydney.  Futures (TPX)  on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
December closed at 8,445 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
8,480 in Osaka,  Japan . The contracts were bid in the pre-market
at 8,430 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index lost 0.5 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was
little changed in Wellington.  “Banks are in a difficult position,”  Matt McCormick , a
money manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which
oversees $4.1 billion, said in a telephone interview. “There
are so many unknowns for the industry, including Europe. The
reward is not worth the risk right now.”  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs and Citigroup had
long-term credit grades reduced to A- from A by Standard &
Poor’s after the ratings firm revised criteria for dozens of the
largest global lenders.  Chinese Banks  Standard & Poor’s  made the same cut to Morgan Stanley and
Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit. JPMorgan Chase & Co. was
reduced one level to A from A+. S&P upgraded Bank of China Ltd.
and China Construction Bank Corp. to A from A- and maintained
the A rating on Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
giving all three lenders higher grades than most big U.S. banks.  In Europe, the region’s effort to expand its bailout fund
is falling short, forcing euro-area finance ministers to
consider greater roles for the  International Monetary Fund  and
the  European Central Bank  to insulate Spain and Italy from the
debt crisis.  An agreement hammered out last month to expand the European
Financial Stability Facility’s firepower to 1 trillion euros
with leveraging will be “very difficult to reach,” Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden told reporters before euro-area
finance chiefs met in Brussels.  “The European situation is still at the center of market
concerns,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in Tokyo at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Investors will likely sell shares
to lock into profit after recent gains.”  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  fell 0.6 percent
today. Yesterday, the index rose 0.2 percent in New York as
consumer confidence increased by the most since 2003,
overshadowing reports showing less-than-forecast new home sales
and a bigger-than-expected drop in home prices in 20 cities in
the U.S.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 18 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 5 percent drop by the  S&P 500 
and a 16 percent slump by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in
the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.6 times estimated earnings
on average, compared with 12.1 times for the S&P 500 and 10.1
times for the Stoxx 600.  The Japanese government is scheduled to release a report on
industrial production at 8:50 a.m. today in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  