-- 
Japan’s Industrial Output Rises a More-Than-Expected 2.4% on Auto Demand

-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-11-30T00:42:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/japan-s-factory-output-rises-a-more-than-expected-2-4-.html
Japan ’s industrial production
increased more than analysts expected in October, gains that may
not be sustained as overseas demand cools.  Factory output increased 2.4 percent from September,
rebounding from a 3.3 percent drop, the trade ministry said in
 Tokyo  today. The median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for output to increase 1.1 percent.  Manufacturers are contending with a yen near postwar highs
against the dollar that has eroded profits and prompted  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  President Akio Toyoda to say this month that his
company “will collapse” unless the currency weakens.
 Thailand ’s worst flooding in almost 70 years has also caused
parts shortages that may force companies to cut output.  “The strong yen in the three months since July has
gradually had an effect” on production,  Mari Iwashita , chief
market economist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said before the
report. “Factors such as the Thai floods have reduced overseas
demand, but this only affected the second half of October and
has yet to be fully factored in.”  The yen traded at 78.09 per dollar as of 9:40 a.m. in
Tokyo, from 78.00 before the report. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average slid 0.9 percent.  Manufacturers plan to cut production 0.1 percent this month
and boost it 2.7 percent in December, a government survey of
companies in today’s report showed.  Reports in the past week have shown that exports slid in
October and the  unemployment rate  advanced, adding to evidence
that growth in the world’s third-largest economy is waning.  Yen Volatility  Japan stepped into the foreign-exchange market for the
third time this year on Oct. 31 to weaken the yen after it
reached 75.35 per dollar, its highest since World War II.
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said yesterday there is still
volatility in the yen and that he is continuing efforts to keep
the currency at appropriate levels.  Flooding in Thailand has damaged the supply chains of
Japanese companies operating in the southeast Asian country
including Toyota,  Pioneer Corp. (6773)  and Honda Motor Corp. The
Cabinet Office said last week that the floods were among risks
to the economic outlook.  Toyota lost about 190,000 units of production globally from
Oct. 10 through Nov. 19 because of the floods in Thailand, the
company said last week. About 30 electrical parts are still in
“critical” supply, it said.  Cooling Growth  The economy grew an annualized 6 percent in the July-
September period, expanding for the first time in four quarters.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect that expansion to
slow this quarter and moderate further next year.  “There’s no doubt that the pace of Japan’s economic growth
will keep losing steam because exports are already on a downward
trend,”  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo, said
before the report. “Demand from earthquake reconstruction will
probably help the economy avert a contraction next fiscal year,
but the pace of expansion won’t be impressive at all because of
the slowdown overseas.”  The upper house of parliament ratified a third
supplementary budget worth 12.1 trillion yen on Nov. 21 to
support the recovery from the March catastrophe. Noda said on
Nov. 25 that he hasn’t decided whether a fourth stimulus package
is needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  