-- 
Jefferson County Bankruptcy Judge Rejects Two Arguments on Sewer Receiver

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-11-29T16:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/jefferson-county-bankruptcy-judge-rejects-two-arguments-on-sewer-receiver.html
The judge overseeing the bankruptcy
of Jefferson County,  Alabama , rejected two of three main legal
challenges to his authority to limit the power of the receiver
running the county’s insolvent sewer system.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham found
that two legal doctrines that allegedly barred him from
interfering with the receiver’s powers do not apply, he said
yesterday in a one-paragraph order.  Bennett hasn’t ruled on a third challenge, which is based
on the theory that the receiver is acting with the power of the
state of Alabama and therefore cannot be limited by a federal
court under the U.S. Constitution.  The receiver, John S. Young Jr., and bondholders owed about
$3.1 billion are asking Bennett to verify the receiver’s control
over the sewer system. The county argues that the bankruptcy
filing imposes limits on Young, including on his ability to
raise rates and control payments to bondholders.  Jefferson County became at least the 12th entity to file a
Chapter 9 bankruptcy this year after the county, state officials
and bondholders all failed to implement a tentative agreement
that would have cut debt related to the sewer system by about
$1 billion.  Bennett’s written ruling reiterates comments he made during
a court hearing last week related to the so-called Rooker-
Feldman Doctrine and the Johnson Act of 1934.  The judge also said in the hearing that if he decides that
the  bankruptcy code  gives him the authority to limit the
receiver, he must then decide what limits, if any, to impose.  Bennett asked lawyers to file additional written arguments
on Dec. 2 about whether the state-court ruling that appointed
the receiver last year also precludes the county from
challenging Young’s power.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 