-- 
Kendall Cites Flawed Army Future Combat Systems as Costly Lesson

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-11-29T19:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/kendall-cites-flawed-army-future-combat-systems-as-costly-lesson.html
The U.S. Army’s canceled Future
Combat Systems program was “irrevocably damaged” by “poor
systems engineering,” the Defense Department’s acting top
weapons buyer said.  Acting Undersecretary for Acquisition Frank Kendall
formerly worked for contractor  Science Applications
International Corp. (SAI)  supporting the Army program, where he saw
“firsthand how an unrealistic program schedule can drive poor
systems engineering.”  Boeing Co. (BA)  was the other major contractor
for the planned fleet of manned and unmanned Army vehicles
joined by a wireless network.  The flaws left the once $159 billion program “irrevocably
damaged,” Kendall said today in a speech delivered via video
for a Pentagon-sponsored defense manufacturing  conference  in
Anaheim,  California .  The speech cited examples of manufacturing initiatives
designed to lower the costs of defense programs, including the
F-35 fighter jet, Virginia-class submarine and the M-2 machine
gun. It also offered insight into Kendall’s approach to managing
the Pentagon’s weapons portfolio, which he said has
“regrettably” increased in cost by $135 billion, or 9 percent,
since 2008.  “Over half of the total growth over the last two years is
driven by the DoD’s top 10 programs, which are all in
production,” Kendall said.  Former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in April 2009
canceled the $87 billion manned vehicle part of the Future
Combat Systems, citing the Army’s failure to incorporate into
the design the combat lessons from Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Future Combat Fleet  The FCS program was, when canceled, the Army’s top program
and the second-most expensive under way for the Pentagon.  Kendall in his speech didn’t belabor the FCS history,
instead citing it as an example of unrealistic program execution
the Pentagon hopes to avoid as it seeks “better buying power”
within a shrinking budget.  He also said better buying power involved not “embarking
on programs that will ultimately be unaffordable.”  Kendall labeled as unacceptable the Army’s track record
since 1995, as disclosed in an internal study, that almost 40
percent of spent research dollars didn’t result in procurement
of a product.  The U.S. Army spent at least $32 billion on development,
testing and evaluation of 22 weapons programs that were later
canceled -- almost a third of its budget for creating new
weapons, according to an internal evaluation released July 21.  The Army every year since 1995 spent more than $1 billion
on doomed programs. Those “lost investments” by 2004 increased
to as much as $3.8 billion annually, or up to 42 percent of the
Army’s total research, development and test dollars those years,
the study said.  “This is unacceptable,” Kendall said today. The Pentagon
is increasing the use of affordability studies earlier in
weapons procurement to avoid such mistakes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  