-- 
Kerzner Hands Atlantis Bahamas to Brookfield in Debt Deal

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-11-29T18:56:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/kerzner-hands-over-atlantis-bahamas-resort-to-brookfield-in-restructuring.html
Kerzner International Holdings Ltd. ,
the company that built Atlantis resorts in the  Bahamas  and
Dubai, handed ownership of its flagship property to Brookfield
Asset Management as part of a debt restructuring.  Brookfield  will forgive $175 million of junior debt for
ownership of the Bahamas-based Atlantis and the Bahamas One&Only
Ocean Club, as well as a half interest in the One&Only Palmilla
in  Mexico , according to a statement obtained by Bloomberg News.  Kerzner, which also reached a deal with lenders to
restructure its operating debt, will continue to run Atlantis
Paradise Island and the One&Only resorts, according to the
statement. Atlantis the Palm, in Dubai, jointly owned with  Dubai
World , isn’t affected.  Famous for Atlantis’s Mayan-themed water slides and up-
close encounters with dolphins, sharks and rays, Kerzner has
struggled with debt since the 2008 financial crisis cut hotel
values and room rates. The company has negotiated to extend
maturities on mortgages due earlier this year, people familiar
with the talks said in August.  The properties being taken over by Brookfield had about
$2.6 billion in debt when negotiations began a year ago. That
shrinks to about $2.3 billion, with Brookfield’s forgiveness and
an earlier $100 million payment that was part of a maturity
extension.  Kerzner is working with Brookfield to extend maturities of
the remaining debt, according to two people familiar with the
negotiations who declined to be identified because the
arrangement isn’t public.  Property Management  “This transaction will permit Kerzner to move forward as a
management company,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sol
Kerzner said in the statement. The deal allows “us to get back
to doing what we do best -- designing and managing world-class
destination and luxury resorts under the Atlantis and One&Only
brands,” he said.  Kerzner was taken private in 2006 for $3.6 billion by a
group led by the namesake founder Sol Kerzner. Owners include
Dubai World’s Istithmar,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall
Funds and  Colony Capital LLC .  Kerzner was advised on the restructuring by  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Zolfo Cooper, according to
the statement. Centerview Partners LLP advised Sol Kerzner and
Moelis & Co. advised Dubai World, a person familiar with the
talks said in August.  Debt Holders  Holders of Kerzner’s debt included Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC, TPG Capital, Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank and
 Fidelity Investments , people familiar with the talks said
earlier this year.  Kerzner, 76, built what his company  website  calls the
“mythical city of Atlantis” on Paradise Island property he
bought from Merv Griffin, the late talk show host and game show
creator. The resort is surrounded by an artificial open-air
marine habitat featuring 50,000 sea creatures and a marina to
“attract the sleek international mega-yacht set,” according to
the site.  A $1 billion expansion begun in 2007 added hotels, a new
dolphin habitat and expanded the Aquaventure water park.  In September 2008, as the financial crisis deepened,
Kerzner opened a second Atlantis in the  Persian Gulf  on the
outer frond of Palm Jumeirah, Dubai’s man-made, tree-shaped
island.  Kerzner also runs seven  One&Only resorts , with different
levels of property ownership. Today’s deal doesn’t impact the
other five.  Brookfield Asset Management is a Toronto-based investment
firm that manages about $150 billion and focuses on property,
infrastructure, renewable power and private-equity investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  