-- 
Krueger Calls Payroll Tax Cut ‘Medicine’ to Sustain Recovery

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-11-29T20:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/krueger-calls-payroll-tax-cut-medicine-to-sustain-recovery-1-.html
Obama administration economic
adviser Alan Krueger said extending a temporary cut in payroll
taxes would provide “more medicine” to sustain the U.S.
economic recovery.  “This is a critical time for the economy,” Krueger,
chairman of President Barack Obama’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , said at a White House briefing as the administration
presses lawmakers in Congress to extend the tax cuts before they
expire on Dec. 31. “What’s clear is extending the payroll tax
cut will strengthen the recovery.”  Letting the extension lapse would mean a $1,000 tax
increase on a family making $50,000 a year, he said. Crimping
 consumer spending  at a time when the economy faces “weak
aggregate demand” would put a drag on growth, he said.  Democrats in the Senate plan a vote later this week to
extend the cuts and pay for it by imposing a 3.25 percent surtax
on income over $1 million beginning in 2013. The vote would test
Democrats’ resolve to pass the largest part of Obama’s jobs  plan 
as well as the willingness of Republicans to block it.  Without action by Congress, the Social Security payroll tax
for workers would return to 6.2 percent from the temporary 4.2
percent rate. Obama also wants lawmakers to temporarily reduce
the tax to 3.1 percent and cut in half the employer portion of
the tax for the first $5 million in wages that they pay. He
would eliminate the tax entirely for newly hired workers.  Republican Plan  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said the attempt to pair temporary tax cuts with
permanent tax increases was a political ploy rather than a
sincere attempt to pass legislation. He said today that
Republicans plan to offer an offset to pay for the tax cut
extension.  Democrats control 53 votes in the 100-member Senate, short
of the 60 votes needed to overcome parliamentary procedures to
block legislation from advancing.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican, said in a statement that the proposal by
 Senate Democrats  would hurt businesses that report profits on
their owners’ individual tax returns.  Krueger disputed that stance, saying “very few” employers
would be affected by the additional tax on adjusted gross income
of more than $1 million.  Open to Ideas  He refused to say whether the administration would accept
an extension of the tax that isn’t matched with higher revenue
or budget cuts elsewhere, while adding that the White House is
“open to economically sensible ways” to offset the cost.  The partisan fight over the tax likely will play out in
campaigns as both parties gear up for next year’s elections for
Congress and the presidency.  “The strategy is pretty simple: paint the Republicans as
defenders of millionaires and billionaires and Democrats as the
defenders of the middle class,” Chris Krueger, senior policy
analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC said in a note to clients
today. He’s no relation to the CEA chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  