-- 
Kyoto Treaty Dispute Puts UN’s Global-Warming Talks in Peril, China Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:50:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/kyoto-treaty-dispute-puts-un-s-global-warming-talks-in-peril-china-says.html
China  said a rift with industrial
nations over the Kyoto Protocol’s rules on greenhouse gas risks
destroying the international response to global warming, raising
the chance this year’s talks in  South Africa  will fail.  Su Wei , Beijing’s lead negotiator, said it’s essential for
industrial nations to sign up for another round of emissions
reductions under the pact, whose limits expire next year. Japan,
 Canada  and  Russia  already have rejected extending the treaty.
The European Union says it will only take on new commitments if
all nations fix a date for adopting a new treaty.  “If we cannot get a decision for the future of the second
commitment period, the whole international system on climate
change will be placed in peril,” Su said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg and two other news organizations at the
talks in Durban. “If the  Kyoto Protocol  is devoid of any
further commitment period, the Kyoto Protocol itself will be
dead.”  The treaty is the linchpin of efforts to limit fossil-fuel
emissions blamed for damaging the atmosphere. China’s position
is key because it’s the biggest producer of the gases and the
largest of the developing economies negotiating. While Su said
China is open to negotiating with the EU, his comments show
little common ground on how to maintain momentum on the issue.  Only ‘Proper’ Law  “It’s not just China that thinks like that,” said
Christian Teriete, a spokesman for the Global Campaign for
Climate Action, a coalition of 300 non-governmental
organizations. “Pretty much all  developing countries  insist on
a second commitment period because Kyoto is the only proper
climate law we have -- the rest is voluntary.”  Violent thunderstorms marred the opening of the talks on
Nov. 28, and yesterday the  World Meteorological Organization 
said this year is likely to be the 10th warmest ever as
greenhouse gas emissions surged to a record. Delegates from more
than 190 nations agreed to hold next year’s meeting in Qatar,
the world’s biggest emitter of carbon dioxide per capita.  China and  India , which have become two of the three biggest
polluters since Kyoto was agreed to in 1997, have no requirement
to cut emissions under that pact. The U.S. and EU say global
warming can’t be stopped without bringing all the biggest
polluters into a system of mandatory cuts.  Cuts and Carbon  Asked about a report in India in the Indian IANS that
China was prepared to accept binding targets after 2020, Su
said, "I don’t know where you got that kind of message."  Su said also that if Kyoto’s limits are allowed to expire,
there’s no sense in maintaining Clean Development Mechanism, the
world’s second biggest carbon market which was worth $1.5
billion last year, according to the  World Bank .  "If there are no targets to implement, what is the utility
of having the CDM mechanism?" Su said.  Masahiko Horie, an environment envoy from  Japan  whose
country’s rejection of Kyoto limits almost derailed last year’s
talks, said in an interview that the protocol is obsolete
because it covers 26 percent of global emissions.  “Durban is really a fork-in-the-road moment,”  Alden Meyer , director of strategy and policy at the Union of Concerned
Scientists, said in an interview. “Do we go back to the pre-
Kyoto days when countries did whatever they wanted and were
under no pressure to raise their level of ambition to what the
science demands?”  Support for China  China’s demands were echoed by Grenada’s envoy, Dessima Williams, who speaks for the  Alliance of Small Island States , a
coalition of island nations at risk of disappearing as sea
levels rise. She said Kyoto is “the anchor of the whole
process.” She said the EU’s request for countries to set a date
for adopting a new treaty may delay progress.  “Everything needs a plan,” Williams said in an interview
in Durban. “But a road map with a date that takes us away from
the urgency of decision making in Durban? No.”  China and other developing nations made non-binding pledges
to reduce emissions at the UN talks in Cancun last year, where
developed nations also made pledges that are voluntary. Su said
it’s too early to say whether China will be willing to accept
legally binding commitments after 2020.  Mandatory emissions targets would be required under the
EU’s proposal. The 27-nation bloc wants a deal by 2015 for all
nations that would be implemented by 2020 at the latest. Without
it, the EU said it won’t allow an extension of Kyoto. China said
that suggestion goes back on a plan set out in 2007, where the
EU said it would work on extending Kyoto.  ‘Shifting the Goal Posts’        “We think the EU is just shifting the goal posts to
another place,” Su said. “We are willing to consider
accommodating the concerns of the EU so as to assure a real,
legally binding, second commitment period under the Kyoto
Protocol. Post-2020 is still far away and we cannot spread
ourselves too thinly.”  Su said that any consideration of actions to be taken after
2020 should be held after a planned review of the level of
ambition of emissions pledges, to be conducted from 2013 through
2015, and the Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change ’s next
full assessment of the science of global warming, due by 2014.  Even if a second commitment period isn’t agreed upon, some
elements of Kyoto would live on, including international systems
for measuring and reporting  greenhouse gases , said Jonathan Grant, director of climate policy at the global accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in London.  ‘Not the End’  “We shouldn’t throw the baby out with the bathwater,”
Grant said in an interview. “If Kyoto falls, that’s not the end
of the UN climate negotiations, providing progress is made on
the Cancun agreements, including the institutional
arrangements.”  Negotiators in Durban aim to set up institutions agreed to
in Cancun, including a Green Climate Fund to channel aid to
developing nations, a mechanism to transfer clean technologies
to poorer countries and a body to advise them on ways of
adapting to climate change.  Su said there’s no sense in agreeing to a new road map in
Durban when countries haven’t yet completed the tasks set out in
a 2007 document called the Bali Action Plan, which envisaged a
new set of targets for industrialized nations.  “We cannot do things halfway, then discard that course and
take another one,” Su said. “That’s not an efficient and
successful way of doing things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  