-- 
Naspers Starts Swahili-Language Magic TV Service in East Africa

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-11-29T11:02:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/naspers-starts-swahili-language-magic-tv-service-in-east-africa.html
Naspers Ltd. (NPN) ,  Africa ’s largest media
company, has started a Swahili-language pay-television service
to attract more customers in east Africa.  “We now cover most major football leagues and recently
added the Africa Magic Kiswahili channel for subscribers in East
Africa,” Cape Town-based Naspers said in a statement today.  Naspers added 60,000 pay-TV subscribers in the six months
ended Sept. 30 to take its total to 1.5 million in African
countries south of the Sahara, excluding its home market of
 South Africa , where 3.7 million households have the service.  Naspers will expand in pay-television by rolling out a
package priced at about $7 a month to add subscribers in
underserved African markets, Eben Greyling, chief executive
officer for pay TV, said on Sept. 2. The company started rolling
out the low-priced packages in Zambia in August.  “Advertising revenues grew on the back of an overall
increase in the television industry share of market,” Naspers
said in today’s statement.  The five countries that make up the East African Community
trade block, which includes  Uganda  and  Kenya , have a total
population of 133 million people, according to the body’s
 website . The region’s gross domestic product was $79 billion in
2010, according to the website.  Naspers said it has started digital terrestrial services
under the GOtv brand in Kenya,  Nigeria , Zambia and Uganda.  The expansion of the African pay-TV market may be propelled
by 221 million consumers who will advance from poverty to earn
annual incomes of $1,000 to $5,000 by 2015, according to
McKinsey & Co. estimates.  “Advertising revenues grew on the back of an overall
increase in the television industry share of market,” Naspers
said in today’s statement.  Pay-TV is Naspers’ biggest source of revenue and
contributed 11.6 billion rand ($1.4 billion) to total sales of
18.5 billion rand in the fiscal first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   Kwong11@bloomberg.net  