-- 
NBA Union Boss Says Salaries to Average Near $8 Million by Contract’s End

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T17:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/nba-union-boss-says-salaries-to-average-near-8-million-by-contract-s-end.html
The average National Basketball
Association player’s salary will be near $8 million by the end
of the pending 10-year labor agreement, according to union head
 Billy Hunter .  Collective salaries for National Basketball Players
Association members will grow to more than $3 billion by the
2020-21 season from $2.17 billion last season, Hunter told his
players last night in a six-page letter detailing the proposed
settlement of the group’s antitrust lawsuit against the league.
A copy of the letter was obtained by Bloomberg News.  NBA spokesman Tim Frank declined in an e-mail to comment on
Hunter’s letter.  The average pay in the NBA, with revenue of $4.3 billion
last season, already is the highest among major North American
professional team sports.  Salaries averaged $5.2 million last season, according to
NBA.com. National Football League players, who signed a labor
deal in August, averaged $2.2 million at the halfway point this
season, NFL Players Association spokesman George Atallah said in
an e-mail. Major League Baseball salaries averaged $3.3 million
on opening day last season, according to the  Associated Press .
The average pay in the  National Hockey League  was $2.4 million,
according to figures compiled by Yahoo! Sports.  Even though NBA owners could save about $3 billion over the
life of the agreement when compared to the terms of the one that
expired July 1, player salaries will continue to grow “thanks
to the enormous success projected for the NBA,” Hunter said in
the letter.  ‘Fair Settlement’  He said the deal, agreed to in principle on Nov. 26, is
worthy of ratification.  “We believe the settlement agreement is a fair one that
may rightfully serve as the basis for negotiations over a new
10-year CBA,” the letter says.  The letter details a four-step process by which the lockout
would end and training camps open by Dec. 9 for a season now set
to begin on the Christmas Day holiday Dec. 25.  Lawyers for the players and owners already were jointly
writing the principle terms of the settlement agreement, with
plans to finish last night or today.  The NBPA is beginning its process of reforming as a union
so that it can serve as the collective bargaining representative
with the NBA. The union dissolved on Nov. 14, leading to the
antitrust lawsuits against the league that are now on hold
because of the tentative settlement.  Once a majority of players authorize the NBPA to resume its
previous role and the NBA recognizes the union, the two sides
will negotiate a contract, addressing settlement terms as well
as secondary issues such as drug testing, the NBA commissioner’s
disciplinary powers and workplace rules, according to the
letter. This process likely would begin by Dec. 2.  Players Vote  The agreement then would be given to the players next week
to ratify or reject.  The letter also addressed several details of the
settlement, which would give both sides an opportunity to end
the agreement after six years.  The biggest issue between the two sides other than
economics was the league’s interest in a harder ceiling, or
salary cap, on team payrolls. While the new accord includes a
harsher luxury tax, several exceptions, new mechanisms and rules
“should provide adequate opportunities for free agents to
market their services,” Hunter said in the letter.  Minimum team salaries, which were 75 percent of the salary
cap, will increase to 90 percent by the third year of the deal,
forcing lower-spending teams to remain active in the player
market.  The owners’ revenue-sharing arrangement will be
“memorialized in an agreement with the players” for the first
time, Hunter wrote.  Money Shift  “The plan will shift tens of millions of dollars from
high-revenue to low-revenue teams,” Hunter said. “The owners
will agree in writing to continue this revenue-sharing plan
throughout the 10 years of the agreement.”  The agreement would create a  66-game season  ending on April
26. The last possible day of the NBA Finals would be June 26.  “We appreciate your trust and solidarity and look forward
to working through the process described above in the very near
future so we can get back to doing what we all want to do: play
basketball,” Hunter told the players.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 