-- 
New China Life Said to Receive Enough Orders to Cover Institutional Books

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-11-30T03:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/new-china-life-said-to-receive-enough-orders-to-cover-institutional-books.html
New  China   Life Insurance  Co., the
state-backed insurer seeking as much as $2.3 billion in an
initial public offering in  Hong Kong  and Shanghai, received
enough orders to cover its institutional books for both listings,
said two people with knowledge of the transaction.  The insurer, part owned by  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , is
offering 358.4 million shares at HK$28.20 ($3.62) to HK$34.33
apiece in the Hong Kong portion of the IPO, of which up to 95
percent will be allocated to institutional investors, a sales
document shows. The Hong Kong institutional book was covered on
the first day underwriters took orders, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the process is private.  “At the end of the day, life insurance in China is a big
business and it’s a growing business,” said  Andrew Sullivan ,
principal sales trader at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd.
“Companies within the sector are going to remain popular with
investors.”  Companies are planning to sell as much as $7 billion of new
shares in Hong Kong before the end of 2011, betting on a revival
in investor appetite after the value of IPOs slumped almost 70
percent this year. Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd., which is
seeking to raise up to $2.8 billion, received bids for all the
stock available to money managers in its first day of order
taking, people with knowledge of the matter said.  New China Life may sell 158.5 million shares in Shanghai,
the company said this month. The  Shanghai  offering would raise
4.5 billion yuan ($698 million), based on the same pricing as
the Hong Kong sale.  ‘Institutional Play’  New China Life plans to sell almost half of the Hong Kong
portion of its IPO, or $780 million of stock, to so-called
cornerstone investors including  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE)  and
 Malaysia ’s sovereign wealth fund, people familiar with the
matter said.  Funds may be attracted to the IPO because New China life
could become an index constituent given its size, Piper
Jaffray’s Sullivan said. “It’s far more an institutional play
than a retail play,” he said.  The company plans to start trading in Hong Kong on Dec. 16,
the terms show.  The insurer is seeking funds to bolster its capital,
according to the sale document, after shares in major Chinese
rivals plunged on declining solvency ratios.  China Life
Insurance Co. (2628)  and  Ping An Insurance (2318)  (Group) Co., the country’s
two biggest insurers, have fallen 39 percent and 41 percent
respectively in Hong Kong trading this year.  PICC Rights Offer  Chen Wenhui, deputy chairman of the China Insurance
Regulatory Commission, said this month that sources of “capital
replenishment” for insurers are “limited” and that the
country should allow companies in the industry to sell
subordinated bonds. PICC Property and Casualty Co. yesterday
announced plans to raise 5 billion yuan through a rights offer.  Central Huijin Investment Ltd ., a unit of China’s sovereign
wealth fund, is New China Life’s biggest shareholder with a 38.8
percent stake. Zurich Insurance Co., a unit of Zurich Financial,
is the third-biggest investor with 15 percent, according to a
Nov. 11 filing from New China Life.  Companies have raised $15.9 billion this year via Hong Kong
IPOs, compared with $49.1 billion for the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HKT Trust , the
telecommunications business trust sold by PCCW Ltd., rose to
HK$4.55 on its first day of trading in Hong Kong yesterday from
the IPO price of HK$4.53.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, China International Capital Corp., Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are among banks
arranging New China Life’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  