-- 
Newmont Suspends $4.8 Billion Peru Gold Mine on Protests

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-11-30T03:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/newmont-suspends-work-at-peruvian-gold-deposit-on-protests.html
Newmont Mining Corp. , the largest
U.S. gold producer, said it suspended a $4.8 billion gold
project in  Peru  after anti-mining protests left at least 17
wounded and two arrested today.  The stoppage was decided “as required by the government of
Peru and for the sake of reestablishing tranquility and social
peace,” Denver-based Newmont said today in an e-mailed
statement. Newmont said it will seek talks with the government
and communities opposing the mine.  Farmers concerned that Minas Conga may dry up water
resources blocked roads and destroyed Newmont’s installations
during a six-day protest that President Ollanta Humala said may
derail $50 billion in mining investment over the next decade.
Villagers battled police and smashed company offices in the
northern Andean region of Cajamarca, 560 kilometers (350 miles)
northwest of  Lima , according to Lima-based Radioprogramas.  ”Mining projects must be conceived as part of development
and agreement with the population to clear up all distrust and
guarantee water priority for human consumption,” Humala’s
cabinet chief Salomon Lerner said today at a press conference at
the Presidential Palace in Lima.  Deputy Environment Minister Jose de Echave resigned
yesterday to protest the government’s backing for the project,
which seeks to produce 680,000 ounces of gold and 235 million
pounds of copper annually. Peru is the world’s third-largest
copper miner and No. 6 in gold.  Lost Business  The protests, which forced airlines to cancel  flights  to
Cajamarca’s airport, are causing $10 million a day in lost
business in the dairy and the tourism industries, according to
the Lima Chamber of Commerce. Cajamarca is a dairy, livestock
and farming region.  “We can’t allow Peruvians to be taken hostage by groups
that just preach violence,”  Pedro Martinez , president of the
National Society of Mining, Petroleum & Energy, told reporters
in Lima today. “Without peace there will be no development.”  Newmont rose 0.1 percent to $65.29 in  New York .  Gold futures for February delivery advanced 0.3 percent to
$1,718.90 an ounce at 1:30 p.m. on the Comex in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  