-- 
News Corp. Phone-Hacking Was Widespread, Reporter Says

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T12:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/news-corp-reporters-got-phone-hacking-lessons-guardian-s-davies-says.html
(Corrects name of reporter starting in second paragraph in
story published Nov. 29.)  Phone-hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News
of the World was so widespread that the tabloid’s editors knew
of the practice and sometimes listened to intercepted messages,
a former reporter told a U.K. inquiry into press ethics.  Former editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , who were
arrested in July, have thrown reporters “to the wolves” by
denying the extent of the practice, former News of the World
reporter Paul McMullan told the judge-led inquiry in  London 
today.  Brooks and Coulson “should have had the strength of their
convictions” and admitted the newspaper used illegal news-
gathering practices, McMullan said. “How dare they throw us to
the wolves.” Neither Coulson or Brooks have been charged.  News Corp., based in  New York , closed the News of the World
in July to help contain the five-year-old scandal after it was
revealed phone-hacking wasn’t limited to a single “rogue”
reporter jailed in 2007, as the company’s British unit had
claimed. London police have made 18 arrests since reopening a
probe of the practice in January, and starting separate
investigations into computer hacking and police bribery.  Brooks’ spokeswoman Emma Capon declined to comment when
reached by phone today. Coulson’s lawyer, Jo Rickards of DLA
Piper, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Brooks has previously denied knowing about phone hacking at
the newspaper.  ‘Littered’  McMullan, who was reminded repeatedly not to incriminate
himself, said the News of the World paid police for information
and defended the use of phone-hacking, saying the newspaper was
“littered” with evidence of it. Jailing reporters for such
actions would put Britain on the same level as  China , Iran and
 Turkey , he said.  “Phone hacking is a perfectly acceptable tool if all we’re
trying to do is get to the truth,” McMullan said. “Colleagues
are under arrest and all they’ve ever tried to do was write the
truth.”  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s News
International unit, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  called for the inquiry in
July to study the relationship between the press and the public
and determine if new regulations are needed. U.K. newspapers
currently regulate themselves, a system deemed to be flawed by
phone-hacking victims.  Hacking Lessons  Guardian newspaper reporter Nick Davies told the same
inquiry today that journalists at the News of the World were
instructed on how to hack into mobile-phone voice mails by the
newspaper’s former private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , who was
also jailed in 2007. Davies, whose exposed the extent of phone-
hacking at the tabloid, said Mulcaire helped reporters hack into
the messages of murdered school girl Milly Dowler in 2002.  “Mulcaire facilitated the hacking by one or more News of
the World journalists,” Davies said. The reporters then had to
“delete the messages in order to enable more to come through.”
That gave the Dowler family false hope she was alive, he said.  McMullan said the hacking of Dowler’s phone “wasn’t a bad
thing” because it was done by well-meaning journalists.  “Our intentions were honorable,” McMullen said. “We were
doing our best to find the little girl. The police are
incompetent.”  During the inquiry, lawyers and witnesses have told Judge
Brian Leveson phone hacking may have occurred at other
publications, including the Sun,  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s Daily
Mirror and  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGO) ’s Mail on Sunday.  Mulcaire and  Clive Goodman , a News of the World reporter,
were jailed for intercepting phone messages meant for members of
Prince Charles’ staff and for  Gordon Taylor , chief executive
officer of the Professional Footballers Association. Police have
said more than 5,000 people may have been targeted.  Davies said today he knew the identity of a third person
arrested with Mulcaire and Goodman, and whose notes were seized
as part of the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  