-- 
Lions Defensive Tackle Suh Suspended Two Games for Kicking Packers Lineman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-11-29T16:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/nfl-suspends-detroit-s-suh-for-two-games-for-stomping-on-packer-espn-says.html
Detroit Lions defensive tackle
Ndamukong Suh was suspended without pay for two games by the
 National Football League  for stomping on an opposing player in a
Nov. 24 loss to the  Green Bay Packers .  The NFL announced the ban in an e-mail, citing Suh for
“unsportsmanlike conduct.” It was Sun’s fifth violation of on-
field rules in the last two seasons that resulted in league
discipline, according to the NFL statement. He will lose
$164,000 in salary, ESPN reported.  Suh can appeal the suspension, which would trigger an
“expedited hearing and decision” before this weekend’s game,
the NFL said. The Lions’ next two games are against the  New
Orleans Saints  on Dec. 4 and the  Minnesota Vikings  on Dec. 11.  Suh was ejected from the game against the Packers in the
third quarter after tangling with lineman Evan Dietrich-Smith.  While both players were on the ground, Suh grabbed the back
of Dietrich-Smith’s helmet with his right hand and pushed his
head into the turf three times. As he stood up, video replays
appeared to show Suh stomping on Smith’s right arm with his
right foot.  After the game, Suh said he was trying to regain his
balance in order to remove himself from “the situation” and
didn’t intentionally step on Dietrich-Smith. The incident was
“misinterpreted,” he told reporters.  ‘No Intention’  “I don’t do bad things and I had no intention to hurt
somebody,” Suh said in televised comments. “If I want to hurt
somebody, I’m going to hit his quarterback.”  Suh was assessed an unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty and
ejected from the game. He has been fined for rough play three
previous times in his career and met with NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  in  New York  on Nov. 1 to discuss playing within the
rules.  Minnesota Vikings defensive end Brian Robison was fined
$20,000 this season for kicking Packers lineman T.J. Lang in the
groin. Robison, who wasn’t suspended, apologized to Lang, the
NFL and the Packers after the game.  The Packers scored two plays after Suh was ejected to go up
14-0 and went on to win 27-15 to lift their record to 11-0, the
best start in the franchise’s 91-year history.  Green Bay  has won 17 consecutive games, including the
playoffs, the longest streak in team history. The Lions fell to
7-4 and into third place in the National Football Conference’s
North Division behind Green Bay and the  Chicago Bears .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  