-- 
Nissan’s Ghosn Says Japan Should Defend Auto Industry From Yen

-- B y   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-11-29T11:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/nissan-s-ghosn-says-japan-should-defend-auto-industry-from-yen.html
Nissan Motor Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  reiterated a call for the Japanese
government to help the automotive industry, saying that a strong
yen is making the country’s carmakers uncompetitive.  The largest threat to the auto industry supply chain is the
strength of the yen and not natural disasters, Ghosn said at a
conference in Tokyo today.  Japan  should learn from the Swiss and
make “adjustments” to the currency, he said.  “I’m not saying to give us an advantage,” Ghosn said.
“We just need to eliminate the handicap. We’re profiting in
every market except in Japan.”  Japan’s automakers have been hampered this year by the
nation’s March earthquake and floods in  Thailand , while the
appreciation in the yen has slashed profitability and export
competitiveness, threatening local manufacturing jobs.  Toyota
Motor Corp.  and  Honda Motor Co.  have both abandoned their full-
year profit forecasts after the disruptions to output.  The yen, which reached a post-World War II record last
month, has gained more than 9 percent in the past six months,
the best performance among 10 developed-nation peers tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The currency moves have slashed Japanese automakers’ profit
by a combined 330 billion yen in the first half, according to
Japan’s automakers group. A appreciation in the yen reduces the
value of repatriated earnings and makes exports less
competitive.  Switzerland ’s central bank introduced a cap on the Swiss
franc on Sept. 6 to fight deflation threats and help the
country’s exports.  Nissan-Renault’s combined production will exceed 8 million
units this year, Ghosn said today. He said last month that
Nissan will have to “hollow out” Japan production should the
nation’s currency remain strong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheng Herng Shinn in  Tokyo  at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  