-- 
Nokia Siemens Sells WiMax Wireless Division to Stem Losses

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T16:59:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/nokia-siemens-sells-wimax-wireless-division-to-stem-losses.html
Nokia Siemens Networks Oy, the joint
venture between  Siemens AG  and Nokia Oyj, agreed to sell its
WiMax wireless business as the company cuts expenses and jobs.  NewNet Communication Technologies, a company owned by
Skyview Capital, agreed to buy the business and will take on
about 300 employees in the deal, which is expected to close by
the end of the year, the companies said in a statement today.
The companies didn’t disclose the terms of the sale.  Nokia Siemens aims to eliminate 17,000 jobs by the end of
2013, sell real estate, cut businesses and consolidate jobs and
suppliers to reduce annual expenses by 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in the next two years. WiMax, a high-speed network
technology for mobile devices, has been overshadowed by a rival
system called long-term evolution, which has been adopted by the
largest telecommunications companies in the U.S. and  Europe .  Nokia Siemens received a cash injection of 1 billion euros
from its parent companies in September as Jesper Ovesen, the
former chief financial officer of TDC A/S, was named to oversee
the restructuring as executive chairman. The venture, set up in
April 2007 to compete against Ericsson and Chinese rivals such
as Huawei Technologies Co., has fallen behind and has been
unprofitable in all but one quarter.  Siemens and Nokia abandoned talks with private-equity
companies in July after the buyout firms failed to come up with
a compelling offer. The companies said in September that Nokia
Siemens would “become a more independent entity.”  Nokia Siemens had a 13.2 percent market share in 2010, tied
with Alcatel-Lucent for third place in the mobile infrastructure
market, according to researcher Gartner Inc. Ericsson was first
with 34.1 percent and Huawei second at 15.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  