-- 
Norges Bank Says Banks More Vulnerable Amid Rising Turmoil

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-11-29T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/norges-bank-says-banks-more-vulnerable-amid-rising-turmoil.html
Norway’s central bank  said the
nation’s financial system in Norway is more vulnerable amid
rising turmoil and that banks should ensure their liquidity
situation by increasing long-term funding.  The banks “are well capitalized and have posted solid
earnings” so far in 2011, the Oslo-based central bank also said
today in a financial stability report. Direct exposure to the
most vulnerable countries in  Europe  is “very limited,” the
bank said, adding that “banks’ reliance on foreign sources of
funding may post a challenge in the short term.”  Rising credit growth is putting pressure on Norges Bank to
raise interest rates to prevent the emergence of a credit-driven
housing bubble, even a sovereign debt crisis in Europe threatens
to push the region into recession. Policy makers in Oslo in
October shelved planned rate increases to the second half of
next year because of the turmoil. Governor Oeystein Olsen has
said he is ready to cut the  benchmark  from the current 2.25
percent, if global growth prospects worsen.  The failure of European leaders to end the debt crisis in
the euro area is sapping growth in  Norway , which sends more than
60 percent of its exports to the region. The country’s mainland
economy, which excludes oil, gas and shipping, grew 0.8 percent
last quarter, slowing from an expansion of 1.3 percent in the
period through June.  Falling unemployment and near record-low borrowing cost
encourage Norwegian households to borrow money to finance
property investments. Property prices rose an annual 9.3 percent
last month, according to Norway’s  Real Estate Brokers
Association , prompting Olsen to say that house price growth
presents a “possible challenge” to financial stability.  The  European Central Bank  this month unexpectedly cut its
benchmark rate by 0.25 percentage point this month to 1.25
percent, as the debt crisis threatened to engulf even core
member states of the European Union.  Norway’s policy makers will next meet on Dec. 14 to decide
on  interest rates . The Riksbank will meet on Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  