-- 
Norway Mass Killer Breivik Declared Insane, May Face Compulsory Treatment

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-11-29T14:22:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/norway-mass-killer-breivik-declared-insane-may-face-compulsory-treatment.html
Anders Behring Breivik was declared
insane and may face life-long compulsory treatment for killing
77 people in the July 22 attacks on Oslo government offices and
a  Labor Party  youth camp south of the Norwegian capital.  A court-ordered evaluation found Breivik is “delusional”
and suffers from paranoid schizophrenia, prosecutor Svein Holden
said today at a press conference in Oslo, after being presented
with the 243-page report by forensic psychiatrists Torgeir Husby
and Synne Soerheim. The report was based on 13 talks with
Breivik spanning 36 hours.  The evaluation, which will need approval by the Board of
Forensic Medicine, may mean that the 32-year-old will be placed
in compulsory psychiatric treatment, potentially for life,
rather than prison. A trial will still be needed to establish
guilt, prosecutor Inga Bejer Engh said at the briefing.  “As in any ordinary criminal proceedings, the court will
have to assess whether Breivik has committed the criminal
acts,” the prosecutors’ office said. “The only difference from
the trial of a person of sound mind is that we can’t petition
for an ordinary prison sentence or for preventive detention, but
rather file a petition for his transfer to compulsory mental
health care.”  ‘Bizarre Delusions’  Breivik was psychotic at the time of the acts and during
the evaluation, according to the report. It found that Breivik
had “bizarre delusions” and that he claimed to have committed
the murders out of “love for his people,” Holden said. Bejer
Engh said prosecutors are “comfortable” with the evaluation.
Compulsory care is reviewed by a court every three years to
assess whether the convicted person still poses a threat.  The Oslo native has admitted to the shootings at the Utoeya
Island youth camp that killed 69, including some as young as 14,
and to detonating a car bomb by the prime ministers’ office that
took eight lives. Breivik said that he sought to inflict the
“greatest possible loss” to the ruling Labor Party and railed
in a manifesto posted on the Internet against “cultural
Marxism” and “Islamization.”  Earlier this month an Oslo court extended his custody by 12
weeks to Feb. 6 while restrictions on correspondence and
visitors were prolonged by eight weeks. A ban on media was
extended by four weeks. Breivik, calling himself a commander in
the Norwegian resistance, has refused to recognize the
legitimacy of the court and has demanded to be released.  The judge denied a request at the time by Breivik to
address survivors and relatives of the victims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  