-- 
NYSE Reviews AMR Stock Listing Following Bankruptcy Filing; Shares Plunge

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-11-29T21:44:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/nyse-to-review-amr-listing-after-company-files-for-bankruptcy.html
NYSE Euronext is reviewing the
 listing status  of AMR Corp. stock, which plunged today after the
company filed for bankruptcy.  AMR declined 84 percent to 26 cents at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. It was halted for more than three hours after the company
announced the filing.  Swings (AMR)  in the stock triggered at least 16
more five-minute pauses under exchange circuit breakers designed
to limit volatility, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While shares are trading today, the NYSE said it may move
to suspend AMR should it receive evidence that the price will be
“abnormally low,” according to a statement. It may also stop
trading if NYSE Regulation gets “authoritative advice that the
securities are without value,” or fall below the exchange’s
listing requirements, the statement said.  American Airlines parent AMR Corp. filed for bankruptcy
today after failing to secure cost-cutting labor agreements and
sitting out a round of mergers that dropped it from the world’s
largest airline to No. 3 in the U.S. The shares fell 96 percent
in 2011 and are down 99 percent from their 2007 high of $40.66,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Normally NYSE delists companies that go bankrupt very
quickly,” James Angel, a professor of finance at  Georgetown
University ’s McDonough School of Business in  Washington , said in
a telephone interview. “The real question is, what should be
done with the stock’s trading?”  NYSE Rules  The New York Stock Exchange’s rules give NYSE Euronext the
discretion to delist companies once they file for bankruptcy.
Companies can remain listed by the market should they
demonstrate “sound financial health despite the bankruptcy
proceedings,” according to the NYSE’s  website .  MF Global Holdings Ltd. never traded at the New York Stock
Exchange after the brokerage filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31.
Over-the-counter transactions in the shares began on Nov. 2.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Northwest Airlines Corp. both
filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 14, 2005. Nasdaq Stock Market
delisted Northwest 12 days later, and NYSE removed Delta in 29
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. UAL Corp., the
parent of  United Airlines , filed for Chapter 11 on Dec. 9, 2002,
and was delisted by NYSE in 115 days, the data show.  US Airways Group Inc. went into bankruptcy on Aug. 11,
2002, and Sept. 12, 2004. NYSE delisted it the first time after
three days, and Nasdaq took action after 10 days the second
time, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Ragged’  The 16 trading halts in AMR shares show “how ragged our
system of trading halts is” and provide a case for refinements
to the rules implemented last year, Angel said. The Securities
and Exchange Commission, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
and U.S. stock exchanges are working to revise the system of
trading halts for individual stocks.  “It’s easy to second-guess others, but in the fog of
trading, and especially in a market where the dominant ethic is
to keep the market open no matter what, that’s what some people
want,” Angel said.  OTC Markets Group Inc.  is prepared to quote the shares as
soon as they’re delisted and receive a five-letter symbol from
Finra, R. Cromwell Coulson, president and chief executive
officer, said in a phone interview. The New York-based firm
offers a quotation system for securities not listed on
exchanges.  ‘Helps Those People’  “People have positions they want to be able to risk-
manage,” Mike Bleich, chief executive officer of Scout Trading
LLC said in a phone interview. The market-making firm hasn’t
traded AMR today, he said. “There are probably people who have
a good idea about how much the stock is worth and people who own
it who want to get out at any price,” he said. “If there’s any
bid, that helps those people.”  Trading in AMR encountered glitches today as transactions
occurred when shares weren’t allowed to be bought and sold. NYSE
Arca, a stock exchange owned by NYSE Euronext, canceled 42
transactions totaling about 31,000 shares after trading in AMR
was halted at 7:02 a.m. The trades took place from 7:02 a.m.
until 7:13 a.m.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  canceled  all transactions in AMR
shares across its three exchanges that occurred between 10:08
a.m. and 10:19 a.m. and between 10:19 a.m. and 10:24 a.m., when
trading wasn’t supposed to occur, according to a notice.
Transactions in the company’s preferred securities between 10:08
a.m. and 10:14 a.m., 10:15 a.m. and 10:20 a.m., and 10:22 a.m.
and 10:27 a.m. were also canceled, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 