-- 
Obama Condemns Storming of British Embassy in Tehran

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-11-29T20:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/obama-condemns-storming-of-british-embassy-in-tehran-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
storming of the British Embassy in Tehran is unacceptable and he
called on the Iranian government to take “definitive” action
“very quickly” against those responsible.  “For rioters essentially to be able to overrun the embassy
and set it on fire is an indication that the Iranian government
is not taking its international obligations seriously,” Obama
said as he began a meeting with Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  of the
 Netherlands  at the White House today.  Obama also said protecting diplomatic outposts is “a basic
international obligation that all countries need to observe.”  The remarks were the first by the president since Iranian
protesters stormed the embassy calling for “death to the U.K.”
and burning the British flag. The violence came a week after the
U.S. and Britain imposed more sanctions on  Iran  over its nuclear
development program.  The U.S. doesn’t have an embassy in Iran. The U.S. broke
diplomatic relations with Iran after students seized its embassy
in November 1979 and held 52 Americans hostage for 444 days.  The agenda for the meeting with Rutte included discussion
about the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe .  Debt Crisis  “It’s the intention of my government to keep the eurozone
intact, keep the euro intact, to fight the debt crisis and at
the same time get growth and job growth going again in the
European Union,” Rutte told reporters.  The talks also focused on expansion of trade and investment
between the two countries and preparations for the 2012 North
Atlantic Treaty Organization summit in May in  Chicago .  Rutte said he came to the U.S. to discuss “jobs, jobs and
jobs.” He said the Netherlands is responsible for 625,000 U.S.
jobs and that U.S. investment in the Netherlands exceeds the
U.S. investment in Brazil, Russia, India and  China  combined.  The Netherlands is the ninth largest export market for
American goods and the third largest investor in the U.S.,
according to the administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  