-- 
Obama Is Watering Down Regulations More Than Bush, Study Shows

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/obama-weakened-regulations-at-greater-rate-than-bush-study-says.html
President  Barack Obama , criticized
by Republicans for slowing job growth by over regulating, has
weakened proposed rules at a greater rate than President  George W. Bush , according to a new study.  The White House Office of Information and Regulatory
Affairs changed 76 percent of agency rules submitted for review
under Obama, compared with 64 percent under his Republican
predecessor, according to the study from the Center for
Progressive Reform. Obama also has ignored requirements that he
disclose documents exchanged between OIRA and federal agencies,
the report said.  “We are disappointed because we thought President Obama
had great potential,” Rena Steinzor, president of the center, a
Washington-based research group that supports health and
environmental rules, said in an interview. “He promised us he
would be transparent, but he is just as bad as Bush.”  The scope of  government regulation  has emerged as a major
issue in the 2012 presidential race and on  Capitol Hill .
Republican presidential candidates have accused Obama of
stifling  job creation  by imposing rules on business, and  House
Republicans  have vowed to rein in proposed regulations on
everything from the environment to health care to banking.  Industry Dominates Meetings  In a Nov. 9 presidential debate focused on the economy,
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  said “it’s the regulatory world that
is killing America.” Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota said, “Our biggest problem right now is our
regulatory burden.”  The regulatory affairs office’s 1,080 meetings over the
past decade have been heavily dominated by business interests,
according to the study. Industry representatives made up 65
percent of meeting participants, compared with 12 percent
representing public interest groups.  Of the top 30 groups that met with OIRA over the decade, 17
were from industry, including the American Chemistry Council,
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and the American Forest and Paper Association.
Only five were environmental groups, including the National
Resources Defense Council and the  Sierra Club .  Groups that met with OIRA were 29 percent more likely to
get a rule changed than those who were not, according to the
study released yesterday.  EPA Targeted Most  Obama’s administration has met with more environmental
groups than Bush, though it still has met with business
interests more frequently, Steinzor said.  Environmental Protection Agency rules were targeted more
than those from any other agency, with regulations changed 84
percent of the time, the study showed. Other agencies were
amended 65 percent of the time.  OIRA has been “eroding the protections that agency
specialists have decided are necessary under detailed statutory
mandates, following years -- even decades -- of work,” the
group wrote in the  report , which reviewed records from October
2001 to June 2011.  Cass Sunstein, who heads OIRA, wasn’t immediately available
for comment.  John Graham, who ran OIRA from 2001 through 2006 for Bush,
said the results of the study are “exactly what you would
expect.”  Study Questioned  In Republican administrations, agency heads would be less
likely to submit additional rules at all.  “In Democratic administrations, the rules that come to OMB
are more anti-business in their drafting,” Graham said in an
interview. “They will have more work to do in a Democratic
administration.”  Graham criticized the report for assuming the
administration’s changes made the regulations less costly.  “They are operating from an assumption which is not
validated,” said Graham, now the dean of the  Indiana  University
School of Public and Environmental Affairs in Bloomington,
Indiana. “You don’t know from that study which way the changes
are going.”  Obama’s White House has approved fewer regulations than
Bush at this same point in their tenures, and the estimated
costs of those rules haven’t reached the annual peak set in
fiscal 1992 under Bush’s father, Bloomberg News reported Oct.
25, citing a review of government data over the past 30 years.  The average annual cost of regulations to businesses under
Obama is higher than under his predecessors, the Bloomberg
review found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  