-- 
Skyscraper Builders’ Bets on City of London Sour as Banking Revival Fades

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-11-29T12:08:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/office-builders-bets-on-city-of-london-sour-as-banks-cut-jobs.html
It’s hard to get more central in the
City of  London  financial district than the Walbrook, a gleaming,
glass box designed by  Norman Foster’s  firm that sits less than
200 meters (660 feet) from the Bank of England. Almost two years
after its completion, the office building remains empty.  Walbrook’s owner,  Minerva (MNR) , isn’t the only company searching
for a large-scale City tenant. Almost two-thirds of the office
space completed in the area this year isn’t leased, even though
the amount built was 43 percent lower than the 10-year average,
Colliers International said in a  report . New rentals dropped by
52 percent in the first half, Savills Plc said.  Property companies including  British Land Plc (BLND)  and  Land
Securities Group Plc (LAND)  restarted City of London office projects
this year and last, betting that the increase in 2010 rents
would continue into this year as the financial industry bounced
back. The prospects have dimmed over the last few months as
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and a stalling U.K. economy
prompted companies to cut jobs and delay office moves.  “The deterioration in the economic outlook since the
summer has forced developers to reconsider the timing and
feasibility of schemes,” Digby Flower, an executive director at
 CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , said by e-mail “The development pipeline will
be lower than anticipated six months ago.”  Employment in the City of London and  Canary Wharf  financial
districts won’t pick up until 2014, the  Centre for Economics and
Business Research  reported in October.  Big and Empty  Developers haven’t landed tenants to fill up most of the
space in some of London’s best-known skyscraper projects,
including the Pinnacle and a tower known as the Walkie-Talkie.
 Insurer Aon Corp. (AON)  this month agreed to take one-third of the
space in the Leadenhall building, nicknamed the Cheesegrater. As
those projects proceed, cheaper developments are being planned
using buildings and land on the London 2012 Olympics site in the
east of the capital.  “The specialization of international financial services in
London has served to make the fortunes of owners and occupiers
intrinsically linked, creating a highly volatile, one-horse
town,” Michael Marx, chief executive officer of  Development
Securities Plc (DSC) , said in October.  The number of jobs in the City and Canary Wharf districts
will fall 8.5 percent this year to 288,225, CEBR said. The
research group, which had projected an increase in April, said
that’s the lowest since 1998 and 19 percent below the peak of
354,000 in 2007.  Shrinking Workforce  “The labor force in those fields is clearly on the
downside, so that will have its way on the London office
market,” Koen Straetmans, senior strategist at ING Investment
Management Europe’s real estate and commodities team, said in a
Nov. 4 interview.  It’s “unlikely” that tenant demand will pick up
significantly next year, according to Toby Courtauld, chief
executive officer of  Great Portland (GPOR)  Estates Plc, which owns 50
percent of the 100 Bishopsgate development.  “I’m not sure people are going to make decisions on moving
offices until they see some signs of stability in the broader
economic environment,” he said in a interview on Nov. 9.  Rents Disappoint  City rents rose 22 percent in 2010 and the total space
leased increased by 37 percent, according to  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)  That prompted landlords and brokers to predict strong
growth this year and encouraged developers to proceed with
projects without securing tenants in advance. The forecasts are
being scaled back now as London’s banks and insurers are hurt by
slowdowns in Britain and Europe.  CBRE said this month it cut expectations for 2014 City of
London office completions by 50 percent from estimates made in
April and lowered the forecast for 2013 by 18 percent.
Construction ground to a virtual halt in 2008 and 2009 as the
credit crisis hit the financial-services industry.  In January,  Jones Lang  predicted prime rents of 60 pounds a
square foot annually in 2011 and a return to the pre-recession
level of 66 pounds before the end of 2013. The current average
is 55 pounds, the broker said Nov. 15.  JPMorgan Cazenove said it cut its rent forecast in August
and now predicts no growth in the second half of this year, a
6.1 percent rise in 2012 and a 3.5 percent drop in 2014.  The bank said it expects prime rents to peak in 2014 at 58
pounds a square foot “versus an average forecast of 70 pounds
per square foot by property agents,” because of increased
supply, fewer leases expiring and rising concerns about demand.  ‘Demand’s Slackened’  “We probably thought there would have been more rental
increases already, but demand has slackened,” John Garwood,
company secretary for Canary Wharf Group Plc, said in an Oct. 25
interview. Canary Wharf is a 15 percent shareholder in the
Walkie Talkie. “Rents have gone up, but they haven’t spiked.”  To reduce risk, developers sold stakes in some towers
before construction started. British Land is building the
Cheesegrater in a joint venture with Oxford Properties Group
Inc. of Toronto. Land Securities, which is developing the Walkie
Talkie with Canary Wharf at 20 Fenchurch Street, predicted
average rents of about 60 pounds a square foot.  “We see no reason to think that we won’t achieve those
numbers,” Rob Noel, managing director of Land Securities’
London portfolio, told analysts on Nov. 10.  Aon, the world’s largest insurance broker, will pay an
average rent of about 57 pounds a square foot for space in the
Cheesegrater, British Land Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg
said in a phone call with analysts Nov. 15.  Bigger corporate occupiers will “never” take space in
some of the towers currently being built because the buildings
will be leased on a floor-by-floor basis, which isn’t suitable,
according to Mike Bessell, a director of investment bank
Evolution Securities Ltd.  Pinnacle Project  The 64-story Pinnacle tower in Bishopsgate, developed by
Arab Investments Ltd., will have almost 1 million square feet
(93,000 square meters) of office space. About a fifth has been
leased in advance, Khalid Affara, managing director of Arab
Investments said in March 2010. The company, which restarted the
project in June this year, hasn’t announced further tenant
agreements since then.  Minerva, delisted in London earlier this year after being
bought by funds advised by Area Property Partners (U.K.) Ltd.
and a unit of DV4 Ltd., is in talks with investment fund
Schroders Plc about leasing the space to the asset manager,
Estates Gazette reported Nov. 19. Oliver Hughes, a spokesman for
Minerva, and Estelle Bibby at Schroders declined to comment.  Great Portland is in talks to sell half of its 50 percent
holding in 100 Bishopsgate, Neil Thompson, the company’s
portfolio director, said in a call to analysts on Nov. 9. It
sold 50 percent of the development to Brookfield Properties
Corp. in March 2010.  Sticking to Plan  Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  Chief Executive Officer David Atkins on Nov.
9 dismissed the idea that the company might delay the Principal
Place development, calling it “pure speculation.” The company
is in talks with law firm  CMS Cameron McKenna  to lease part of
the 16-story office building and expects development to start in
April or May next year.  JPMorgan said today that commercial-property values in the
City of London will fall 2 percent in the next 12 months. Prices
fell 50 percent from 2007 through 2009 and were 37 percent lower
at the end of 2010 than they were before the global financial
crisis, according to a report commissioned by Development
Securities that cited Investment Property Databank.  Overseas Owners  Foreign companies now own 52 percent of all office
buildings in the district, up from 50 percent in 2010 and 8
percent in 1980, after a three-year acquisition spree,
Development Securities said in the Nov. 22 report.  The cost of leasing space in the City is prompting
businesses to look elsewhere for new space, including the site
of the London 2012 Olympics. That includes legal firms that are
“trying to take back office staff out of London, and use space
more efficiently” Jones Lang said earlier this month.  Allen & Overy LLP  moved human resources, information
technology and finance jobs to  Belfast  in  Northern Ireland  from
London, according to the legal firm’s  annual review . The move
will save the company 11 million pounds in the first five years
and at least 8 million pounds a year thereafter, it said. Some
of that will be real estate savings, said Andrew Brammer, head
of A&O’s support services center in Belfast.  Future Rivals  Across the  River Thames  from the City, Sellar Property
Group Ltd. is building the Shard, which will be the tallest
tower in Western Europe when it’s completed next year. The
company is seeking rents of 55 pounds a square foot for the
lower floors and as much as 65 pounds for the upper ones,
spokesman Baron Phillips said. Companies that are usually based
in the City will be among those Sellar tries to attract, he
said.  Lend Lease Group (LLC) , the Sydney-based builder and developer,
and state-owned  London & Continental Railways , plans to
construct 4 million square feet of offices in Stratford, next to
 Westfield (WDC)  Group’s shopping center and close to the Olympics in a
development known as the  International Quarter . The company will
seek financial industry tenants, Kevin Chapman, Lend Lease’s
head of U.K. offices, said in an interview.  “The banks are close to Liverpool Street station, so a
high proportion of their staff come through Stratford anyway on
their way to work,” he said.  Rival Westfield is also planning an office development of 1
million square feet in Stratford and is also trying to attract
financial-services tenants.  Longer Leases?  The economic slowdown may also prompt companies to extend
existing leases, rather than seeking new space when they expire.  “If global macro-uncertainty concerns continue, they might
take a five-year extension while they wait and see,” said
Bessell at Evolution Securities. “These days, a landlord would
bite their arm off for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 