-- 
Ohio State Paying Football Coach $4 Million May Be a Profitable Investment

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-11-30T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/ohio-state-paying-football-coach-4-million-may-be-a-profitable-investment.html
Urban Meyer’s $4 million annual
salary as the new football coach may be a profitable investment
for  Ohio State University  even if it poses ethical questions.  The Columbus-based school’s football program had an
operating profit of about $18.2 million last year, behind the
 University of Texas ’s nation-leading $70.1 million, according to
Bloomberg data. Ohio State’s budget is projected to shrink 5.9
percent this year because it played one fewer home game during a
6-6 season marked by the resignation of  Jim Tressel  due to a
memorabilia scandal involving some top players.  While Meyer’s pay may make sense, it raises questions about
the role of sports in universities and the ethics of a coach
making more than triple the $1.3 million earned by Gordon Gee,
the school’s president, said  Andrew Zimbalist , an economist at
 Smith College  in Northampton,  Massachusetts .  “If you pay him $4 million, and he generates $5 million,
that’s $1 million more that you have to hire, say, art
professors,” Zimbalist, the author of books including  “Unpaid
Professionals: Commercialism and Conflict in Big Time College
Sports”  said yesterday in a telephone interview. “But
ethically, it’s problematic and the whole nature of the market
in college sports is skewed.”  The race for revenue, which affects all levels of college
sports down to the athletic-scholarship-banning  Ivy League ,
“could lead to a permanent and untenable competition between
academics and athletics,” according to a 2010 report by the
Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, which has
pursued college athletic reform since its founding in 1989.
Networks including Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN and News Corp.’s Fox
are scheduled to pay the top five conferences and Bowl
Championship Series about $14 billion in television rights fees
through 2032.  National Titles  Meyer led  Florida  to a 65-15 record over six seasons and
won two national titles before stepping down in 2010, citing
health concerns. The 47-year-old coach has a 104-23 record over
10 seasons at Florida, the University of Utah and  Bowling Green .
He won national titles with the Gators during the 2006 and 2008
seasons, with a win over  Ohio  State for the first championship.  Ohio State Athletic Director  Gene Smith  said he sees Meyer
as a great coach and outstanding recruiter who can attract some
of the best home-state players to Columbus.  “We wanted a football coach who understood that, who would
create an environment here with the aspiration for every single
football player in the state of Ohio to be a Buckeye and to come
to the  Ohio State University  and have no other thought,” Smith
said at a news conference announcing Meyer’s hiring yesterday.  Ohio Native  Meyer, who is from Ashtabula, Ohio, and went to the
University of Cincinnati, signed a six-year contract that will
pay him a salary of $4 million a year plus bonuses, according to
a statement released by the school. That will include base
compensation of $700,000 annually; $1.85 million for media,
promotions and public relations; and $1.4 million in apparel,
shoe and equipment payments.  The package trails Mack Brown’s $5.1 million compensation
at  Texas  and Nick Saban’s $4.8 million pay at the University of
 Alabama . Les Miles, at top-ranked Louisiana State, receives
about $3.8 million.  Meyer’s compensation also includes retention bonuses paid
every two years, and performance bonuses based on the academic
as well as athletic success of his players, including $250,000
for winning a national championship.  ‘Winning, Winning, Winning’  “It’s still the win-at-all-cost mentality,” Jason Lanter,
assistant professor of psychology at  Pennsylvania ’s Kutztown
University and president of the Drake Group, a collective of
professors who lobby for academic integrity in college athletics,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s all about winning, winning,
winning. The bonus incentives for academic progress are nowhere
near the ones for going to a BCS game or the championship
game.”  Football coaches’ compensation at major public universities
has grown an inflation-adjusted 750 percent in the past quarter-
century,  according to a study  by Charles Clotfelter, an
economist at  Duke University  and the author of “Big-Time Sports
in American Universities.” College professors’ salaries have
grown 32 percent.  Sports Profit  Ohio State football helped the athletic department and its
36 sports post a $434,000 profit in the year ended June 30, 2010,
according to a financial report filed with the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  and obtained from Ohio State
through open-records laws. The sport anchors the conference’s
 Big Ten  Network, which has a $2.8 billion deal with Fox through
2032. Football and basketball rights fees are worth a combined
$19.3 million to the school annually, according to  Knight
Commission data .  The athletic department gave $1 million to the library
renovation fund this year, the fifth of nine annual installments.
The department also gave at least $350,000 to community programs.  Zimbalist says that’s the result of a skewed economic
system.  “You have a completely artificial marketplace generating
these kinds of revenue,” he said. “The players don’t get paid
and because the players don’t get paid, you end up paying the
coaches for the players they recruit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 