-- 
Oil Industry Meeting Offshore-Safety Rules, U.S. Regulator Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-11-29T19:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/oil-industry-meeting-offshore-safety-rules-u-s-regulator-says.html
The offshore-energy industry has
developed the resources to meet U.S. regulations imposed after
the  BP Plc oil spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico , allowing additional
exploration and leasing, the top federal regulator said.  The rules require that companies have access to deep-water
oil-spill containment and cleanup equipment, meet training
requirements and ensure that drilling gear passes tests.  “The good news is, industry is getting it, they are
meeting our standards,” Tommy Beaudreau, 39, said in an
interview today at Bloomberg’s Washington office. Agencies and
industry took  “some time to implement those heightened
standards, but those standards are real and they’re
meaningful.”  Letting London-based BP resume exploration in the Gulf
after the April 2010 spill was one of Beaudreau’s early
decisions after becoming the first director of  the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management  in October. The agency also has said it
plans to sell tracts in the western Gulf in December, and to
auction leases off the Louisiana and Mississippi coasts in May
or June.  Beaudreau joined the Interior Department in June 2010 to
help  Michael Bromwich , who was the top regulator for the Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, the
successor to the Minerals Management Service. They were
colleagues at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver and Jacobson LLP, a
 law firm  based in  New York .  The two men worked to create three agencies, splitting up
the service’s functions: the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement and the
 Office of Natural Resources Revenue .  Arctic Drilling  The ocean-energy bureau sells leases and approves
exploration plans, while the  enforcement bureau  hands out well-
drilling permits and verifies spill-response plans. The revenue
office collects royalty payments from energy companies.  Beaudreau said  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , which has said it
wants to drill as many as 10 wells in the next two years in
federal waters off  Alaska , “has more work to do” before
meeting U.S. conditions to begin.  The U.S. approved Shell’s exploration plan for the  Beaufort
Sea  in August and is reviewing the company’s proposal for the
neighboring  Chukchi Sea . The Beaufort Sea approval was
contingent upon Shell’s ability to demonstrate oil-spill
response capabilities in the Arctic environment.  “We are continuing to work with them to ensure that if any
drilling activity is to go forward in the Beaufort or the
Chukchi this coming drilling season in the summer, that they’re
prepared,” Beaudreau said.  Beaudreau, born in  Colorado , grew up in Anchorage, Alaska.
His father worked in Alaska’s North Slope oil industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  