-- 
Oil Rises for Third Day in New York as U.S. Consumer Confidence Increases

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-11-29T21:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/oil-increases-for-third-day-in-new-york-after-italian-treasury-bond-sale.html
Oil  rose for a third day in  New York 
after U.S. consumer confidence climbed by the most in more than
eight years and Iranian protesters broke into and vandalized the
British Embassy’s compound in Tehran.  Futures increased 1.6 percent as the Conference Board’s
 index  advanced to 56 in November from 40.9 in October, the
biggest monthly gain since April 2003. The embassy attack came a
week after the U.S. and U.K. imposed more sanctions on Iran,
OPEC’s second-largest oil producer, over its nuclear program.  “The consumer confidence numbers gave us a big pop,” said
 Phil Flynn , an analyst with PFGBest in  Chicago . “The concerns
about Iran are increasing. The attack on the British embassy is
an escalation and the new sanctions could have an impact on oil
supply in the near future.”  Crude oil for January delivery rose $1.58 to $99.79 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Nov. 16. Prices are up 9.2 percent this year.  Prices were little changed from the settlement after the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30
p.m. that U.S.  crude-oil inventories  rose 3.44 million barrels
to 339.2 million last week. January oil was up $1.48, or 1.5
percent, to $99.69 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:32 p.m.  Brent oil for January settlement gained $1.82, or 1.7
percent, to end the session at $110.82 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe Exchange.  The confidence gauge reached a four-month high, according
to the Conference Board, a New York-based private research
group. It exceeded the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists and signaled that consumers grew more
upbeat about employment and income prospects in the U.S., the
world’s largest oil-consuming country.  Iranian Protest  The protesters in  Iran  chanted slogans, including “death
to the U.K.” and “the U.K. Embassy must be shut,” state-run
Press TV reported from the scene.  Students seized the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and held 52
Americans hostage for 444 days during the 1979 revolution that
ousted pro-Western Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and brought Shiite
Muslim clerics to power. The crisis during the administration of
President  Jimmy Carter  led the U.S. to sever ties with Iran.  “The attack today reminds one of the Jimmy Carter years
and the seizure of the U.S. embassy,” Flynn said.  The revolution caused Iranian oil production to drop by 3.9
million barrels a day from 1978 to 1981, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Iran’s Foreign Ministry said the actions of a “small”
number of protesters to assault the embassy is “regrettable,”
Mehr news agency reported. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
said all British Embassy staff members and their dependents have
been accounted for following the storming of the mission’s two
compounds in Tehran.  Output Estimates  Iran  pumped  3.58 million barrels a day of oil in October,
according to Bloomberg News estimates, trailing only  Saudi
Arabia  among producers in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, the equivalent of
about a sixth of global consumption, flows through the Strait of
Hormuz, a narrow waterway between Iran and Oman at the mouth of
the  Persian Gulf , according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Oil prices  also rose as euro-area finance ministers
reapproved a 5.8 billion-euro ($7.7 billion) loan to  Greece 
under last year’s bailout after eliciting budget-austerity
pledges from Greek political leaders backing a unity government,
a European official said. Ministers from the 17-member monetary
union are meeting in Brussels tonight.  Oil Outlook  “The situation in Iran seems to be inching towards a
conclusion that won’t be good for the oil outlook,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
 Washington . “Also,  Europe  hasn’t fallen apart and may actually
be making progress in dealing with the debt crisis. That’s
helping both equities and the oil market because of the
implications it has for the economy.”  Demand for  Italy ’s 2014 bonds increased to 1.5 times the
amount on offer today from 1.35 times at the previous auction on
Oct. 28. The 2014 note yielded 7.89 percent, the highest level
since September 1996 for a three-year bond and up from 4.93
percent when similar-maturity debt was sold last month.  The U.S. Energy Department will probably report tomorrow
that  crude oil stockpiles  rose 50,000 barrels last week,
according to the median of 12 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 551,476
contracts as of 4:32 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 565,619
contracts yesterday, 15 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.3 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  