-- 
Olympus Takeover Scam Advisers Search Shines Light on Links to Hong Kong

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-11-29T07:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/olympus-probe-shines-light-on-hong-kong-links.html
Japanese bankers whose firm helped
 Olympus Corp. (7733)  conceal losses by channeling inflated fees on a
2008 takeover through offshore funds are operating in Hong Kong,
where they have run a web of shelf companies and rented luxury
apartments for at least eight years.  Akio Nakagawa and Takuya Ichimura, both senior executives
at boutique advisory firm Axes America LLC, are also founders of
PromoTech Investment Ltd., a Hong Kong company that may have
ties to another Olympus acquisition, ITX Corp. Both men gave the
same unit at  Pacific Place Apartments , a five-minute walk from
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  offices, as their
residential address in filings.  Olympus’s $2.1 billion takeover of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008
and other acquisitions are the subject of criminal probes in
Japan, the U.S. and U.K. after the camera maker admitted using
deals to cover up investment losses dating back decades. The
scandal highlights the role a global network of Japanese bankers
played in shuffling non-performing assets offshore so companies
could avoid booking their market value in a practice known as
“tobashi,” or “to make fly away.”  Olympus  officials in the past have denied there was any
connection with Axes other than its role as adviser on the Gyrus
deal. An independent panel was set up after the Tokyo-based
company on Nov. 8 admitted to the cover-up, using $670 million
in fees paid to a now-defunct Cayman Islands fund. It isn’t
clear where the money has gone or how it was used to erase
losses Olympus had kept hidden from its balance sheet.  Olympus spokesman Tsuyoshi Kitada said the company couldn’t
comment pending the outcome of the probes.  Luxury Apartment  No one answered the door last night at the 13th-floor unit
in the 270-room Pacific Place Apartments that Nakagawa gave as
his address in filings for  PromoTech . As early as 2003, Nakagawa
had rented a 12th-floor apartment in the same development, which
shares the Conrad Hotel’s tower in  Hong Kong ’s Admiralty
district.  A man who identified himself as the concierge yesterday
said no one answered the phone after he was asked to connect a
call to Nakagawa. The mailbox for the room Nakagawa claims as
his last address was empty last night. This morning, a man
identifying himself as the concierge confirmed both men are
residents.  The registered address of PromoTech in Hong Kong is a unit
in Central Plaza, in the Wan Chai district. The door to the
office was locked on Nov. 10 when a Bloomberg News reporter
called. A woman who declined to give her name refused to open
the locked glass doors and threatened to call the building
management. A return visit by two reporters yesterday yielded
the same response.  ‘A Long Time Ago’  Two years ago, PromoTech received a new investor: Shigenori Komuro, who took a 30 percent stake from Nakagawa.  Komuro is also the only listed director of Sky Ward Asia
Ltd., company filings show. Sky Ward offers brokerage services
to international clients, he said in an interview. Axes  Japan 
Securities Co. acted as an agent for Sky Ward on its purchase of
a stake in ITX Corp. in 2006, Japanese filings show.  On a Nov. 10 visit to Sky Ward, which has an office in the
same tower as PromoTech, Komuro said his ties to Axes happened
“a long time ago.”  When asked yesterday about his stake in Nakagawa’s
PromoTech at his room in the Renaissance Harbour View Hotel, he
denied any involvement in the Olympus deals and said he had no
comment on his relationship with Nakagawa and Ichimura, who both
hold Hong Kong identity cards, according to their filings. A man
speaking in Japanese answered the hotel phone this morning,
declined to identify himself and said Komuro wasn’t there.  Genesis, Zeus  Nakagawa and Ichimura’s ties to Hong Kong go back to at
least 2000, when they founded Genesis Partners ( Asia ) Ltd.
Cayman Islands-based Genesis Asset Management Inc. was the
owner, filings show.  Genesis Asset Management was later renamed Zeus Capital
Ltd., before being struck off in March 2010. Cayman Islands
rules mean the identities of the beneficial owners of Zeus
Capital aren’t publicly available. A fund called Genesis Venture
Capital Series 1 Ltd. was a co-investor with Olympus in a number
of acquisitions that are also now part of criminal probes.  The Cayman Islands companies registry also shows records
for a company called PromoTech Ltd., set up in 2004 and shut on
Dec. 31, 2007. PromoTech Investment was established in April the
same year. The Cayman Islands firm had its registered office at
Walkers Corporate Services Ltd., an arm of the law firm of the
same name used by Axes in the Gyrus takeover.  Axam, the defunct Caymans fund, shared the same post office
box address as Genesis  Venture Capital  and Zeus Capital,
registry filings show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Richardson in Hong Kong at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  