-- 
Olympus Ex-CEO Woodford Meets Prosecutors

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-11-29T22:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/olympus-whistleblower-woodford-meets-with-prosecutors-sec-investigators.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  whistle-blower  Michael Woodford  said he met for two hours today with U.S. prosecutors
and investigators for the Securities and Exchange Commission in
New York.  The former head of the Tokyo-based camera maker arrived at
the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Lower Manhattan  this morning for a
briefing with eight investigators from the  Justice Department ,
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and the SEC, he said in an
interview today. It was Woodford’s second meeting with
prosecutors; a prior meeting lasted three hours, he said.  “Different elements or parts of the Olympus story appeal
to different jurisdictions,” Woodford said, declining to detail
his talks with the U.S. government. “I’ve passed on everything
I know.”  Woodford was fired as president and chief executive officer
on Oct. 14 after he confronted the Olympus board about oversized
payments made to advisers in the acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc
in 2008. Olympus revealed this month that it used the purchase
of Gyrus and three other takeovers to hide decades-old
investment losses.  Japanese Investigators  Woodford, who remains an Olympus board member, has also met
with Japanese investigators, the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office and
members of Olympus’ independent panel probing $687 million in
payments to advisers Axes America LLC and Axam Investments Ltd.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange said 92-year-old Olympus may be
delisted as it faces regulatory and criminal probes at home and
abroad. President Shuichi Takayama has blamed former Chairman
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori and
auditor Hideo Yamada for the cover-up.  In a separate interview with Bloomberg television today,
Woodford said that Japanese authorities told him last week that
they “will follow this through to the end.”  “The tone from the top is very clear,” he said. “Every
stone must be turned.”  Television cameras from Japanese media outlets were waiting
for Woodford today outside the U.S. prosecutor’s office.
Woodford called his talks “constructive” and said a third
meeting has not been scheduled.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York, and SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to
comment on today’s meeting.  ‘Disappeared’  Woodford said he remained mystified about details of the
scandal. He said he never heard of Axes America or Axam
Investments until he began questioning subordinates about
payments. Nor had he heard of Japanese banker Hajime Sagawa, the
former president of Axes America who has been unheard from since
the scandal broke.  “He’s disappeared,” Woodford said. “It’s hard to
disappear in this world.”  Woodford said he was uncertain whether Japanese organized
crime syndicates, known as the yakuza, were involved in the
Olympus payments. “I haven’t seen any evidence of it,” he
said.  Woodford may pursue legal action against Olympus for firing
him.  “In good time I will follow that through,” he said. “I
will preserve my legal position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 