-- 
Thomas H. Lee Partners Said to Be Considering Bid for Yahoo

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-11-29T22:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/thomas-h-lee-partners-is-said-to-be-considering-a-takeover-bid-for-yahoo.html
Private-equity firm  Thomas H. Lee
Partners  is considering a bid for  Yahoo! Inc. , the Internet
company that’s exploring strategic options, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Boston-based firm hasn’t made a final decision on
whether it will make an offer for Yahoo, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Thomas H. Lee Partners joins a growing list of companies
that are sizing up offers for Yahoo. Private-equity firm Silver
Lake is working with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to bid for a minority stake
in Yahoo, two other people familiar with the matter said.
Andreessen Horowitz, a venture-capital firm, may join the Silver
Lake-led group, another person said.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, California, is exploring
strategic options after firing Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz , who faltered in a drive to repel competition from  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. Yahoo’s advisers asked that bids be
submitted this week, people close to the situation have said.  Robin Weinberg, a spokeswoman for Thomas H. Lee Partners,
declined to comment.  Thomas H. Lee Partners’ other investments include  Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc . and  Clear Channel Communications. (CCMO)   Yahoo gained 2.3 percent to $15.70 at the close in New
York. The shares have fallen 5.6 percent this year. Microsoft,
based in Redmond, Washington, slipped 0.1 percent to $24.84. Its
shares have fallen 11 percent this year.  Other Bidders  Private-equity firm TPG Capital has signed a non-disclosure
agreement to size up a possible bid, people close to the company
have said. KKR & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are among other
private-equity firms considering bids, people with knowledge of
the matter said last month.  Microsoft, rebuffed in a 2008 attempt to buy all of Yahoo,
would join other investors to safeguard its Web-search
partnership with Yahoo and bridge any financing gap a buyout
would require, people have said. Microsoft forged a 10-year
agreement to provide search technology to Yahoo sites under
Bartz. The deal was aimed at helping both companies vie with
Google, the leader in U.S. search-related advertising.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd .,  China ’s biggest e-commerce
company, has said it’s interested in acquiring Yahoo, in part to
buy back a stake the company owns. With a holding of about 40
percent, Yahoo is Alibaba’s biggest investor.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  The  New York  Times reported yesterday that Silver Lake is
working with Microsoft to submit an offer for a stake in Yahoo.
Reuters previously reported that Thomas H. Lee Partners is
weighing a bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  