-- 
Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Fall More Than Forecast, Case-Shiller Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-11-29T14:18:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-fell-more-than-forecast-in-year-to-september.html
Residential real estate prices
dropped more than forecast in the year ended September, showing
the industry at the center of the 2008 financial crisis
continues to struggle.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
dropped 3.6 percent in September from the same month in 2010
after decreasing 3.8 percent in the year ended August, the group
said today in  New York . The median forecast of 32 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey projected a 3 percent decrease.  Unemployment  at 9 percent, tight lending standards and a
looming supply of distressed properties that may drag down home
values further will probably keep hurting housing demand into
next year. Sliding prices have left some people with loans that
exceed the value of their properties, preventing them from
boosting spending on other goods and services.  “We continue to expect home prices to fall through mid-
2012,” said Anika Khan, an economist at  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “We still have an oversupply
of existing homes, and distressed transactions continue to drive
down  home prices .”  Stock futures held earlier gains after the report as demand
increased at  Italy ’s debt sale and finance ministers meet to
discuss the credit crisis. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index expiring next month climbed 0.2 percent to 1,193.9 at
9:17 a.m. in New York.  Survey Results  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for the price change
ranged from declines of 2.7 percent to 3.9 percent. The Case-
Shiller index is based on a three-month average, which means the
September data were influenced by transactions in July and
August.  The year-over-year decline in September was the smallest in
seven months.  Home prices adjusted for seasonal variations fell 0.6
percent in September from the prior month, the biggest decrease
since March, after falling 0.3 percent in August. Unadjusted
prices also decreased 0.6 percent from August as 17 of 20 cities
showed declines. Only Washington, New York and  Portland ,  Oregon ,
showed gains.  Atlanta,  Las Vegas  and Phoenix posted new post peak lows in
September, the report showed.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller group. The
panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Broad-Based Drop  Eighteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 9.8 percent drop in Atlanta.  Detroit  showed the biggest year-over-year increase, with
prices rising 3.7 percent in the 12 months to September.
Property values in Washington were up 1 percent.  Nationally, prices decreased 3.9 percent in the third
quarter from the same time in 2010. They increased 0.1 percent
from the previous three months before seasonal adjustment and
dropped 1.2 percent after taking those changes into account.  A pipeline of seized properties threatens to weigh on
prices even more as a temporary halt on foreclosures stemming
from faulty seizures comes to an end. In the third quarter, U.S.
lenders started foreclosures on more homes, the first increase
in a year, as bank moratoriums that clogged the pipeline abated.  “Housing market activity remained very weak,” minutes
from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Nov. 1-2 meeting showed
last week. “The large overhang of foreclosed and distressed
properties along with limited demand in an environment of
uncertainty about future home prices and tight underwriting
standards for  mortgage loans ” weighed on the market, it said.  New-Home Sales  Builders, which are competing with the 3.33 million unit
glut of previously owned homes, sold  fewer  new houses in the
U.S. than forecast in October, Commerce Department data showed
yesterday. Demand is on pace to reach 301,000 this year, less
than the 323,000 homes sold in 2010, which marked the fewest
sales since data-keeping began in 1963.  “We’re in a market that’s quite fragile,”  Ara Hovnanian ,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc. (HOV) , said during a Nov. 9 investor conference. “While
delinquency rates have taken a little dip, on the whole, there
is nothing that says that foreclosures are going to change
dramatically over the near term, however you define that.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  