-- 
U.S. City Home Prices Probably Fell More Slowly

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-probably-fell-at-a-slower-rate-in-september.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
probably fell at a slower pace and  consumer confidence  rose from
a two-year low, showing the economy is stabilizing, economists
said before reports today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
dropped 3 percent in September from the same month in 2010 after
decreasing 3.8 percent in the year ended August, according to
the median forecast of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The Conference Board’s  confidence  gauge climbed to 44 this month
from 39.8 in October, separate figures may show.  Unemployment at 9 percent, tight lending standards and a
looming supply of distressed properties that may drag down home
prices further will probably keep hurting demand into next year.
A pickup in employment is needed to boost consumers’ outlooks
and lift purchases of big-ticket items.  “Housing demand is still quite weak, things are just not
getting worse at the moment,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, a U.S.
economist at BNP Paribas in  New York . “The economy is just
muddling along.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index (SPX) , based on a three-month average,
is due at 9 a.m. New York time. Survey  estimates  ranged from
declines of 2.7 percent to 3.9 percent.  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer confidence
measure is due at 10 a.m. The Bloomberg survey  median  was based
on 70 estimates that ranged from 37 to 49.6.  Other surveys reflect a lack of optimism. The Bloomberg
Consumer  Comfort Index  stagnated in the week ended Nov. 20 at
levels previously reached only at depths of recessions.  At Recession Levels  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment was at 64.1 this month, little changed from
its average during the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009.  Better job prospects may help brighten consumers’ moods.
Nonetheless, the pace of hiring this month probably failed to
reduce unemployment, figures this week may show.  Employers boosted payrolls by 120,000 workers in November
and the  jobless rate  held at 9 percent, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed before a Labor Department report
on Dec. 2.  Job growth probably needs to pick up to stimulate enough
housing sales to reduce inventory and drive values up for a
sustained period. The Case-Shiller report will show home prices,
after adjusting for seasonal variations, fell 0.1 percent in
September from the prior month, according to the survey.  Better Gauge  The year-over-year gauges provide better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the  index. (S15HOME)   Additionally, a pipeline of seized properties threatens to
weigh on prices even more. In the third quarter, U.S. lenders
started foreclosures on more homes, the first increase in a
year, as bank moratoriums that clogged the pipeline dissipated.  “Housing market activity remained very weak,” minutes
from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Nov. 1-2 meeting showed
last week. “The large overhang of foreclosed and distressed
properties along with limited demand in an environment of
uncertainty about future home prices and tight underwriting
standards for  mortgage loans ” weighed on the market, it said.  Sliding prices and unemployment have discouraged new
housing construction. The Standard & Poor’s Homebuilder
Supercomposite Index has slumped 16 percent this year, compared
with a 5.2 percent decline for the S&P 500 Index.  “We’re in a market that’s quite fragile,”  Ara Hovnanian ,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc. (HOV) , a  Red Bank , New Jersey-based builder, said during a Nov. 9
investor conference. “While delinquency rates have taken a
little dip, on the whole, there is nothing that says that
foreclosures are going to change dramatically over the near
term, however you define that.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  