-- 
Once ‘Ugly’ Property Management Grows

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/once-ugly-property-management-grows-as-u-s-home-rentals-surge.html
Meg McKennon’s workload has surged
since the  Seattle  real estate agent switched to managing
residential properties. Now she gets paid for finding tenants
instead of buyers -- an easier task as rentals soar.  “In the past two months, my business probably came close
to tripling,” said McKennon, who started management company
 Dwellings Seattle Real Estate  in 2010 after selling houses for
15 years.  When a couple moved out of a two-bedroom house managed by
McKennon in August, before the lease was up, she increased the
monthly rent by $200 to $1,900 -- and still had her pick of
applicants. “I could have rented it 10 times over,” she said.  Just as the U.S. housing boom gave birth to such homebuyer
websites as  Zillow Inc.  and  Redfin Corp. , services for rental
properties are thriving following a surge in foreclosures and
stiffening of mortgage standards. Membership in the National
Association of Residential Property Managers has almost doubled
in five years to a record 3,400 members, according to the
Chesapeake, Virginia-based trade group.  “We are riding this sea change in how housing is changing
in the U.S.,” said Reggie Brown, chief executive officer of All
Property Management LLC, a Seattle-based Web service that sells
property managers leads on homeowners who want to lease out
their properties. “The only growth is rentals.”  Renter household formation  surpassed  new owner-occupied
homes in 2007 for the first time since 1985 and has held the
lead since, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. An average of
718,500 renter households a year were formed from 2007 to 2010,
while owner-occupied households decreased at an average annual
rate of 147,250 during the same period.  Even Seattle-based Zillow, known for its Zestimate home-
price estimates, added rental listings almost two years ago.  ‘Dramatic Shift’  “There has been a dramatic shift toward renting,” Chris
Herbert, research director of Harvard University’s  Joint Center
for Housing Studies , said in a telephone interview.  Property managers for rentals handle such tasks as
screening tenants, helping landlords set rents, resolving
disputes and ensuring lawns get mowed. They charge homeowners
about 8 percent to 14 percent of the monthly rent, depending on
the manager and city.  “It used to be no one did property management,” said Alan
Townsend, a San Diego real estate agent who has managed homes
for the past 16 years. “It was the ugly part of the business.”  Lower Pay  While one home sale can earn a real estate agent $10,000
for two months’ work, property managers may make $1,800 per
property per year, Townsend said.  “Real estate agents think we’re crazy -- except when they
have no income,” he said. “Those agents are now flooding into
the market.”  Property managers face a challenge in proving they are a
benefit to homeowners, said Rob LeRoy, marketing director for
Dwellings Seattle Real Estate.  “They are known to cut corners, have poor  customer service 
and tend to create hostile relationships with tenants -- at
least, that’s a common perception in the eyes of the public,”
he said. “We’ve certainly done our best to prove that property
management companies can behave ethically and professionally,
yet still be profitable.”  More competition has driven down the average fee for
property managers to about 8 percent of one month’s rent from 10
percent in the San Diego area, Townsend said.  Rentals Gain  At a time when many Americans are wary of buying a  home  or
can’t qualify for a mortgage, rentals are gaining in cities that
have relatively robust job growth, such as  Seattle , or pools of
transient workers, including  Washington ,  Los Angeles  and  Las
Vegas .  In the greater Washington, D.C., area, about 70 percent of
Reliance Property Management Group LLC’s 100-plus clients are
homeowners who were transferred out of the area by their
employers, said Angela Gammon, co-owner of the Leesburg,
Virginia-based company.  “We’re in a very transitional area with government
contractors -- military and so forth,” said Gammon, who used
 All Property Management  to find clients when she got into the
business in 2004.  U.S. apartment vacancies fell to a five-year low in the
third quarter, enabling landlords to increase rents to an
average effective rate of $1,004 a month from $997 in the second
quarter and $981 a year earlier, according to Reis Inc., a New
York-based real estate research company.  Attracting New Clients  “When rents go up, that gives people enough  cash flow  to
hire professional management,” said Diane Castanes, a partner
at  Phillips Real Estate Services  in Seattle, which manages about
140 apartment complexes as well as a portfolio of single-family
homes and condominium associations. “Now with the rental market
so strong, we are bringing in an increasing number of single-
family investors as new clients.”  Handling the rental -- and re-rental -- of a home is often
too much trouble for an owner, said Jay Young, co-founder of
Real Property Associates, a management company in Seattle.  “There are a lot of hairy things,” he said. “You can
have the best-screened tenant and who knows? Maybe they lose
their job, or go nuts and skip out, or bring a dog when the
owner doesn’t want that. I’d say 95 percent of the time things
go smoothly, but there’s always that 5 percent that takes 20 or
30 percent of your time.”  Competition for clients has intensified to the point where
many property managers are advertising their websites directly
on  search engines  rather than paying to list on a site such as
All Property Management’s, Brown said.  Here to Stay  Still, such services as All Property Management and
 RentList.com  probably are here to stay as property management
becomes more popular, said Michael E. Nelson, president of
 Excalibur Home Management LLC  in the Atlanta suburb of Cumming.
Nelson has used both services to find clients for Excalibur,
which manages about 1,250 properties and is expanding throughout
 Georgia .  Nelson said he expects more rental properties to shift to
professional management as regulations governing landlords
become more complex. A 2008 rule, for example, requires
renovations or repairs affecting lead-based paint in homes built
before 1978 to be carried out by a contractor certified by the
Environmental Protection Agency, he said.  Managed by Owners  It’s difficult to find precise figures for the percentage
of U.S. rental housing that’s professionally managed. The Census
Bureau surveyed rental-property owners and managers in 1995 and
is working on a new rental survey that will be released toward
the end of next year, said Richard A. Levy, a statistician at
the agency.  Of about 8.8 million single-family rental homes in the
U.S., including detached houses, condominiums and mobile homes,
about 19 percent were professionally managed and about 78
percent managed by owners, with non-responses accounting for the
remainder, according to the Census Bureau’s Property Owners and
Managers Survey in 1995.  “I believe over the next 20 years that’s going to start
shifting closer to 50-50,” Nelson said. “As the law becomes
more difficult for individual landlords to navigate, they’re
going to need to hire a professional property manager.”  It’s hard to make money overseeing single-family homes,
said Tim Overland, chief operating officer of both  Security
Properties , a Seattle-based apartment developer and investor,
and its management affiliate, Madrona Ridge Residential, which
handles about 3,000 apartment units.  “It’s a very low margin business and a low barrier to
entry business,” he said. “In order to make that business
financially feasible, you’ve got to have quite a few units under
management.”  Housing Crisis  Property management may have a role to play in fixing the
housing crisis, said Brown of All Property Management.  In August, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , regulator of
mortgage financiers  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,  sought  ideas on
handling  foreclosed homes  held by the government, which totaled
248,000 as of June -- almost one-third of the total U.S.
foreclosed homes seized by lenders. Brown filed a suggestion
with the FHFA that the homes be put up for rent with property
managers hired to oversee them.  “If institutions were more thoughtful about how they
manage their real estate portfolios, the market would recover
faster,” Brown said. “We can be a clearinghouse to help them
find skilled property managers.”  Housing probably won’t recover until 2015 as consumers and
banks reduce their debt loads and the employment market recovers
slowly, Brown said.  “What’s going to change is the percentage of U.S.
households that are rental versus owner-occupied,” he said.
“It’s now almost 40 percent, but that number is definitely
going to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  