-- 
Online Brokers Hurting From Stock-Trading Drop Push Options

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-11-29T22:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/online-brokers-in-u-s-hurting-from-decline-in-stock-trading-push-options.html
Glyn O’Connell is the kind of
customer online brokerage firms like  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) 
and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  want.  “I’ve spent more than $10,000 in commissions in past
years,” said O’Connell, a TD Ameritrade customer who lives in
 Brisbane ,  Australia , and transitioned from stocks to options and
futures. “You can easily recover that, but it adds up.”  Brokerages such as TD Ameritrade, Schwab,  Fidelity
Investments ,  E*Trade Financial Corp.  and Scottrade Inc. are
focusing on expanding their trading businesses beyond equities
as stock-trading revenue has declined and the volume of
options contracts has hit record highs, said Javier Paz, a
senior analyst at Aite Group, a research firm. They see options
as a way to diversify revenue sources and as a “launch pad”
for investors to adopt futures and currency trading, he said.  “ Options (SPX)  are kind of like the crack cocaine for brokerage
firms,” said  Andrew Stoltmann , a securities attorney in
 Chicago . “They’re easy money, huge commissions and they tend to
be extremely addictive for those who actually trade them.”  Those commissions mean there’s an economic incentive for
brokers to entice clients to add options to their portfolios
even though they can be risky and complicated, Stoltmann said.
He said he’s received about 15 calls in the past six months from
investors related to options trading compared with zero in the
past five years before then.  Options Trading Rises  Trading volume for options has risen every year since 2002,
and through October it’s up 22 percent, according to the
Chicago-based OCC, which clears and settles all options trades.
Equity-trading volume on average has declined 14 percent on the
 New York Stock Exchange  and 9.1 percent on the  Nasdaq (NDX)  this year
through October compared with the same period a year
earlier, data compiled by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association show.  Options users averaged 31 trades a year compared with 24
for non-options users, according to a 2010 survey prepared for
the Options Industry Council, an industry education group.  Options give the right, without the obligation, to buy or
sell a security, a commodity or an index’s cash value at a set
price by a specific date. Investors use them to generate income,
improve returns, hedge against declines or speculate on market
performance. The hedging capability gives investors “sleep
insurance” with proper education about them, said Alan
Grigoletto, director of education for the Chicago-based  Options
Industry Council .  High Commissions  Investors may lose money faster trading derivatives such as
options and futures if they don’t know what they’re doing
because those assets have higher leverage, Paz said.  It’s also vital that the technology brokerages provide for
options investors, such as downloadable software, works
seamlessly because traders rely on accurate pricing and fast
execution of trades to take advantage of quick market swings,
said Alex Camargo, an analyst on the securities and investment
team at Boston-based financial-research and consulting firm
Celent.  Options are profitable for brokers because they have high
commissions and as investors become more educated on options,
they use more complicated strategies requiring multiple
contracts, according to an August study by Celent.  TD Ameritrade, for example, charges $9.99 for each online
options order plus 75 cents per contract, according to its
website. There’s also an options exercise commission of $19.99
for some clients, according to  Kim Hillyer , a spokeswoman. The
firm charges $9.99 for each online stock trade.  Volatility Is Good  Investor confidence is fragile because of the financial
crisis in 2008 and continued market volatility, which has
increased competition to attract and retain the active trader
rather than those who buy and hold stocks, the Celent study
said.  Volatility is good for active traders, who may have more of
an opportunity to make money and invest than when markets are
sideways, said Steve Sanders, senior vice president of
business development for  Interactive Brokers Group Inc. (IBKR)  The
Greenwich, Connecticut-based online brokerage has about 186,000
users, Sanders said.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, increased 7.7 percent to 34.47 last week. That’s above the
20.55 average over the  21-year (VIX)  history of the gauge derived from
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index options.  ‘Split Second Timing’  O’Connell, the Australian investor, said he started trading
stocks about two decades ago, moved to options around 2005 and
switched to futures a couple of years ago so he could execute
orders in pre- and post-market hours.  “Any day trader is working on grabbing small movements on
a regular frequency,” said O’Connell, 50, who hasn’t traded as
often this year because of an illness. “It’s all about that
split second timing in execution.”  Getting existing brokerage clients to trade more frequently
is the focus for firms, said Paz of Boston-based Aite Group.
About 21 million U.S. households held stocks outside of their
retirement accounts in 2009 and about 1.9 million were active
traders, according to Aite Group estimates.  Firms such as Schwab, the largest independent U.S.
brokerage by client assets, and TD Ameritrade, the third largest
online brokerage, have opted to increase their active trading
businesses by acquiring competitors.  Acquiring Competitors  “By acquiring those platforms the companies get a built-in
base of higher-net-worth investors that trade more frequently as
well as more powerful functionality such as analytics and
complex-order support,” said  Andy Nybo , head of derivatives at
research firm Tabb Group.  TD Ameritrade bought options broker Thinkorswim for about
$749 million in 2009, according to Bloomberg data. The Omaha,
Nebraska-based firm acquired 87,000 retail client accounts
through the purchase, said spokeswoman Hillyer.  Schwab paid about $710 million for  OptionsXpress Holdings
Inc. (OXPS) , which had 397,400 client accounts as of June 30, according
to Alison Wertheim, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based
firm. That deal, which closed Sept. 1, will allow Schwab to
offer futures and foreign exchange trading, and to expand its
options capabilities, said Brian McDonald, senior vice president
of the firm’s active trader and core client experience groups.  “Most of our active traders start with equities, then move
into options and then some of the other derivatives such as
futures and forex,” McDonald said.  ‘Bigger Appetite’  Options traders at Schwab have three times the amount of
assets held at the company, six times the trading activity and
25 percent longer tenure compared with its average retail
client, according to the Celent study.  “Our interest in options is a direct result of client
interest,” said Wertheim. “We’ve seen a much bigger appetite
among affluent investors who are looking at options trading as a
means of generating income, and also from clients who trade
actively and are looking for more sophisticated options.”  Since investors who buy and sell options generally trade
more frequently and are more sophisticated, they’re very price
and service sensitive, said Camargo of Celent.  Harvey E. Cohen, 43, of  Miami Beach ,  Florida , traded as
much as $60 million in options contracts during his five years
as a TD Ameritrade customer, he said. Cohen, who formerly worked
as an analyst for Salomon Brothers and NatWest Securities, said
he repeatedly experienced problems including pricing and order
delays and an inability to access his account following TD
Ameritrade’s integration of Thinkorswim.  ‘Initial Hiccups’  “They always blamed someone else for the pricing and
execution problems,” said Cohen. After complaining to
executives including Steve Quirk, who oversees the firm’s
offerings for active traders, TD Ameritrade closed Cohen’s
accounts and those of his family members, he said. That forced
Cohen to move his money to E*Trade.  TD Ameritrade’s Chief Executive Officer Fred Tomczyk, 55,
declined to comment on individual clients. Tomczyk said the
company had some “initial hiccups” when integrating the
Thinkorswim platform causing some clients to have trouble
accessing their accounts. “That’s not unusual for an
integration, particularly one of that size,” he said in a
telephone interview last month. “Today all of those issues are
behind us.”  Record Trades  The acquisition of Thinkorswim has been a success, said
Tomczyk. In fiscal year 2011, TD Ameritrade saw record net new
assets of $41 billion and record average daily client trades of
399,000. Derivatives trading has increased to 32 percent of
daily trades from 14 percent for fiscal 2009, Tomczyk said.  Fidelity, E*Trade and Scottrade are improving their
existing capabilities and promoting investor education about
options.  Fidelity expanded its options tools this summer by
providing streaming prices for the web-based version of its
active trader platform, said Gregg Murphy, senior vice president
of brokerage products. The Boston-based mutual-fund company,
which is the second largest online broker, has seen about a 21
percent compound annual growth rate in average daily options
trades as of September this year compared with five years
earlier, Murphy said.  Options Education  The focus at  E*Trade  is to promote options trading
education among its existing customer base and prospective
clients, said Christopher Larkin, senior vice president for
retail trading and client service at the New York-based company,
which acquired options firms in 2004 and 2006. This year E*Trade
has hosted 78 live and web-based options-focused events reaching
almost 10,289 participants, and introduced new tools for options
traders at the end of October.  Scottrade, which started offering a separate platform
called OptionsFirst through third-party technology four years
ago, is holding national user summits, local branch office
seminars and hiring more people for options education, according
to Brian Bachelier, assistant director of active trading
services for the St. Louis-based broker. Since 2010, executed
options contracts at Scottrade have increased by almost 19
percent.  ‘Wiped Out’  Bank of America Corp.’s (BAC)  online wealth-management service,
 Merrill Edge , also offers options trading. Starting next month,
options pricing will drop to $6.95 a trade plus 75 cents per
contract as the standard pricing from $8.95 a trade and 75 cents
per contract, said Selena Morris, a spokeswoman for the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank.  “Options are at the forefront of brokers and brokerage
firms’ collective minds,” said Stoltmann, the securities
attorney. “But I don’t think most investors appreciate the true
risks of these things. It’s like rocket fuel on a fire and
people can be wiped out very, very quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net . Alexis Leondis in New York at 
   aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 