-- 
European Banks’ Ratings May Be Lowered by Moody’s as States Reduce Support

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   C h i t r a   S o m a y a j i
-- 
2011-11-29T09:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/moody-s-signals-possible-downgrade-for-euro-banks.html
Banks in 15 European nations,
including the largest lenders in  France ,  Italy  and  Spain , may
have their subordinated debt ratings cut by Moody’s Investors
Service Inc. to reflect the potential removal of government
support.  All subordinated, junior-subordinated and Tier 3 debt
ratings of 87 banks in countries where the subordinated debt
incorporates an assumption of government support were placed on
review for downgrade, the ratings company said in a statement
today. The subordinated debt may be cut on average by two
levels, with the rest lowered by one grade, Moody’s said.  Lenders in Spain, Italy,  Austria  and France have the most
ratings to be reviewed as governments in Europe face limited
financial flexibility and consider reducing support to
creditors, the rating company said. Moody’s has said that a
“rapid escalation” of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis threatens
the entire region. U.S. President  Barack Obama  renewed pressure
on European leaders to prevent a dismantling of the euro.  “Systemic support for subordinated debt may no longer be
sufficiently predictable or reliable to be a sound basis for
incorporating uplift into Moody’s ratings,” the company said in
the statement.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
fell 1.7 percent by 10:10 a.m. Central European Time, led by
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , KBC Groep and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG. (RBI)  The
euro was little changed after the Moody’s announcement, trading
at $1.3333 as of 9:15 a.m. in  London  from $1.3320 late yesterday
in  New York .  BNP Paribas (BNP) , UniCredit  Moody’s said the review will include banks such as BNP
Paribas SA and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s biggest lenders,
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s largest, and Spain’s  Banco Santander SA. (SAN) 
Zurich-based Credit Suisse AG and  UBS AG (UBSN)  will also be assessed,
according to a list of lenders published by Moody’s.  Agreeing on a sufficient response to Europe’s problems is
of “huge importance” to the U.S., Obama told reporters after
meeting yesterday with European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission President José Barroso. Finance
chiefs from the 17-member euro area will gather in Brussels
today to discuss how the European Financial Stability Facility
will boost its muscle by insuring sovereign debt with
guarantees.  Economists from banks including Morgan Stanley, UBS and
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said over the past week that governments
and the  European Central Bank  must step up their response.  Nomura,  Japan ’s largest brokerage, said in a statement late
yesterday that it reduced assets linked to Italy by 83 percent
from the end of September, and cut the value of assets linked to
Spain by 62 percent. Greek holdings were slashed 43 percent.  ‘Stark Trade-Off’  “Policy makers are increasingly unwilling and/or
constrained in their support for all classes of creditors, in
particular for subordinated debt holders,” Moody’s said today.  There have also been cases where countries have “faced an
increasingly stark trade-off between the need to preserve
confidence in their banking systems and the need to protect
their own balance sheets,” the statement said.  Banks will cut bond sales by 60 percent in  Europe  next year
as the sovereign debt crisis drives up issuance costs, Societe
Generale predicts. Lenders will sell 50 billion euros ($67
billion) of senior notes, down from a euro-era low of 121
billion euros so far this year, according to the French bank.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold European bank
bonds is the highest since May 5, 2009, widening to 424 basis
points on Nov. 25 from 336 on Oct. 31, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s EUR Corporates Banking index shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  