-- 
Osborne Forecasts Higher Borrowing as U.K. Recovery Slower Than Estimated

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-11-29T14:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/osborne-forecasts-higher-borrowing-as-u-k-recovery-slower-than-estimated.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said U.K. economic growth will be slower than forecast
this year and next, forcing the government to borrow more and
extend spending cuts to narrow the budget deficit.  Growth will be 0.9 percent in 2011, half the 1.7 percent
forecast in March, and 0.7 percent next year, less than a third
of the previously predicted 2.5 percent, Osborne said, citing
figures from the  Office for Budget Responsibility . The deficit
will reach 120 billion pounds ($188 billion) in the financial
year ending in March 2013, more than the 101 billion pounds
previously forecast, the chancellor said. More than 700,000
government employees will lose their jobs by 2017, the OBR said.  “Our debt challenge is even greater than we thought
because the boom was even bigger, the bust even deeper and the
effect will last even longer,” Osborne told lawmakers during
his end-of-year financial statement to the  House of Commons  in
 London  today. “If the rest of Europe heads into recession it
may prove hard to avoid one here in the U.K.”  The downgraded growth forecasts open Osborne up to further
attack from the opposition  Labour Party , which says the severity
of the chancellor’s budget-deficit program has added to
unemployment, shattered consumer confidence and failed to stem
the pace of borrowing. Osborne says investors trust his plan and
that is reflected in record-low bond yields.  Pound Rises  Ten-year  government bonds  advanced, with yields down 5
basis points at 2.22 percent at 2:01 p.m. London time, below the
2.31 percent on German bonds of similar maturity. The  pound  rose
0.5 percent to $1.5594.  “Growth is flatlining, down this year, down next year,
unemployment rising,” and projected  government borrowing  is
more than 100 billion pounds more than the chancellor set out a
year ago,  Ed Balls , Labour’s economic spokesman told lawmakers.
“His economic fiscal strategy is in tatters. Plan A has failed
and failed colossally.”  The chancellor said spending will be cut by 0.9 percent a
year in real terms starting in April 2015, adding to 80 billion
pounds of reductions already planned, so that he can meet his
target of eliminating the structural budget deficit. That will
extend the duration of the austerity plan by two years.  Osborne said the growth forecasts for 2013 and 2014 had
been lowered to 2.1 percent and 2.7 percent respectively. The
deficit will increase by a cumulative 112 billion pounds over
five years.  “Britain will pay its way in the world,” Osborne said.  Pay Squeeze  Savings will be made by squeezing the pay of state workers,
who are already planning to go on strike tomorrow over curbs to
their pensions, so that incomes increase by no more than 1
percent after the current freeze ends in 2013.  “In the current circumstances the country cannot afford
the 2 percent rise assumed by some government departments, so
instead we will set public-sector pay awards at an average of 1
percent for each of the two years after the pay freeze ends,”
Osborne said. The Treasury is also examining “how public-sector
pay can be made more responsive to local labor markets,” the
chancellor said.  The public-sector payroll will fall by 710,000 in the six
years through the first quarter of 2017, the OBR said. It
previously predicted the loss of 400,000 jobs in the five years
through the first quarter of 2016. The OBR expects the cuts to
be offset by the creation of 1.7 million private-sector jobs.  ‘Reassure Markets’  “The political consensus within the coalition for deficit
reduction is holding,” Ian Stewart, chief economist at
Deloitte LLP in London, said in an e-mail. “This will reassure
markets that have been unsettled by the political gridlock over
deficit reduction in the U.S. and by the huge uncertainties
about the ability of euro-area governments to manage and finance
budget deficits.”  Osborne said the U.K. will introduce a 40 billion-pound
“credit-easing” program to spur growth by using low borrowing
rates available to the government to support lending to small
and medium-sized companies.  The government agreed with  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  to reduce the part of the central bank’s asset-purchase
facility used to buy company debt by 40 billion pounds, Osborne
said. Funding under the credit-easing program will be allocated
to retail banks by the Bank of England depending on how much
they increase net and gross lending to companies, he said.  Planning Laws  The burden of regulation on businesses will be cut, Osborne
said, making it easier to fire people and changing the planning
laws to reduce the costs to companies. Small companies will also
see their tax bills cut, Osborne said.  “We will cut the burden of health and safety rules on
small firms because we have a regard for the health and safety
of the British economy too,” Osborne said. “It’s no good
endlessly comparing ourselves with other European countries. The
entire continent is pricing itself out of the world economy.”  Osborne announced measures designed to relieve the burden
on squeezed families, including canceling an increase in fuel
duty of 3 pence per liter scheduled for January 2012. The
government will provide funds to limit rail fare increases to 1
percentage point more than retail-price inflation, rather than 3
points. Mortgage indemnities will also help 100,000 families buy
new built homes, Osborne said.  ‘Cost of Living’  “People know how difficult things are, how little money
there is, but where we can help with the rising cost of living,
we will,” Osborne said. “The government can use the low
 interest rates  we’ve secured to help young families too, who
want to buy a home but can’t afford the very large deposits that
banks are now demanding.”  Osborne blames the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area
for the deteriorating outlook. King said yesterday said the U.K.
is being “increasingly threatened” by the euro-area crisis,
and authorities must be ready to act if it continues to
escalate.  The government’s forecasts were preceded yesterday by a
similarly gloomy outlook for the U.K. from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, which said the U.K. may
already be in recession and predicted that the Bank of England
will probably add to stimulus early next year.  “We expect further growth downgrades to push the borrowing
forecasts even higher in future budgets and statements,
deepening concerns about the U.K.’s fiscal position and testing
Osborne’s commitment to his own rules,”  Jonathan Loynes , chief 
European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in 
a note to investors. “For now though, the fact that the
chancellor has stuck to his plans should maintain the gilt
market’s status as a safe haven from ever-widening troubles in
the euro zone.”  U.K. retail sales unexpectedly fell in November at the
fastest pace in almost three years, according to a survey
published yesterday by the  Confederation of British Industry .
 Consumer confidence  declined to a record low in October,
 Nationwide Building Society  said on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  