-- 
Osborne’s Deficit-Reduction Targets Seen at Risk as U.K. Economy Stagnates

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-11-29T08:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/osborne-s-deficit-reduction-targets-seen-at-risk-as-u-k-economy-stagnates.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s plan to reduce Britain’s budget deficit is under
pressure from an economy that is bordering on its second
recession in three years, according to a Treasury survey.  Government predictions today will show that Osborne needs
to borrow an extra 86 billion pounds ($133 billion) over the
four fiscal years to April 2015 as growth forecasts are lowered
to just under 1 percent this year and cut by more than half for
2012, the  survey of 14 economists  published this month shows.  “While official projections for public borrowing are
likely to be revised higher in response to weaker economic
growth, there is little chance of a volte-face in fiscal policy
that would fray bondholders’ nerves,” Andrew Kenningham, an
economist at  Capital Economics  in London, said in a note to
clients.  Osborne says he will “do what it takes” to maintain
Britain’s credibility with investors and shield the U.K. from
the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area. A Treasury official
said the government’s fiscal credibility has reduced debt-
interest costs by more than 21 billion pounds from forecasts
made in March.  The deteriorating outlook means Osborne may have to extend
spending cuts, so that austerity continues during the first two
years after the next general election due to take place in 2015.  More Pain  “An even longer period of fiscal consolidation probably
lies ahead,”  Michael Saunders , chief European economist at
Citigroup in  London , said in a note to customers.  The government’s forecasts, prepared by the  Office for
Budget Responsibility  and due be presented to Parliament by
Osborne at 12:30 p.m., will show the economy expanding at a
slower pace than the 1.7 percent rate seen eight months ago.  Barclays Capital  expects growth to be as low as 0.9 percent
this year. Growth next year is unlikely to be better, with
Citigroup predicting as little as 0.7 percent. The survey
average was 1.1 percent.  “We would be surprised if the OBR pitches its forecast in
recessionary territory, but probably instead look to a period of
stagnation over much of 2012,” said  Philip Shaw , chief
economist at Investec Securities in London.  Jobless claims will rise to 1.75 million next year while
inflation will fall to its 2 percent target by 2013, the survey
shows.  U.K. government bonds opened higher, pushing the 10-year
gilt yield down four basis points to 2.23 percent at 8:12 a.m.
London time. The pound was little changed at $1.5517.  Political Divide  The deteriorating economic outlook and worsening public
finances has intensified the government’s battle with the
opposition  Labour Party , which says Osborne’s austerity plan is
too aggressive given the weakness of the global economy.  “They said if we go faster on  deficit reduction , it would
lead to private-sector jobs, to growth, to confidence, to
falling unemployment, but it hasn’t worked,”  Ed Balls , who
shadows Osborne in Parliament, told  BBC television  this week.  The weak outlook led the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development to say that the  Bank of England  will
probably add to stimulus early next year as the economy slides
back into recession.  The Paris-based organization forecasts the central bank
will increase its  asset-purchase target  by 125 billion pounds in
early 2012, boosting the program to 400 billion pounds.  ‘Headwinds Are Strong’  “More support is needed urgently as headwinds are
strong,” the OECD said in a report yesterday, citing falling
government and  consumer spending  and weakening global growth.
“Quantitative easing should be expanded further still if the
economy weakens more than expected.”  Osborne will announce fiscally neutral ways of boosting
economic activity, including a 20 billion-pound “credit
easing” program in which the government underwrites small
company lending. He will also propose tapping pension-fund
savings to inject 30 billion pounds into infrastructure projects
and extend a child-care program for 260,000 poor children valued
650 million pounds over three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  