-- 
Osborne Increases U.K. Bank-Levy Rate, Keeps Revenue Target

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-11-29T17:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/osborne-increases-bank-levy-rate-to-0-088-versus-0-075-.html
The U.K.’s bank levy is being
increased for a second time to ensure the Treasury raises 2.5
billion pounds ($3.9 billion) annually, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said.  The decision was made after the taxable assets held by the
banks shrank, which would have cut the  tax revenue  received,
according to a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be named.  Eight months ago, the government raised the levy for next
year to offset a planned cut in corporation tax. The rate will
increase to 0.088 percent starting on Jan. 1, Osborne said in
his end-of-year statement to the House of Commons today, up from
the 0.078 percent figure he set in March .  “In response to market pressures, banks are slashing their
exposure to flightier sources of funds; therefore, a lower-than-
expected levy could be seen as a success in terms of altering
banks’ behavior,” said Jason Karaian, an analyst at the
Economist Intelligence Unit, a research group. “Now, it seems
that the levy is purely a revenue-raising exercise, rather than
a spur for lenders to change their ways.”  The levy will raise 2.1 billion pounds for the 2012 fiscal
year and 2.7 billion pounds per annum for the next two financial
years, according to the U.K.’s  Office for Budget Responsibility 
in their report  today .  Corporation tax will be reduced by 2 percentage points in
April and will be cut by 1 percentage point in each of the
following three years, the government has said, offsetting some
of the impact for British companies, banks included.  Business Loans  “The banks are committed to playing their part in
restoring the public finances through the many different taxes
they pay,” British Bankers’ Association Chief Executive Officer
 Angela Knight  said in an e-mailed statement today. “But a
stable tax regime is important: banks of all nationalities do
business around the world from here and they pay tax here.
Certainty is an important requirement.”  In a separate plan, the government will also guarantee 20
billion pounds of lending to smaller businesses, defined as
companies with revenue of 50 million pounds or less, in the next
two years, Osborne said.  U.K. banks will be able to raise money while the state
guarantees the loans, allowing the banks to borrow at lower
rates. This should mean companies can use the U.K.’s top-notch
credit rating to pay as much as a percentage point less in
interest, Osborne said. The  Bank of England  has developed a plan
to allocate the guarantee among the banks, he said.  “The test will, of course, be whether businesses start to
do more to develop new markets, innovate, invest and recruit as
a result,” John Maltby, group director of commercial at  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  