-- 
Hospira May Face ‘Widespread’ Production Glitches, RBC Analyst Says

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-11-29T22:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/hospira-may-face-widespread-production-glitches-rbc-says.html
Hospira Inc. (HSP) , the maker of generic
injectable drugs, may face “widespread” production breakdowns
that could take two to three years to correct, an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets LLC said.  Hospira dropped 9.1 percent to $28.17 at the close of
trading, the lowest price since March 23, 2009. The problems may
indicate a systemic issue that will have to be rectified long
term, Shibani Malhotra, an RBC analyst in  New York , said in a
note today. The shares’ decline may leave the  Lake Forest ,
Illinois-based company vulnerable to a takeover, Malhotra said
in an e-mail.  “As the price falls, you could have interested parties and
I would not say Hospira would have to clear the issues,”
Malhotra said. “But I would find it difficult to see a buyer
stepping in without knowing the extent of what they are dealing
with. This would take at least six to 12 months, in my view.”  Interviews with consultants working with companies that are
regulated by the  Food and Drug Administration  suggest the
federal agency may obtain a consent decree to ensure violations
at Hospira are fixed, Malhotra said. Hospira has been working to
correct flaws that led to recalls of two drugs in 2009 and 2010.  Hospira’s manufacturing issues are “far greater than
investors realize,” Malhotra said in the note. While she didn’t
detail the flaws, she did say the violations were across
“multiple facilities; perhaps even globally.”  Michael Jackson   The two medicines recalled were propofol -- the anesthetic
that killed Michael Jackson -- and liposyn, an intravenous
nutritional product.  Dan Rosenberg, Hospira’s spokesman, said the drugmaker is
committed to addressing the FDA’s concerns.  “Hospira has an unwavering commitment to quality and
safety,” Rosenberg said in a telephone interview. The company
is “working diligently to make sure we fully comply with the
agency’s expectations.” He said Hospira doesn’t comment on
“hypothetical developments or market activity.”  The two drugs were recalled on April 1, 2010 after the
company told the FDA that production had been contaminated with
particulates. The agency followed up with a warning letter.
Hospira had recalled the same drugs in October, 2009, because of
an equipment failure at a manufacturing facility in Clayton,
 North Carolina .  Hospira also received a warning letter in April of this
year related to its Austin, Texas, manufacturing plant, where
the company has been working on new medicines that haven’t yet
been approved, said Kevin Kedra, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in
Rye, New York. While the defects vary from factory to factory,
the production breakdowns indicate a lack of oversight, Kedra
said.  “General quality control standards don’t seem to be up to
snuff,” Kedra said in a telephone interview. “Whether there is
more trouble to come poses a risk to the stock.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Pat Wechsler at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  