-- 
Most EU States Prefer National Bank Guarantees, Draft Shows

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-11-29T11:38:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/most-eu-states-prefer-national-bank-guarantees-draft-shows-1-.html
European Union nations prefer to set
up bank-guarantee plans at the national level rather than
through a central coordinator or syndicated program, a draft EU
document shows.  National efforts to support the banking industry are the
only option “that could be activated swiftly,” according to
the document, which was prepared for meetings of EU finance
ministers today and tomorrow in Brussels. The document, dated
Nov. 28, assesses other options for more closely linked banking
aid that failed to draw broad support.  “A majority of  member states  affirmed their preference for
the setting-up of national but closely coordinated guarantee
schemes,” according to the document, which was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  As governments try to regain the confidence of financial
markets, ministers will seek to agree this week on the best way
to support Europe’s banks, in line with an October agreement by
EU leaders to aid the banking industry. October’s pact also laid
out a new strategy to combat the sovereign-debt crisis and to
craft a second rescue package for Greece.  Euro-area finance chiefs meeting tonight also will discuss
using the European Financial Stability Facility to insure bonds
of troubled governments. Under guidelines to be considered
today, the EFSF may grant guarantees of up to 30 percent, to be
determined in light of market circumstances. The ministers also
will decide on releasing the region’s share of an 8 billion-euro
($10.7 billion) loan installment for  Greece .  ‘Serious Concerns’  The 27 EU ministers are “expected to ensure a speedy
implementation” of the banking plans, which also include
requiring 70 large EU lenders to hold core capital equivalent to
9 percent of their risk-weighted assets, the draft shows.  Governments nevertheless have “serious concerns” that the
forced capital raising could “prejudice an adequate supply of
lending to the real economy or put excessive additional pressure
on sovereign debt,” according to the document. Regulators
should assess the need for “possible mitigating measures” when
examining lenders’ capital raising plans, it says.  Earlier this month, ministers were weighing an option to
aggregate national guarantees under a pooled or syndicated
program. This plan, as envisioned, would present a common front
without increasing the direct liabilities of EU governments.  Some nations are of the view that syndicated guarantees may
present “a number of critical risks,” the document says,
including that the system could take too long to set up.  State-Aid Rules  Some EU governments are calling for regulators to
reconsider new state-aid rules for pricing bank guarantees that
are aimed at shielding banks in states roiled by  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis from extra costs, the document says. The
European Commission’s proposed reduction of an add-on fee for
guarantees “should be further explored” and “a more balanced
weight” for pricing the risks of banks and states “should be
considered,” the document said.  The Brussels-based commission this week will publish rules
on state aid for lenders that may dilute the effect of turmoil
in the  euro area  on the fees that banks have to pay for
guarantees on their loans and bonds, said two people familiar
with the situation last week.  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said today that banks in 15
European nations, including the largest lenders in France, Italy
and  Spain , may have their subordinated debt ratings cut to
reflect the potential removal of government support.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  