-- 
How Paulson Gave Hedge Funds Advance Word of Fannie Mae Rescue

-- B y   R i c h a r d   T e i t e l b a u m
-- 
2011-11-29T17:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/how-henry-paulson-gave-hedge-funds-advance-word-of-2008-fannie-mae-rescue.html
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson 
stepped off the elevator into the Third Avenue offices of hedge
fund Eton Park Capital Management LP in Manhattan. It was July
21, 2008, and market fears were mounting. Four months earlier,
Bear Stearns Cos. had sold itself for just $10 a share to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Now, amid tumbling  home prices  and near-record
foreclosures, attention was focused on a new source of
contagion:  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, which together had more
than $5 trillion in mortgage-backed securities and other debt
outstanding, Bloomberg Markets reports in its January issue.  Paulson had been pushing a plan in Congress to open lines
of credit to the two struggling firms and to grant authority for
the Treasury Department to buy equity in them. Yet he had told
reporters on July 13 that the firms must remain shareholder
owned and had testified at a Senate hearing two days later that
giving the government new power to intervene made actual
intervention improbable.  “If you have a bazooka, and people know you have it,
you’re not likely to take it out,” he said.  On the morning of July 21, before the Eton Park meeting,
Paulson had spoken to  New York  Times reporters and editors,
according to his Treasury Department schedule. A Times article
the next day said the Federal Reserve and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency were inspecting Fannie and Freddie’s
books and cited Paulson as saying he expected their examination
would give a signal of confidence to the markets.  A Different Message  At the Eton Park meeting, he sent a different message,
according to a fund manager who attended. Over sandwiches and
pasta salad, he delivered that information to a group of men
capable of profiting from any disclosure.  Around the conference room table were a dozen or so hedge-
fund managers and other Wall Street executives -- at least five
of them alumni of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , of which Paulson was
chief executive officer and chairman from 1999 to 2006. In
addition to Eton Park founder  Eric Mindich , they included such
boldface names as Lone Pine Capital LLC founder Stephen Mandel,
 Dinakar Singh  of TPG-Axon Capital Management LP and Daniel Och
of Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC.  After a perfunctory discussion of the market turmoil, the
fund manager says, the discussion turned to  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac. Paulson said he had erred by not punishing Bear
Stearns shareholders more severely. The secretary, then 62, went
on to describe a possible scenario for placing Fannie and
Freddie into “conservatorship” -- a government seizure
designed to allow the firms to continue operations despite heavy
losses in the mortgage markets.  Stock Wipeout  Paulson explained that under this scenario, the common
stock of the two government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs,
would be effectively wiped out. So too would the various classes
of preferred stock, he said.  The fund manager says he was shocked that Paulson would
furnish such specific information -- to his mind, leaving little
doubt that the Treasury Department would carry out the plan. The
managers attending the meeting were thus given a choice
opportunity to trade on that information.  There’s no evidence that they did so after the meeting;
tracking firm-specific short stock sales isn’t possible using
public documents.  And law professors say that Paulson himself broke no law by
disclosing what amounted to inside information.  Rampant Rumors  At the time, rumors about Fannie and Freddie were tearing
through the markets. The government-chartered firms’ mandate,
which continues today, is to buy mortgages from banks and
repackage them into securities either for their own portfolios
or to sell to others. The banks can then use the proceeds from
those transactions to write new mortgages.  By mid-2008, delinquencies and foreclosures were soaring,
and the GSEs set aside billions of dollars against future
losses. In the first six months of 2008, they racked up net
losses of $5.46 billion as they slashed dividends and marked
down the values of their huge inventories of mortgage-backed
securities.  On Wall Street, confusion reigned. UBS AG analyst Eric Wasserstrom on July 10 cut his share price target on Freddie to
$10 from $28. The next day,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  analyst Bradley Ball
reiterated a “buy” recommendation on the two GSEs. On July 12,
the Times of  London , without citing a source, reported that
Paulson was contemplating a $15 billion capital injection into
the firms.  Shares Rally  At the time Paulson privately addressed the fund managers
at Eton Park, he had given the market some positive signals --
and the GSEs’ shares were rallying, with Fannie Mae’s nearly
doubling in four days.  William Black, associate professor of economics and law at
the University of Missouri-Kansas City, can’t understand why
Paulson felt impelled to share the Treasury Department’s plan
with the fund managers.  “You just never ever do that as a government regulator --
transmit nonpublic market information to market participants,”
says Black, who’s a former general counsel at the Federal Home
Loan Bank of  San Francisco . “There were no legitimate reasons
for those disclosures.”  Janet Tavakoli , founder of Chicago-based financial
consulting firm Tavakoli Structured Finance Inc., says the
meeting fits a pattern.  “What is this but crony capitalism?” she asks. “Most
people have had their fill of it.”  A Lawyer’s Advice  The fund manager who described the meeting left after
coffee and called his lawyer. The attorney’s quick conclusion:
Paulson’s talk was material nonpublic information, and his
client should immediately stop trading the shares of Washington-
based Fannie and McLean, Virginia-based Freddie.  Seven weeks later, the boards of the two firms voted to go
into conservatorship under the newly created Federal Housing
Finance Agency. The takeover was effective Sept. 6, a Saturday,
and the companies’ stock prices dropped below $1 the following
Monday, from $14.13 for Fannie Mae and $8.75 for  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  on
the day of the meeting. Various classes of preferred shares lost
upwards of 85 percent of their value.  A complete list of those at the Eton Park meeting isn’t
publicly available. A Treasury Department roster of those
expected to attend, obtained by Bloomberg News under the Freedom
of Information Act, includes Ripplewood Holdings LLC CEO Timothy Collins, who says, through a spokesman, that he didn’t
participate.  Storied Investors  At least one fund manager who wasn’t listed in the FOIA
document, Daniel Stern of Reservoir Capital Group, did attend,
says the manager who described the meeting.  The gathering comprised some of Wall Street’s most storied
investors. Mindich, a former chief strategy officer of New York-
based Goldman Sachs, started Eton Park in 2004 with $3.5
billion, at the time one of the biggest hedge-fund launches
ever. Singh, a former head of Goldman’s proprietary-trading
desk, also began his fund in 2004, in partnership with private-
equity firm Texas Pacific Group Ltd.  Lone Pine’s Mandel worked as a retail analyst at Goldman
before joining Julian Robertson’s Tiger Management LLC, one of
the most successful hedge funds of the 1980s and 1990s. He
started his own firm in 1997. Och was co-head of U.S. equity
trading at Goldman before founding Och-Ziff in 1994. The
publicly listed firm managed $28.9 billion in November.  Goldman Alums  One other Goldman Sachs alumnus was at the meeting: Frank Brosens, founder and principal of Taconic Capital Advisors LP,
who worked at Goldman as an arbitrageur and who was a protege of
Robert Rubin, who went on to become Treasury secretary.  Non-Goldman Sachs alumni who attended included short seller
 James Chanos  of Kynikos Associates Ltd., who helped uncover the
Enron Corp. accounting fraud; GSO Capital Partners LP co-founder
Bennett Goodman, who sold his firm to  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in
early 2008; Roger Altman, chairman and founder of New York
investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) ; and Steven Rattner, a
co-founder of private-equity firm Quadrangle Group LLC, who went
on to serve as head of the U.S. government’s Automotive Task
Force.  Another person in attendance: Michele Davis, then-assistant
secretary for public affairs at the Treasury Department, who now
represents Paulson as a managing partner at public relations
firm Brunswick Group Inc. In an e-mail response to Bloomberg
Markets, she referred all questions to Paulson’s book on the
financial crisis, “On the Brink” (Business Plus, 2010), which
makes no mention of the Eton Park meeting.  Paulson Thinktank  Paulson is now a distinguished senior fellow at the
University of Chicago, where he’s starting the  Paulson
Institute , a think tank focused on U.S.-Chinese relations.  Eton Park’s Mindich, Lone Pine’s Mandel, TPG-Axon’s Singh
and  Och-Ziff (OZM) ’s Och all declined to comment through spokesmen.
Reservoir’s Stern didn’t return phone calls. Altman, through a
spokesman, confirmed his attendance and declined to comment
further.  Brosens confirmed in an e-mail that he had attended and
said he couldn’t recall details. A spokesman for Rattner
acknowledged he attended and said he didn’t trade in Fannie Mae-
or Freddie Mac-related instruments after the meeting. Chanos
declined to comment.  A Blackstone spokesman confirmed in an e-mail that GSO’s
Goodman attended the meeting. Blackstone doesn’t believe market-
sensitive information was discussed, and in any event Blackstone
didn’t take any positions in Fannie or Freddie between the
luncheon and Sept. 6, he wrote.  Strong Short Interest  Records show that many investors were betting against
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac at the time. According to  Data
Explorers Ltd. , a London-based research firm, short interest in
Fannie Mae shares rose sharply in July, to 163 million shares on
July 14 from 86.3 million shares on July 9.  Short Interest continued to rise, to 240 million shares, on
the day of the Eton Park meeting; it hit 262 million on July 24,
its high for the year. Freddie Mac’s short interest showed a
similar trajectory.  Revelations about the meeting come at a sensitive time.  “The optics are awful; there’s no doubt about it,” says
professor Larry Ribstein of the University of Illinois College
of Law in Champaign. “Everyone knows that insider trading is a
huge issue.”  Rajat Gupta, the former head of McKinsey & Co. who was a
member of Goldman’s board, was indicted by a federal grand jury
on Oct. 26 for disclosing nonpublic information on Goldman and
other companies to Raj Rajaratnam, a hedge-fund manager who
earlier in October was sentenced to 11 years in prison for
profiting from inside information provided by a web of industry
insiders, including Gupta.  Gupta has pleaded not guilty.  LightSquared Probe  Several U.S. agencies face increased scrutiny in Congress
for possible improper disclosures or ties to hedge funds.
Senators are looking into whether the U.S. Department of
Education divulged nonpublic details about new rules being
considered to regulate for-profit educational institutions to
outsiders, including  Steven Eisman , former managing director of
FrontPoint Partners LLC, who held short positions in the sector.  Education Department spokesman Justin Hamilton denies any
impropriety. Eisman hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing.  In October, Republican Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa
asked hedge-fund manager  Philip Falcone  for copies of all
communications between his Harbinger Capital Partners and the
Department of Commerce, the Federal Communications Commission
and the White House. Grassley is looking into whether Falcone
improperly sought to influence regulators and the White House
while seeking approvals for LightSquared Inc., the company
constructing a broadband wireless network his fund is
bankrolling.  ‘Government Information’  Robin Roger, general counsel for the fund’s management
firm, says any assertion that the fund or LightSquared tried to
improperly influence regulators is unfounded.  For government officials, the leaking of market-sensitive
information, even if inadvertent, represents an ethical
minefield.  “There’s a lot of government information out there, and
the hedge funds are trying to get it,” says  Richard Painter , a
law professor at the University of Minnesota who advised the
Bush administration on Paulson’s sale of his Goldman stock when
he became Treasury secretary. “It’s a huge problem that has to
be addressed.”  The rules for what can or cannot be disclosed by government
officials are often either unclear or nonexistent.  Tipping Hands  “The bottom line is that senior-level people in
Washington, in the name of keeping in touch with their
stakeholders, are tipping their hands,” says Adam Zagorin, a
senior fellow at the Project on Government Oversight, a
Washington watchdog group. “You can’t prosecute them for
insider trading if they didn’t trade the shares. You may not be
able to even reprimand them. What the hell are the rules?”  An official such as Paulson has no legal obligation to keep
material nonpublic information to himself, says Phillip Kaplan,
partner for litigation at Manatt Phelps & Phillips LLP, where he
specializes in securities and class-action cases.  “I don’t think a government person is liable,” he says.
“He didn’t profit from the information or trade on it.”  In the rapidly evolving world of insider-trading
prosecutions, that could change, says the University of
Illinois’s Ribstein, adding that the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission is taking a broader view of what constitutes
insider trading. SEC Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami, who
can bring only civil cases, and the Justice Department, which
can mount criminal prosecutions, have cast their net wide,
Ribstein says.  Small Players Sued  In addition to going after big names like Rajaratnam and
Gupta, the authorities are suing and indicting smaller players
who might not have been prosecuted in the past, like accountants
and analysts at so-called expert networks, who sell their
expertise to hedge funds.  The University of Missouri’s Black says there’s no question
that the plan to take over Fannie and Freddie -- however
uncertain -- was material nonpublic information that could not
be lawfully traded on. “What Paulson said put those managers in
an untenable position,” he says. “They were exposed to all
kinds of liabilities.”  The situation also generates some sympathy for Paulson.  “It seems to me, you’ve got to cut the guy some slack,
even if he tipped his hand,” says William Poole, a former
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. “How do you
prepare the market for the fact that policy has changed without
triggering the very crisis that you’re trying to avoid? What is
he supposed to say without misleading these people?”  Market Insights  Poole says government officials need to communicate with
industry participants in order to gain insights into market
conditions and gauge likely reaction to interventions.  Black says the Eton Park meeting was the wrong way to
communicate to the markets.  “Wink, wink, nod, nod is no way to approach sensitive
information,” he says.  Paulson often contacted Wall Street participants throughout
his tenure, according to his calendar. On that July trip to New
York alone, he talked to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. CEO
Richard Fuld, Washington Mutual Inc. CEO Kerry Killinger and
Citigroup senior adviser Rubin.  Morgan Stanley and BlackRock Inc. both helped the Federal
Reserve and OCC prepare the reports on Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac that Paulson told the New York Times would instill
confidence the morning of the Eton Park meeting.  ‘Unsafe and Unsound’  Paulson learned by mid-August that the Federal Reserve had
found the GSEs “unsafe and unsound,” he told the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission, which was appointed by President
Barack Obama and Congress to probe the causes of the financial
collapse.  “We’d been prepared for bad news, but the extent of the
problems was startling,” he wrote in “On the Brink.”  On Sept. 6, when the GSEs’ boards agreed to have their
companies placed in conservatorship, full-year 2008 losses were
projected to reach as much as $50 billion for Fannie Mae and $32
billion for Freddie Mac. In October 2011, the FHFA estimated the
cost to taxpayers of rescuing the firms at $124 billion through
2014.  The manager who described the Eton Park meeting says he
also discussed it with an investigator from the FCIC. The
discussion was confirmed by a former FCIC employee.  That manager says he ended up profiting from his Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac positions because he was already short the
stocks. On his lawyer’s advice, he stopped covering his short
positions and rode Fannie and Freddie shares all the way to the
bottom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Teitelbaum in New York at 
 rteitelbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 