-- 
Toyota Aims for Pre-Lehman Sales Levels With New Car Models

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-11-29T07:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/toyota-aims-to-regain-sales-to-pre-lehman-levels-on-new-models.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  is aiming for its
plug-in Prius hybrid and other new models to help pave a return
to sales levels before the global recession in 2008, Executive
Vice President Takeshi Uchiyamada said.  “After the Lehman crisis in 2008, annual sales volume fell
by about 2 million units,” Uchiyamada said in an interview
today in Tokyo, without giving a specific sales target. “We
have not been able to regain that yet, so we are hoping that our
new cars will help us achieve that.”  Toyota, poised to lose its global sales crown to  General
Motors Co. (GM) , is counting on gasoline-electric vehicles to aid a
sales recovery next year. The automaker scrapped its full-year
profit forecast after the worst floods in  Thailand  in almost 70
years disrupted production, hampering efforts by Japanese
carmakers to recover from a record earthquake in March.  The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker will introduce the
Prius PHV hybrid car in  Japan  on Jan. 30, with prices starting
from 3.2 million yen ($41,000), according to the company. The
carmaker aims to sell 35,000 to 40,000 of the plug-in Prius a
year in Japan.  The carmaker’s  shares  rose 1.9 percent to 2,529 yen at the
close of Tokyo trading. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
rose 2.3 percent.  The automaker sold 9.37 million vehicles in 2007. Sales
fell to 7.81 million in 2009 as the global recession sparked by
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. a year earlier
slashed demand for automobiles.  ‘Lineup is Complete’  “With the plug-in, Toyota will be able to compete with
electric cars too,” Takeshi Miyao, a Tokyo-based analyst at
industry researcher Carnorama, said. “Toyota’s lineup is
complete,” with the new Aqua compact hybrid offering an
“affordable” choice, he said.  The new Prius PHV has a fuel-economy rating of 61
kilometers per liter and a cruising range of 26.4 kilometers on
its lithium-ion battery, which can be charged using a household
electricity outlet, according to a release by the company.  “We hope to attract customers who were still hesitant to
buy an all-electric car,” Shinichi Sasaki, executive vice
president at Toyota, said today at a press briefing.  Hybrid Cars  Toyota and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  announced a plan in August to
collaborate to develop a hybrid system for  pickup trucks  and
sport-utility vehicles as U.S. fuel-economy rules tighten.  Ford, which wants a quarter of its vehicles to run at least
partly on electricity, now offers hybrid versions of the Escape
SUV and the Fusion and Lincoln MKZ sedans. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker sells about 35,000 hybrids annually,
compared with Prius sales of 140,928 vehicles in 2010.  Toyota is also working with electric-car maker  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA)  on a battery-powered version of the Toyota RAV4 sport-
utility vehicle that will go on sale in 2012. Toyota has said it
may eventually offer hybrid versions of every model in its
lineup.  Nissan Motor Co. , the maker of the all-electric Leaf, has
said the company plans to introduce a plug-in hybrid vehicle in
2015.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. , the maker of the i-MiEV electric
car, plans to unveil a plug-in next year.  “We’re introducing many new cars, and we plan to make as
many of them as possible,” Uchiyamada said. “Our Prius has a
track record of 3.4 million units in total sales, and we firmly
believe the plug-in version will beat competitors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  