-- 
HP Disputes Report That Hackers Can Set Its Printers on Fire

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-11-29T21:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/hp-disputes-claim-that-printers-could-be-triggered-to-catch-fire.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , responding to a
report that hackers could take control of laser printers and
make them catch fire, said those concerns aren’t valid.  “No customer has reported unauthorized access,” the
company said today in a statement. Hackers can’t circumvent the
thermal breaker, which is set up to prevent overheating or
combustion, by manipulating a printer’s so-called firmware,
Hewlett-Packard said. “Speculation regarding potential for
devices to catch fire due to a firmware change is false.”  The MSNBC.com news site, citing researchers at Columbia
University,  said  some Hewlett-Packard LaserJet printers were
vulnerable to attack. It’s likely that hackers could seize
control of the devices and make them catch fire or use them to
penetrate otherwise-secure networks,  MSNBC  said.  Hewlett-Packard said today that some LaserJet printers have
a “potential security vulnerability,” which it’s working to fix.
Firmware refers to the fixed software functions in a device.  “HP is building a firmware upgrade to mitigate this issue
and will be communicating this proactively to customers and
partners who may be impacted,” the Palo Alto, California-based
company said in the statement. “In the meantime, HP reiterates
its recommendation to follow best practices for securing devices
by placing printers behind a firewall and, where possible,
disabling remote firmware upload on exposed printers.”  Hewlett-Packard shares rose 1.4 percent to $26.90 at the
close today in New York. The shares have tumbled 36 percent this
year, dragged down by sluggish sales and a failed turnaround
effort by Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker . He was replaced
as CEO by  Meg Whitman  in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  