-- 
Pakistan to Boycott Meeting on Afghanistan After NATO Strike Kills Troops

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-11-29T19:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/pakistan-will-boycott-conference-on-afghanistan-after-nato-strike-kills-24.html
Pakistan  stepped up its protests
over a NATO airstrike that killed 24 of its soldiers, deciding
to boycott an international conference on Afghanistan to be held
in  Germany  next week.  The decision to pull out from the Dec. 5 summit in Bonn was
agreed at a meeting of the federal Cabinet yesterday, according
to a government statement. The nuclear-armed nation had already
closed border crossings to trucks carrying supplies for U.S.-led
forces in Afghanistan and ordered American personnel to vacate
the Shamsi airbase in Pakistan’s southwest that has served as a
launching point for Predator unmanned aircraft.  Pakistan still supports “stability and peace in
Afghanistan and the importance of an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned
process of reconciliation,” the  government  said in the
statement. “In view of the developments and prevailing
circumstances, the country has decided not to participate in the
conference.”  The U.S. wants the Bonn meeting to cement a sustained
international commitment to stabilize Afghanistan, and prevent
any Taliban takeover, following the planned U.S. pullout of its
main combat forces by 2014. The U.S. and Afghan governments have
said Pakistan’s role is critical as it wields influence with the
Taliban and could press the guerrillas for concessions in a
 peace process .  ‘Beyond Rhetoric’  Following the Nov. 25 airstrike, “there’s a lot of
domestic pressure in Pakistan that’s forcing the government to
move beyond rhetoric,” Shaheen Akhter, an analyst at the
Institute of Regional Studies in Islamabad, said yesterday.
Still, Pakistan can’t afford “to remain on the sidelines as the
international community decides on the future of Afghanistan.
They will be back at the table soon.”  A similar gathering almost 10 years ago helped form an
Afghan government after the U.S. ousting of the Taliban in the
aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on  New York  and the
Pentagon.  Even before Pakistan’s announcement that it will boycott
the meeting, the new crisis with the U.S. triggered by the
soldiers’ killing had “cast a pall over the Bonn process,”
according to South Asia analyst Lisa Curtis at the  Heritage
Foundation , a Washington-based think tank.  “Most doubted that the Bonn conference itself would result
in any serious breakthroughs with regard to Afghan
reconciliation, and this week’s events seem to make those
prospects even dimmer,” Curtis wrote in an analysis published
by the foundation Nov. 28.  Year of Crises  The U.S. and Pakistani governments have been trying to
stabilize their relationship after a year that included the
detention of a CIA contract employee for killing two Pakistanis,
the raid that that killed  Osama bin Laden  in May, and public
accusations by top American officials that Pakistan’s army is
actively aiding militant groups that the U.S. defines as
terrorist.  The U.S. military says it has begun a high-level
investigation into the border killings.  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said the
U.S. takes the latest border incident “very seriously,” and
will work to maintain cooperation with Pakistan. The two
countries have “shared goals” when it comes to combating
terrorism, he said.  Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar told
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in a weekend phone call that
the attack by helicopter gunships triggered a “deep sense of
rage” in the country, according to a foreign ministry
statement.  Unmarked Border  The Pakistan-Afghanistan border passes through rugged
mountains and desert terrain and is unmarked over most of its
more than 2,600-kilometer (1,600-mile) length. The two countries
dispute the border’s location in many areas.  The Pakistani military’s ties to some Afghan militant
groups date back to their fight, alongside the U.S., against the
Soviet occupation of  Afghanistan  in the 1980s.  “It’s very much in Pakistan’s interest to attend the Bonn
conference because the focus of that is all about trying to
build a more stable, peaceful Afghanistan,” State Department
spokesman Mark Toner told reporters in  Washington  Nov. 28.  The relationship between Afghanistan and Pakistan is
“critical to the region’s stability,” Toner said. U.S.
ambassador to Pakistan, Cameron Munter, met with President Asif Ali Zardari yesterday to discuss bilateral ties, according to a
statement from Zardari’s office.  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington, predicted
“this crisis will get papered over” and “the U.S. will face
even less prospect that Pakistan will really crackdown on
insurgent groups in the border area.”  The U.S. and Pakistan conducted a joint investigation last
year after a similar border incident involving several Pakistani
deaths. In that case, the resolution prompted a NATO apology and
opened border crossings that had been shut in the aftermath of
the incident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  