-- 
PCCW’s HKT Trust Will Generate Stable Returns for Investors, Arena Says

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-11-29T08:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/pccw-s-hkt-trust-will-generate-stable-returns-for-investors-arena-says.html
PCCW Ltd. (8) ’s telecommunications
business trust forecast stable investment returns after concerns
that dividend payouts may be unsustainable damped demand for the
unit’s initial public offering.  “The business throws off a lot of cash,” Alex Arena,
 executive director  at  HKT Trust and HKT Ltd. , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong today. PCCW, the
city’s biggest phone carrier, raised HK$9.3 billion ($1.2
billion) this month in the separate listing of HKT Trust to help
repay debt and fund investments.  PCCW’s billionaire Chairman  Richard Li  has said the
reorganization to put assets including fixed-line and broadband
Internet under the business trust will allow investors to earn a
higher payout from the operations. Still,  capital spending  by
the trust may limit its ability to sustain the level of its
dividend payouts after 2012, said Lisa Soh, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd.  “They have got key re-financing risks in 2013, 2015 and
2016,” Soh said yesterday. HKT Trust may be unable to sustain
the level of its payout to investors if capital spending
continues to rise faster than earnings, she said.  HKT Trust  rose 0.4 percent to close at HK$4.55 on its first
day of trading in Hong Kong today. The city’s benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  advanced 1.2 percent.  The trust trades as part of a so-called share stapled unit
that comprises a telecommunications trust, a trust-management
company and a separate company that owns the underlying assets.
The IPO of the trust was priced at the bottom of a marketed
range.  PCCW Revenue  The trust will be able to pay out a bigger proportion of
its income than a conventionally structured company would, Li
said in June.  Revenue for the business trust and its related companies,
which control PCCW’s units including those offering fixed-line,
broadband Internet and mobile-phone services, rose 3.3 percent
to HK$18.53 billion last year, according to the prospectus. That
represents 86 percent of PCCW’s reported 2010 revenue of HK$21.5
billion.  HKT Trust needs to refinance some of its debt in 2013,
Arena said today. The trust’s past earnings offer a guide to its
future results, he said.  PCCW will use proceeds from the business trust listing to
repay debt and expand operations including computer services and
pay-television, Li said on Oct. 12.  Li struggled to draw investors to  Hong Kong ’s first
business trust even after offering a yield that beats most real-
estate trusts listed in the city.  Bottom of Range  PCCW sold 2.05 billion units in HKT Trust at HK$4.53
apiece. HKT Trust units were originally offered at HK$4.53 to
HK$5.38 each, according to its IPO prospectus. HKT Trust
forecast it will distribute HK$2.57 billion in 2012,
representing a dividend yield of 8.85 percent for investors who
purchased the trust at the IPO, according to the prospectus.  Hong Kong residents placed orders for 12 percent of the
units allocated to them.  Individual investors in Hong Kong ordered a total of 24.3
million of the HKT Trust units out of the 205.4 million reserved
for them, HKT Trust said on Nov. 28. The unsubscribed units were
reallocated to international investors, it said.  Companies owned by Li, who is also chairman of HKT Trust’s
management company, bought 257.5 million units, according to the
trust’s filing yesterday. The international portion of the
offering was “moderately oversubscribed,” it said.  ‘Long-Term’ Investor  Li will be a “long-term” investor in the trust, Arena
said. The IPO of the trust drew fixed-income and equity mutual
funds, he said, declining to name them.  Billionaire  Li Ka-shing , father of the PCCW chairman, this
year completed IPOs of two  investment trusts ,  Hutchison Port
Holdings Trust  and  Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust ,
raising more than $7 billion. Both securities now trade below
their offering prices.  China International Capital Corp ., Deutsche Bank AG,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and five other banks managed the HKT
Trust offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  