-- 
Penn State Forms Search Committee for Successor to Football Coach Paterno

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-11-29T10:54:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/penn-state-forms-search-committee-for-successor-to-football-coach-paterno.html
Penn State University formed a six-
member committee to find a successor to football coach  Joe Paterno , who had headed the program for 46 years before being
fired amid a child sexual abuse scandal involving a former
assistant coach.  Acting Athletic Director David Joyner is chairman of the
search committee, which will hold its first meeting this week,
the school said yesterday in a  news release .  Penn State, which ranks fifth in wins at college football’s
top level, has had two head coaches since 1950: Paterno and Rip Engle. Assistant  Tom Bradley , who has been with the Nittany
Lions’ program for 33 years, was promoted to interim coach when
Paterno was fired and said last week that he “certainly would
want the permanent job.”  The school hasn’t given a time frame for hiring a coach.  Among the other committee members appointed by University
President Rodney Erickson is Ira Lubert, a  Penn State  trustee
and chairman of Independence Capital Partners and Lubert Adler
Partners.  Also in the group are Penn State faculty athletics
representative Linda Caldwell, associate athletic director
Charmelle Green, women’s volleyball coach Russ Rose and emeritus
professor John Nichols, who is also chair of the Coalition of
Intercollegiate Athletics.  Penn State is 9-3 overall this season and 1-2 under Bradley
since Paterno was dismissed. Paterno, who won 409 games with the
Nittany Lions, was fired Nov. 9 for his handling of child
molestation charges against former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky.  Penn State lost 45-7 Nov. 27 to the University of
 Wisconsin , which clinched a spot in the Big Ten Championship
game on Dec. 3.  The Maxwell Football Club said yesterday that it will no
longer present the Joseph V. Paterno Collegiate Coach of the
Year Award, which debuted in 2010, according to  USA Today . Rich
Cirminiello, a spokesman for the Maxwell Football Club, declined
comment on the report last night. Paterno previously had his
name removed from the  Big Ten Conference ’s championship trophy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 