-- 
Philippine Peso Climbs on Outlook for Remittances; Bonds Rise

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-11-29T08:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/philippine-peso-climbs-on-outlook-for-remittances-bonds-rise.html
The Philippine peso rose for a
second day on speculation remittances from overseas will
increase and the government will step up spending to compensate
for waning exports. Bonds gained.  The currency advanced after a report yesterday showing
slower third-quarter economic growth highlighted the need for
President  Benigno Aquino ’s $1.7 billion stimulus program
unveiled last month.  Remittances  from citizens working abroad
are supporting domestic consumption, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc and  Standard Chartered  Plc.  “Remittances have been providing solid support to domestic
consumption and we see them holding up well this quarter,” said
Betty Rui Wang, an economist in  Hong Kong  at Standard Chartered.
“There will be some impact to growth from  government spending 
in the fourth quarter but we cannot say if it will be
significant yet.”  The peso strengthened 0.3 percent to 43.645 per dollar at
the close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc, paring
this month’s loss to 2.4 percent. Financial markets are closed
tomorrow for a holiday.  Remittances  climbed 8.4 percent in September to $1.74
billion from a year earlier, the central bank said on Nov. 15.
They have increased 7.2 percent a month on average this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wang expects they will
rise by at least 6 percent this quarter from a year earlier.  ‘Bright Spot’  “The one bright spot for the  Philippines , domestic demand,
continued to support growth in the third quarter,” HSBC
economist Trinh Nguyen wrote in a research report yesterday.
“This reflects robust remittance inflows, which are expected to
increase in the coming months due to the Christmas season.”  The Philippine economy grew 3.2 percent in the three months
through September, versus 3.1 percent in the prior quarter, the
government said yesterday. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 4.1 percent expansion.  The central bank will hold its overnight borrowing rate at
4.50 percent when it meets on Dec. 1, according to 12 of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Three expect a cut to 4.25
percent. Monetary easing is not “imperative” as rates remain
low, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said yesterday.  The government is scheduled to report the October  budget
balance  this week. The shortfall in the first  nine months  of
2011 was 20 percent of the level a year earlier, the government
reported on Oct. 25.  “Given that expenditure has been slower than usual thus
far this year, there is space from the fiscal front to boost
demand,” Nguyen said today.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent bonds due July 2031
dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 6.67
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate has
declined 21 basis points in six straight days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  