-- 
Gross Says Europe Won’t Escape Debt ‘Straitjacket’ for Years

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-11-29T13:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/pimco-s-gross-says-europe-won-t-escape-its-debt-straitjacket-for-years.html
Investors should recognize that
 Europe ’s problems are global and it will be years before nations
in the region can escape from their “straitjacket” of debt,
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Bill Gross said.  With global growth likely stunted for years and  interest
rates  kept artificially low, investors should consider risk
assets in emerging economies such as Brazil and countries in
 Asia , Gross, manager for the world’s biggest bond fund, wrote in
a monthly commentary posted today in the Newport Beach,
California-based company’s  website .  “Consider Brazil with its agricultural breadbasket and its
oil. Consider Asia with its underdeveloped consumer sector but
be mindful of credit bubbles,” Gross wrote in the note.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis that began more than two
years ago in  Greece  and snared Ireland, Portugal, Italy and
Spain, now threatens to cost France its AAA credit rating.
Italy was forced to pay above the 7 percent threshold that led
Greece, Portugal and Ireland to seek bailouts when it sold 7.5
billion euros ($10.1 billion) in bonds today, short of the
maximum target for the auction.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 3.5 billion euros of a new
three-year bond, 2.5 billion euros of 2022 bonds and 1.5 billion
euros in 2020 bonds, just shy of the top range of 8 billion
euros for the sale. The 2014 note yielded 7.89 percent, the
highest since September 1996 for a three-year bond and up from
4.93 percent when similar-maturity debt was sold last month.  ‘Family Feud’  “In the bond market space, the favorite strategy will be
to locate the cleanest dirty shirts -- the  United States ,
 Canada ,  United Kingdom  and  Australia  at the moment,” Gross
said. “Because of Euroland’s family feud, because of too much
global debt, because of deflationary policy solutions that are
in some cases too little, in some cases ill conceived, and in
many cases too late, financial markets will remain low returning
and frequently frightening for months/years to come.”  European policy makers have to choose between a full fiscal
union or a smaller euro zone, two options with heavy costs that
have paralyzed policy makers, Pimco’s Co.’s Chief Executive
Officer Mohamed A. El-Erian said on Nov. 22 during an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”  with Betty Liu.  Gross’s $244 billion Pimco Total Return Fund has returned
 2.1 percent (PTTRX)  this year, trailing 80 percent of peers. The fund
has risen an average of 7.56 percent over the past five years to
beat 97 percent of rivals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  