-- 
Polish GDP Slowed Last Quarter as Euro Crisis Curbed Exports, Poll Shows

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-11-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/polish-gdp-slowed-last-quarter-as-euro-crisis-curbed-exports-poll-shows.html
Poland ’s  economy  probably slowed in
the third quarter as domestic demand failed to maintain growth
amid a European debt crisis that weighed on exports.  Gross domestic product expanded 4 percent from a year
earlier compared with 4.3 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The  Central Statistics Office  in Warsaw will
publish the data at 10 a.m. today.  Buoyed by  consumer spending , Poland was the only European
Union nation to avoid recession in 2009 after  Lehman Brothers
Inc .’s collapse triggered a global economic crisis. Retail sales
jumped 11.4 percent in September, the fastest in four months,
even as grow slowed in the 17-member euro region that buys 55
percent of Polish exports.  “We expect the data to confirm that Poland’s economy did
rather well,”  Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH in
Warsaw, said before the release. “But investor attention is
skewed toward the country’s uncertain prospects.”  The global economy is under threat from  Europe ’s fiscal
crisis, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said this week. The euro region is already in a
“mild recession,” with GDP set to expand 0.2 percent in 2012
and 1.4 percent in 2013, the OECD said.  Zloty, Swaps  The zloty, the sixth-worst performer against the euro since
July among currencies tracked by Bloomberg, traded at 4.531 per
euro late yesterday in Warsaw after touching a two-month low on
Nov. 24. Credit-default swaps insuring against non-payment fell
27 basis points to 312 after increasing to 340 on Nov. 25, the
highest since the credit crisis peaked, according to data
compiled by CMA.  Poland’s third-quarter growth was probably driven by
domestic demand, the survey showed. Krakow-based Alma Markets SA
and Gdynia-based  Bomi SA (BMI) , two supermarket chains, boosted sales
by 7 percent and 2.3 percent, respectively, from a year ago
during the period.  Private consumption “maintained moderately fast growth,”
 Maciej Reluga , chief economist at Bank Zachodni WBK, said by
phone before the release.  Investments in roads and bridges also grew, based on nine-
month Office data from the statistics office show. Poland, a
country of 38 million, is the highest net recipient of EU in the
bloc’s 2007-2013 budget, getting 67 billion euros ($89.3
billion) in aid to iron out differences between richer and
poorer states. It’s also preparing to co-host the 2012 European
soccer championships.  Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of
manufacturing, fell to 50.2 in September, missing economist
forecasts as the euro area’s debt crisis acted as a
“significant drag” on industry, HSBC said Oct. 3. While it
rebounded to 51.7 in October, export orders fell for a fifth
month. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  2012 Growth  There is “no doubt” Poland’s economy will expand by 4
percent or more this year, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said
Nov. 10. It will grow by 2.5 percent in 2012, the government has
forecast in it budget for next year.  The central bank trimmed its 2012 growth forecast to 3.1
percent from 3.2 percent Nov. 9. It kept the seven-day benchmark
rate unchanged at 4.5 percent for a fifth month, saying the
economic slowdown in Poland will be “milder” than in
neighboring countries.  Sales at Unilever Polska slowed this year for the first
time, “but this is not a drama as Poland is for us one of the
best markets in the region,” Sanjay Dube, the company’s
president, told Bloomberg Business Week this week.  Market consensus is moving toward 2012 growth of less than
2 percent, according to Citibank Handlowy’s chief economist
 Piotr Kalisz , who sees 1.9 percent expansion.  “Unfortunately, the scenario of deep recession in the euro
region means there’s a risk our forecast may shift even lower,”
he wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  