-- 
Portsmouth Soccer Club’s Parent Company Put Into Administration, Team Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-11-29T16:08:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/portsmouth-soccer-club-s-parent-company-put-into-administration-team-says.html
Portsmouth, the first Premier League
soccer club to seek protection from creditors, said its parent
company has been placed into administration, a form of
bankruptcy.  The move by Convers Sports Initiatives Plc was announced
today on the team’s website. Portsmouth Football Club Ltd., the
operating company, continues to trade, the team  said today . The
team was placed into administration in Feb. 2010.  Vladimir Antonov , who bought the club in June, has resigned
as chairman and director of the club.  Portsmouth was docked nine points by the Premier League in
the 2009-2010 season, which ended in the club being relegated.
It is now 17th in the Championship,  England ’s second division.
The club has short-term funding in place, and will seek more
investors for the long-term, it said.  “After the extraordinary amount of work put in by so many
people over the last 18 months to get to this point, it is
incredibly disappointing for the club to find itself in this
position,” Chief Executive Officer David Lampitt said in the
statement. “We will continue to do everything possible to
safeguard the position of the club and its longer term future.”  On Nov. 25, Antonov and fellow ex-Bankas Snoras AB owner
Raimondas Baranauskas told a U.K. judge they were innocent of
Lithuanian allegations of fraud and embezzlement that pushed the
bank into insolvency.  Antonov, 36, and Baranauskas, 53, were granted bail by
Judge Caroline Tubbs at a Nov. 25 hearing in  London . They were
arrested in the city the day before after Lithuanian authorities
issued a European arrest warrant. They deny the charges.  The Lithuanian government took over Snoras, the country’s
third-biggest bank by deposits, on Nov. 16 after the  central
bank  discovered that assets reported on the lender’s balance
sheet were missing. The Central Bank said today that Snoras was
insolvent and would seek court protection.  Antonov was to be released on bail of 75,000 pounds
($117,000) and must report to a police station near his home in
the Notting Hill region of London three times a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Cone  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net  