-- 
Prosper Bank, Banif Unit in Brazil Said to Seek Buyers as Costs Increase

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 
2011-11-29T16:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/prosper-bank-banif-unit-in-brazil-said-to-seek-buyers-as-costs-increase.html
Banco Prosper SA, the Brazilian
lender, and  Banif SGPS SA (BNF) ’s  Brazil  unit are seeking buyers as
 Europe ’s financial turmoil and new regulations crimp profit,
according to four people with knowledge of the negotiations.  Prosper’s controlling shareholder,  Grupo Peixoto de Castro ,
wants to sell the Rio de Janeiro-based bank to focus on other
businesses including real estate, said two of the people, who
asked not to be named because talks are confidential. Banif,
based in Funchal, Madeira, wants to sell its Brazil division as
Europe’s debt crisis pushes up funding costs, two people said.  Banco Central  do Brasil, the industry’s chief regulator, is
boosting  capital requirements  to comply with new international
standards designed to give the world’s financial system a bigger
buffer against losses. Funding costs have risen as cash-strapped
euro nations debate the best way to stabilize their lenders,
with Italy paying more than 7 percent on bonds sold today.  BR Partners SA, a Brazilian financial-advisory firm founded
by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives, agreed to buy
Porto Seguro SA on Nov. 21 and Banco BMG SA acquired Banco
Schahin SA in July. Central bank director Anthero Meirelles said
in May “there could be newcomers seeing an acquisition as a way
to speed up the process of entering the market.”  Prosper denied it’s in sale talks, according to an e-mailed
statement. Banif said its Brazilian division isn’t for sale,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Prosper had net assets of 693.4 million reais ($375.5
million) and equity of 52.59 million reais as of June 30, while
Banif had net assets of 2.9 billion reais and equity of 269.4
million reais in the same period, according to central bank’s
website. Banif has 13 branches in Brazil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  