-- 
Transocean Falls to 7-Year Low After Share Sale Announcement

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-11-29T21:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/transocean-falls-6-on-plan-to-sell-shares-to-retire-debt-1-.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore oil driller, fell to a 7-year low, dropping as much as
10 percent after announcing it would sell shares to finance a
$1.7 billion repurchase of convertible notes.  Transocean’s offering of 26 million shares will help
replenish cash reserves that were drained by last month’s
acquisition of Aker Drilling ASA, the Vernier, Switzerland-based
company said in a statement today. The sale represents up to 8.9
percent of the company’s total issued and outstanding shares.  Transocean, owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that burned
and sank during last year’s Macondo disaster in the  Gulf of
Mexico , has been at risk of losing investment-grade ratings on
its debt since Nov. 9, when Moody’s Investors Service put the
company on review for downgrade. Moody’s cited a looming cash
squeeze and a pending February trial over claims stemming from
the Gulf catastrophe.  “There’s a lot of near-term uncertainty with this
company,” said Brian Youngberg, an Edward Jones analyst in  St.
Louis , who today lowered his rating on Transocean’s $1 billion
in annual dividends to “at-risk” from “stable.”  Transocean fell 9.4 percent to close at $41.63 in New York.
The stock has declined 40 percent this year.  Transocean expects to repurchase on Dec. 15 all of the 1.5
percent Series B convertible senior notes that mature in 2037,
according to a Nov. 16 statement by the company. If all holders
exercise their rights to tender the notes, the total cost to
Transocean will be about $1.7 billion, according to the
statement.  “The equity offering should address rating agency concerns
and help RIG maintain its current investment grade ratings,”
Philip C. Adams, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in  New York ,
wrote today in a note to clients.  Aker Acquisition  Transocean’s $900 million of 6.5 percent notes due in
November 2020 rose 0.8 cent to 100.4 cents on the dollar to
yield 6.44 percent at 3:05 p.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Transocean’s $1.4 billion acquisition of Aker Drilling in
October weakened the company’s cash position when the potential
claims and penalties stemming from the Deepwater Horizon
disaster remain unknown, Sean Sexton, a managing director at
 Fitch Ratings  in Chicago, said in a Nov. 9 interview.  Chief Executive Officer Steven Newman told investors and
analysts during a Nov. 3 conference call that manufacturing
bottlenecks that contributed to the company’s biggest third-
quarter loss in at least 10 years will persist into 2012.  The underwriters of the equity sale announced today,
Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG, have the option to buy
another 3.9 million shares, Transocean said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  