-- 
RBS Penalized $1.9 Million in Credit Auction ‘Math Error’

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-11-29T22:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/rbs-penalized-1-9-million-for-lowest-offer-in-dynegy-credit-swaps-auction.html
  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
the U.K.’s biggest government-controlled bank, was assessed a
$1.9 million penalty after submitting an offer in an auction for
 Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  bonds that was more than 39 percentage points below
the average of the 12 other dealers.  RBS offered 31.5 cents on the dollar for the debt of
bankrupt Dynegy Holdings LLC, below the initial market midpoint
of 69.5 cents, auction administrators Creditex and Markit Group
Ltd. said today on the website  CreditFixings.com . Citigroup Inc.
made the highest offer at 72 cents and the average of the 12
banks aside from RBS was 70.7 cents. There was a net open
interest to buy $61.2 million of the bonds of the Houston-based
power producer.  The so-called adjustment amount was likely levied after a
“math error” by the bank during the auction, which is used to
set payouts on credit-default swaps tied to Dynegy, according to
credit derivatives strategist Tim Backshall. The price submitted
may have been for the loss on the bonds instead of the recovery
value, Backshall said.  “Given the price they quoted was so far off market, it
would appear obvious that they made a math error in quoting the
loss as opposed to quoting the price they were willing to trade
at,” said Backshall, founder of Capital Context in Walnut
Creek,  California , and the former chief strategist at Credit
Derivatives Research LLC.  The final value on the Dynegy bonds was set at 71.25 cents
on the dollar.  Michael Geller , a spokesman for RBS, declined to comment.  ISDA Decision  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association ’s
 determinations committee  ruled on Nov. 9 that the Nov. 7 filing
of Dynegy Holdings was a so-called  credit event . A net $653.8
million of protection on the third-largest independent U.S.
power producer’s debt was outstanding as of Nov. 18, according
to the  Depository Trust Clearing Corp. , which runs a central
repository for the credit swaps market.  Banks,  hedge funds , insurance companies and other asset
managers use credit-default swaps to hedge against losses or to
speculate on the creditworthiness of companies, countries or
other borrowers. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Editors: Pierre Paulden, John Parry  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  