-- 
Remy Cointreau Earnings Top Estimates on Cognac Sales

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   J e r r o l d   C o l t e n
-- 
2011-11-29T14:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/remy-cointreau-earnings-rise-more-than-expected-27-on-china-cognac-sales.html
(Corrects Pernod brand name in 10th paragraph.)  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) ,  France ’s second-
biggest distiller, said first-half earnings increased 27 percent
and forecast a “substantial” gain for the year as the company
sells more cognac in markets such as China.  So-called current operating profit, or earnings before
interest and taxes excluding some items, rose to 106.2 million
euros ($142 million) in the six months ended Sept. 30, Paris-
based Remy said today. That exceeded the 101 million-euro
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Remy rose as much as 3.3 percent in Paris trading, climbing
to the highest in more than two months. Earnings growth was led
by Remy Martin cognac, which the company said benefited from a
“thriving” Asian economy. Liquor makers are looking to
emerging markets including  China  to drive growth as economic
turmoil in  Europe  restrains sales.  “Remy continues to report sector leading earnings
growth,” Nik Oliver, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, wrote in a note. The brokerage has an “underperform”
recommendation on the stock, citing a “full” valuation of 18
times estimated earnings, more than spirits and luxury peers.  Remy shares traded up 3 percent at 61.95 euros at 9:47 a.m.
in Paris, heading for the highest close since Sept. 14.  The company said its performance remained strong in Europe,
particularly in France, Germany and  Russia . Remy wrote down the
Metaxa brand by 45 million euros last year due to slumping sales
in  Greece  as government austerity measures stint spending.  Remy Martin   Remy Martin cognac increased current operating profit by 34
percent to 91.2 million euros, the company said. Better
qualities of the brand led growth in China, it said.  Market concern about a slowdown in the high-end consumer
segment in China “have recently reduced, but this remains the
key risk for Remy,” which earns about 40 percent of profit in
the country, analysts Jamie Isenwater and Jonathan Fell at
Deutsche Bank AG in London wrote in a note before the results.
“Remy remains unaffected at present.”  Remy’s first-half operating margin, a measure of
profitability, widened to 22.4 percent from 19.5 percent as the
company focused more on the premium end of the market.  Pernod-Ricard SA, the maker of Absolut vodka, said last
month it aims for 6 percent growth in “organic” earnings from
recurring operations this year, after emerging-market sales
boosted revenue in its first quarter. Diageo Plc, the world’s
biggest distiller, said in August it would target organic sales
growth of 6 percent in the “medium term” and improve margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  