-- 
Huntsman Offers Plan to Thwart Bank Bailouts While Cutting Rules

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-11-29T05:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/republican-hopeful-huntsman-offers-plan-to-prevent-bank-bailouts.html
Republican presidential candidate
Jon Huntsman Jr. released a  plan  yesterday to block future bank
bailouts, in part by capping their size, and to eliminate
“burdensome” financial regulations.  Huntsman’s proposals include ending “too big to fail” by
setting a “hard cap” on bank size based on assets as a
percentage of gross domestic product. He also would repeal the
Dodd-Frank overhaul of financial regulations and maximize
derivatives transparency, his campaign said in a statement.  “Capitalism without failure is not capitalism,” Huntsman,
a former governor of Utah, said in a statement. “Real financial
reform requires breaking the cozy relationship between Wall
Street and Washington that helped fuel the housing bubble, drove
a series of bailouts, and prevented meaningful reform in the
aftermath of the financial crisis.”  Huntsman vows to dismantle  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , the
government-backed mortgage finance companies operating under
U.S. conservatorship after being seized during the credit
crisis.  His plan also would eliminate a tax deduction for interest
payments that gives a preference to debt over equity, in an
effort to end what he sees as subsidies for excess leverage.  Huntsman, who served as President Barack Obama’s ambassador
to  China , scores in the low single-digits in national polls of
the Republican race. He has been concentrating his campaign on
 New Hampshire , where he is counting on a strong showing in the
state’s first-in-the-nation primary on Jan. 10 to propel his
candidacy.  Huntsman previewed his plan to limit banks’ size in a Nov. 9
Republican presidential debate, saying: “We have six banks in
this country that combined have assets worth 66 percent of our
nation’s GDP, $9.4 trillion.”  These institutions have an “implied bailout” by U.S.
taxpayers, he said. “That means that we are setting ourselves
up for disaster again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  