-- 
Republican ‘Super PAC’ Focused on House Control, Ex-Senator Coleman Says

-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 
2011-11-29T19:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/republican-super-pac-focused-on-house-control-ex-senator-coleman-says.html
A new Republican political action
committee that can accept unlimited campaign donations will be
“laser-focused” on preserving the party’s House majority in
the 2012 elections, said a former senator helping oversee the
effort.  “We don’t take for granted that we keep the majority,”
said Norm Coleman, a one-term senator from  Minnesota . “You have
to work for it, and that’s what we’re prepared to do.”  Coleman, who lost his seat in the 2008 election to Democrat
 Al Franken , serves as chairman of the Washington-based political
action committee, the Congressional Leadership Fund.  He said the group will support candidates who share its
“center-right” political views for boosting the  U.S. economy 
through low taxes and spending. It also will concentrate its
efforts on the “most electable” candidates.  “Races are won within the 40-yard lines. You’ve got to be
able to appeal to independents,” Coleman said today at a
breakfast with journalists hosted by the Christian Science
Monitor.  Coleman and PAC president  Brian Walsh  declined to reveal
fundraising goals or strategy for the group, which filed
organizing papers last month with the  Federal Election
Commission  in Washington and has the support of House Republican
leaders.  ‘Very Aggressive’  “We want to be as active as we possibly can, and we have
very aggressive fundraising under way right now,” said Walsh, a
former political director of the  National Republican
Congressional Committee , the political arm of  House Republicans .  “It’s too soon to tell” how much money the group will
raise, Coleman said, because “the super PAC is new.”  Unlike national party organizations, which have federal
limits on the amounts they can raise, so-called super PACs can
take in unlimited funds from any source. Spawned by a 2010
Supreme Court ruling on campaign financing, super PACs aren’t
permitted to coordinate strategy with the candidates they
support. There are now more than 240 super PACs, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a  Washington  group that
tracks money in politics.  The most vulnerable Republican House members include some
of the 87 freshmen elected last November, when the party made a
net gain of 63 seats to win a majority after four years of
Democratic rule.  ‘Far More Intense’  The proliferation of super PACs to augment political
spending by candidates and national party committees means that
House campaigns in 2012 will be “far more intense than they
have in the past,” Walsh said.  Walsh said that about one-fourth of the 435 House districts
may be “potentially competitive” in next year’s campaign,
though any such estimate is complicated by the still-incomplete
process of redrawing congressional districts following the 2010
Census. Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said yesterday that a redrawing of his district precipitated his
decision not to seek a 17th term next year.  “The battlefield is still emerging, and we likely won’t
know what is until next summer,” Walsh said.  Coleman and Walsh said their group’s fundraising efforts
wouldn’t slacken even as nonpartisan election analysts such as
the Washington-based Cook Political Report say Republicans are
favored to maintain control of the House.  “The day you stop fighting for the majority is the day you
start losing the majority,” Walsh said.  Republicans hold a 242-192 majority in the chamber, and the
one vacancy is in an Oregon district previously held by a
Democrat, meaning Democrats need a net gain of 25 seats to win a
218-seat majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  