-- 
Payroll Tax Cut Debate Shifts to Squabble Over How to Cover Cost

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-11-30T19:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/republicans-to-offer-offset-for-payroll-tax-cut-extension-mcconnell-says.html
Top lawmakers from both parties are
pursuing different ways of offsetting the cost of extending a
U.S.  payroll tax  cut, establishing markers for negotiations over
how to prevent the break from expiring Dec. 31.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  hasn’t
said how Republicans plan to cover the forgone revenue from
extending the 2 percentage-point reduction in employees’ portion
of the Social Security tax.  Republicans are considering using an extension of the pay
freeze for federal workers to offset part of the payroll tax
cut, said a Republican senator familiar with the talks who
didn’t want to discuss the proposal publicly before its release.  McConnell made clear in a Senate floor speech today that
Republicans “will put aside their misgivings” about extending
the payroll tax holiday because “it will give some relief to
struggling workers who continue to need it.”  Democrats have proposed extending and expanding the tax
break. The Democrats’ $265 billion proposal would be offset by a
permanent 3.25 percent surtax on annual income exceeding $1
million; a test vote is planned for this week on it.  “You can take to the bank” the fact that the payroll cut
will be offset if the parties can agree on an extension, House
Speaker  John Boehner  said today. Such an accord may prove
difficult as McConnell yesterday dismissed the attempt to pair
temporary tax cuts with permanent tax increases as a political
ploy rather than a sincere attempt to pass legislation.  Political Divide  The discussions on how to offset the payroll tax cut
extension will demonstrate the size of the divide between the
parties on fiscal policy that helped lead to the impasse of
Congress’s deficit-reduction supercommittee this month.  “We’re going to enter into a phase now of back-and-forth
gamesmanship over how to pay for the payroll tax,” said  Brian Gardner , the senior vice president for Washington research at
KBW Inc. “Even those members who question its value come to the
conclusion that voting against it is a political loser. It’s
really a question of how you pay for it.”  Supercommittee members couldn’t agree on raising taxes for
high earners, and that issue still separates lawmakers.  “We think it ought to be paid for and not by raising taxes
on the people we’re depending upon to create jobs,” Senator
 John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, said yesterday.  Affected by Surtax  Alan Krueger, chairman of President Barack Obama’s  Council
of Economic Advisers , disputed that point, and said “very few”
employers would be affected by the Democrats’ income surtax.
Obama travels to  Pennsylvania  today to make the case for the
payroll tax cut.  “The president’s proposal puts the burden on those who can
most afford it,”  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to Obama,
said today on  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe” program. She suggested
that the White House is open to other ways to pay for the $265
billion tax cut but wouldn’t be specific.  “The president is interested in making sure that whatever
we do is fiscally responsible,” she said.  Republicans distributed an analysis from the nonpartisan
Joint Committee on Taxation showing that 34 percent of business
income that flows through to individual returns would be subject
to the surtax. The analysis doesn’t estimate the size of those
businesses or how business owners would respond to the tax
increase in their personal spending or business decisions.  ‘Critical Time’  “This is a critical time for the economy,” Krueger said
at a White House briefing yesterday. “Extending the payroll tax
cut will strengthen the recovery.”  Letting the tax cut lapse would mean a $1,000 tax increase
for a family earning $50,000 a year. Crimping  consumer spending 
at a time when the economy faces “weak aggregate demand” would
be a drag on growth, Krueger said.  The Democrats’ plan would expand the 2-percentage-point
reduction to 3.1 percentage points for 2012. It would cut by 3.1
percentage points the tax on employers’ first $5 million in
wages and remove employers’ tax on certain wage growth. The
proposal would move money from the general fund to the  Social
Security  trust fund, which is supported by the payroll tax.  Two House Republican leadership aides said there was little
resistance among rank-and-file members to extending the employee
payroll-tax holiday as long as it’s offset with spending cuts.
An employer-side expansion of the tax cut may be more
problematic because Republicans would want to offset that break
with spending cuts as well, one aide said.  No decision has been made on whether an extension of
expanded unemployment benefits must be offset, said the aide.  McConnell Proposal  McConnell’s proposal to offset the cost of extending the
payroll tax cut runs counter to arguments by some Republicans
that tax-cut extensions shouldn’t be paired with other measures
to prevent them from increasing the federal  budget deficit .  “With this $15 trillion debt we now have, bigger than our
economy, we need to be paying for a measure like this that’s
temporary, and I think in the end we will pay for it,”
McConnell said.  McConnell’s plan likely won’t have unanimous support from
his members, who are split on whether to extend the tax cut and
whether to offset it. That’s a change for a party that is
usually united on tax cuts.  Massachusetts Republican Senator  Scott Brown  said yesterday
that Congress should follow its precedent in deciding not to
offset the cost of the tax cut when it was enacted last year.
Republican Senator Mike Enzi of  Wyoming  said he doesn’t think
the payroll tax cut has created jobs.  ‘Sensible Ways’  Krueger wouldn’t say whether Obama would accept an
extension of the tax cut that isn’t matched with higher revenue
or budget cuts elsewhere. The administration is “open to
economically sensible ways” to offset the plan’s cost, he said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  didn’t signal what
Democrats will do if their proposal containing the high-earner
surtax fails. Democrats control 53 of the Senate’s 100 seats.
Republicans can use procedural moves to require a 60-vote
threshold.  “We are going to continue working until we get the payroll
tax extended,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said yesterday.  House Republicans , who control that chamber, are weighing
their options, said  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee.  “We’re talking about it and trying to find a path forward
through the end of the year,” he said after a meeting of House
Republicans today.  Camp, a Michigan Republican, said lawmakers haven’t decided
yet whether they will try this year to extend expiring
miscellaneous tax breaks, such as the research and development
tax credit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  