-- 
Rick Perry Appeals Texas Congressional Map Fight to U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-11-29T19:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/rick-perry-appeals-texas-congressional-map-fight-to-u-s-supreme-court.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  asked the
U.S. Supreme Court to delay the state’s Congressional primary
elections until a dispute over the composition of new electoral
districts is resolved.  Perry previously asked the high court to block the use of
judicially created election maps in Texas’s 2012 legislative
races after a panel of lower-court judges in  San Antonio  refused
his request. Today, Perry added the state’s races for the U.S.
House of Representatives to his Supreme Court bid for emergency
stay.  The San Antonio court that created interim election maps
“went out of its way to give no weight whatsoever to the duly-
enacted election map enacted by the Texas Legislature,”  Paul
Clement , the state’s appellate attorney, said in Texas’s Supreme
Court filing yesterday.  “Legal, delayed elections are preferable to legally
flawed, timely elections,” Clement said. Candidates began
registering for Texas’s March 6 party primaries yesterday, based
on the court-drawn maps.  Texas is fighting to implement new voter boundaries created
this year by the Republican-controlled Legislature and approved
by Perry after the state gained four new congressional seats on
 population growth . Texas added nearly 4.3 million new residents
since 2000, according to the 2010  U.S. Census . Roughly 65
percent of the new Texans are Hispanics.  Latino Voting  Latino voting rights activists and the U.S.  Justice
Department  claim state lawmakers created racially gerrymandered
districts to prevent the election of Hispanics, who more often
vote for Democrats.  Texas Republicans countered that while lawmakers’ maps may
be biased in favor of the state’s Republican majority, they
don’t discriminate against Hispanics. State lawyers told the San
Antonio judges that Latinos and African-Americans are
increasingly being elected in Texas as Republicans.  Separate three-judge panels have held hearings in
 Washington  and San Antonio on related challenges to Texas’s
electoral maps. Latino activists and congressmen whose jobs were
threatened by the Legislature’s maps sued Perry in San Antonio
federal court in August, seeking to block the maps.  Violations  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  sued the U.S. Justice
Department in federal court in Washington seeking pre-clearance
of the election maps, a step required of all states with a
history of voting rights violations. The Washington court on
Nov. 8 refused to allow the Perry-approved maps to be used in
next year’s elections, saying the court needed time to explore
allegations that they were designed to keep Latinos out of
office.  To avoid a delay in the state’s election cycle, the San
Antonio judges created interim maps they said more fairly
reflected the distribution of the state’s increased population.
They proposed interim congressional boundaries Nov. 23, a week
after they submitted the interim state legislative districts.  Perry asked the San Antonio judges last week and yesterday
to delay Texas’s primary elections to allow time for Supreme
Court review of the court-drawn boundaries. The judges refused
in a series of 2-to-1 rulings, in which a dissenting judge said
state primaries should be delayed to permit high court review of
the panel’s work.  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
Washington case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-1303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The appeal is Perry v
Perez, 11A520, U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 