-- 
Roche Enters Race to Cure Genetic Disease With $490 Million Agreement

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-11-29T12:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/roche-enters-race-to-cure-genetic-disease-with-490-million-agreement.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  will pay as much as
$490 million for experimental drugs from PTC Therapeutics Inc.
to treat a genetic muscle-weakening disease, in a deal that sets
up a race with rival  Novartis AG. (NOVN)   The  Basel , Switzerland-based drugmaker will pay closely
held  PTC Therapeutics  $30 million up front, and another $460
million if a drug for spinal muscular atrophy achieves certain
regulatory and commercial goals, the companies said today in a
statement. PTC, based in South Plainfield,  New Jersey , would
also get royalties on sales of drugs from the collaboration.  Spinal muscular atrophy afflicts 18,000 people in the U.S.
and  Europe  and causes progressive muscle weakness, according to
the  Spinal Muscular Atrophy Foundation . Kids with severe cases
die within a few years, while those with mild cases can live a
normal lifespan with disabilities. There are no approved
medicines to treat the causes of the  rare disorder , said Luca Santarelli, senior vice president of neuroscience at Roche.  “There are absolutely no therapeutic options for these
children,” said Santarelli in a phone interview. “It is a
frightening disease.”  As part of the agreement announced today, the two companies
will work with the SMA Foundation in New York to advance a drug
for spinal muscular atrophy into human trials. The foundation
also is collaborating with Novartis, based in Basel,
Switzerland, on a separate program to develop drugs for SMA,
also at the preclinical stage.  In a third effort, the foundation has funded a researcher
at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory whose work has led to an
experimental drug for the disease at  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS) 
in Carlsbad,  California . The therapy may enter human trials in
December or January, an Isis spokesman said in an e-mail.  Hedge-Fund Founder  In an unusual arrangement, experts from the foundation will
sit on a steering committee with scientists from Roche and PTC
to help move the drugs into human trials. The foundation was
created in 2003 by  Dinakar Singh , who started and runs the hedge
fund TPG-Axon Capital Management LP, to help find a cure for his
sixth-grade daughter Arya and other patients with the disease.  Singh and his wife, Loren Eng, have spent almost
$100 million of their money on research toward an SMA treatment,
including $13 million in grants the foundation has given to PTC
since 2006.  ‘Breaking New Ground’  The three-way collaboration among Roche, PTC and the SMA
Foundation “is certainly breaking new ground,” said Claudia Hirawat, senior vice president for corporate development at PTC,
in a telephone interview. “I am not aware of any collaboration
that follows exactly this structure.”  Children with the disease lack a gene called SMN1 that
produces a protein crucial for the health of neurons that
control muscles, said Santarelli. The PTC drugs activate a
backup gene so it produces more of the needed protein, he said.  PTC has been working with Roche on other diseases since
2009. Early this year, PTC’s Hirawat told Roche about the
progress the company been making on spinal muscular atrophy,
leading to serious discussions about a potential collaboration
starting in June, she said.  PTC’s experimental compounds “target the cause not the
symptoms” of the genetic disease,’’ said Santarelli of Roche.
“Not too many times do you get to do that.”  Santarelli said he was driving from  Switzerland  to  Italy 
during a vacation last July when he got an urgent call from two
of his colleagues who had seen data from PTC’s tests of its
compounds in mice.  “They were super-excited,” he said. “They were saying,
‘You have to see this, you have to see this.’”  Mice Findings  The data showed that mice that normally die in two weeks
were “living 10 times as long” after being treated with PTC’s
drug, he said. It was compelling enough that he and  Jean-Jacques
Garaud , Roche’s head of pharma research and early development,
flew in September to visit PTC, leading to the deal, Santarelli
said.  Santarelli said that it may be two years before a drug from
the collaboration could reach human trials if all goes well.  “If we are lucky,” the pace may be faster, he said, “but
I don’t want to raise expectations. We are going into children
so we have to be very sure that the drug is safe.”  Eng, president of the SMA Foundation, said her organization
is working with numerous drug companies because multiple types
of drugs acting on different mechanisms may be needed to treat
the disease, in the same way that AIDS is treated with multidrug
cocktails  “At the time your child is diagnosed with something like
this and they tell you there is no treatment, your fantasy is
that some big  drug company  is going to come and save the day,”
Eng said in a phone interview. “It borders on a miracle given
all the little diseases they could be working on, they are
working on this.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  