-- 
JPMorgan Executives Plan Romney New York Fundraiser Next Month

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-11-30T05:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/romney-best-chance-to-beat-obama-jpmorgan-fundraiser.html
Four  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
executives, including the banker who battled the Obama
administration over the restructuring of Chrysler LLC, are co-
hosting a  New York  fundraiser for  Mitt Romney  next month.  “He dominates the Republican field when it comes to being
able to win a general election,” James B. “Jimmy” Lee Jr., a
JPMorgan vice chairman, said in an e-mail inviting donors to
contribute $2,500 to back Romney, obtained by Bloomberg News.
Lee led negotiations for Chrysler’s lenders when President
Barack Obama’s auto task force was preparing to put the company
into bankruptcy in 2009. He later praised the administration for
its response to the auto industry, including the public offering
of  General Motors Co. (GM)   Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and co-founder of
private-equity fund  Bain Capital  LLC, has made his opposition to
the government bailout of Chrysler and GM a part of his
criticism of Obama’s intervention into an economy with an
 unemployment rate  stalled at 9 percent.  “My view with regards to the bailout was that, whether it
was by President Bush or by President Obama, it was the wrong
way to go,” he said at a Nov. 9 debate in Rochester, Michigan.  JPMorgan Executives  Lee is co-hosting the Dec. 14 fundraiser with three other
Republican donors who work at JPMorgan: Frank Bisignano, the
bank’s chief administrative officer and head of home lending;
Mary Callahan Erdoes, the chief executive officer of asset
management; and former Florida Senator Mel Martinez, who served
as secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President
 George W. Bush  and now runs the bank’s charitable foundation.  JPMorgan employees contributed $4.6 million to candidates
and the political parties in the 2008 elections, behind only
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Citigroup Inc. among financial
companies. They gave 61 percent of their money to Democrats. In
the 2010 midterm elections, they gave 56 percent of their $2
million in donations to Republicans, according to the  Center for
Responsive Politics , a Washington-based research group.  The Romney fundraiser will be held at the Waldorf Astoria,
owned by Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest private-equity
fund, on the same day Blackstone’s chairman and co-founder,
 Stephen Schwarzman , plans to host an evening event for Romney at
his Park Avenue home. The Waldorf is on Park Avenue in midtown
 Manhattan , just blocks from JPMorgan’s headquarters.  ‘Strongest Challenger’  “I have known Mitt almost my entire career on the Street
and made one of his first loans when he came to Bain Capital,”
Lee said in his e-mail to prospective donors. “I am committed
to doing all that I can to help his campaign because I also
believe he is the strongest challenger to President Obama.”  Romney, who has  called for repealing  the new financial
regulations Obama signed into law, has raised more than twice as
much money from employees in the securities and investment
industry than the president, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics.  Through Sept. 30, Romney brought in $3.6 million and Obama
$1.6 million. Romney has received donations from many on  Wall
Street  who backed Obama four years ago, when the Democrat raised
$16 million from securities and investment industry employees.
Romney raised $5 million before dropping out of the 2008
presidential race in February.  Former Party Chairman  Lee, Bisignano and Erdoes all supported Republican Senator
John McCain’s White House bid in 2008. Martinez was chairman of
the  Republican Party  in the 2008 election cycle while serving in
the  U.S. Senate .  Martinez, who is a chairman of Romney’s national advisory
committee, declined to say how many people will attend the
fundraiser.  He said he agreed that Romney is the most electable of the
Republican candidates. “He is the most prepared to be president
in the Republican field and has the best handle on moving the
economy forward,” said Martinez.  The other executives declined to comment.  Bisignano also donated $4,600 to then-Senator  Hillary Clinton ’s bid for the Democratic presidential nomination in
2008, according to financial-disclosure reports.  In August of this year, Lee contributed $2,500 to the
Republican presidential campaign of former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman .  Lee, Bisignano and Erdoes worked with  William Daley  when he
led corporate responsibility for the bank before he left to
become Obama’s chief of staff at the beginning of the year.  Auto Negotiations  Lee has worked on deals for News Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch  and Brian Roberts, the chairman,
president and CEO of Comcast Corp. At the beginning of the Obama
administration, he handled negotiations with  Steven Rattner , the
head of Obama’s auto task force, over assistance to the
industry.  Lee demanded 100 cents on the dollar for the debt, and
argued that the government should repay all $6.9 billion owed to
Chrysler lenders “and not a penny less,” according to a book
written by Rattner.  In the heat of negotiations, Lee also told Rattner he’d
have his boss, CEO  Jamie Dimon , call the president to press the
matter, according to Rattner’s account. Bondholders ended up
receiving 29 cents on the dollar.  Last year, Lee was part of a JPMorgan team that ran General
Motors’ $23 billion initial public offering, the biggest on
record. He later said the government’s intervention at GM and
Chrysler saved the  auto industry .  “This was much bigger than a stock offering,” he said on
Sept. 27 at a Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York. “It gave
people a reason to believe in the country and what it can do.”  Republicans’ View  Throughout the campaign, Romney has said that instead of a
government intervention, the auto companies should have
immediately entered private-sector bankruptcies. His Republican
rivals share that view, saying in the November debate that they
wouldn’t have extended government loans to save the two
automakers.  The Obama campaign and Democratic surrogates have signaled
they intend to use Romney’s position on the bailout against him
if he wins his party’s nomination.  Former  Michigan  Governor Jennifer Granholm, a Democrat,
said in Nov. 9 interview that Romney’s position was “a knife in
the back” to the state where he was born and grew up.  “If it had gone his way, these companies would have been
liquidated,” said Granholm.  The Romney campaign didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  