-- 
Rousseff Said to Spare Finance Chief Mantega From Brazil Cabinet Shuffle

-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 
2011-11-30T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/rousseff-said-to-spare-finance-chief-mantega-from-brazil-cabinet-shuffle.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
plans to keep Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  in his post when
she shuffles her Cabinet early next year, a government official
said.  Rousseff intends to replace a handful of ministers when she
completes a year in office in January in a bid to improve
government efficiency and crack down on corruption that has
already led to the resignation of several aides, according to
the official in the president’s office who asked not to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to make public comments.  The president’s office has been receiving a growing number
of media and investor inquiries regarding Mantega’s future since
he began spending more time in  Sao Paulo  to care for his ailing
wife, said the official. His deputy, Executive Secretary Nelson Barbosa, has assumed a higher profile in his place, giving
interviews and making public appearances.  Rousseff trusts Mantega and believes he is doing a good job
in steering  Latin America ’s biggest economy through global
financial turmoil, the official said. His close ties to leading
policy makers around the world are a valuable asset during the
crisis, he added.  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment yesterday.  Mantega, a 62 year-old former economics professor, took
over as  Brazil ’s finance minister in 2006 after serving as
former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s planning minister
and head of the state development bank BNDES. He led Brazil’s
response to the 2008 financial crisis, cutting taxes and ramping
up state-led lending to fight off a brief recession and deliver
7.5 percent growth in 2010 that was the fastest in two decades.  Lula Holdover  A close ally of Lula, Mantega is one of 12 Lula-era
officials Rousseff retained in her 38-member Cabinet when she
took office. Five of them, including Mantega’s predecessor
 Antonio Palocci , have since resigned, all but one of them amid
media allegations and police probes over alleged corruption.  Mantega was not Rousseff’s first choice for finance chief
and earlier in the year his job looked in doubt as inflation
accelerated, said  Christopher Garman , a Latin American analyst
at Eurasia Group. After surpassing the government target range
in April, inflation has showed signs of slowing from a six-year
high of 7.31 percent in September.  “He was never really that close to Dilma and talk about
his leaving had become stronger when the government was slow to
react to inflationary pressure earlier this year,” Garman said
by telephone from  Washington . “That talk has since subsided.”  Cabinet Moves  As part of Rousseff’s planned cabinet shuffle, the
ministers of urban affairs, culture, labor and agrarian reform
may be let go, said the official. Central Bank chief Alexandre Tombini, who spearheaded the central bank’s surprise rate cut in
August, will remain in his post, he added.  While some ministers, such as Education Minister Fernando Haddad, are facing an early 2012 deadline to step down and be
eligible to run in next October’s municipal elections, the
cabinet moves are designed to weaken the grip of government-
allied parties on certain ministries, the official said.  Rousseff and Mantega’s Workers’ Party lacks a majority in
Congress and depends on the votes of a multi-party coalition to
pass legislation. While Rousseff has continued a Brazilian
political tradition of divvying up cabinet positions in
proportion to parties’ electoral strength, she’s drawn rebuke
from allies by expressing a preference for technocrats in other
key positions and by thwarting efforts to boost spending on
earmarks.  The government is still studying whether to fold the
ministries of fisheries, maritime ports and gender issues into
other cabinet-level portfolios, the official added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  