-- 
Trucker-Rest Exemptions May ‘Devour’ U.S. Rule Before It Starts

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-11-29T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/trucker-rest-exemptions-may-devour-u-s-rule-before-it-starts.html
The National Ready Mixed Concrete
Association isn’t waiting for the outcome of a 16-year debate
over how long truckers can drive each day. It’s asking for a
pass from the rules, however they turn out.  The  Silver Spring, Maryland-based association  joins a
growing number of industries, from water-well drillers to
utilities to agricultural retailers, that have obtained or are
seeking relief from a proposed rule that would shorten the
amount of time a trucker can be on the road to 10 hours from 11.  So many groups are lining up for exemptions the measure may
end up being gutted, said Henry Jasny, vice president of
Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, which favors the
regulation.  “If you accept the rationale for these industries, why
would you have any logical reason to deny every other single
industry?” said Jasny, who is also general counsel for the
Washington-based coalition of consumer groups and insurers.
“The exceptions devour the rule.”  The 10-hour regulation, proposed by President Barack Obama’s administration last December, would cost the industry $1
billion, the Transportation Department estimates. That makes it
one of the seven most expensive regulations under consideration,
according to the White House.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, is among
lawmakers asking the White House to keep the 11-hour daily
limit, saying fatalities have fallen since it took effect and
that the cost of a shorter day is too high.  The  House Oversight  and Government Reform’s regulatory
affairs subcommittee will examine whether the regulations would
add to consumer costs in a hearing tomorrow.  Practical Reasons  Aside from the financial impact, there are practical
reasons for not applying the rule to all businesses, groups such
as the concrete association say.  Once concrete is mixed with water, it starts to set, said
Robert Garbini, president and chief executive officer of the
group. That and the unpredictability of construction should
exempt cement-truck drivers, who typically work 17 miles or less
from their plants and rarely drive for the majority of their
day, he said.  Hours-of-service rules are “based on a long-haul driver
sitting in a truck on a monotonous road seeing the lines go
by,” Garbini said.  The dispute dates back to 1995, when Congress passed a law
to eliminate the Interstate Commerce Commission, which regulated
trucking. The legislation ordered the Transportation Department
to write new hours-of-service rules for trucking.  The department has been unable to promulgate a regulation
that stood up to court challenges. In 2004, the George W. Bush
administration imposed an 11-hour limit. That also has been
challenged, by groups including Advocates for Highway and Auto
Safety, leading to the current impasse.  Most-Dangerous Profession  The White House is reviewing the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration’s final version of the regulations, which
may be released by the end of this year.  Cutting the number of hours drivers can spend behind the
wheel would save billions of dollars by reducing health-care
costs and accidents, the administration argues. The profession
has more on-the-job deaths than any other, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.  There were 3,380 truck-related fatalities in 2009, of which
503 were truckers, according to the latest annual data from the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration . That’s down from
4,245 in 2008. As recently as 2006, there were more than 5,000
fatalities.  Early Exemptions  Hours-of-service exemptions were written into law for more
than a dozen industries even before the current round of
lobbying started last December. They include trucks hauling
equipment to movie-filming locations, construction sites and  oil
fields ; carrying goods to retail stores and working for grape
growers in New York state.  Some of them say they won’t be able to survive if they’re
forced to adhere to rules designed for cross-country freight
haulers in their specialized industries.  Farmers and agricultural businesses have had an exemption
since 1995, said Richard Gupton, senior vice president for
public policy at the Agricultural Retailers Association. When
the Transportation Department in 2008 cited a Missouri trucker
carrying the farm chemical anhydrous ammonia for driving too
long, it created a question about what was covered by the
exemption, he said.  Fertilizer Chemical  A  temporary, two-year exemption  for anhydrous ammonia
carriers has shown the chemical, used as a fertilizer, could be
carried safely even without hours-of-service rules, Gupton said.
The exemption, which would expire in 2012 without further
action, applies to shipments to a store from a port or terminal
in a 100-mile radius, he said.  Gupton’s group, along with the Agricultural and Food
Transporters Conference, the National Council of Farmer
Cooperatives and the Fertilizer Institute, commended 40 House
members for sponsoring legislation in October to give all trucks
carrying commodities and farm supplies in the supply chain an
exemption, he said.  “These are very experienced, well-trained employees
handling the material,” Gupton said. “Most of the time they’re
not on the road. They’re on the farm or at the retail
location.”  The list of groups lining up for special treatment suggests
they’re acting out of convenience rather than necessity,
according to Jasny of the highway safety organization.  Disney Fireworks  Jasny opposed Walt Disney Co. and 61 other fireworks
purveyors this year when the world’s biggest theme-park operator
asked to be included in an exemption granted to the pyrotechnics
industry around the U.S. Independence Day holiday on July 4.
Earlier this month, he argued against an application by Western
Pilot Service, a company that provides fuel to planes fighting
forest fires.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration granted the
exemption in the first case to every member of the American
Pyrotechnics Association except a company with hazardous-
materials violations. A decision is pending in the second
application.  Industries asking for an hours-of-service exemption have to
explain why they need one and for how long, according to the
agency’s website.  In making its case, the American Moving and Storage
Association said its drivers’ jobs are different from the
harried, “just-in-time” general freight industry.  Movers spend a lot of time packing and unpacking, said Paul
Oakley, senior vice president of government relations for the
group, which represents companies like  UniGroup Worldwide  in  St.
Louis  and Evansville, Indiana-based  Atlas Van Lines .  Oakley’s group wants to keep the 11-hour driving limit and
to allow non-driving work after the 14-hour on-duty time limit
proposed by the FMCSA.  “It’s not a be-at-the-loading-dock at 6 o’clock kind of
thing,” Oakley said. “We can’t be in the middle of loading
someone’s house and saying we have to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  