-- 
Rupiah Drops for a Third Day on Slowing Growth; Bonds Advance

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-11-29T09:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/rupiah-drops-for-a-third-day-as-fitch-cuts-u-s-rating-outlook.html
Indonesia’s rupiah dropped for a
third straight day after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded its credit-
rating outlook on the U.S., the second-biggest export market for
Southeast Asia’s largest economy. Bonds snapped a 10-day decline.  The rupiah has dropped 3.7 percent this month, less than a
slide of 4.1 percent for Singapore’s dollar and 6.5 percent for
India’s rupee, on speculation the central bank has been limiting
the currency’s losses.  Bank Indonesia  is committed to
stabilizing the rupiah by selling foreign currencies and buying
 government bonds  in the secondary market, Perry Warjiyo,
director for economic research and monetary policy at the
central bank, said in Jakarta today.  “The U.S. outlook downgrade and the continuing debt crisis
in Europe are affecting overall sentiment,” said  Gundy Cahyadi ,
a Singapore-based economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. “A
strong dollar has caused pressure on the rupiah.”  The rupiah declined 0.5 percent to 9,194 per dollar as of
3:35 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 9,240 earlier, the weakest
level since June 2010.  Fitch lowered the outlook on its AAA long-term credit
rating to negative from stable yesterday, citing “declining
confidence” in U.S. public finances.  Bank Indonesia expects a “downward risk” to its economic
growth forecast of 6.5 percent next year because of a slowing
global economy and a decline in commodity prices, Warjiyo said.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 8.25 percent notes
due July 2021 dropped 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point,
to 6.75 percent, according to midday prices by the Inter-Dealer
Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  