-- 
S&P Cuts Deutsche Telekom Outlook on Economy, T-Mobile USA

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-11-29T11:52:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/s-p-revises-deutsche-telekom-outlook-to-stable-from-positive-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG , Europe’s
biggest phone company, had its outlook revised to “stable” from
“positive” at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, which cited a
weaker economy and lower chances of selling its U.S. business.  S&P cut estimates for the Bonn-based company’s operating
results over the next 24 months because of a “weakening
macroeconomic environment,” it said in a statement today,
adding that it no longer expects the sale of the  T-Mobile USA 
wireless unit to  AT&T Inc. (T)  to be approved by regulators. The
credit rating company affirmed the BBB+ long-term and A-2 short-
term corporate credit ratings.  AT&T and Deutsche Telekom on Nov. 24 said they withdrew
their applications for the $39 billion deal to the  U.S. Federal
Communications Commission  after that agency’s Chairman  Julius Genachowski  asked commissioners to send the proposed takeover to
an agency judge for a hearing. The companies said they will
focus on persuading the  Justice Department , which in August sued
to block the transaction, saying it would harm competition.  Deutsche Telekom has said it plans to spend 13 billion
euros ($17.4 billion) from the deal’s proceeds on debt reduction
and 5 billion euros to buy back shares.  Moody’s Investors Service today cut its outlook for
European telecoms companies to negative from stable citing
revenue impact from “macroeconomic factors, aggravated by
 Europe ’s ongoing sovereign debt crisis,” and “continued
regulatory and competitive pressures,” according to a statement.  Mild Recession  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
in Paris yesterday lowered its global growth forecast for this
year and next, calling Europe’s fiscal crisis the main threat.
The economy of the 34 OECD nations will expand 1.9 percent this
year and 1.6 percent next instead of a previously projected 2.3
percent and 2.8 percent, it said.  The euro region is already in a “mild recession,” with
gross domestic product rising just 0.2 percent in 2012, the OECD
said. In 2013, the economy may expand 1.4 percent. Deutsche
Telekom operates in markets including Greece, Romania and
 Hungary .  S&P said it now expects revenue, excluding the UK
Everything Everywhere venture with France Telecom SA, to drop 5
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2012 before stabilizing in
2013. The economic decline will “significantly” affect
Deutsche Telekom’s European operations apart from  Germany , the
rating company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  