-- 
BofA, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup Credit Ratings Cut by S&P

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-11-29T23:32:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/s-p-cuts-bank-of-america-citigroup-goldman-ratings-in-industry-revision.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Citigroup Inc. had long-term credit grades
reduced to A- from A by  Standard & Poor’s  after the ratings firm
revised criteria for dozens of the world’s biggest lenders.  S&P made the same cut to Morgan Stanley and Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was
reduced one level to A from A+. S&P upgraded  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) 
and China Construction Bank Corp. to A from A- and maintained
the A rating on  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (1398) ,
giving all three lenders higher grades than most big U.S. banks.  The moves may increase pressure on firms already dealing
with weak economies and Europe’s mounting sovereign debt crisis.
Lenders including Bank of America, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley
have said they may have to post billions of dollars of
additional collateral and termination payments on trades because
of a one-level downgrade in their credit ratings.  “It’s evident that stress from the European banking system
is taking its worldwide toll,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
in an e-mail.  The ratings firm also downgraded  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to
A from A+, and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to A+ from AA-, according to
the report.  Change in Technique  S&P, a unit of New York-based  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , has been
changing the way it looks at debt after its faulty grades
contributed to the credit-market seizure that brought down
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. It started
to review the methodology in December 2008, months after the
collapse of those two firms.  Most bank stocks were little changed in after-hours
trading. Bank of America fell 4 cents to $5.04, while Citigroup
dropped 19 cents to $25.05 and Goldman Sachs declined 21 cents
to $88.60 as of 6:30 p.m. in New York trading.  Citigroup (C)  issued
a statement disputing S&P’s downgrade.  “I don’t think moving from single A to single A- has much
of an economic impact on anyone,” said  David Hilder , a New
York-based analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group. “Those
ratings are at a high level compared to the whole spectrum of
ratings and are still well into the territory of investment
grade.”  For Bank of America, the bigger impact might have been with
when Moody’s Investors Service reduced its grade in September to
Baa1, two notches below the prior A2 rating, Hilder said. By
contrast “these are relatively minor changes,” he said.  Collateral Triggers  Downgrades “could likely have a material adverse effect on
our liquidity, potential loss of access to credit markets, the
related cost of funds, our businesses and on certain trading
revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty
creditworthiness is critical,”  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America said in its quarterly filing.  The company, which noted the risk of downgrades from S&P
and Fitch Ratings in the filing, previously said it has prepared
by lining up funding for a year.  Citibank NA, the deposit-taking arm of New York-based
Citigroup, was downgraded to A from A+. The bank estimated in a
quarterly filing that a one-level reduction to the unit’s rating
could trigger $4 billion of collateral payments and other cash
obligations.  Citigroup Dissents  “We completely disagree with S&P’s change to Citigroup
Inc.’s holding company long-term and short-term ratings,” said
Jon Diat, a spokesman for the lender, in an e-mailed statement.
“Less than 1 percent of Citi’s funding will be affected by the
S&P revision.”  Morgan Stanley estimated over-the-counter derivatives
counterparties could demand $1.29 billion of collateral or
termination payments from the New York-based firm after a one-
notch downgrade. In addition, the firm may have to post an
additional $323 million to exchanges and clearinghouses. All the
estimates were as of Sept. 30.  JPMorgan, the largest and most profitable  U.S. lender (BKX) , has
said the New York-based company may have to post an extra
$1.5 billion in collateral against its derivatives and pay
additional sums for contract terminations after a one-notch cut.  Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, David Wells, a
spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, and JPMorgan’s  Joe Evangelisti  declined to comment.  Power Shift  S&P analysts wrote earlier this month that the new ratings
would reflect “a potential shift in the power balance of global
banking.” In August, S&P downgraded the U.S. sovereign credit
rating from AAA, citing political failure to reduce record
deficits. The ratings company downgraded the six largest U.S.
banks while upgrading two Chinese lenders.  S&P analysts wrote in a Nov. 1 research note describing its
criteria that developed banking markets in the U.S. and  Europe 
were under pressure, while  emerging markets  in  Latin America  and
 Asia  were expanding.  “Leading banks in these regions have benefited from strong
economic growth which has supported household and corporate
credit quality,” S&P wrote.  S&P, the world’s largest provider of bond ratings, has
roiled markets this month with a pair of errors related to
sovereign credit ratings. On Nov. 10, the company sent, and then
corrected, an erroneous message to subscribers suggesting
France’s top credit rating had been downgraded. French 10-year
bond yields rose as much as 28 basis points after the mistaken
announcement. A week later, it released a statement with an
incorrect rating for  Brazil  in the headline. It later sent a
corrected headline.  The following table shows firms that were downgraded by
S&P, followed by a list of banks that were upgraded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  