-- 
Saints Win 49-24 to Keep Division Lead, Send Giants to Third Straight Loss

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-11-29T05:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/saints-win-49-24-to-keep-division-lead-send-giants-to-third-straight-loss.html
Drew Brees  threw four touchdown
passes and ran for another score as the  New Orleans Saints  beat
the New York Giants 49-24 to maintain their division lead and
send the Giants to a third straight loss.  Brees finished with 363 yards passing last night at the
Superdome in New Orleans as the Saints improved to 8-3 and
pushed their  National Football League  winning streak to three
games. New Orleans has a one-game lead over the  Atlanta Falcons 
in the National Football Conference South division.  “You want to put your best performance out on the field
and get a little bit better each week,” Brees, who leads the
NFL with 3,689 yards passing, said in a televised interview.
“It’s all about making a run now that we’re getting into
December. The challenges only get greater as you move through
the season.”  The Giants slipped to 6-5, falling one game behind the
first-place  Dallas Cowboys  in the NFC East. Four of the Giants’
five remaining regular-season games are against teams with
winning records, including  Dallas  (7-4), who they play twice,
the  Green Bay Packers  (11-0) and New York Jets (6-5).  The Giants, who allowed 577 yards of offense and their most
points since a 50-21 loss to  Washington  on Sept. 19, 1999, next
host the Packers on Dec. 4.  “They had a good scheme and we didn’t get to the passer,
again,” Giants coach Tom Coughlin said at a news conference.
“When we don’t get to the passer, we have trouble.”  After a scoreless first quarter, New Orleans outscored the
Giants 21-3 in the second, with Brees throwing two touchdown
passes to Lance Moore and one to Jimmy Graham.  Two Quick Scores  The Giants pulled within 21-10 on a third-quarter touchdown
run by Brandon Jacobs before the Saints scored twice in a span
of 1 minute, 35 seconds. Brees scrambled into the end zone for
an 8-yard score with 5:48 left in the quarter and then threw
another touchdown pass to Graham from 29 yards out following a
Giants fumble.  Eli Manning threw a pair of touchdown passes to Victor Cruz
for the Giants in the fourth quarter, while Pierre Thomas and
Mark Ingram countered with touchdown runs for the Saints.  It was the third time this season the Saints have scored 40
or more points in a game.  New Orleans  now has a 5-0 record at
the Superdome this year.  Manning had 406 yards passing for the Giants, who entered
the game with the NFL’s worst rushing offense and finished with
73 yards on the ground.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  