-- 
San Francisco Gasoline Drops After Chevron Said to Start Units

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-11-29T21:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/san-francisco-gasoline-drops-after-chevron-said-to-start-units.html
California-blend gasoline in  San
Francisco  fell to its lowest level against futures since August
after  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  was said start a crude unit at the Richmond
oil refinery and a cracking unit at the El Segundo plant.  Carbob in  San Francisco  dropped 3.5 cents to a discount of
1 cent a gallon versus gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 2:07 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the first time since Aug. 16
that the fuel traded at a discount in San Francisco.  Chevron was expected to start a fluid catalytic cracker at
the  El Segundo  refinery today that was shut in October for
repairs, a person with direct knowledge of the work said Nov.
21. The  San Ramon , California-based company also restored
service to a crude unit at the  Richmond  refinery that was shut
Nov. 14 after a fire, two people familiar with the plant’s
operations said.  “We continue to supply products to our customers without
interruption,” Melissa Ritchie, a Chevron spokeswoman based at
the Richmond refinery, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  dropped 4 cents, narrowing its
premium to 1 cent against futures. That’s the lowest level for
the fuel since Nov. 15.  California-blend diesel in  Los Angeles  fell 1.25 cents to
reach parity with heating oil futures traded on the Nymex. The
same fuel in  San Francisco  weakened 1.75 cents, also to trade
even with futures.  Martinez Shutdown  San Antonio-based  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  shut a crude distillation
unit at the  Martinez  refinery in Northern California after a
naphtha leak, Tina Barbee, a Tesoro spokeswoman based at the
company’s headquarters, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The refinery reported “a liquid spill” from the crude
unit, known as the “50 Unit,” at about 7:15 a.m. local time
yesterday, Matt Kaufmann, a hazardous materials specialist for
Contra Costa County, said in a telephone interview today.  The 50 Unit was scheduled for a five-week maintenance
turnaround beginning in January, a person familiar with the
plant’s operations said Oct. 5. Barbee declined to comment
today, citing company policy, on whether the planned work will
be conducted now while the unit is down.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , was
unchanged at a discount of 3.75 cents to futures, holding at the
fuel’s lowest level since Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  