-- 
Sandusky’s Second Mile Charity Seeks to Dismiss Victim Suit Over Assets

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-11-30T01:56:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/sandusky-s-second-mile-football-charity-seeks-to-dismiss-victim-lawsuit.html
Second Mile, the charity for needy
children started by Jerry Sandusky, asked a judge to dismiss a
lawsuit by an alleged victim of the former  Pennsylvania  State
University coach seeking to freeze the foundation’s assets.  The complaint lacks any factual basis apart from “pure
speculation,” Howard Rosenthal, an attorney for the charity,
said in papers filed yesterday in state court in Philadelphia.
At a minimum, the case should be transferred to state court in
 State College , Pennsylvania, where Second Mile is located,
Rosenthal said in the filing.  “Any sexual abuse suffered by plaintiff or any other
victim, especially children, is a tragedy of unspeakable
depth,” Rosenthal said in the filing. “But the assertion that
such abuse might have occurred, and the claim that a charitable
organization’s negligence may have proximately contributed to
such abuse, does not warrant the extraordinary relief plaintiff
seeks here.”  Sandusky was charged Nov. 5 with 40 counts related to
alleged molestation of eight boys from 1994 to 2009. Prosecutors
allege Sandusky, who founded Second Mile in 1977, used the
charity to find his victims.  The organization, which serves children with physical,
emotional and academic needs, saw its assets more than triple
from 2002 through 2009. Net assets were estimated at
$7.9 million as of Nov. 24, according to court papers.  John Doe #4  The plaintiff, identified only as John Doe #4, sued on Nov.
23 seeking a court order barring the charity from dissolving its
assets. The complaint, which also asked for the appointment of a
receiver, seeks to preserve the foundation’s assets for any
future potential claim for damages, according to court papers.  There is no basis to the plaintiff’s arguments that an
injunction is needed because of reports of the charity’s demise,
Rosenthal said in the filing.  “There is no reference whatsoever to the disposition of
any of TSM’s assets, either having already occurred, or being
imminent or planned,” Rosenthal said.  Second Mile said in a statement on Nov. 21 that it’s
considering restructuring the organization, transferring its
programs or discontinuing operations. The charity’s former
president, Jack Raykovitz, resigned this month after a grand
jury report said that foundation officials were aware of
Sandusky’s contact with boys in Penn State football showers as
early as 1998.  Michael Boni, a  Bala Cynwyd , Pennsylvania-based lawyer,
said today in an e-mail that he represents “Victim 1” and his
mother. Boni said he believed, while not knowing for certain,
that all of the victims and others who testified before the
grand jury were expected at a preliminary hearing in the
criminal case against Sandusky on Dec. 13.  The case is John Doe #4 v. The Second Mile, 11112384, Court
of Common Pleas Philadelphia County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  