-- 
Schroders Shuns Equities on Recession Forecast for the Euro Area in 2012

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-11-29T13:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/schroders-shuns-equities-on-recession-forecast-for-the-euro-area-in-2012.html
Schroders Plc (SDR) , the 200-year-old U.K.
asset manager overseeing $284 billion, will enter 2012 with the
lowest amount of equities allowed in some funds as it forecasts
a worse-than-predicted recession in the euro area.  “If the wheels come off, we’re in for a scenario no-one
has ever witnessed before,” Alan Brown, chief investment
officer at the London-based company, said in a presentation
today, in reference to the euro area’s escalating sovereign-debt
crisis. “It’s important for us to know if  Germany  and  France 
will come up and do something in the eleventh hour” before
committing more money to equities. “It’s a binary outcome and
we need more clarity.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  has lost 21 percent since this
year’s peak on Feb. 17 as borrowing costs for the most indebted
euro-area nations soared amid concern they will struggle to
finance their debt. At a bond auction today,  Italy  had to pay
above the 7 percent threshold that led  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland to seek bailouts from the European Union.  The euro area’s gross domestic product will probably
contract 1.8 percent next year as banks sell assets and
governments rein in spending, Azad Zangana, European economist
at Schroders, said in the presentation today. The  median
prediction  in a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists calls for
growth of 0.5 percent.  The slowdown on the continent will also drag the U.K. into
a recession, with the economy contracting 0.4 percent in 2012,
Zangana said.  Gold Hedge  Schroders’ funds with a discretionary or flexible mandate
hold about 30 percent in equities, Brown said, adding that the
allowed range is “between 30 percent and 80 percent” of total
assets. The firm has invested in gold as a hedge against falling
currencies and a slowing economy, and has a “quite substantial
position in cash.”  “We’re about as defensively positioned as we could be,”
the manager said. “We will pretty much stay in that position
until we get better clarification” about the euro area’s
crisis. Schroders has bet against the euro by holding U.S.
dollars, he said.  Brown and Zangana said the  European Central Bank  has the
capacity to solve the crisis. They also said that Germany may
only allow the central bank to buy bonds “more aggressively”
if the crisis worsens.  Equity markets may still rise in a contracting economy “at
the first sign” that the central bank is ready to increase its
bond-purchasing program, Brown said.  “One should keep their European assets powder dry,” Brown
said, “ready to move in case we have a resolution. But I
wouldn’t be anticipating it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  