-- 
SEC Seeks to Raise Limits on Securities Fines

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-11-29T17:54:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/sec-s-schapiro-asks-to-raise-penalty-limits.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is seeking congressional authorization to impose
bigger penalties for wrongdoing amid criticism that the agency
hasn’t done enough to punish misdeeds tied to the credit crisis.  Fines against individuals would be capped at $1 million per
violation instead of $150,000 and penalties for firms could rise
to $10 million from $725,000 for each act under a proposal
included in a letter dated yesterday from SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to Senator Jack Reed, the Rhode Island Democrat who
leads a subcommittee that oversees the agency.  The SEC proposal, which would also triple the amount the
agency could seek under an alternative formula based on the
violator’s gains, was issued the same day as U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff rejected a proposed $285 million settlement with
Citigroup Inc. Rakoff criticized the agreement, aimed at
resolving claims the Wall Street bank misled investors in a $1
billion financial product linked to souring mortgages, saying it
was “a very good deal for Citigroup” and represented “a mild
and modest cost of doing business.”  In her letter, Schapiro said the changes “would
substantially enhance the effectiveness of the Commission’s
enforcement program by addressing existing limitations that have
resulted in criticism regarding the adequacy of Commission
actions against those who violate securities laws.”  She also proposed letting the agency seek penalties based
on the amount of investor losses incurred as a result of the
defendant’s conduct, according to the letter.  ‘Greater Flexibility’  “Together, these changes would provide the Commission with
greater flexibility with regard to monetary penalties in cases
where the misconduct is very serious, repeated, or involves
substantial investor losses, but the current statutes do not
allow for an appropriately significant penalty,” she wrote.  Rakoff, calling  Citigroup (C)  “a recidivist,” said the SEC
hasn’t tried to enforce orders in its settlements that require
firms not to repeat violations of securities laws.  Schapiro said the SEC doesn’t have adequate tools to deter
repeat offenders. In her letter, she said the agency should be
able to triple the applicable penalty if the defendant had been
sanctioned for committing fraud within the previous five years.  Schapiro has asked her staff to prepare draft legislation
for the proposals and plans to provide that to lawmakers soon,
according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  