-- 
SEC Policy Challenged in Judge’s Rejection of $285 Million Citigroup Deal

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/sec-policy-challenged-in-judge-s-rejection-of-citigroup-deal.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission’s policy of letting financial institutions settle
enforcement actions without admitting liability was challenged
by a judge who rejected its $285 million  Citigroup Inc. (C)  accord.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan rejected the
settlement in a decision yesterday, citing the public interest
in learning the truth about SEC allegations that the bank
defrauded investors in a $1 billion collateralized debt
obligation linked to bad residential mortgages.  “It’s a frontal assault on the ‘neither admit nor deny’
approach,” said J. Robert Brown Jr., who teaches corporate
governance at the University of Denver Sturm College of Law.
“This puts the SEC in a very difficult spot.”  Rakoff said the Citigroup settlement, in which the bank
agreed last month to resolve SEC claims that it misled investors
in a fund called “Class V Funding III” gave him no basis to
decide whether it was fair.  “The court has not been provided with any proven or
admitted facts upon which to exercise even a modest degree of
independent judgment,” Rakoff said in yesterday’s opinion.  The decision is the latest by Rakoff criticizing the SEC’s
practice of allowing financial institutions to settle
enforcement actions without admitting or denying the agency’s
allegations. In 2009, Rakoff, a former federal prosecutor and
civil litigator, rejected a $33 million agreement between the
SEC and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Revision Possible  The SEC and Citigroup may try to reach a revised settlement
to address Rakoff’s objections and avoid a trial, which he
scheduled for July 16. Any admissions by Citigroup in a revised
settlement might be used by investors suing the bank to recover
their losses.  “While we respect the court’s ruling, we believe that the
proposed $285 million settlement was fair, adequate, reasonable,
in the public interest, and reasonably reflects the scope of
relief that would be obtained after a successful trial,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, said
yesterday in a statement. Khuzami didn’t say what action the
agency would take in response to Rakoff’s decision.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, said the bank disagreed with Rakoff’s ruling.  “The proposed settlement is a fair and reasonable
resolution to the SEC’s allegation of negligence,” she said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “The settlement fully
complies with long-established legal standards. In the event the
case is tried, we would present substantial factual and legal
defenses to the charges.”  Cases Combined  In his ruling, Rakoff consolidated the Citigroup case with
an SEC lawsuit against former Citigroup employee Brian Stoker.
Stoker, a former director in Citigroup’s CDO structuring group,
was responsible for structuring and marketing the investment,
according to an SEC complaint filed last month. Brook Dooley, a
lawyer for Stoker, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message yesterday seeking comment on the SEC allegations.  Rakoff noted that, in its complaint against Stoker, the SEC
claimed Citigroup knowingly withheld information from investors
that it intended the fund to include poorly rated assets, an
allegation missing from the agency’s complaint against the bank.  Nominated by President  Bill Clinton , Rakoff, 68, has served
on the federal bench since 1996. He often holds hearings into
the evening and jokes about his love of the  New York  Yankees.  Reduced Sentence  He has criticized federal sentencing guidelines, ordering
expert-network consultant Winifred Jiau in September to serve
four years in prison for her insider-trading conviction and not
at least 6 1/2 years, as recommended by the guidelines.  Also in September, Rakoff dismissed most of a billion-
dollar claim by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s former
firm against the owners of the  New York Mets . In a separate case
he directed the trustee, New York lawyer  Irving Picard , to
explain why investors who withdrew money from their Madoff
accounts in good faith shouldn’t be allowed to keep it,
challenging a position supported by the SEC, the Securities
Investor Protection Corp. and the bankruptcy judge in the Madoff
case.  This month, Rakoff imposed a record $92.8 million penalty
against Raj Rajaratnam in the SEC’s insider trading suit against
the Galleon Group LLC co-founder.  Rakoff is also presiding over the criminal prosecution of
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Director  Rajat Gupta  on insider-
trading charges and a related SEC civil case. He has been
considering whether the parties in the SEC case may take witness
depositions before completion of the criminal case, set for
trial on April 9.  ‘Public Interest’  Rakoff has been a frequent critic of SEC settlements in
which the defendant “neither admits nor denies” the
allegations.  At a hearing this month, Rakoff asked if the public
interest doesn’t require determining whether Citigroup did what
the SEC claims.  Matthew Martens, the SEC’s chief litigation counsel, told
Rakoff that the agency adopted its policy of allowing
settlements without admission or denial of liability in 1972 to
avoid having defendants claim publicly they hadn’t done anything
wrong after agreeing to settle.  In its complaint against Citigroup, the SEC said the bank
misled investors in a $1 billion fund that included assets the
bank had projected would lose money. At the same time it was
selling the fund to investors, Citigroup took a short position
in many of the underlying assets to benefit if they fell in
value, according to the agency. The settlement was an attempt to
resolve a four-year SEC investigation.  ‘Very Good Deal’  “If the allegations of the complaint are true, this is a
very good deal for Citigroup,” Rakoff wrote in yesterday’s
ruling. “Even if they are untrue, it is a mild and modest cost
of doing business.”  Rakoff, after rejecting  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America’s settlement with the SEC over claims it misled
investors about bonuses at Merrill Lynch & Co., approved a
revised settlement in February 2010. In the revised settlement,
Bank of America agreed to pay $150 million to resolve broader
allegations about misstatements to investors, including those
about bonuses at Merrill Lynch, which it had acquired in 2009.  This year, Rakoff criticized an SEC settlement with Vitesse
Semiconductor Corp.  ‘Terrible Things’  “Here an agency of the U.S. is saying, in effect,
‘although we claim that these defendants have done terrible
things, they refuse to admit it and we do not propose to prove
it, but will simply resort to gagging their right to deny it,’”
he wrote in a decision approving the agreement.  Citigroup doesn’t want to formally admit liability because
of the bad publicity that would follow and because an admission
would give a powerful tool to investors suing the bank, said
Mark Fickes, a former senior trial counsel at the SEC and now a
partner at BraunHagey & Borden LLP in  San Francisco .  A revised settlement would probably have to include “an
agreement as to what the actual facts were,” said Darrin Robbins, who represents investors in securities fraud lawsuits.
Robbins’s firm, San Diego-based Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd
LLP, was lead counsel in more settled securities class actions
than any other firm in the past two years, according to
Cornerstone Research, which tracks securities suits.  In his ruling yesterday, Rakoff said he can’t endorse the
proposed settlement based only on the unproved allegations in
the SEC’s complaint. He rejected the SEC argument that he should
defer to the agency’s determination that the settlement is fair,
particularly as it asked him to issue an order requiring
Citigroup not to violate securities laws in the future.  ‘Recidivist’ Bank  Calling Citigroup “a recidivist,” Rakoff said the SEC
hasn’t tried to enforce such an order against a financial
institution in the past 10 years.  Khuzami, the SEC’s chief of enforcement, said Rakoff’s
criticism “disregards the fact that obtaining disgorgement,
monetary penalties, and mandatory business reforms may
significantly outweigh the absence of an admission when that
relief is obtained promptly and without the risks, delay, and
resources required at trial.”  Rakoff’s position also ignores “decades of established
practice” by federal agencies and threatens to drain resources
that could otherwise be used to uncover other frauds, Khuzami
said. The allegations against Citigroup are the “reasoned
conclusions of the federal agency responsible for the
enforcement of the securities laws after a thorough and careful
investigation of the facts,” he said, not “mere allegations.”  ‘Major Blow’  Khuzami said the law generally limits the SEC to recovering
twice Citigroup’s ill-gotten gains. Citigroup made $160 million
to $190 million on the transaction, according to SEC estimates.  “Judge Rakoff’s opinion is a major blow to the SEC,” said
Bradley J. Bondi, a Washington- and New York-based partner at
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP and former SEC lawyer.  “If defendants are forced to admit to allegations in an
SEC complaint in order for a federal judge to approve a
settlement involving injunctive relief, then defendants may opt
to battle the SEC rather than settle and adversely affect civil
litigation,” Bondi said.  Citigroup rose $1.42, or 6 percent, to $25.05 yesterday in
trading in New York. The shares have declined 47 percent this
year.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-cv-07387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  