-- 
Senegal Targets Mali Minerals With $1.6 Billion Railway Plan

-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 
2011-11-29T14:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/senegal-targets-mali-minerals-with-1-6-billion-railway-plan.html
A railway linking the capitals of
 Senegal  and  Mali  needs about 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) to
strengthen the track and lure more of Mali’s mineral exports to
Senegal, which hopes to become a regional transportation hub.  The 90-year-old route that crosses 1,233 kilometers (766
miles) of arid, Sahelian terrain would cost 1 million euros per
kilometer to boost load capability, said Abdoulaye Lo, general
director of l’Agence Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Senegal.  “A high-capacity railway line transporting  iron ore  and
phosphates is extremely important for Senegal,” he said by phone
from Dakar yesterday. The track is currently able to handle axle
weights of 15 metric tons, Lo said. The goal is for 27 tons, he
said.  The bid to improve the route comes as Mali’s mines increase
output of gold, iron ore and other minerals. The railway is also
a key passage for exports of cotton from and comes as Senegal is
keen to attract more goods from neighboring nations in a bid to
promote the port at Dakar, operated by  DP World Ltd. (DPW)  of Dubai.
Trains carried 440,000 tons of goods on the line in 2010,
according to Transrail SA, the operator.  The governments of Senegal and Mali, which each hold 11
percent stakes in the line, are looking for funding from the
European Union, the  World Bank , the  African Development Bank  and
the French Development Agency, said Eric Peiffer, director
general of Transrail. Lo did not identify any potential funders.  Derailments  Built after World War I, several ownership changes in the
railroad led to low investment until it was privatized in 2003.
In this year to October, there were 136 derailments and 291
sections of broken track on the section between Dakar and Thies,
according to Transrail.  The line needs “modest improvements” at a cost of 140
billion  CFA francs  ($283 million) over 10 years just to halt
derailments and other accidents that cause delays, Peiffer said
in an interview Nov. 25, the same day that work started on a
41.5-kilometer section of track between Dakar and Thies,
Senegal’s second-biggest city. That route, which carries
passengers as well as goods, will cost 8.1 billion CFA francs
and be completed by 2014, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 