-- 
Shanghaied Home Buyers Turn Protesters as Shattered Dreams Vex Government

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-11-29T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/shanghaied-home-buyers-turn-protesters-as-shattered-dreams-vex-government.html
Danny Deng and his bride-to-be
dreamed of their lives together as they walked through the
showroom for a  Shanghai  housing project almost three months ago.
Pooling his own and his parents’ savings, a loan from his boss
and a 1.1 million yuan ($172,000) mortgage, he bought an
apartment and secured his fiancee’s hand.  On Nov. 19, Deng faced off a ring of security guards three
rows deep wearing camouflage and carrying shields as he joined
more than 100 homeowners rallying in front of the development’s
sales office. His transformation from newlywed to street
protester came after  China Vanke Co. (000002)  slashed prices for future
buyers at the Qinglinjing complex, erasing about 20 percent of
the value of his three-bedroom unit overnight.  “If I’d paid for it all myself, the price cut wouldn’t
bother me as much, but there’s a lifetime of my parent’s blood
and sweat in it,” said Deng, a 30-year-old electrical systems
salesman. “Developers’ profits are outrageous. The price they
set when the housing market kept going up was far more than the
real value.”  Deng’s anger underscores the dilemma facing  China ’s
government as it tries to cool the  property market . If policies
such as increased down payment requirements don’t go far enough,
it risks a housing bubble; if it pushes too hard, it may provoke
the ire of a new generation of middle class “fang nu,” or
housing slaves, in a reference to the lifetime’s work needed to
pay off debts.  Homebuyers Stung  Demanding  Vanke , China’s largest publicly traded property
developer by market value, compensate them or cancel their
contracts, Deng and his fellow picketers on that rainy day are
among homebuyers stung as prices reverse. Urban residential
values have risen 155 percent nationwide since reforms 13 years
ago created a private residential market in the communist nation.
Prices in Shanghai almost quadrupled over the past decade.  In October, hundreds of homeowners demonstrated outside the
offices of China Overseas Property Group Co.  over cuts (SHPROP)  at
another project in Shanghai, according to the Chinese-language
New Century Weekly. There have also been Chinese newspaper
reports of similar protests in Beijing and the industrial city
of Shenzhen near Hong Kong.  “This is certainly sending a very alarming signal,” said
Cheng Li, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in
 Washington . “If property prices really go down, there will be a
serious political crisis led by the middle class.”  Customer Anxiety  China Vanke, in an e-mailed response to questions, said
that while it understood customers’ anxiety, prices were set by
supply and demand.  “In a market correction, it’s hard to avoid that both
sides, developers and homebuyers, will be affected,” the
company said.  Residential property prices fell from the previous month in
33 cities of the 70 measured in October, the worst performance
this year, after the government imposed restrictions on
mortgages and loans to developers.  Analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG say prices may fall 10
percent this year and another 10 percent in 2012.  Huang Yiping ,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Barclays Plc, said the drop would
be between 10 to 30 percent in the next 12 months.  In an indication of how seriously the government is taking
the matter, a Nov. 21  commentary  by the official Xinhua News
Agency said that such protests are “a social phenomenon that
cannot be ignored,” before adding that their appeals aren’t
supported by law.  Middle Class Power  China’s emerging middle class represents a potent new force
that may number as much as 243 million, said Li of the  Brookings
Institution . On a growing number of issues from housing to the
environment they are voicing their opposition online and on the
streets.  Another Xinhua article argued that some price declines
could be beneficial, enabling more people to afford a home.  Also at stake is the pace of economic expansion in one of
the world’s few growth engines. Property directly accounts for
12 percent of China’s gross domestic product even before taking
into account building materials, furnishings and appliances,
according to a July report by the  International Monetary Fund .  A drop in real estate prices could undermine the value of
the collateral for about 40 percent of the  loans  issued by
China’s biggest banks, the IMF said after a November survey of
the lenders.  Price Move ‘Danger’  Falling land values may also impact local governments which
depend on them for one-third of their revenue, said Wang Yi, a
Beijing-based real estate analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The government thinks they have everything under control
and can set the bottom,” said  Du Jinsong , head of property
research for Credit Suisse. “The danger is they may do more
than enough, and it may be too late to stop a bigger fall.”  Questions over China’s housing policy are “overshadowing”
China’s economic outlook, the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said Nov. 28. A day earlier,
Xinhua reported Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  as saying the
government should continue tightening after some observers,
including scholars at Renmin University of China in Beijing,
suggested the government would start lifting restrictions next
year.  Residential property-related companies are already
suffering on the stock market. China Vanke, based in Shenzhen,
is down 25 percent this year in Shanghai trading, while  Soufun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of China’s biggest real-estate website, has
dropped 36 percent.  For Deng, the pain is more than financial. Tears swell in
his eyes as he recounts the moment his father handed him access
to his life savings of 360,000 yuan to help make the down
payment.  Gnawing the Elderly  The gift made Deng consider himself a member of the “ken
lao” generation, meaning to gnaw on the elderly.  “I was depressed, uncertain, touched and a bit ashamed,”
he said, asking not to be identified by his full Chinese name
because of the personal nature of his story. “I had been proud
and didn’t think it was their business. But when the moment
really came, I knew it was impossible to manage only by
myself.”  Deng had moved to Shanghai three years earlier from a small
city in the north to be closer to a girl he met in college. When
talk turned to marriage, his girlfriend insisted they buy an
 apartment  first, he said.  “At my age, I should get married and I should have my own
home whether or not I can afford it so that I can be the same as
my classmates,” Deng said.  Raise a Child  Deng saw an ad on Soufun.com for pre-sales of a project
called Qinglinjing, meaning “Clear Forest Path,” that was
being constructed near a soon-to-be built subway station next to
the future home of the Shanghai Disney Resort. Deng and his
girlfriend visited a showroom to walk the wooden floors of the
replica 96-square-meter (1,033-square-foot) apartment, planning
how they would fill its two bedrooms, living room and study.  “We loved it,” Deng said. “It suits us for the next
three to five years because we plan to raise a child soon.”  The snag was its 1.7 million yuan price tag. Chinese policy
requires a  minimum 30 percent  deposit. Deng had saved 70,000 --
not enough. That’s when he called his parents, then borrowed
another 50,000 yuan from his boss, and secured a loan of 1.1
million yuan paying as much as 7.8 percent interest from
 Agricultural Bank of China , he said.  On Sept. 28, Deng and his girlfriend signed a contract with
the developer, happy after winning discounts including 40,000
yuan off for being a member for the Soufun.com website and a
20,000 yuan markdown by collecting 20 stamps on a red “home-
passport” issued by Vanke. The end price: 1.58 million, or
about 13 times Deng’s annual wage.  The next month, they got married. Paying the mortgage will
take up 40 percent of the new couple’s combined salary.  Housing Boom  The new norm for Deng’s generation stems from housing
reforms begun in 1998, when then Premier Zhu Rongji privatized
state-owned housing provided at low rents to urbanites,
transferring home ownership from the government to the families
occupying the dwellings. The housing market has boomed ever
since, with a brief reversal in 2008 overcome by government
stimulus.  Some 290 million city dwellers own their own homes,
according to consultants Gavekal Dragonomics in Beijing.  China’s official home-ownership rate of 87.8 percent, which
excludes migrant workers, exceeds the U.S. level of 66.3 percent
in the first quarter of 2011, according to U.S. census data.  Rising  Household Debt   While the property privatization has helped fuel one of the
fastest episodes of wealth creation in world history, new buyers
like Deng must mortgage their futures to afford a home in
China’s swelling cities. The home-buying boom has contributed to
a doubling of household debt in China since 2008, though the
amount is still far below U.S. levels, according to Dragonomics.  Concerned a bubble was forming, the government this year
stepped up measures to curb the market, including limiting home
purchases in some cities, raising down payments and warning
banks and other lenders to cut back loans to builders. That’s
left some developers facing a liquidity crunch, necessitating
price cuts to ensure enough sales are made to pay off upcoming
debts and payrolls.  “It’s a game between developers and the state,” said Li
Yun, an engineer who borrowed 280,000 yuan from his friends and
relatives to buy an apartment at the Qinglinjing complex and who
joined the protest. “Now that they cut prices so much it pushed
homeowners to the frontline.”  Sales Agents Clapped  Zuo Hongxia, mother of a 15-month old baby, said she
became a home owner after losing patience waiting for years for
prices to come down. She recalled the frenzied scene when she
picked her apartment in the same development as agents crowded
around urging her to buy and then clapped and congratulated when
she nodded agreement.  Just weeks after Deng had signed his purchase contract, he
found out about the price cut when he saw a leaflet advertizing
apartments in the same development with a discount of 4,000 yuan
per sqm. The previous asking price was about 17,000 yuan to
18,000 yuan per sqm, according to Soufun’s website.  Acknowledging he’s unlikely to get the difference refunded,
Deng said he’s now pushing for a waiver to management fees or a
free parking lot. With talk some people have been detained by
police after protesting, he’s also taking precautions, standing
on the sidelines with a cap pulled low and bandana masking his
face at a separate rally on Nov. 23.  “I didn’t have a choice,” he said of the decision to buy.
“I don’t want to be too different. Otherwise, maybe for a long
time, I would be alone.”  --Fan Wenxin and Shai Oster, with assistance by Bonnie Cao in
Shanghai. Editors:  Malcolm Scott , Neil Western.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fan Wenxin in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net 
Shai Oster in  Hong Kong  at 
 soster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  