-- 
Slovenian Economic Growth Slowed in Third Quarter, Survey Shows

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-11-29T14:27:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/slovenian-economic-growth-slowed-in-third-quarter-survey-shows.html
Slovenia’s  economic growth  slowed in
the third quarter as export gains failed to offset a drop in
investments, a survey of economists showed.  Gross domestic product grew 0.8 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 0.9 percent in the second quarter,
according to the  median estimate  of seven economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The statistics office in the capital Ljubljana
will publish the report at 10:30 a.m. local time tomorrow.  “Negative impact can be expected from investments and
personal consumption, while net exports will be the only
positive contribution,” Bojan Ivanc, an analyst at Ljubljana-
based KD Bank d.d., said in an e-mail today.  Faced with increased borrowing costs, Slovenia’s export-
driven economy will probably slide into a recession, Finance
Minister  Franc Krizanic  has said. Demand for Slovenian products
in  Europe  is waning as the two-year-old debt crisis crimps
confidence among households and companies.  Europe, where Slovenia sends about two-thirds of all
exported goods, may also enter a “deep recession,”  Capital
Economics  in  London  said in a report today.  GDP will expand 1 percent this year and slow to a 0.3
percent pace in 2012, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report yesterday. The
central bank, which in October forecast 2011 growth at 1.3
percent, said risks from Europe’s debt crisis may jeopardize the
estimate.  Construction Woes  The building industry is weighing on growth as the value of
construction works in the country dropped more than 20 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to Goran Saravanja, chief economist at Zagrebacka Banka d.d. in Zagreb.
The industry is denting earnings at Slovenian banks, which are
putting aside record loan-loss provisions.  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. (KBMR) , the nation’s second-
biggest lender by assets, reported its first loss since it sold
shares in 2007 on mounting provisions for bad loans. The bank’s
nine-month net loss was 4.4 million euros ($5.9 million),
compared with a 20.3 million-euro profit a year ago. Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. posted a loss of 96.3 million euros in
the third quarter.  Moody’s Investors Service has warned both lenders, in which
the government has majority stakes, that their debt ratings may
be downgraded due to a possible removal of state support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  