-- 
Societe Generale Said to Weigh Putting TCW Unit Up for Sale

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-11-29T22:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/societe-generale-is-said-to-consider-selling-u-s-asset-manager-tcw-group.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s
second-biggest bank, is weighing whether to put its U.S. asset
manager TCW Group up for sale, said people with knowledge of the
situation.  One option may be a management-led buyout of the business,
said two of the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
because the matter is private. Societe Generale may decide not
to sell TCW and could still pursue an initial public offering
for the unit, the people said. Los Angeles-based TCW, which had
$114 billion in assets under management as of Sept. 30, may be
valued at about $1 billion, one person said.  A sale of TCW would add to billions of euros in asset
disposals by Societe Generale since July as European banks cut
the size of their balance sheets to cope with the region’s debt
crisis. Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in September
that the Paris-based bank is seeking disposals mostly from its
asset-management and financial-services division to free up 4
billion euros ($5.3 billion) in capital by 2013.  “TCW would be an attractive acquisition for someone who
wants to compete in the fixed-income space because of the
personnel they have,” said Geoffrey Bobroff, a mutual fund
consultant based in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode Island . The company
added staff last year with the purchase of Metropolitan West
Asset Management.  Fixed-Income Assets  TCW, led by CEO  Marc Stern , has about 600 employees and
manages fixed-income, equity and alternative-investment
strategies for institutional investors such as pension funds. It
also offers mutual funds for retail investors. About 58 percent
of TCW’s total assets were in fixed-income products as of Sept.
30, 18 percent were in U.S. stocks and about 15 percent were in
alternative investments, with the remainder in investments
outside the U.S.  Societe Generale said in an e-mailed statement that its
plans for TCW haven’t changed and the firm is on course for an
IPO in the next two to three years.  “TCW is not for sale and we continue to believe that TCW
is on a trajectory for strong and sustained growth,” Societe
Generale said in the statement.  Drop in Value  Societe Generale agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in TCW
for $880 million in 2001, and to increase its stake over time.
It said then that the transaction would value the company at
2.2 percent of the $80 billion of assets under management. A
similar multiple today would value TCW at about $2.5 billion.  In September 2009, former TCW Chief Investment Officer
 Jeffrey Gundlach  offered to buy 51 percent of the business for
about $350 million and said he valued the asset manager at about
$700 million, according to court documents filed in August.  Gundlach, who took more than half of TCW’s fixed-income
professionals to his new firm after being fired in December
2009, won a $66.7 million unpaid wages claim against TCW in
September. He was also found to have breached his fiduciary duty
to TCW and misappropriated its  trade secrets . A judge has yet to
rule on what royalties TCW is owed on its trade secrets claim.  After ousting Gundlach in December 2009, TCW acquired Los
Angeles-based Metropolitan West Asset Management to replace
Gundlach’s team and bolster mutual-fund assets.  MetWest Purchase  Clients at TCW, which had $110 billion in assets as of
December 2009, pulled $25 billion from the firm’s funds in the
aftermath of Gundlach’s departure even as the acquisition of
MetWest added $30 billion to total assets. TCW said in May that
its mutual-fund assets have tripled to $33 billion since its
acquisition of MetWest, driven by investor deposits into funds
such as the MetWest Total Return Bond Fund and the MetWest High
Yield Bond Fund.  The $5.3 billion  TCW Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX) , managed by a
team overseen by  Tad Rivelle , has advanced 3.9 percent this
year, lagging behind 80 percent of similarly managed funds,
Bloomberg data show. The $17 billion MetWest Total Return Fund
has advanced 4.2 percent, trailing 60 percent this year, the
data show. Over the past five years, the MetWest Total Return
fund has advanced 7.7 percent, beating 97 percent of peers,
according to Bloomberg. The TCW Total Return Fund has advanced
8.3 percent, beating 99 percent of peers, the data show.  TCW was started in 1971 by  Robert Day , the grandson of
Superior Oil Co. founder William Keck.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  