-- 
Solar Stocks Fall as Focus Media Reverses Loss: China Overnight

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-11-29T22:52:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/solar-stocks-decline-as-focus-media-extends-loss-in-u-s-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities traded in the U.S.
fell, swelling the benchmark  index (SPX) ’s monthly decline, as reports
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development added to concern that growth in the
world’s second-largest economy is slowing.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  slid 0.8 percent to 96.48
at the close of trading in New York, and is down 3.3 percent
this month. Solar companies from  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  to
 Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  fell after a research group said the industry
needs to consolidate.  Focus Media Holdings Ltd. (FMCN)  reversed losses
after  Muddy Waters  LLC’s Carson Block said on CNBC it doesn’t
have a “full picture” of the digital advertising company.  Goldman analysts said yesterday clients should end a bet
that Hong Kong-listed companies in  China  will gain as economists
cut growth forecasts for the country. Property risks are
“overshadowing” China’s economic outlook, the OECD said in a
report yesterday. Doubts about the survival of  Europe ’s monetary
union are the main risk to the world economy, it said.  “The Chinese household has never faced a decline in
property prices of any great significance or extent in terms of
time,”  Michael Spencer , the Hong Kong-based chief economist for
 Asia  at Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “The worse things get internationally, the more
likely we are to see some countries back into, at least
temporarily, deflation.”  Growth Forecasts  The Paris-based OECD said its 34 member nations will grow
1.9 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2012, down from the 2.3
percent and 2.8 percent predicted in May, according to a report
released yesterday.  China’s economy , the world’s second biggest,  grew  9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. The expansion
will slow to 8.5 percent next year, the OECD said, down from its
May forecast of 9.2 percent. UBS AG predicts 8 percent growth in
2012, less than its previous call of 8.3 percent, and Citigroup
Inc. cut its forecast to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent.  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs and Citigroup had
long-term credit grades reduced to A- from A by  Standard &
Poor’s  after the ratings firm revised criteria for dozens of the
largest global lenders. S&P made the same cut to Morgan Stanley
and Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
was reduced one level to A from A+.  S&P Upgrade  S&P upgraded  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and  China Construction Bank
Corp. (939)  to A from A- and maintained the A rating on Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., giving all three lenders higher
grades than most big U.S. banks.  Focus Media, based in Shanghai, increased 0.5 percent to
$17.08 yesterday in New York. It fell as much as 10 percent
earlier in the day after short-selling firm Muddy Waters sent an
e-mail report saying its bearish view was reinforced by the
company’s rebuttal of assertions that it overstates the size of
its advertising network. Shares rebounded after Carson Block
finished an interview with CNBC, where he said he didn’t have a
full picture of Focus Media.  Focus’s shares plunged 39 percent on Nov. 21 after Muddy
Waters issued its first report on the stock. The stock has
gained 11 percent since.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,195.19 as  consumer confidence  increased by the most since 2003
and European finance ministers discussed efforts to tame the
debt crisis. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.2 percent,
the most in two weeks, on speculation the government will take
measures to boost growth.  The Shanghai measure is trading at 11.4 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.9 for Indian stocks, 10 for Brazilian
shares and 5.1 for Russian equities.  Solar Makers  China’s domestic solar-panel manufacturers will be reduced
to 15 within five years due to industry consolidation, Li Junfeng, deputy director general of the Beijing-based Energy
Research Institute at the National Development and Reform
Commission, said in a phone interview yesterday. There were 330
panel makers in China in 2008, according to the Chinese
Renewable Energy Society, which said it stopped counting as it
couldn’t keep up with the “multifold” increase since then.  Suntech, the world’s largest maker of solar panels, fell
6.6 percent to $2.25, taking its loss this month to 18 percent.
Trina, China’s fifth-largest solar panel supplier, slid 3.4
percent to $6.91.  The ishares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.9 percent to $34.29.
The Chinese yuan strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.3778 a dollar,
bringing its appreciation this year to 3.6 percent, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Online Advertising  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , China’s largest online-video website,
increased 4.2 percent in its third day of advances to $17.56.
 Renren Inc ., a Beijing-based social networking website, jumped
4.7 percent, the first increase in a week, to $3.77.  China will ban television stations from airing commercials
during broadcasts of dramas starting Jan. 1, the nation’s
regulator of radio, film and television said Nov. 28. The
restrictions add to actions the government has taken to increase
control of TV and web content after the ruling Communist Party
said last month it would promote “fine” TV programming and
strengthen management of online social media sites.  While TV stations and advertising agencies are likely to
suffer under the new ban, Internet companies could benefit from
an accelerated shift of ad dollars from TV to online channels,
said Andy Yeung, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York  in
a note yesterday.  Sina Rises  Sina Corp ., the owner of China’s Twitter-like Weibo
service, gained after Muddy Waters said it hasn’t done any
research on Sina, following a Wall Street Journal report
yesterday speculated on the short-selling company’s next target.  Sina’s shares advanced 4.9 percent to $62.67 after losing
5.4 percent in the previous day.  “It may take time for investors to return to being
comfortable with being in Chinese equities,”  Gene Munster , a
senior analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. said yesterday in a
research report. “Sina has developed a platform in Weibo that
will ultimately be the leading social platform in China. We
remain confident in Sina’s corporate governance.”  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , the Macau casino operator,
retreated 2.6 percent to $8.75. The company said after U.S
trading closed yesterday that its shares will be listed on the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange by way of introduction on Dec. 7. No
new shares will be issued, it said in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  