-- 
South Sudan Calls Sudan Oil Blockade Intimidation

-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-11-29T13:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/south-sudanese-oil-minister-rejects-sudan-export-blockade-as-intimidation.html
(Corrects minister’s location in second paragraph.)  South Sudanese Oil Minister Stephen
Dhieu Dau rejected  Sudan ’s blockade of its crude exports as an
“intimidation tactic.”  The authorities in Khartoum owe South Sudan $5 billion in
arrears for shipments before it gained independence and taxes
and other revenue collected since then, he said today in a phone
interview from  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital. Sudan’s
government announced yesterday it halted exports by South Sudan,
claiming it’s owed $727 million for earlier shipments.  “It’s a figure that has no basis,” Dau said. “This is
actually an intimidation tactic so that in the negotiations
South Sudan would panic.”  African Union -sponsored negotiations between the two
countries began in Addis Ababa on Nov. 21 over issues including
the oil fees the south should pay to ship crude through the
north and the disputed region of Abyei. While South Sudan took
control of about three-quarters of the former state’s output of
490,000 barrels a day when it seceded on July 9, it relies on
the north for access to refining and an export terminal on the
 Red Sea .  “Sudan is trying to make the south pay for its economic
failure by increasing fees on oil,”  Fouad Hikmat , the special
adviser on Sudan for the Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group , said today by phone from Addis Ababa. “The north is
trying to use threats as a pressuring tactic on the south during
the ongoing negotiations.”  Share Seizure  The halt to exports comes after South Sudan announced in a
presidential decree on Nov. 8 that it seized the shares held by
Sudapet, Sudan’s state-owned petroleum company, in joint
operations with companies including  China National Petroleum
Corp. , Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and India’s  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)   China today urged the two sides to reach agreement in
negotiations.  “Maintaining normal production of oil is important to both
South Sudan and Sudan,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters today in Beijing. “We hope North and South
Sudan can stay rational, show restraint, and resolve relevant
problems through neighborly pragmatism and friendly talks.”  South Sudan’s deputy petroleum minister, Elizabeth Bol,
said yesterday the blockade prevented a shipment of 600,000
barrels of Nile-blend crude from being delivered to  China
International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  A shipment of 1
million barrels of Dar blend oil to Geneva-based Vitol SA may
also be at risk if the blockade continues, she said.  China  Concerned  “China is very pragmatic and the statement means it’s
really concerned what Sudan did and about the stability in the
region which might harm the interests of Chinese investment,”
he said.  South Sudan’s government is studying the feasibility of
building a new pipeline to export oil via its East African
neighbours, rather than using Sudan’s oil pipeline that runs to
 Port Sudan  on the Red Sea, the government said last week.  Southern officials have said previously they are
considering building a pipeline that would carry crude to the
Kenyan port of Lamu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  