-- 
South African Credit Rose at Faster Pace of 5.5% in October Amid Low Rates

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-11-29T07:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/south-african-credit-rose-at-faster-pace-of-5-5-in-october-on-low-rates.html
South African credit rose 5.5
percent in October from a year ago, less than economists
forecast, as concern of a recession in  Europe  led consumers and
businesses to borrow less.  Credit  growth by the private sector accelerated from a
revised 5.4 percent in September, the Pretoria-based Reserve
Bank said on its website today. The median  estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of 16 economists was 5.7 percent.  “The numbers have been fairly underwhelming for some
time,” Dennis Dykes, chief economist of Nedbank Group Ltd. said
in a telephone interview from Johannesburg today. “You have
customers holding back to some degree because of all the
uncertainty. And on the other side you have banks being
constrained by the impending regulatory demands.”  Consumer confidence  remained near a two-year low in the
third quarter while business confidence dropped as the European
debt crisis threatened to derail the recovery in  Africa ’s
largest economy. The National Treasury and Reserve Bank have
reduced their forecasts for economic growth this year. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has said the region is
heading toward a “mild recession.”  The rand gained 0.8 percent to 8.3244 against the dollar at
8:54 a.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the benchmark R157 bond
due in 2015 was little changed at 7 percent.  Interest Rates   The statistics office may say today the economy grew an
annualized 1.8 percent in the third quarter from 1.3 percent in
the previous three months, according to the  median estimate  of
20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The government has forecast
the economy needs to expand 7 percent a year to meet a pledge to
create 5 million jobs by 2020.  Today’s data may give the  Reserve Bank  room to keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5
percent to help support the economy. The rate has been kept on
hold since November 2010.  The broad  M3  measure of  money supply  rose 7.3 percent in
October from a year earlier, up from 6.8 percent in September,
the central bank said. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey
was for M3 to expand 6.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  