-- 
South Africa Economy Expands Less Than Forecast at 1.4% as Exports Slump

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-11-29T12:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/south-african-economy-expanded-less-than-forecast-at-1-4-as-exports-slump.html
South Africa ’s economy, the biggest
in  Africa , expanded at an annualized 1.4 percent in the third
quarter, less than economists forecast, as manufacturing and
mining output slumped.  Gross domestic product  accelerated from 1.3 percent in the
second quarter, Statistics South Africa said today in  Pretoria .
The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists was
for the economy to expand 1.8 percent.  “No one was expecting a quarter-on-quarter contraction of
that magnitude for mining,” said  Razia Khan , head of Africa
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , in a
telephone interview. “The limited strength that we have seen
elsewhere probably isn’t going to be enough to offset this.”  South Africa is struggling to meet employment and economic
growth targets as the debt crisis in  Europe , which buys about a
third of South African manufactured goods, pushes that region
close to recession. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  on Oct. 25
cut his growth forecast for this year to 3.1 percent from 3.4
percent, less than half the 7 percent expansion that the
government says is needed to meet its target to create 5 million
jobs by 2020.  The rand strengthened to 8.2777 against the dollar at 1:20
p.m. in Johannesburg from 8.3695 before the data was released.
The yield on the R157 government bond, due 2015, slid 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 6.9 percent.  Mining Slump  Manufacturing , which accounts for 15 percent of the
economy, contracted for a second consecutive quarter, declining
an annualized 1.9 percent in the three months through September.
Mining plunged 17.4 percent last quarter compared with a
contraction of 4.2 percent in the previous three months, mainly
due to strikes in the industry, the statistics office said.  The  Reserve Bank  has kept the  benchmark rate  at a 30-year
low of 5.5 percent this year to support growth in the face of
increasing price pressures. Slower growth and a slump in
investors’ risk appetite caused the rand to plunge 20 percent
against the dollar this year, the worst-performer of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  A weaker rand has added to price pressures, with inflation
accelerating to the 6 percent upper limit of the central bank’s
target range in October. The bank will make its next interest
rate decision on Jan. 19.  “Our view is that the Reserve Bank will leave the repo
rate unchanged until the first half of 2013,” wrote Adenaan Hardien, chief economist of Cadiz African Harvest Asset
Management in  Cape Town , in a note to clients. “With growth
weak and below trend, the Reserve Bank is likely to err on the
side of keeping rates loose despite upside inflation risks.”  The retail industry was the fastest-growing last quarter,
expanding an annualized 6.1 percent, while the financial
industry, the economy’s biggest, increased 4.5 percent,
signaling that  consumer spending  may be rebounding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  