-- 
South Korea Factory Output Drops as Europe Contagion Hits Exports: Economy

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-11-30T08:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/south-korea-industrial-output-rises-6-2-from-year-earlier.html
South Korea ’s  industrial output 
fell, India’s economy grew the least in more than two years and
Thailand cut  interest rates  as an Asian slowdown limits the
region’s ability to support a faltering world recovery.  Korea’s production fell 0.7 percent in October from
September, Statistics Korea said today. India’s gross domestic
product rose 6.9 percent in the three months through September,
the government said. Thailand’s benchmark rate fell to 3.25
percent from 3.5 percent.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is capping demand for
shipments from economies in the region that has been leading the
global recovery. In  China , stocks tumbled on concern a slowdown
will deepen after central bank adviser Xia Bin said a government
pledge to fine-tune policies doesn’t mean credit controls will
be loosened or property curbs reversed.  “Contagion from  Europe  is increasingly obvious, impacting
not only asset prices and the financial sector but also the real
economy in Asia,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “We are seeing a sharp
slowdown in export growth, which is translating to weaker
industrial output and overall economic activity.”  Asian stocks fell after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit
ratings of some of the world’s biggest lenders. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index lost 0.5 percent as of 4 p.m. in  Tokyo . The
Shanghai Composite Index slumped 3.3 percent.  In South Korea, Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics
Inc. have reported profit declines as Europe’s leaders struggle
to ensure the survival of the euro amid surging borrowing costs
for Italy and Spain.  Inflation Concerns  India ’s central bank, meanwhile, has been constrained in
supporting the economy as it struggles with inflation that’s
almost twice the rate in China and higher than in Brazil and
 Russia .  Indian “growth prospects do not seem sunny for the next
year,” said  Rohini Malkani , a Mumbai-based economist at
Citigroup Inc. “High interest rates, uncertainty about reforms,
allegations of corruption and recessionary global conditions are
casting a deep shadow over India’s growth story.”  In other economic reports due today, European inflation may
hold at a three-year high of 3 percent, according to a median
forecast ahead of a preliminary report due today. Also pending
are measures of unemployment in  Germany  and Italy.  In  Japan , a report showed manufacturers plan to cut output
this month after a 2.4 percent gain in October from September.  ‘Losing Steam’  “There’s no doubt that the pace of Japan’s economic growth
will keep losing steam because exports are already on a downward
trend,”  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo, said
before the report. “Demand from earthquake reconstruction will
probably help the economy avert a contraction next fiscal year,
but the pace of expansion won’t be impressive at all because of
the slowdown overseas.”  For the next three or four months, analysts in  Asia  may
struggle to distinguish between weakness in demand and the
effects of supply-chain disruptions caused by floods in
Thailand, said Richard Jerram, Singapore-based chief economist
at Bank of Singapore Ltd.  South Korea  exports , equivalent to half of the economy,
rose at the slowest pace in two years last month, gaining 8
percent. Overseas shipments probably rose 10.4 percent in
November from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey.
The data will be released tomorrow.  The nation is “particularly vulnerable to a sharp
deterioration of the world economy,” the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said in a report this week.  Global Forecasts  The OECD cut its 2012 growth forecast for its 34 member
countries to 1.6 percent from 2.8 percent predicted in May. The
Paris-based organization projected South  Korea ’s expansion at
3.7 percent this year and 3.8 percent in 2012.  Euro-area finance ministers yesterday approved enhancements
to their bailout fund while backing off from setting a target
for its firepower and seeking a greater role for the
 International Monetary Fund  in fighting the debt crisis.  The finance chiefs of the 17 nations using the euro agreed
to work on boosting the resources of the IMF so it can
“cooperate more closely” with the European Financial Stability
Facility, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters in
Brussels after leading the meeting.  ‘Countries in Need’  “It’s very important that the IMF globally will increase
its resources either by raising its capital or by bilateral
loans so that it can lend more money to euro-zone countries in
need,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television after the meeting. “If we
open the IMF effort, that will be sufficient together with the
leverage options in the EFSF.”  After a series of stop-gap accords failed to protect  Italy 
and Spain from surging bond yields, the euro-area ministers are
under growing pressure from U.S. leaders and international
financial markets to find ways to boost the EFSF’s
effectiveness. They agreed to a plan to guarantee up to 30
percent of new bond issues from troubled governments and to
develop investment vehicles that would boost the facility’s
ability to intervene in primary and secondary bond markets.  European heads of government meet on Dec. 9 in Brussels, in
a summit likely to be dominated by the debt crisis that began in
 Greece  two years ago, spread to Ireland and Portugal, before
driving up Italian and Spanish bond yields over the summer, and
now is hurting even Germany’s ability to sell debt and
threatening France’s top debt rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  