-- 
Speculators Reduce Bullish Holdings to Lowest Since July 2009: Commodities

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-11-29T22:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/speculators-cut-bullish-holdings-to-lowest-since-july-2009-commodities.html
Speculators decreased  wagers  on
rising commodity prices to the lowest since July 2009 amid
concern that  Europe ’s inability to contain its debt crisis will
crimp demand for raw materials as global growth slows.  Money managers cut combined net-long positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 25 percent to 562,508 contracts in
the week ended Nov. 22, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. That’s the biggest decline in eight weeks and the
lowest since July 14, 2009. Corn wagers tumbled 25 percent, the
most since June 2010, and bets on lower copper prices doubled.  About $4.6 trillion was  wiped  from the value of global
equities this month. Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday
the “rapid escalation” of Europe’s crisis threatens all of the
region’s sovereign ratings. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development yesterday said growing doubts about
the survival of the region’s monetary union represents the main
risk to the world economy.  “The events in Europe have cast doubt on global economic
growth,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17
billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama .
“People are moving out of riskier assets.”  Seventeen of the 24 commodities tracked by the GSCI have
dropped in November. The index is still up 0.9 percent this
month. Crude oil jumped 7.1 percent, leading gainers that
included hogs, feeder cattle, live cattle and coffee.  Equity Losses  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities has dropped
6.7 percent this month. Treasuries rose 1.2 percent, on a total
return basis, Bank of America Corp. indexes show.  The GSCI index is up 3.4 percent in 2011. Commodities are
beating equities for a fifth consecutive year, signaling that
demand from developing economies is sustaining global growth.
The raw-material gauge more than doubled from a four-year low in
February 2009 as demand increased in  China , the biggest user of
everything from energy to copper to cotton.  Commodity demand from  emerging markets  has “seen some
slowdowns, but generally speaking, they have not been at the
same level that we saw in 2008,” said Nelson Louie, the global
head of commodities at New York-based Credit Suisse Asset
Management who helps manage $11.4 billion in commodity-related
assets. “From a long-term standpoint, we’re bullish.”  Speculators’ net-long position is more than eight times
larger than at the bottom of the slump in 2008, when the GSCI
tumbled 43 percent. Still, holdings are down 64 percent from a
record 1.56 million contracts in September last year.  JPMorgan, Goldman  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, cut
its recommendation on commodities to “underweight” on Nov. 22,
citing policy failures in the U.S. and Europe. The bank lowered
its 12-month, total-return forecast for the GSCI to 10 percent
from 15 percent and said it expects negative returns in the next
three to six months.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trimmed its forecast for commodity
gains in the next 12 months to 15 percent from 20 percent in a
report Nov. 14. The bank has a “neutral” recommendation on
commodities for the next three to six months, and “overweight”
in 12 months.  Funds increased their bearish copper bets to a net-short
position of 7,731 contracts. Speculators are also short on
cocoa,  soybeans , soybean meal,  soybean oil , wheat and natural
gas, the CFTC data show.  Open Interest Tumbles  Open interest , or the number of contracts that have yet to
be closed, liquidated or delivered, for commodities tracked by
the GSCI has tumbled 16 percent since reaching 8.848 million
contracts in February, the highest since the data began in
February 2006. The figure includes 18 U.S. commodities of the 24
raw materials tracked by the gauge and is based on CFTC data.  As European finance chiefs meet today in Brussels, and
 Italy  seeks to raise as much as 8.8 billion euros ($11.7
billion) in bond sales, economists from Morgan Stanley, UBS AG,
and Nomura International Plc say governments and the  European
Central Bank  must step up their crisis response.  The region accounts for about 18 percent of global copper
demand and almost 16 percent of aluminum consumption, according
to  Barclays Capital . Europe uses 15 percent of the world’s oil,
the International Energy Agency estimates, and 19 percent of
wheat supply, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  Global equity and commodity markets rallied yesterday as
European leaders drafted a framework for the region’s bailout
fund. The MSCI All-Country World Index gained 3.1 percent, and
the GSCI climbed 1.4 percent. Today, the equity measure rose as
much as 1.1 percent, and the raw-material gauge advanced as much
as 1.6 percent.  Deal ‘Hope’  “Whether some consensus comes out of Europe is to be
seen,” said Jeffrey Sherman, who helps manage $19 billion for
DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles . “What you’re seeing is
rallying on hope of a deal, but it seems to fall flat on its
face every time they have tried to implement.”  Investors put $615 million into commodity funds in the week
ended Nov. 23, according to data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious-
metals inflows contributed $1.26 billion, and non-gold and non-
precious metal commodities had net outflows of $645 million,
said  Cameron Brandt , the director of research.  Breakdown ‘Fears’  “Gold is a good investment to make when there are fears of
a breakdown in the European Union,” Brandt said.  Funds trimmed their net-long  position  in gold for the first
time in five weeks, cutting by 13 percent to 149,256 contracts,
the government data show. The wagers are still up 15 percent
since the end of September.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lowered
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 34 percent to
261,477, the lowest since September 2009. Investors turned
bearish on soybeans for the first time since July 2010 and hold
a net-short position of 8,622 contracts. Net-long positions in
corn dropped by 48,543 to 149,084 contracts.  Global grain growers will produce a record 1.843 billion
metric tons in 2012,  Dan Basse , the president of AgResource,
said on Nov. 16.  Soybean imports in China, the biggest consumer, may decline
in the year through Dec. 31 as losses from processing the
oilseed discourage additional purchases, Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co. said on Nov. 23.  “People are inherently short to neutral on the commodities
market,” DoubleLine’s Sherman said. “It could change, but for
that we need a very strong fundamental reason out of Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  