-- 
St. Jude’s Riata Defribillator Wires Failed More Often Than Known Earlier

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-11-29T22:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/st-jude-says-riata-defribillator-cables-have-failure-rate-of-0-63-percent.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , maker of
devices to treat heart conditions, said its Riata defibrillator
leads have a higher failure rate than was known last year when
it stopped selling the product.  Riata has an insulation failure rate of 0.63 percent, more
than the 0.47 percent disclosed last December, the  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based company wrote in a letter to doctors dated
yesterday. The statistics are based on returns and complaints
related to the 277,000 wires sold in the past nine years, an
approach known to underestimate failure rates, the company said.  Extractions of Riata leads were linked to two patient
deaths and a serious injury, while two others were found not to
be related to the patients’ damaged devices, the company said.
More than one-third of the returns were linked to inappropriate
therapy and another 37 percent had electrical changes, St. Jude
said in the letter. Devices with the flaw, caused when the
insulation surrounding the wires is penetrated, may also fail to
deliver electric shocks when needed, the company said.  Concerns surrounding Riata have already led some physicians
to reduce their use of St. Jude’s products, wrote Derrick Sung,
an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , in a
Nov. 17 note to investors. Sung surveyed 25 doctors who implant
defibrillators and pacemakers and found 80 percent expressed
medium to high levels of concern about the Riata lead failures.
Almost half thought the problem may carry over to St. Jude’s
alternative Durata lead, Sung said.  St. Jude’s shares declined less than 1 percent to $35.69 at
4:18 p.m. New York time.  Regular Update  The company’s letter was part of its “ongoing commitment
to regularly update the medical and patient community on the
performance of our products,” Amy Jo Meyer, a St. Jude
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  In the letter, St. Jude said the Durata and Riata ST Optum
leads were not prone to the same types of failures, and the
“large majority” of the other Riata products are expected to
function normally. The Riata 7 French, a smaller device, was
less likely to suffer a failure than the larger Riata 8 French,
suggesting that that size wasn’t the problem, the company said.  Different Results  Other studies showed higher failure rates. An Irish medical
center found 15 percent of patients had wires protruding from
the insulation when they underwent fluoroscopic screening, an
advanced imaging technique. A German study of 357 patients found
8 percent needed surgery after a failure with a Riata lead. Both
sets of researchers recommended closer screening for patients.  Leads are flexible wires threaded through veins to the
 heart muscle  that help defibrillators deliver jolts of
electricity to shock hearts back into rhythm.  The implications of the insulation failures aren’t clear,
according to St. Jude, which advised doctors to continue routine
monitoring of patients with Riata leads. The wires shouldn’t be
automatically replaced, and there is no consensus on treatment
even for patients with damaged leads who aren’t suffering
electrical malfunctions.  Should a doctor elect to replace the Riata leads, St. Jude
will provide a  Durata wire  at no cost and provide up to $600
toward unreimbursed medical expenses, the company said.  Researchers have urged fluoroscopic screening of patients
with the Riata leads, since the complications can trigger shocks
when they aren’t needed and failure to administer a shock when
the heart stops beating properly.  St. Jude’s medical advisory board should “strike the right
balance” between regular fluoroscopic screening and the
inconvenience and anxiety it causes for patients, said Chi-Woh
Chan, a cardiologist from Queen Elizabeth Hospital in  Hong Kong ,
in an article detailing a Riata failure in the  journal Pace 
earlier this year. Chan leans toward more screening because
patients with defibrillators are at high risk of sudden cardiac
death and may need a reliable device to save their lives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  