-- 
Dow Jumps Most Since 2009 as Central Banks Take Action on Crisis

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-11-30T22:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/stock-futures-in-u-s-decline-after-bank-ratings-cut-by-standard-poor-s.html
U.S. stocks advanced, driving the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  up the most since March 2009, after
six central banks took action on  Europe ’s debt crisis by making
it cheaper for lenders to borrow in dollars.  Financial shares rallied 6.6 percent, the biggest gain in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index among 10 groups.  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  surged at least 7.3 percent.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  increased 8.1 percent and U.S. Steel Corp.
climbed 15 percent after  China  lowered banks’ reserve
requirements, bolstering optimism about economic growth. The Dow
Jones Transportation Average jumped 4.8 percent.  The  S&P 500  rose 4.3 percent to 1,246.96 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The benchmark gauge rallied 7.6 percent in three days, the
most since March 2009. The Dow added 490.05 points, or 4.2
percent, to 12,045.68. About  10 billion shares  changed hands on
U.S. exchanges, or 25 percent above the three-month average.  “They have put some more lubricant in the engine,” James McDonald, chief investment strategist at Northern Trust Corp. in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview, referring to the global
central bank action. His firm manages about $644 billion.
“Stocks have been under considerable pressure over the fears
that policy makers were not going to act. While this specific
action isn’t a final solution, it does indicate their
willingness to prevent significant financial dislocation.”  Today’s rally trimmed the monthly drop in the S&P 500 to
0.5 percent. Financial shares had the  biggest decline (SPXL1)  within 10
groups in November amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis would
hamper global growth. The benchmark measure jumped 11 percent in
October, the most since 1991, snapping five months of losses.  First Since 2008  American stocks joined a global rally. The central banks of
the U.S., the euro region, Canada, the U.K., Japan and
Switzerland agreed to cut the cost of providing dollar funding
via swap arrangements, the  Federal Reserve  said, and agreed to
make other currencies available as needed. China cut the amount
of cash that banks must set aside as  reserves  for the first time
since 2008.  In the U.S., companies boosted payrolls in November by the
most this year and U.S. businesses expanded at the fastest pace
in seven months. Another report showed the biggest gain in home-
purchase contract signings in a year. The Fed said the economy
expanded at a “moderate” pace in 11 of its 12 districts, led
by gains in manufacturing and consumer spending, according to
its Beige Book survey released today covering October and the
first half of November.  ‘Avoid a Recession’  “The economic backdrop continues to improve,” Burt White,
who helps oversee about $315 billion as chief investment officer
at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston, said in a telephone interview.
“Then, you mix in the policy action across the globe to ease
liquidity concerns. I don’t think there’s any doubt that the
 U.S. economy  is going to avoid a recession.”  All 10 groups in the S&P 500 rose as gauges of financial,
commodity and industrial shares added at least 5.1 percent. The
Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index rallied 5.9 percent as concern
eased about global economic growth. A measure of  homebuilders (S5FINL)  in
S&P indexes increased 6.5 percent.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, tumbled 9.3 percent to 27.80, extending its
three-day decline to 19 percent.  “You want to buy when things don’t look that great,” John Manley, chief equity strategist for Wells Fargo Advantage Funds
in New York, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
$209.1 billion. “I’m not predicting that the volatility is
over, but I think they are making progress.”  Banks Rally  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which had slumped 32 percent this year
through yesterday, gained 7.2 percent. Financial shares tumbled
after the close of regular trading yesterday as S&P cut credit
ratings for lenders including Bank of America and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
Today, JPMorgan added 8.4 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$30.97. Bank of America gained 7.3 percent to $5.44. Citigroup
rose 8.9 percent to $27.48.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction and mining-
equipment maker, rose 8.1 percent to $97.88. U.S. Steel surged
15 percent to $27.30.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  jumped 8 percent to $6.11,
pacing gains in homebuilders.  American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  increased 23 percent to
32 cents. The shares tumbled 84 percent yesterday after the
company announced a bankruptcy filing.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  gained 5.4 percent to $18.64. Deutsche
Bank AG recommended buying the world’s biggest maker of
networking equipment, saying checks suggest datacenter
information technology rollouts remain “robust.”  ‘At All Costs’  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  slumped 4.5 percent to $64.53. The video-
streaming and DVD subscription service was cut to
“underperform” from “neutral” at Wedbush Securities Inc.,
citing rising content costs, continued customer losses and
concern about the company’s “growth at all costs business
model.” Wedbush gave a 12-month price estimate of $45 a share.  Investors should buy U.S. stocks as an indicator of
momentum and breadth on the S&P 500 has reached “oversold”
levels, according to the technical analysis team at UBS AG.  An indicator called McClellan Oscillator, which measures
the moving average of net advancing shares in a market, has
moved into a low phase from where a “lasting bounce” may start
and continue for several days.  “We have increasing evidence that another important short-
term cycle low is in place, which simply means the market is
back in tactical bull mode,” Marc Muller and Michael Riesner
wrote in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  