-- 
Sugar Rises on Optimism for Economy; Coffee Gains; Cocoa Drops

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-11-29T16:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/sugar-rises-as-european-leaders-may-limit-crisis-coffee-gains.html
Sugar gained for a second day on
speculation that raw-materials demand will pick up as U.S.
 consumer confidence  rises and leaders in  Europe  tackle the
region’s debt crisis. Coffee also advanced, while cocoa fell.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  Index  of 24 commodities
increased as much as 1.2 percent before euro-area finance
ministers meet to discuss insuring a portion of bonds issued by
debt-stricken countries. Consumer confidence in the U.S.
unexpectedly rose this month by the most in more than eight
years, according to the New York-based Conference Board.  “The market is getting some real good news, and there’s
finally some optimism out there on Europe,”  Michael Smith , the
president of T&K Futures & Options in  Port St. Lucie , Florida,
said in a telephone interview. “The worst may be over” for
declines in commodities, he said.  Raw sugar for March delivery climbed 0.7 percent to 23.29
cents a pound at 11:40 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
after gaining 1 percent yesterday. The last two-day rally was
Nov. 2-3. Before today, the price fell 10 percent this month.  Arabica-coffee futures for March delivery increased 0.9
percent to $2.299 a pound in New York, heading for the first
gain in six sessions. Before today, the commodity slumped 21
percent since the end of August.  Cocoa futures for March delivery fell 2.2 percent to $2,313
a metric ton in New York. The commodity has declined in 10 of
the past 11 sessions.  In London futures trading, refined sugar and robusta coffee
rose on NYSE Liffe, while cocoa declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  