-- 
Swedish Economy Expands More Than Estimated

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-11-29T09:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/swedish-economy-expands-more-than-estimated.html
Sweden ’s  economy  expanded faster
than most analysts estimated in the third quarter as exports
picked up and companies continued investing.  Gross domestic product  grew an annual 4.6 percent in the
third quarter, slowing from a revised 4.7 percent in the prior
three-month period, Stockholm-based  Statistics Sweden  said
today. Growth was forecast at 3.4 percent, according to the
median estimate in a  survey  of 15 economists. Output expanded
1.6 percent from the period through June.  “ Exports  are contributing strongly but considering what’s
happening around the world this is probably the last time we’ll
see that kind of strong figure,” said Annika Winsth, chief
economist at Nordea Bank AB in  Stockholm . The figure means
Sweden’s central bank is less likely to cut its benchmark
 interest rate  at its meeting next month, she said.  Sweden’s central bank, the Riksbank, last month kept its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged and signaled it will hold back
on increases to safeguard the largest Nordic economy’s
expansion. Finance Minister Anders Borg has said the government
stands ready to add stimulus to the economy should the need
arise, adding such measures won’t jeopardize Sweden’s fiscal
health thanks to its budget surpluses.  The krona gained 0.5 percent against the euro to trade at
9.2392 as of 10:01 a.m. in Stockholm. Against the dollar, the
currency rose 0.5 percent to 6.9353.  Rising Exports  Net exports, which adjust for the effect of imports,
contributed 2.5 percentage points to annual GDP growth as
exports grew 8.2 percent and imports rose 3.8 percent. Fixed
investments contributed 1 percentage point, household spending
0.4 point, government expenditure 0.5 point and inventories 0.2
point.  Sweden has reduced its debt burden since the global
financial crisis started in 2007, and will post a 0.1 percent
budget surplus this year and be in balance next, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast
yesterday. The economy surged 5.6 percent in 2010, which was the
most in the European Union.  Sweden’s general government debt will dwindle to 35.9
percent of GDP next year, compared with 90.6 percent for the
euro area, the OECD said. The economy, home to companies such as
wireless network maker  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and appliance maker
 Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , will expand 4.1 percent in 2011, more than twice
the 1.6 percent rate in the euro area, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  