-- 
Swiss Matterhorn Skiing Offers Easy Runs, $36 St. Moritz Burger

-- B y   P e t e r   J .   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-11-29T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/swiss-matterhorn-skiing-offers-easy-runs-36-st-moritz-burger.html
It’s that time of year when you
start planning ski trips or waxing nostalgic about past
excursions. Let me recommend the Matterhorn for both exercises.  Located on the border shared by  Italy  and  Switzerland , the
mountain attracts about 3,000 climbers annually, with a few
dying in the attempt. What’s far less dangerous or well known is
the skiing about 2,000 feet below the summit.  During my first two days last March, the famous mountain
was hidden by clouds and the intermediate trails were so easy
that I wondered if it was worth the trip from  California .  Then the clouds began lifting, and as I skied around a
bend, the gorgeous mountain came into view like an unexpected
sunrise. I came to accept that skiing the Matterhorn is similar
to surfing Waikiki at the base of Diamond Head. The sport isn’t
the world’s most challenging, but the views and the lifestyle
are spectacular.  The resorts feature a hair-raising gondola ride over a
glacier to the Klein Matterhorn, a 12,739-foot (3,883 meters)
neighboring peak and the highest ski point in  Europe .  From the Klein, I skied continuously down 7,800 vertical
feet on a 13.7-mile (22-kilometer) trail to Zermatt, the main
town at the base of the Matterhorn.  Zermatt  became ecologically friendly long before it was
trendy. In 1947, it banned gas-engine vehicles. Nowadays small
electric taxis and buses traverse the narrow streets of the
town, which has 5,600 residents and 13,200 beds for tourists.  Above Tree Line  The four main ski areas, which include the nearby  Cervinia 
resort in Italy, total 350 kilometers (217 miles) of runs and
are connected to one another by 68 lifts. The off-piste skiing
looked limited by the presence of too many rocks or by the
steepness of trails. As is typical in the Alps, most of the
skiing was above tree line, which eliminated the fun of
maneuvering in the woods.  After four days in Zermatt, my 86-year-old father, who
didn’t ski, and I boarded the famous  Glacier Express , a train
that traverses the Alps to St. Moritz. The train has recuperated
from July 2010 when it derailed because of excessive speed,
killing a Japanese tourist and injuring 42 passengers. The train
ride offers typical Alps beauty; a section has even been named a
Unesco World Heritage site.  The name “Express” is a hint of Swiss humor because it
takes about 8 hours to travel 181 miles. The locals are so self-
deprecating that  Switzerland Tourism’s  own website declares,
“The Swiss love for partying isn’t yet widely known.”  Seal, Pricey Plates  The partying actually was fine at both resorts and
sometimes features top international talent such as singer Seal,
who performed last April at Zermatt’s annual music festival.  St. Moritz  has the reputation of being the world’s ritziest
resort with five 5-star and eight 4-star hotels in a town of
5,400 residents. A curious hobby is  bidding  thousands of dollars
for the province’s lowest vehicle license plate, a sign of both
wealth and long-time habitation.  How expensive was St. Moritz? At Secondo’s, which bills
itself as the town’s best fast-food restaurant, a cheeseburger
cost almost $36, French fries included. “Delicious,” my father
said after eating it.  While the food and drinks were costly, hotel prices were
comparable to high-end rooms in  New York City  and a lift ticket
of about $80 was actually lower than many big U.S. resorts such
as Squaw Valley in  Lake Tahoe .  St. Moritz features four ski resorts, the most famous of
which is  Corviglia . Like Zermatt, it offers long intermediate
runs although with more off-piste skiing for powder junkies.
Nearby resort Corvatsch provides similar but less-challenging
runs.  Beer Songs  Ski areas at both Matterhorn and St. Moritz have short,
efficient lift lines. Like most European resorts, there are
plenty of restaurants along the trails, where you can get
raclette and sing beer songs with locals. The trail-side
restaurants are an endearing tradition, something U.S. resorts
would do well to emulate.  If you’re looking for more advanced and steeper runs, I’d
recommend  Austria ’s  Arlberg , which includes St. Anton. If you’re
a lover of long intermediate runs, great views and a fun
ambiance, Switzerland is well worth more than a visit to open a
secret bank account.  Tips: Corviglia slopes are gloriously empty until about 10
a.m. To get acclimated after a long trip, I recommend staying
the first night in Zurich or Lucerne, and check the postcard-
perfect lake view from the latter’s  Des Balances  hotel. Zurich’s
Restaurant  Zeughausekeller  is a former armory that dates from
1487 and has cool antique weapons hanging on the wall, plus an
astounding variety of sausages.  (Peter J. Brennan is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Peter J. Brennan at 
 pbrennan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 