-- 
Swiss Banks May Lose $51 Billion in German, U.K. Assets After Tax Accord

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-11-29T11:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/swiss-private-banks-may-lose-51-billion-in-german-u-k-assets.html
Swiss wealth managers may lose about
47 billion Swiss francs ($51.1 billion) in assets as clients
make withdrawals before tax agreements with  Germany  and the U.K.
come into force in 2013, according to a Booz & Co. study.  Banks may also lose about 1.1 billion francs in annual
revenue, or about 4 percent of the 2010 total, Booz said in a
study published today.  Switzerland  reached agreements with
Germany and the U.K. this year over taxation of undeclared bank
accounts. Revenue generated from the tax on investment and
capital gains will go to the German and U.K. treasuries while
client identities remain secret.  Profit margins for  UBS AG (UBSN) , Credit Suisse Group AG and other
Swiss banks are declining in the wake of the financial crisis
and as a crackdown on tax evasion pushes American and European
clients to repatriate funds. That requires wealth managers to
learn new skills as a decline of about 25 percent in Swiss
offshore assets to 2 trillion francs since 2007 adds to the
pressure to find new customers.  The relationship manager’s job is becoming “much, much
harder” as bankers grapple with legal, tax and compliance
issues in addition to following developments in the market, said
Jacques de Saussure, senior managing partner at  Pictet & Cie .,
Geneva’s biggest private bank. “It’s become a nightmare,” said
de Saussure, whose 206-year-old bank has 252 billion francs of
assets under management.  Offshore Haven  UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, requires its 4,252 client
advisers to attain a wealth-management diploma that tests their
sales and financial expertise as well their risk, legal and
compliance knowledge.  Banking in the  biggest haven  for offshore wealth became
more complicated after Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to
comply with Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development tax standards. The government has since signed or
initiated double taxation agreements with more than 30
countries, reached accords with Germany and the U.K. and is
negotiating with the U.S. to settle a cross-border tax evasion
probe.  “When I started my career 18 years ago in Geneva the job
was totally different,” Boris Collardi, the chief executive
officer of Zurich-based  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , said in July.
“You need today to have a different skills set, be much more
informed, much more knowledgeable and you have to have a higher
degree of competences to serve your client.”  ‘Challenging Environment’  Collardi began his career as a trainee with Credit Suisse,
the country’s second-biggest wealth manager. Since spring last
year, Credit Suisse requires every client adviser to complete a
training certificate to prepare them for what it describes as
the “new dawn” of private banking.  Credit Suisse, which had 4,120 relationship managers at the
end of September, announced 478 million francs of litigation
provisions earlier this month for tax settlements in the U.S.
and Germany. Larger rival UBS avoided prosecution in 2009 by
paying $780 million, admitting it fostered  tax evasion  and
handing over details on thousands of secret accounts.  Private bankers and wealth management experts interviewed
by Booz expect outflows of 25 percent to 30 percent of non-
declared assets because of the withholding tax agreements,
according to median estimates. Swiss banks managed about 270
billion francs for German and British clients that are not based
in Switzerland at the end of 2010, of which some 164 billion
francs may be undeclared, the consultants estimated.  Revenue Loss  As clients withdraw funds and pay regularization taxes,
Swiss wealth managers stand to lose about 600 million francs in
annual revenue, Booz said. Banks may lose another 500 million
francs in revenue as customers demand fees closer to those
charged for onshore accounts, the study showed.  That impact may double should Switzerland agree to similar
accords with other European countries, Booz said. Tax agreements
with  Greece ,  Italy  and  France  may follow, Claude-Alain Margelisch, chief executive officer of the  Swiss Bankers
Association , said on Nov. 22.  “Private banks are already under pressure as margins fall
because of the crisis and costs need to be reduced,” said
Carlos Ammann, managing partner of Booz in Switzerland. “Now on
top of that this structural change is coming. The ‘white-money’
strategy will accelerate.”  Bank Margins  The banks’ margins, or revenue earned on assets under
management, are typically the highest for offshore money managed
in Switzerland, Ammann said. Wealth managers may earn about 120
to 150 basis points on such assets, compared with 90 to 100
basis points on onshore Swiss funds and some 60 to 70 basis
points for onshore assets in Germany, he estimated. A basis
point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  As profit margins narrow and the demands on private bankers
increase, wealth managers are seeking to hire people with a good
financial and legal knowledge, plus the ability to find new
clients, according to Gina Le Prevost, a recruiter with AP
Executive in Geneva.  “Firms are looking for people who can think of new schemes
and ideas to excite clients in difficult markets,” said Le
Prevost. “They want self-motivated go-getters who can build a
book of assets in a competitive environment.”  The pressure to perform is unchanged, according to Werner Rueegg, who started work as a wealth manager 28 years ago at
Credit Suisse. Rueegg, now with Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG, said
forging relationships with millionaire clients remains a key
part of private banking and he still takes his best customers to
shoot elephants and buffalo in Botswana and  Zimbabwe .  “It’s a lifetime cycle of advice you are giving,” said
Rueegg. “Whenever you go hunting with a customer, it has to be
a friend too. You have to trust each other a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net 
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  