-- 
U.K. Mortgage Approvals Rose More Than Forecast in October

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-11-29T09:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/u-k-mortgage-approvals-rose-more-than-forecast-in-october.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose more
than economists forecast in October as record-low  interest rates 
helped to support the housing market.  Lenders granted 52,743 loans to buy homes, compared with a
revised 51,193 the previous month, the Bank of England said
today in London. Economists forecast that approvals would rise
to 51,800 from an initially reported 50,967 in September, based
on the median forecast of 18 economists in Bloomberg News
survey. Still, the reading is about half the monthly average of
103,000 in the decade to 2007, before the financial crisis.  Some Bank of England policy makers have said the central
bank may have to increase stimulus as the intensifying euro area
crisis threatens to push the U.K. back into a recession. While
U.K. house prices rose for a third month in November, property
values will “remain soft” and may slip again over the coming
year,  Nationwide Building Society  said today.  “While mortgage approvals have firmed modestly from a low
in December 2010, they remain extremely low compared to long-
term norms and there is still little evidence that housing
market activity is really shifting up a gear,”  Howard Archer ,
an economist at IHS Global Insight in London, said before the
announcement.  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was trading at $1.5564 as of 9:33 a.m. London time,
up 0.3 percent on the day.  Net mortgage lending was 1.29 billion pounds ($2 billion)
in October, while net  consumer credit  was 49 million pounds, the
central bank said.  Worsening Outlook  The deteriorating outlook prompted  Bank of England 
officials to expand its emergency bond-purchase program by 75
billion pounds in October. U.K. central bank policy maker  Martin
Weale  said last week there may be a “strong case” for policy
makers to expand stimulus again. Markets Director  Paul Fisher 
said yesterday the economy may need more quantitative easing.  The Bank of England held its benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent and its bond-purchase plan at 275 billion pounds this
month.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth the bank uses to assess
the effectiveness of its asset purchases rose 5 percent in the
three months through October on an annualized basis, today’s
report said. That compares with a 5.3 percent gain in the three
months through September. The gauge excludes financial companies
that specialize in intermediating between banks, such as holding
companies and non-bank credit grantors.  Total M4 fell 0.3 percent in October from the previous
month and was down 2.7 percent on the year, the Bank of England
said.  The average cost of a home rose 0.4 percent from October to
165,798 pounds, Swindon, England-based Nationwide said in an e-
mailed report today. From a year earlier, values were up 1.6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  