-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Falls as Leaders Meet on Europe Bailout

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-11-29T22:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/u-s-company-credit-risk-falls-as-leaders-meet-on-europe-bailout-measures.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit
risk declined for a second day on optimism that European leaders
may expand bailout measures to curb the region’s debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 1 basis point to a mid-price of 140.2 basis points at
5:13 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Contracts
on Transocean Ltd. fell the most in more than a year after the
driller said it will sell shares to repurchase convertible debt.  Investors pushed the gauge lower as Luxembourg’s Jean-
Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said the group agreed on options for leveraging the
European Financial Stability Facility during talks in Brussels
today. Speculation about a new package that would curb  Europe ’s
market upheaval is boosting confidence both sides of the
Atlantic, according to  Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at
Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York.  “ Risk aversion  has waned,” he wrote in an e-mail.
“Execution risk remains very high, but that hasn’t dampened the
improvement in swap spreads,”  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined from 150.1
basis points on Oct. 3 as investors have wagered that Europe’s
leaders will prevent the region’s fiscal crisis from infecting
bank balance sheets worldwide.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 3.2 to 196.3 basis
points.  Transocean Contracts  Credit-default swaps tied to  Transocean’s debt (RIG)  dropped
after the world’s largest offshore oil driller said it will
offer 26 million shares to finance a $1.7 billion repurchase of
convertible notes, the Vernier, Switzerland-based company said
in a statement today.  The contracts declined 42.7 basis points to 331.5 basis
points, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s the biggest one-day decline
since September 2010, after last year its Deepwater Horizon rig
burned and sank during last year’s Macondo disaster in the  Gulf
of Mexico .  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  