-- 
U.S. Soybean Market Share Eroded by South American Competition

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-11-29T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/u-s-soybean-market-share-eroded-by-south-american-competition.html
U.S. soybean exports and crushings
declined 22 percent in September and October compared with a
year earlier as buyers instead purchased South American
stockpiles, Oil World said.  Soybean shipments and crushings in the U.S., the world’s
second-biggest exporter after  Brazil , dropped to 13.74 million
tons during the two months, the Hamburg-based oilseed researcher
said in a report today. Exports and use in  Argentina  surged 15
percent and disposals in Brazil gained 21 percent, according to
the report. Exports and use in  South America  jumped to 22.2
million tons, the highest ever, the researcher said.  “U.S. soybean producers and exporters suffered from the
unprecedented competition from South America,” Oil World said.
“Record South American soybean disposals are to be seen as the
major reason for the reduced U.S. soybean crushings and exports
in September and October.”  Soybeans futures have dropped 20 percent this year, partly
on declining demand for raw materials used to make food amid
economic crises in the European Union and U.S.  Soybean exports from Brazil will probably total 1.8 million
tons in November, up from 1.41 million tons in October,
according to the report.  “The bulk of Brazilian soybean exports was destined for
 China  in recent weeks, causing a loss of market share for U.S.
exporters,” Oil World said.  Argentine Planting  Soybean planting in Brazil was about 78 percent complete on
Nov. 18, up from 76 percent at the same time a year ago and a
five-year average of 68 percent, Oil World said. In Argentina,
planting was completed on 8.3 million hectares (20.5 million
acres), up from 7.9 million at the same time a year ago,
according to the report.  A La Nina weather system that is expected to bring dry
weather to South America may hurt plants in some parts of
Brazil, the researcher said.  “With La Nina conditions expected to continue in December
and January, there is the risk of below-normal rainfall and crop
stress in  Rio Grande  do Sul, Santa Catarina and Parana,” Oil
World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 