-- 
U.S., EU Agree on Secure Goods Trade in Talks, De Gucht Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-11-29T22:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/u-s-eu-agree-on-secure-goods-trade-in-talks-de-gucht-says-1-.html
The U.S. and European Union agreed
on security measures to ease trade in goods and made progress in
promoting electric vehicles and energy-saving  office equipment ,
leaders said after bilateral talks.  Negotiators in the Transatlantic Economic Council achieved
“remarkable results,” EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht
said today at a news conference in Washington, citing work on
nanotechnology, cloud computing and smart-grid technologies.  The council, founded in 2007, includes leaders from the
U.S. and  Europe  and aims to deepen the political relationship
and promote regulatory cooperation.  “We have an ambitious agenda to take us into next year,”
 Michael Froman , deputy U.S. national security adviser, said at
the news conference. “We want to grow our economies, support
jobs on both sides of the Atlantic, and strengthen our economic
partnership, both bilaterally and around the world.”  Companies may benefit from an agreement that lets security-
certified businesses in each economy ship goods between the U.S.
and EU with simpler customs procedures starting in June, a step
aimed at cutting costs and delays.  President  Barack Obama , European Council President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission President José Manuel Barroso
yesterday directed the council to work on job and economic
growth programs. A panel, led by U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk and De Gucht, was ordered to “identify policies and
measures” to boost U.S.-EU trade and investment to increase job
creation, economic growth and international competitiveness,
according to a statement distributed yesterday.  “Everything is on the table, from tariffs to non-tariff
barriers, to enhanced regulatory cooperation,” Froman said.
“We will be exploring options” including a free-trade
agreement, “with an open mind to seeing what is feasible and
what would have the greatest impact on our economic
relationship.”  The panel is to provide an interim report in June with
final recommendations by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  