-- 
U.S. Consumer Sentiment Tops Forecasts at Start of Holiday Season: Economy

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-11-29T21:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/u-s-consumer-confidence-rises-by-most-since-april-03-amid-holiday-season.html
Consumer confidence  snapped back
more than forecast in November as Americans turned less
pessimistic on the outlook for jobs and wages, one reason why
spending has jumped at the start of the holiday season.  The Conference Board’s  index  increased to 56 from a revised
40.9 reading in October, the biggest monthly gain since April
2003, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today. The gauge exceeded the most optimistic forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey.  The improvement in sentiment may help sustain household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy,
after sales climbed on Nov. 25 and Nov. 28, so-called Black
Friday and Cyber Monday. Another report showing  home prices 
continue to drop raises the risk that, without a pickup in
hiring, consumers will retreat in early 2012.  “We are seeing confidence returning to the ranges it’s
been in the past two years in this lukewarm recovery,” said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . While the data are consistent with the gains in
holiday retail sales, “it doesn’t bode for a further
acceleration in spending, but more of the same,” he said.  The Conference Board’s confidence gauge climbed to the
highest level since July, recovering plunges in August and
October that left it at a two-year low and putting it more in
line with other surveys.  Other Confidence Gauges  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment rose to 64.1 this month, the highest since
June, from 60.9 in October. The Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort 
Index’s monthly expectations gauge climbed in November to the
highest reading since July.  In  Europe , the debt crisis is depressing consumer
attitudes. European confidence in the economic outlook dropped
more than economists projected in November as the 17-nation euro
region moved closer to recession.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
area fell to 93.7 from 94.8 in October, the European Commission
in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest since November 2009.  Economists at Credit Suisse said before today’s U.S.
confidence report that there is a “seasonal tendency” for the
Conference Board’s measure to rise in November and drop in
October. The gauge has increased in 16 of the last 20 Novembers
after declining in 18 of 20 Octobers.  Results of the Conference Board’s survey also reflected
responses from consumers by Nov. 15, a week before the
congressional supercommittee announced it failed to agree on a
deficit-reduction plan.  Housing Market  At the same time, malaise in the U.S. housing market is a
headwind for confidence and the consumer. Residential real
estate prices dropped more than forecast in the year ended
September, showing the industry at the center of the 2008
financial crisis continues to struggle, according to another
report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  property values  in 20 cities
fell 3.6 percent in September from the same month in 2010 after
decreasing 3.8 percent in the year ended August, the group said
today in  New York . The median forecast of 32 economists in a
Bloomberg survey projected a 3 percent drop.  The median projection in the Bloomberg survey called for a
confidence reading of 44. Estimates of 70 economists ranged from
37 to 49.6. The index averaged 53.7 during the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  Shares Rise  Stocks rose after the reports, with the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  climbing 0.2 percent to 1,195.2 at the close in New
York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 2
percent from 1.97 percent late yesterday.  The Conference Board’s data showed measures of  present
conditions  and  expectations  for the next six months both
improved.  The percent of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months and those projecting their
incomes will rise both climbed to four-month highs.  Applications for jobless benefits are close to a seven-
month low.  Initial claims  in the week ended Nov. 19 stood at
393,000, near the 391,000 in the previous period that were the
fewest since April 1, according to Labor Department figures.  “While hiring may not be improving much, at least the rate
of layoffs is slowing,” said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S.
economist at  Societe Generale  in New York, whose confidence
forecast of 49.6 was the highest in the Bloomberg survey. “We
have all this good news about Black Friday. I think you will see
people move their consumer spending forecasts higher for this
quarter.”  Yellen’s View  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen today said the
central bank has leeway to spur the U.S. recovery and reduce
unemployment by purchasing more assets and clarifying its plan
to sustain record-low borrowing costs.  “The scope remains to provide additional accommodation
through enhanced guidance on the path of the federal funds rate
or through additional purchases of longer-term financial
assets,” Yellen said today. She said economic growth in the
U.S. and other advanced economies “has been proceeding too
slowly to provide jobs for millions of unemployed people.”  The Conference Board report showed the share of consumers
who said jobs were currently plentiful climbed to the highest
level since May 2009. Confidence rose in eight of nine U.S.
regions.  Debt Crisis  The deepening sovereign debt crisis in Europe has also
helped boost demand for yen, impeding  Japan ’s recovery. The
jobless rate in Japan rose to 4.5 percent in October from 4.1
percent a month earlier, the nation’s statistics bureau said
today.  Panasonic Corp. and TDK Corp. are cutting jobs as a yen
near a post World War II high against the dollar erodes profits
and the nation struggles to recover from the March earthquake
that left about 19,000 people dead or missing.  Americans, meantime, spent a record $52.4 billion during
the Thanksgiving weekend, kicking off the  holiday shopping
season . Shoppers took advantage of deals and earlier opening
hours at retailers. With the monthly U.S. unemployment rate
averaging 9 percent this year, the results suggest consumers
with jobs remain willing to spend.  “We had massive lines in a number of places around the
country last night,” Brian Dunn, chief executive officer of
Best Buy Co. said by telephone Nov. 25 from a store in  Eden
Prairie ,  Minnesota .  Retail sales climbed 16 percent, and shoppers spent $398.62
on average, up from $365.34 a year earlier, according to the
 National Retail Federation , citing a survey from BIGresearch.  Holiday sales account for about 20 percent to 40 percent of
retailers’ annual revenue, according to the National Retail
Federation.  “There seems to be a bit of an exhale happening” with
U.S. consumers,  Ellen Davis , NRF vice president, said on a
conference call Nov. 27. “They feel like it’s OK to spend a
little bit more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  