-- 
Treasuries Drop for Third Day as Stocks Gain on Prospects of Euro Solution

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-11-29T07:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/u-s-benchmark-yield-is-31-basis-points-from-record-low-on-europe-crisis.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for a
third day, the longest streak in five weeks, as stocks gained
globally on optimism European leaders are intensifying efforts
to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The cost of insuring bonds in the Asia-Pacific region
against default fell as European Union leaders prepared to meet
today. Investor  Jim Rogers  said it is “absurd” to rank the U.S.
among top-rated borrowers, after Fitch Ratings yesterday gave
the nation’s debt a negative outlook while affirming its AAA
grade. U.S. home prices probably fell at a slower pace and
 consumer confidence  rose, economists said before reports today.  “We’re seeing a lot of risk assets starting to respond to
what appears to be more determined effort to address some of the
core issues in  Europe ,” said  Tony Morriss , head of interest-
rate research in Sydney at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. “That would start to undermine longer-term, safe-haven
support in some of the bond markets.”  U.S. 10-year  rates  rose three basis points to 2 percent as
of 7:03 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2 percent security due in November 2021 dropped 9/32,
or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 30/32, heading for the
longest run of losses since the three days ended Oct. 24.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific  Index (MXWD)  of shares rose 1.8 percent. The
MSCI All Country World  Index  of stocks gained 0.4 percent, after
rallying 3.1 percent yesterday, the most in a month.  TED Spread  The TED  spread , the difference between what lenders and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, shrank by one
basis point to half a percentage point. It was the biggest
narrowing in two weeks. The difference is still almost double
this year’s average.  Japan ’s 10-year yield was unchanged at 1.065 percent,
matching the highest level in almost three months, after a
government report showed the nation’s jobless rate rose to 4.5
percent from 4.1 percent.  European leaders are working toward a Dec. 9 summit meeting
to regain investor confidence. Finance ministers from the 17-
member monetary union meet in Brussels today to discuss how to
strengthen the European Financial Stability Facility rescue fund.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.02 percentage
basis points, Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The decline was the
most since Oct. 28, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. The Markit iTraxx Australia
index fell five basis points to 2.12 percentage points,
according to Westpac Banking Corp.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying bond if a borrower fails to meet its debt agreements.  Property Values  Treasuries fluctuated throughout November in response to
European efforts to convince investors that the nations in the
region will be able to pay their debts.  Demand for the relative safety of U.S. securities resulted
in a 1.2 percent gain this month as of yesterday, based on Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. German bunds fell 0.7 percent and
Japanese bonds were little changed, the indexes show.  The  MSCI (MXAP)  All Country World  Index  of equities handed
investors a 6.8 percent loss in the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasuries due in 10 years and more have returned almost 28
percent in 2011, the most among 144 bond indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies after accounting for changes in currency rates.  The flight to quality may continue, said Kei Katayama, the
leader of the foreign-debt group at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in
 Tokyo , which has the equivalent of $63.5 billion in assets.  “Yields will stay around this level,” said Katayama, who
runs Asia’s second-biggest bond fund. “It’ll take time to solve
this problem. The crisis is very severe.”  Fed Purchases  The Fed is  scheduled  to buy as much as $2.75 billion of
Treasuries due from 2036 to 2041 today as part of a plan
announced in September to replace $400 billion in shorter
maturities with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values dropped 3
percent in September from the same month in 2010, after
decreasing 3.8 percent in August, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
report is released today. The Conference Board’s  confidence 
index probably climbed to 44 this month from 39.8 in October,
based on the responses.  The U.S. lost its last stable outlook from the three
biggest credit-ranking companies after Fitch lowered the nation
to negative following a congressional committee’s failure to
agree on  deficit  cuts.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its ranking for  U.S.
debt  by one step to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5. U.S. marketable debt
has risen to a record $9.75 trillion.  “The U.S. is not triple A,” Jim Rogers, the investor and
author of the book “Hot Commodities,” said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “That is absurd. The debts are
rising by staggering rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 vwgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  