-- 
Hungarian Forward-Rate Bets on Tightening Rise for Fifth Day

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-11-29T10:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/hungarian-forward-rate-bets-on-tightening-rise-for-fifth-day.html
Traders increased bets for a fifth
day that  Hungary ’s central bank will raise its benchmark
interest rate today for the first time since January to defend
the forint even as economic growth slows.  Forward-rate agreements fixing three-month interest in one
month rose 3 basis points to 7.08 percent at 10:16 a.m. in
Budapest. The three-month Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, to
which the FRAs settle, traded at 6.76 percent at yesterday’s
close. The forint depreciated 0.2 percent to 309.2 per euro,
heading for a 2 percent loss in November, a fifth month of
declines.  Hungary’s Magyar Nemzeti Bank will increase the two-week
deposit rate to 6.5 percent from 6 percent today, according to
the median estimate of 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
forint dropped to its weakest ever against the euro this month
and government bond yields soared over 9 percent for the first
time in two years as the country on Nov.24 lost its investment
grade at Moody’s Investors Service after 15 years.  “The National Bank of Hungary is expected to hike rates at
its meeting today and we look for a 25 to 50-basis point rate
increase,” Michal Dybula, a Warsaw-based economist at BNP
Paribas SA, and colleagues wrote in a research report today.
“The risk is that anything less than a 50 basis point hike will
lead to further forint weakness.” The central bank’s decision
will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  The government sees next year’s economic growth at between
0.5 percent to 1 percent, compared with an earlier 1.5 percent
growth target, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said at a press
conference last week. Policy makers must weigh that against the
forint’s 14 percent slide against the euro in the second half,
the worst performance worldwide.  While “the dismal growth performance would not require any
tightening of monetary conditions”, that may have “secondary”
importance for central bankers, Andras Oszlay, a Budapest-based
economist at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  