-- 
Hungary May Face More Rate Increases as Credit Downgrade Threatens Forint

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-11-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/hungary-raises-interest-rates-to-shield-forint-from-debt-downgrade-to-junk.html
Hungarian interest rates may rise
further from the European Union’s highest level as policy makers
seek to protect the forint from the effects of the country’s
debt being downgraded to junk, the central bank said.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  is ready to increase the two-week
deposit rate after boosting it to 6.5 percent from 6 percent
yesterday, central bank President Andras Simor told reporters in
Budapest yesterday. Forward-rate agreements rose, indicating
investor expectations for higher borrowing costs.  The first rate increase since January failed to boost the
forint, which fell to its weakest ever against the euro this
month and helped push the government to seek international aid.
 Hungary  losing its investment grade at Moody’s Investors Service
tipped the scale for policy makers, who had balanced shielding
the currency against slowing economic growth.  “Even a move sideways in risk -- lack of improvement --
may not prevent more hikes in the near term,” Pasquale Diana,
an economist at Morgan Stanley in  London , wrote in a note to
clients yesterday. He expects the benchmark rate to rise to 7
percent by year-end and “just shy” of 8 percent in “the early
part” of next year.  The forint, the world’s worst-performing currency against
the euro since June 30, weakened 0.3 percent to 309.34 per euro
at 6:24 p.m. in Budapest yesterday. Hungarian five-year
government bond yields rose 73 basis points to 9.34 percent,
according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Polish, Czech, Romanian  Polish  and Czech central bankers this month left their
benchmark rates unchanged at 4.5 percent and 0.75 percent,
respectively.  Romania  on Nov. 2 unexpectedly cut its main
 interest rate  to a record-low 6 percent from 6.25 percent.  Hungary is ready to increase the benchmark rate further if
the outlook for inflation and the country’s risk perception
remain “persistently unfavorable,” the Monetary Council said
in a statement released after the rate decision.  The forint’s depreciation is a “threat” to the central
bank’s 3 percent inflation target, it said.  Consumer prices  rose
3.9 percent in October from a year earlier, the fastest pace in
five months.  Investors are shunning riskier bonds and demanding higher
yields as European leaders grapple with the euro area’s crisis,
which started in  Greece  more than two years ago and threatens to
infect weaker economies.  ‘Green Light’  The “outcome of the meeting and the statement are a green
light to higher rates,” Guillaume Salomon, a London-based
economist at Societe Generale SA, said by e-mail yesterday.
“Only a complete turnaround in the eurozone crisis for the
better would change this outlook.”  The forint fell to a record 317.92 on Nov. 14 after
 Standard & Poor’s  threatened to cut the country’s debt rating to
junk, forcing the government to seek assistance from the IMF and
the EU.  While S&P postponed a decision on the  credit rating  until
February, Moody’s downgraded Hungary’s government bond rating on
Nov. 24 by one step to Ba1, maintaining a negative outlook,
citing risks to budget-deficit and public debt targets.  Fitch
Ratings  said on Nov. 18 an IMF agreement would reduce pressure
on Hungary’s rating, adding that a deal remained a “long way
off.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  turned to the IMF on Nov. 18 to
seek a backstop that doesn’t entail a loan or conditions on
economic policy, reversing 18 months of shunning the lender.
After the downgrade by Moody’s, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said that Hungary may have to accept conditions for a  credit
line . The Cabinet wants to agree with the IMF and the EU by the
“first few months” of next year, he said.  Debt Payments  The nation’s foreign-currency debt maturing next year will
soar to 1.37 trillion forint ($5.9 billion), a 48 percent
increase from this year. That will rise to 1.48 trillion forint
in 2013 and peak at 1.65 trillion forint in 2014 as Hungary
repays the 20 billion-euro ($26.7 billion) bailout, the
government estimates.  Hungary sold a planned 40 billion forint of three-month
Treasury bills yesterday at an average yield of 7.32 percent
yesterday, compared with 6.63 percent at the last sale of the
same maturity on Nov. 22. The government failed to sell a
planned 50 billion forint of debt on Nov. 28, auctioning 35
billion forint of six-week Treasury bills as yields soared.  Hungary needs an agreement with the IMF and the EU “as
soon as possible,” the Monetary Council said. Its size should
take into account Hungary’s debt renewal needs, Simor said.  Yesterday’s rate increase was a test for the four outside
members of the Monetary Council who were elected in March by a
committee dominated by the ruling party. The decision was
unanimous, Simor said.  “Perhaps ultimately Simor managed to convince them of the
severe downside risks to surprising the market by not hiking,”
Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at Nomura
International Plc., said in an e-mailed note yesterday. “We
were not convinced the new” council “members would act fast
enough and would adopt instead a wait-and-see attitude.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  