-- 
US Airways Seen as Possible Merger Partner for AMR

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-11-29T21:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/us-airways-seen-as-possible-merger-partner-as-amr-strives-for-lower-costs.html
The bankruptcy filing today by  AMR
Corp. (AMR) , the parent of American Airlines, may prepare the runway
for a merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  as the two seek to
become more competitive on size and costs, analysts said.  US Airways , the fifth-largest U.S. carrier, failed in a
2006 hostile bid for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and in two rounds of
merger talks with United Airlines. Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said in April he saw “one big deal left” in the
industry, one involving US Airways, after the purchase by Delta
of Northwest Airlines Corp. and the merger of United and
Continental Airlines.  “American potentially needs a partner to achieve more
scale,”  Kevin Crissey , an analyst with UBS Securities LLC in
 New York , wrote in a note today. US Airways, based in Tempe,
Arizona, “may provide that avenue.”  The consolidation of Fort Worth, Texas-based  American
Airlines  and US Airways, whose stock symbol is “LCC,” would be
the “final step” in the industry’s transformation to larger
companies that seek to maximize profits instead of market share,
 Jamie Baker , an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a
note today. American Airlines dropped from the world’s biggest
airline to No. 3 in the U.S. after industry mergers.  “As indicated by the company, LCC wants a deal,” Baker
wrote.  Andrew Christie, a spokesman for US Airways, declined to
comment.  Andrea Huguely , a spokeswoman for American Airlines, said
in an e-mail that the company doesn’t “comment on rumors.”  Court Protection  AMR filed for court protection from creditors today after
failing to win cost-cutting labor accords and being left out of
mergers. American will continue normal operations as it
restructures to trim costs, new Chief Executive Officer Thomas Horton said today in a news conference.  AMR was determined to avoid bankruptcy proceedings in the
years after the 2001 terrorist attacks, as peers used court
protection to shed pension and retiree benefit plans and
restructure debt. As other carriers combined, they gained route
networks that were larger than American’s and more attractive to
business travelers, who generally pay higher fares than other
passengers.  United Continental Holdings Inc. and Delta “are likely
immediate and longer-term beneficiaries of today’s actions by
AMR on the capacity front and on the cost front,” Gary Chase, a
Barclays Plc analyst in New York, said in a research note.  “Both contributed to this outcome for AMR by becoming more
cost competitive and amassing larger, more powerful networks
that eroded some of AMR’s historical revenue premiums,” said
Chase, who rates United and Delta “overweight.”  Stock Trading  The  shares (UAL)  of Chicago-based United advanced 6.3 percent to
$17.63 at the close in New York, while Atlanta-based Delta
advanced 5 percent to $7.80. AMR tumbled 84 percent to 26 cents.  US Airways rose 4.4 percent $4.46 and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) 
climbed 10 percent to $4.06. The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL) ,
which comprises AMR and 10 other companies, increased 1.7
percent.  AMR’s filing makes American the last of the large U.S.
full-fare airlines to seek  bankruptcy protection , after Delta,
Northwest and United. Delta acquired Northwest in 2008, while
United and Continental merged in 2010.  Management Change  Horton, 50, takes over the posts of chairman and CEO from
Gerard Arpey, 53, who retired from AMR and is becoming a partner
at Emerald Creek Group, a Houston-based private equity firm.
Horton also keeps the president title.  American accounted for about 15 percent of U.S. carriers’
October passenger traffic, compared with 21 percent for United
and 20 percent for Delta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The AMR filing should be “good for the entire industry”
and “especially good” for JetBlue and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ,
which have code-sharing and passenger-connecting agreements with
American, James Higgins, an analyst at New York-based
Ticonderoga Securities LLC, said in a note today.  Crissey of UBS said in his report that investors should buy
shares of major airlines such as Delta.  American has been in contract talks with unions for all of
its major work groups since as far back as 2006, seeking to
boost employee productivity and erase part of what it said was
an $800 million labor-cost disadvantage to other carriers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net  and
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  