-- 
Usiminas Declines as Techint Deal Won’t Benefit All Holders

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-11-29T20:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/usiminas-falls-as-techint-deal-won-t-be-extended-to-all-holders.html
Voting shares of  Usinas Siderurgicas
de Minas Gerais SA ,  Brazil ’s second-biggest steelmaker, fell to
the lowest in two years on speculation minority shareholders may
not benefit from the sale of a stake to Techint Group.  Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known, slumped 5.3
percent to 18 reais at the close of  Sao Paulo  trading, the
lowest level since July 2009. The benchmark Bovespa index
dropped 1.3 percent.  Techint, through its Ternium SA and Tenaris SA units,
agreed to buy 139.7 million voting shares in Usiminas at 36
reais each from Camargo Correa SA, Grupo Votorantim and
Usiminas’s workers pension fund, according to a statement from
Ternium on Nov. 27. Camargo Correa, Votorantim, the pension fund
and Nippon Steel Corp. own a combined 63.9 percent voting stake
in the company, according to a statement on Usiminas’ website.  Under Brazilian securities regulations, holders of voting
shares would receive at least 80 percent of the price paid to
controlling shareholders if the company is bought.  Usiminas Chief Executive Officer Wilson Brumer said
yesterday in a conference call this rule doesn’t apply to the
deal with Techint because the transaction doesn’t constitute a
sale as the controlling block “is still the same.”  “Since speculation about a possible takeover has been
going for a while, many people were buying voting shares because
they were expecting to benefit from tag-along rights,” Daniella Maia Gomes, an analyst in  Rio de Janeiro  at Ativa Corretora
brokerage, said in a phone interview. “This issue is still
unresolved, as minority shareholders may challenge Usiminas’
decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  