-- 
Viacom’s Paramount Is Sued by Melrose Investors 2 Over Profit on 29 Films

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-11-30T01:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/viacom-s-paramount-sued-by-melrose-investors-2-over-profit-on-29-movies.html
Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures
unit was sued by an investment group that said it put up $375
million to help produce 29 films including “Dreamgirls” and
“Transformers” and claimed the studio has failed to share any
profit from the movies.  The films have grossed close to $7 billion and Paramount
has underreportSed revenue and overstated production and
distribution costs for the films to withhold money from equity
partners, Melrose Investors 2 LP said in a complaint filed today
in state court in  Los Angeles , where Paramount is based.  Paramount, DreamWorks Studios, now known as DW Studios LLC,
and Melrose entered into an agreement in 2006 under which
Melrose would own as much as a 25 percent copyright interest in
as many as 30 movies in exchange for financing 25 percent of
production costs, the investors said in the complaint, which
also names DW Studios as a defendant.  Paramount routinely understates revenue for the films
through a variety of tactics that violate the terms of its
agreement with Melrose, including deducting payments to
affiliates and failing to count payments from overseas
licensees, Melrose said.  “The Melrose 2 investors have already received almost
90 percent of their investment back under the financing
agreement, and a number of films in which they participate (such
as the successful Transformers 3) remain in the earliest stages
of their earning potential,” Virginia Lam, a Paramount
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  ‘Ordinary Course’  “While we intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit, the
differences between the parties’ positions are relatively modest
in amount and we are confident they can be resolved in the
ordinary course,” Lam said.  Chip Sullivan, a DW Studios spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Melrose Investors 2 v. Paramount, BC474310,
Superior Court of the State of  California , County of Los
Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  