-- 
Vitro Arbitrator Says Restructuring May Extend Past Dec. 31

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-11-29T20:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/vitro-arbitrator-says-restructuring-may-extend-past-dec-31-1-.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA) , the Mexican glassmaker
that defaulted on $1.5 billion of bonds, probably won’t conclude
its debt restructuring by year-end as the company anticipates,
the court-appointed arbitrator in the proceedings said.  External creditors, who oppose Vitro’s restructuring
proposal, will raise more legal challenges with the judge in the
case, arbitrator Javier Navarro-Velasco said by telephone from
Monterrey,  Mexico . He will present the proposal to the judge by
Dec. 5 and said he expects 70 percent of creditors, including
intercompany debt controlled by subsidiaries, to approve.  “I couldn’t say with certainty that this is going to be
resolved by Dec. 31,” he said. “It could be a little more.”  Vitro  said  yesterday it expects to complete a deal “before
year’s end.” The  proposal  by the San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico-based company includes $814.6 million of new bonds
maturing in 2019 and $95.8 million of mandatory convertible
debt. Vitro said Nov. 22 that shareholders  approved  the plan.  “We are currently working to implement our plan as soon as
the judge’s ruling is issued to all creditors who timely consent
to the restructuring plan,” Chief Restructuring Officer Claudio del Valle said in the statement yesterday.  Consenting creditors would likely get securities and cash
with a recovery on current face value of 47.6 percent to 60
percent, depending on how many holders agree, Jacob Steinfeld, a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in  New York , said in a Nov. 7 note.
Nonconsenting creditors would recover less, he said.  ‘Impossible’ Deadline  Jaime Guerra, a lawyer representing the group of dissenting
bondholders in Mexico, said today it’s “materially impossible”
for the case to be resolved by the end of the year.  “The truth is I think a lot still has to be resolved,” he
said in a phone interview from New York. “Our objections are
still pending.”  Navarro-Velasco said external creditors have presented
motions for him to be dismissed as the case’s arbitrator and the
judge may decide on the requests within 45 days.  Guerra confirmed that the bondholders have asked for
Navarro-Velasco’s removal because “he hasn’t fulfilled his
duties as arbitrator.”  Navarro-Velasco said he was able to achieve a proposal more
favorable for external creditors than Vitro’s original plan,
which had included $850 million of new bonds maturing in 2019
and $100 million of debt that would convert to a 15 percent
equity stake if the debt isn’t paid.  “It’s not the percentages that the creditors would like,”
he said. “But are there benefits? Yes, there are.”  ‘Viable Plan’  He said the mandatory convertible bonds could now convert
to a 20 percent stake in Vitro and said the proposed interest
rate on the notes is 12 percent, compared with the originally
proposed 10.5 percent rate.  Vitro doesn’t have the capacity to take on more debt, and
the proposal “is a viable plan and it’s also fair for
creditors,” Navarro-Velasco said.  Vitro halted debt payments in February 2009 after posting
derivatives losses of as much as $360 million and as demand for
auto and construction glass plummeted during the U.S. recession.
U.S. lawmakers have protested Vitro’s decision to include in the
restructuring $1.9 billion of intercompany debt that was created
10 months after the default.  ‘Highly Unorthodox’  “This highly unorthodox reorganization, which uses
subsidiary company claims to cram-down third-party U.S.
bondholders, would set a dangerous precedent for overseas
American investments,” said U.S. Representatives Scott Garrett
of  New Jersey , Robert Dold of  Illinois  and Pete Sessions of
 Texas  in a Nov. 18 letter to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Representatives Patrick Meehan of  Pennsylvania  and Jared Polis of  Colorado  also sent a letter to Mexico’s ambassador to
the U.S. on Oct. 20 criticizing use of intercompany debt.  Donald Cutler, a New York-based spokesman for noteholders
that own more than 60 percent of the company’s $1.2 billion of
outstanding senior notes, said in a telephone interview Nov. 4
that the arbitrator didn’t use any elements from his group’s
restructuring counterproposal.  “Nothing that was presented in his plan even comes close
to addressing the concerns that are addressed by the ad hoc
group in what we filed in mid-October,” Cutler said.  “The noteholders intend to take all appropriate actions to
defend their rights,” he said.  Dissident Proposal  The dissenting creditors  proposed  the issuance of $1.1
billion of new bonds, a cash payment of 10 percent of the
outstanding principal of existing notes and a 61 percent stake
in Vitro’s common shares.  Arturo C. Porzecanski, a professor of international
finance at American University in  Washington , wrote in a Nov. 14
research  note  that the arbitrator “does not appear to have
acted in a neutral or constructive manner.”  Non-consenting creditors “are now the object of a
blatantly discriminatory deal structure meant to pressure them
into surrendering or face losses much more significant than
those that consenting creditors will bear,” he wrote.  The company made its “best effort to try to reach a
consensus through negotiations according to the company’s real
capacities,” Vitro’s del Valle said in an interview on Nov. 2.  Vitro shares tumbled 29 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with an 8 percent  decline (MEXBOL)  for the IPC
Mexican stock index. The shares were unchanged at 11.2 pesos at
2 p.m. Mexico City time today.  Defaulted dollar Vitro bonds due in 2017 are trading at
70.93 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds’
price has gained 23 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  