-- 
Wal-Mart Joining Amazon to Promote Rage-Free Packaging: Retail

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-11-29T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/wal-mart-joining-amazon-to-promote-rage-free-packaging-retail.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  are prodding more manufacturers to change their packaging
to cut waste and alleviate “wrap rage,” the frustration felt
when a product is difficult to open.  The nation’s largest online store and the world’s biggest
retailer have been pushing vendors, including  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)  and Bluetooth headset maker  Plantronics Inc. (PLT) , to eliminate
excessive and cumbersome packing materials, such as hard plastic
clamshell casings that enclose electronics and wire ties used to
secure toys to cardboard backings.  “We’ve gotten e-mails from customers who’ve purchased
scissors in a clamshell, which would require another pair of
scissors to open the package,” Nadia Shouraboura, Amazon’s vice
president of global fulfillment, said in an interview.  As much as a third of all consumer trash sent to landfills
is estimated to be packaging, according to the Environmental
Protection Agency. That translates to more than 800 pounds of
packaging waste each year per U.S. consumer.  The problem becomes especially acute during the holidays.
From Thanksgiving to New Year’s Day, household waste in the U.S.
increases  25 percent , according to the EPA.  Besides impregnable packaging, manufacturers have been
criticized for not using enough recycled or sustainable
materials. This year, Greenpeace targeted toy companies  Hasbro
Inc. (HAS) ,  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , Lego Group and Walt Disney Co. to stop using
packaging derived from rain forests in  Indonesia . In response,
the companies pledged to change their packaging practices.  From 19 to 80,000  Amazon kicked off its “Frustration-Free Packaging”
initiative in 2008 with 19 items from Mattel and its Fisher-
Price brand,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and memory-card maker  Transcend
Information Inc. (2451)  It has grown to 80,000 products this year, with
more than 12 million items expected to ship under the  program .
Amazon wants to at least triple that number next year.  To help it reach that goal, the retailer is contacting more
manufacturers that get poor customer feedback about their
packaging. Amazon is also sending engineers to help companies
improve their designs.  While reduced packaging can boost consumers’ satisfaction,
lower shipping costs and appeal to the environmentally
conscious, companies are balancing those benefits with the need
for packaging that still prevents theft and damage.  Changes at Plantronics  Ken Kannappan, Plantronics’ chief executive officer, asked
the company’s design team this year to take over packaging from
the marketing department.  Some early solutions included removing user manuals from
boxes, bulk shipping products to retailers and corporate
customers without boxing items individually, and reshaping boxes
into smaller form factors by replacing AC chargers with USB
cables.  “You’re looking at packaging and you’re going, ’My gosh,
this is an area that’s designed to be wasted,’” Kannappan said
in an interview. “We’re trying not only to optimize our
packaging to reduce waste but to fully rethink what packaging is
and does.”  By 2013, Wal-Mart plans to reduce packaging by 5 percent
compared with 2008 levels, saving an estimated $3.4 billion
annually.  To do so, it’s relying more on a sustainability packaging
scorecard to determine which products to stock. Wal-Mart is also
pushing manufacturers to create innovative design solutions.  Recyclable Messenger Bag  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  won a Wal-Mart design  challenge  by
wrapping a notebook computer in a protective messenger bag made
of recycled materials. It replaces conventional Styrofoam and
cardboard packaging.  The design reduced packaging by 97 percent and removed the
equivalent of one out of every four trucks it previously needed
to ship the computers to Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores, the
company said on its website.  Amazon, based in  Seattle , launched its initiative after
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  recounted how he had spent
his Christmas struggling to open presents for his children.  Bezos described his “wrap rage” as “the frustration we
humans feel when trying to free a product from a nearly
impenetrable package,” according to a letter he wrote to
Amazon’s customers.  As Bezos shared his story with the staff, “everybody in
the room started to chime in with their own horror stories,”
Shouraboura said. “It was clear what we needed to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  