-- 
This Year Set to Be 10th Warmest on Record, UN Says as Climate Talks Start

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-11-29T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/world-headed-for-10th-warmest-year-on-record-un-agency-says.html
This year will probably be the 10th
warmest on record, and the hottest featuring the La Nina
phenomenon that brings cooler waters to the surface of the
 Pacific Ocean , the World Meteorological Organization said.  The global average temperature through October was about
0.41 of a degree Celsius (0.74 of a degree Fahrenheit) above the
average of 14 degrees from 1961 to 1990, the WMO said today in a
statement released at the United Nations climate talks in
Durban,  South Africa . That means the 13 warmest years on record
have been in the last 15 years, the organization said.  The findings match scientific evidence showing warming
temperatures over the past few decades, said Peter Stott, head
of climate monitoring at the U.K. Met Office, whose own
temperature series feeds into the WMO data. The finding, along
with a surge in greenhouse gas emissions, adds to pressure on
delegates in Durban to step up the fight against  climate change .  “There is a consistent pattern of a changing climate, with
the last decade warmer than the previous one, and that decade
warmer than the one before,” Stott said in a telephone
interview from Exeter,  England . “There’s clearly a warming
trend. That’s supported by other indicators such as disappearing
Arctic sea ice, melting glaciers and rising sea levels.”  Arctic sea ice shrank to its second-lowest extent and
lowest volume on record in 2011, according to the WMO.  Durban Downpour  Yesterday, after violent thunderstorms drenched Durban and
flooded the basement of the conference center where envoys are
meeting, the UN diplomat leading talks said extreme weather is
being exacerbated by rising temperatures resulting from
greenhouse gas emissions.  “This kind of unseasonable events are the types of
abnormal events that we will be seeing more and more due to
climate change,”  Christiana Figueres , executive secretary of
the UN Framework on Climate Change.  Delegates are divided about how best to curb the fossil-
fuel emissions that are blamed for global warming.  Developing nations such as India and  China  are pushing for
an extension of the  Kyoto Protocol , which limited pollution from
industrial nations only through 2012. The European Union, U.S.,
 Canada ,  Australia ,  Russia  and  Japan  want a broader agreement
requiring cuts from India and China, which have become two of
the three biggest polluters since Kyoto was agreed to in 1997.  “The Kyoto Protocol is the cornerstone of the climate
regime,” Chinese lead negotiator  Su Wei  told delegates today in
Durban. “We call upon the developed country parties to rise up
to historic responsibility and take the lead for ambitious,
robust commitments.”  Greenhouse Gas Record  Emissions are still rising. The WMO on Nov. 21 said that
the concentration in the atmosphere of the three main man-made
 greenhouse gases  blamed for global warming, carbon dioxide,
methane and nitrous oxide, rose to records in 2010.  “Concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have
reached new highs,” WMO Secretary-General Michel Jarraud said
in today’s statement. “They are very rapidly approaching levels
consistent with a 2-degree to 2.4-degree Centigrade rise in
average global temperatures, which scientists believe could
trigger far-reaching and irreversible changes in our Earth,
biosphere and oceans.”  The  Met Office  today also released its own preliminary
temperature data for this year, ranking 2011 as the 11th warmest
year. Its series dates to 1850.  Cooler 2011  The WMO temperature is 0.12 degree cooler than the average
for 2010, which the organization logged as the  warmest  on
record. The drop from 2010 doesn’t mean the threat of global
warming is diminishing, according to the Met Office.  Stott said a “strong and persistent La Nina” had helped
reduce temperatures this year. La Nina is a periodic upwelling
of cooler water to the surface of the Pacific Ocean that affects
weather patterns around the world. Years that start with a La
Nina phenomenon typically are 0.1 degree to 0.15 degrees cooler
than the years that precede or follow them, the WMO said.  Until this year, the warmest year that started with a La
Nina phenomenon had been 2008, which was 0.36 degrees warmer
than the long-term average, the WMO said.  The Met Office series is one of three main ones used by the
WMO to process its annual figures. The two other data sets are
compiled by the  U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  and the  National Aeronautics and Space
Administration . Those two series show 2011 will be the 11th and
ninth warmest years, respectively, the Met Office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  