-- 
XP Plans to Buy Two Brazilian Brokerages This Year

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 
2011-11-29T23:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/xp-plans-to-buy-two-brazilian-brokerages-this-year-1-.html
XP Investimentos CCTVM SA  is in
talks to acquire two Brazilian brokerages before the end of the
year as it seeks to challenge banks in the business of
investment services.  “We want to compete with banks”, XP’s partner and general
director Guilherme Benchimol said in an interview at the
company’s office in Sao Paulo yesterday, without disclosing the
names of the brokerages the firm is in talks with, or the
estimated value of the transactions. “XP’s objective is to be a
financial shopping center, to allow investors to compare and
invest in various alternatives, including those offered by
banks.”  One of the targets is based in Sao Paulo and the other in
 Rio de Janeiro , the two largest Brazilian cities, Benchimol
said. XP is also in similar discussions at different stages with
eight other brokerages, the executive said.  XP last year received an investment of $58 million from
London-based Actis LLP, which got a minority stake in the
brokerage. In October, XP clinched a partnership with Senso
Corretora de Cambio e Valores Mobiliarios SA, which increased
its traded volume that month to 20.8 billion reais ($11.3
billion). A month earlier, it agreed to buy online information
provider  InfoMoney , after forming another partnership with
online broker Interfloat HZ CCTVM Ltda in June.  The Rio de Janeiro-based firm didn’t disclose financial
details of those transactions, which were not acquisitions as
they didn’t involve an equity transfer that would require
central bank approval, Benchimol said. They were actually
partnerships that resulted in the transfer of clients to XP,
according to the executive.  XP plans to invest as much as 20 million reais in an
advertising campaign in the first half of 2012 aimed at
attracting new clients, Benchimol said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felipe Frisch in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  