-- 
Yen Near Month Low as Euro Fund Agreement Damps Demand for Refuge Assets

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-11-30T06:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/yen-declines-after-european-ministers-approve-efsf-expansion-aussie-gains.html
The yen was 0.4 percent from a one-
month low against the dollar after euro-area finance ministers
agreed to extend the capacity of the European Financial
Stability Facility for indebted countries.  Japan ’s currency also weakened after Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said yesterday the finance chiefs
of the region’s 17 nations agreed to work on boosting the
International Monetary Fund’s resources. The Dollar Index held a
two-day decline before U.S. reports forecast to show
improvements in employment and manufacturing. South Korea’s won
extended a monthly loss against the greenback after the nation’s
industrial output slipped in October.  “Policy makers are taking various measures to contain the
crisis,” said Kengo Suzuki, a foreign-exchange analyst in  Tokyo 
at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s third-biggest bank
by market value. “Optimism toward the finance-minister meeting
in  Europe  is resulting in the selling of the yen.”  The yen was little changed at 77.94 per dollar as of 6:55
a.m. London time from 77.93 in  New York  yesterday, when it slid
to as low as 78.29, the least since Nov. 2. It traded at 103.82
per euro from 103.77. The U.S. currency was at $1.3319 against
the euro from $1.3317.  Europe’s common currency has fallen 3.9 percent against the
dollar and has declined 4.2 percent versus the yen this month.  The dollar has gained 6.3 percent in the past month, the
best performance among the 10 developed-nation peers tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has risen 1.4
percent, the indexes show.  EFSF Enhancements  Euro-area ministers agreed to a plan to guarantee as much
as 30 percent of new bond issues from troubled governments and
to develop investment vehicles that would boost the facility’s
ability to intervene in primary and secondary bond markets.  The EFSF bond guarantees and investment vehicles can run
simultaneously and could be functioning by early next year,
according to a document released by the fund.  The fund’s capacity will be “very substantial” and will
be supplemented by the IMF, Luxembourg’s Juncker said. The
ministers “agreed to rapidly explore an increase of the
resources of the IMF through bilateral loans,” Juncker said,
“so that the IMF could adequately match the new firepower of
the EFSF and cooperate more closely with it.”  The 17-nation region’s finance ministers will be joined
today by their counterparts from the rest of the European Union
for a  meeting  in Brussels. European heads of government will
meet on Dec. 9 in the Belgian capital.  U.S. Economy  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was at 79.097
today from 79.069 yesterday, when it dropped 0.2 percent. It has
gained 3.4 percent this month.  “We’ve seen the dollar get sold amid strong U.S. economic
data as risk appetite improved,” said Mizuho’s Suzuki. “A good
number on employment is likely to prompt dollar selling.”  A private report based on payrolls will probably show U.S.
jobs increased by 130,000 this month after rising by 110,000 in
October, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. ADP Employer Services will release the
figures today.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. may say
today its  business barometer  increased to 58.5 in November from
58.4 last month, a separate survey showed.  Debt Auctions  Demand for the euro was limited amid concern the sovereign-
debt crisis that started in  Greece  is spreading to larger
economies.  Germany  was unable to get bids for 35 percent of the
10-year debt it sold on Nov. 23.  “I’m bearish” on the euro, said Kurt Magnus, executive
director of currency sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
Japan’s biggest brokerage. “I think the tail risk for failure
is larger than people think,” he said of the bond auctions.  Spain  is scheduled to sell up to 3.75 billion euros ($5
billion) of debt tomorrow maturing in 2015, 2016 and 2017.
 France  will offer bonds maturing in 2017, 2021, 2026 and 2041.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Spanish and French
 government bonds  climbed to their highest levels last week since
at least 2005, according to CMA prices in New York. A gain in
the swaps signals deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness.  South Korea ’s currency was set for its biggest monthly loss
against the dollar since September after government data showed
today the nation’s production fell 0.7 percent in October.
That’s the fifth decline this year and compares with a revised
1.2 percent expansion in the previous month.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said on Nov. 28 the economy
is showing signs of slowing in the second half due to global
weakness, and the government will place policy priority next
year on sustaining growth.  The won traded at 1,142.57 per dollar from 1,145.15
yesterday and is poised for a 2.8 percent slide this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  