-- 
Yuan Halts Three-Day Loss on Europe’s Efforts to Solve Crisis

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-11-29T09:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/yuan-halts-three-day-loss-on-europe-s-efforts-to-solve-crisis.html
The yuan halted a three-day losing
streak on speculation European leaders will boost efforts to
solve the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  European finance ministers will meet in Brussels today to
discuss how the European Financial Stability Facility can
increase its muscle by insuring sovereign debt with guarantees.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development cut
its forecast for  China ’s economic growth next year to 8.5
percent, from an earlier estimate of 9.2 percent, and said
property risks overshadow the outlook.  “The yuan was lifted by a small glimpse of hope that
Europeans could solve the debt crisis,” said Stella Lee, the
Hong Kong-based president of Success Futures & Foreign Exchange
Ltd. “However, a dimmer global economic outlook means China
will opt for a slower pace of appreciation to safeguard its
exporting industries.”  The yuan gained 0.1 percent to close at 6.3778 per dollar
in  Shanghai , limiting this month’s loss to 0.36 percent,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It’s the
biggest one-day advance since Nov. 15. The People’s Bank of
China set its daily  reference rate  at 6.3587. The currency is
allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of that level.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.05
percent to 6.3920 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards rose 0.19 percent to 6.3995, a 0.3 percent discount to
the onshore spot rate.  Growth Outlook  Citigroup Inc. lowered its estimate for China’s economic
growth next year to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent, partly due to
a property market correction that should slow investment.  The central bank may cut lenders’ reserve requirements
before the Chinese New Year in late January if recent capital
outflows continue, the New York-based bank in a research note
dated today. The People’s Bank of China may also raise  interest
rates  to stabilize deposits, economists led by Minggao Shen and
Shuang Ding said in the report.  UBS AG lowered its prediction for China’s 2012 expansion to
8 percent from 8.3 percent earlier, according to a note dated
today. Morgan Stanley trimmed its forecast to 8.4 percent,
compared with a previous estimate of 8.7 percent, the bank said
in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  