-- 
Yuan Forecast to Trail BRIC as Exports Wane

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-11-30T04:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-29/yuan-may-become-bric-laggard-as-exports-wane.html
Strategists predict the yuan will be
the worst performer of currencies in the biggest  emerging
markets  over the next four months as sluggish exports curb
appreciation, limiting appetite for Dim Sum bonds.  China’s currency will advance 1.6 percent to 6.27 per
dollar by the end of March, based on the median of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s real is expected to
strengthen 5.5 percent,  Russia ’s ruble 2.5 percent and the
 Indian rupee  6.7 percent. Yuan-denominated  bonds  in Hong Kong
are headed for a sixth monthly decline as reduced prospects that
the currency will gain temper demand for the securities.  The yuan has strengthened 3.5 percent this year, the
second-biggest advance among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, and the U.S. is pressing for faster gains,
saying an undervalued currency gives Chinese exporters an unfair
advantage. Overseas sales from the world’s largest exporter
climbed 16 percent from a year earlier in October, the smallest
gain since 2009 and less than the 29 percent jump in imports.  “ China ’s quite dependent on exports from the perspective
of employment and achieving social stability is important for
the government,” said Steven Chang, the Hong Kong-based head of
foreign-exchange trading in  Asia  at State Street Bank & Trust Co.
“The U.S. continues to play the game of wanting the yuan to
appreciate, but if China comes back with a trade deficit in the
next six months, we might actually see some depreciation.”  China’s  trade surplus  was $17 billion last month, compared
with $27.2 billion reported for October 2010. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
told U.S. President  Barack Obama  on Nov. 19 that a more flexible
exchange rate may mean declines as well as gains after the U.S.
leader said a week earlier that “enough’s enough” regarding
China’s yuan policy.  Dim Sum Drop  The yuan has weakened 0.2 percent in November to 6.3693 per
dollar, the biggest decline since August 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Deutsche Bank Offshore Renminbi Bond
Index also declined 0.2 percent, after losing 3.45 percent in
the period from June to October.  The retreat in Dim Sum bonds is not the only sign that
investor demand for China’s currency is flagging. Financial
institutions’ yuan  positions  stemming from foreign-exchange
transactions with the central bank fell 24.9 billion yuan ($3.9
billion) in October. When the People’s Bank of China buys
dollars the positions increase, as they have in all but two
months since 2000, and when it sells U.S. currency they fall.  Social Stability  Premier Wen said last month the government will continue
efforts to foster social stability, which is being tested as
factory owners contend with weakening exports and workers’
demands for higher wages.  Geoffrey Crothall , a spokesman for the
Hong Kong-based China Labor Bulletin, said a surge in labor
strikes in November is probably the biggest since a wave of
stoppages at suppliers to Japanese automakers last year.  The State Council, China’s chief decision-making body, said
on Nov. 25 that it will ban trading of securities and futures on
unauthorized exchanges as some of this activity has led to price
manipulation and fund embezzlement by exchange managers. Such
problems may cause regional financial risks and endanger social
stability, the council said.  Last week, the People’s Bank of China lowered the amount
some rural cooperative banks are required to keep in reserve to
help free up funds for factory owners. In the city of Wenzhou in
Zhejiang province in eastern China, more than 90 businessmen
have fled and two have committed suicide since April after a
credit squeeze left them unable to pay debts and vulnerable to
informal lenders charging punitive  interest rates , according to
a local business group.  Earnings, GDP  Industrial companies’ net income  rose  12.5 percent in
October from a year earlier, less than 50 percent of the 27
percent pace from January to September, China’s statistics
bureau reported this week. Exports to the European Union
increased 7.5 percent that month, less than half the growth rate
for overall shipments, and sales to  Italy  slumped 18 percent as
a regional debt crisis prompted spending cuts.  Citigroup Inc., UBS AG and Morgan Stanley cut their 2012
economic growth forecasts for China this week, citing a
worsening global economy and weakness in the domestic housing
market. UBS lowered its projection to 8 percent from 8.3 percent,
while Citigroup and Morgan Stanley cut their estimates to 8.4
percent from 8.7 percent. China’s  gross domestic product 
increased 9.1 percent from a year earlier in the third quarter,
the smallest gain in two years.  Europe  Recession Risk  “China’s export markets are mainly Europe and the U.S. and
now we’re seeing there may be a chance of a recession in the
 euro zone ,” said Stella Lee, the Hong Kong-based president of
Success Futures & Foreign Exchange Ltd. “It’s definitely not
the time for the yuan to appreciate in the next two quarters,
given this global backdrop.”  Lee forecasts the currency will trade between 6.36 and 6.39
per dollar in the first half of 2012.  Yields on China’s offshore yuan-denominated debt rose this
month, closing the gap with onshore notes. The rate on the
government’s 10-year Dim Sum bonds climbed nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 2.67 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate on similar-maturity onshore
 notes  fell 13 basis points to 3.63 percent, Chinabond data show.  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign bonds against
default climbed this month as the economic outlook worsened.
 Five-year credit-default swaps  climbed 22 basis points to 152
basis points, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  U.S. Politics  China’s  exchange rate  is a simple issue that has become
complicated because of the U.S. political cycle, Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said at a conference in Beijing on Nov. 28.
Obama plans to seek a second term in a presidential election
scheduled for November 2012.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan declined
0.4 percent this month to 6.3670 per dollar in Hong Kong, a 0.3
percent discount to the currency’s onshore rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank’s reference  rate ,
around which the yuan can fluctuate a maximum 0.5 percent, was
set 0.2 percent higher at 6.3482 today. The daily fixings have
been stronger than the spot rate for most of the past two months.  Standard Chartered  Plc cut its yuan forecast for the end of
next year to 6.12 per dollar, from 6.06 this month, and said it
expected the Chinese currency to advance 0.6 percent in each of
the first two quarters of next year, less than a previous
prediction for 1 percent gains.  “The spot rates are consistently trading weaker than the
fixings and there’s been a deteriorating balance of payments,”
said  Robert Minikin , a senior currency strategist at Standard
Chartered in  Hong Kong . “China’s first quarters are categorized
by net flat trade positions and even deficits, so there’ll be a
less natural tendency for yuan appreciation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  