-- ‘Famous Jameis’ Trademark Filing Is Made by Alabama Football Fan
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-11-08T18:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/-famous-jameis-trademark-filing-is-made-by-alabama-football-fan.html
An Alabama football fan has applied
to trademark the phrase “Famous Jameis,” which has been used
to describe Florida State quarterback Jameis Winston, the
Heisman Trophy favorite.  Dr. Mukul Mehra, 40, filed the trademark request on Oct.
24, according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office website.  Mehra in a telephone interview said he has no connection to
Winston, a redshirt freshman who is from Bessemer, Alabama, a
suburb of Birmingham.  “It’s not necessarily geared toward him,” said Mehra,
whose medical degree is from the  University of Alabama  School of
Medicine in Birmingham. “I don’t know what our intent
completely is. We haven’t worked all of that out.”  Pamela Deese, a partner at the Washington law firm Arent
Fox, in a telephone interview said Winston probably would be
awarded the trademark if he moved to register it.  “We would hope the examiner is savvy enough to recognize
that Famous Jameis refers to the potential Heisman Trophy
winner,” said Deese, whose clients include Houston Rockets
guard Jeremy Lin. “You can’t register a trademark for somebody
else’s name without their permission, which is what happened
with Jeremy.”  BCS Standings  Florida State is second in college football’s Bowl
Championship Series standings behind  Alabama , which has won the
past two national championships. The Seminoles are 8-0 for the
first time since 1999, when they won the national title.  Mehra said he has contacted a local sports marketing
company about producing “Famous Jameis” T-shirts. He also said
he’s open to a partnership with Winston or Florida State.
“If it’s something they’re interested in using we could
potentially market it together,” Mehra said.  The 6-foot-4, 228-pound Winston, at -500, is the favorite
at sportsbook.com to win the Heisman Trophy, which is given
annually to college football’s best player. A $50 bet would win
$10.  Second in the online sports book’s Heisman odds is last
season’s winner, Texas A&M quarterback Johnny Manziel, who
according to the patent and trademark office website earlier
this year filed to trademark his “Johnny Football” nickname.  Manziel was the first freshman to win the Heisman, which
has been given out since 1935.  Winston has completed 149 of 212 passes for 2,502 yards and
24 touchdowns, fifth in college football’s top level. He’s also
thrown six interceptions and run for three touchdowns.  Deese said it would behoove Winston to move quickly on the
trademark.  “The longer you wait the more costly it gets,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  