-- ‘Spider-Man’ Scribe Learns Humility From Doomed Musical
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/-spider-man-scribe-learns-humility-from-doomed-musical.html
Just how did “Spider-Man: Turn Off
the Dark” become the priciest production and potentially
biggest flop in Broadway history?  Unless sales rebound, the high-school nerd in red-and-blue
tights may soon fly for the last time at the Foxwoods Theatre.  For 11 consecutive weeks, grosses have fallen short of the
$1 million or so in running expenses.  Glen Berger, who co-wrote the script of the approximately
$80 million musical, ponders what went wrong in his entertaining
“Song of Spider-Man.”  The death of the original producer, Tony Adams, left the
project without an experienced hand to oversee it and keep
ballooning egos tethered to the ground. Adams keeled over in
2005 in the Tribeca apartment of The Edge, while signing a deal
memo with the guitarist.  The Edge and Bono struggled to find moments to write the
music and lyrics during downtime from recording and touring as
U2 and, in Bono’s case, securing AIDS funds from Congress.  Director Julie Taymor somehow completed two movies during
the making of the show. In her exhaustion, Berger says, passion
turned into a mania and she couldn’t let go of her doppelganger:
Arachne, the mythical spider-woman who confused audiences.  At one point, she described proposed cuts as a
“mastectomy.”  Taymor’s Obsession  Berger said most of her unorthodox ideas, such as a “Geek
chorus” of teenagers, predated his hiring. He tried to make the
best of them before he was called on to simplify the storyline.  Michael Cohl and Jeremiah Harris, the producers who rescued
the show in 2009, dismissed Berger’s memoir with a one-line
statement.  “If Mr. Berger had put this much imagination into his
script, the producers wouldn’t have had to hire Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa,” referring to another writer recruited during previews.  Berger remains admiring of Taymor, even after she sued him
and the producers to recover book-writing royalties following
her March 2011 ouster. (The suit was settled.)  He comes away from one tense meeting with Taymor thinking
about “Spider-Man”: “It’s always been nothing more than a
diabolical machine built by the gods to teach humility.”  “Song of Spider-Man: The Inside Story of the Most
Controversial Musical in Broadway History” is published by
Simon & Schuster (370 pages, $25). To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  (Philip Boroff is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  New York   Scene  and  Jeremy Gerard  on
theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  