-- Afghan Military Progress Cited by U.S. Amid Corruption
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-11-09T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/afghan-military-progress-cited-by-u-s-amid-corruption.html
Afghanistan ’s military is making
“substantial progress” by taking the lead on most military
operations, while it remains hobbled by inadequate training and
persistent corruption, according to a Pentagon report.  The Defense Department’s semiannual report to Congress on
Afghanistan, released yesterday, measured the transition by the
metrics of war: It said Afghan casualties have increased by 79
percent in the six months ending in September, while losses of
U.S. and allied forces declined by 59 percent.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is under pressure
to show that Afghan forces will be able to hold their own
against Taliban insurgents after the planned departure of U.S.
combat troops by the end of next year. More than 2,200 Americans
have died in Afghanistan since the war began in 2001.  The Afghan forces “are now successfully providing security
for their own people, fighting their own battles and holding the
gains” made by allied forces, according to the report, which
said the country’s military and national police have grown to
344,096 personnel, up from 200,000 in January 2010.  Having boosted the number of troops, the Pentagon said the
Afghan military now is working to improve their professionalism.
It cited “problems with literacy, corruption, leadership,” the
need for air support and the lack of trained maintenance
technicians and an “effective logistics and sustainment
system.”  While the Afghan military is still “on track to transition
to full sovereign responsibility for security on Jan. 1, 2015,”
it will still require training “as well as financial support,”
the report said.  Maintaining Presence  The conclusion supports the view of top U.S. commanders
that some personnel should remain in Afghanistan for years to
come to train security forces and conduct special-forces
operations against terrorists.  Obama hasn’t announced how many Americans would stay after
2014. The U.S. and Afghanistan are attempting to negotiate a
long-term security agreement, and the administration has said it
won’t keep any forces there without one.  The Afghan government generally “lacks the will to fight
corruption directly,” the Defense Department said.  The government “rarely uses wiretaps” in investigations,
and the nation’s attorney general “has failed to pursue
prosecutions against several politically connected officials
implicated in corruption” related to the National Military
Hospital and the Afghan  Air Force .  Checkpoint Payoffs  The ministries of defense and interior “have taken some
proactive anti-corruption steps,” and officials “are genuinely
concerned” about acting against corruption in military ranks
that ranges from payoffs at checkpoints to pay-for-position
schemes and bribery from contractors, according to the report.  While the Taliban are weakened, the militants retain
“access to critical resources” and “freedom of action” in
and out of neighboring  Pakistan  that’s “essential to their
continued survival and ability to threaten” the Afghan
government, according to the report.  This includes ingredients brought in from Pakistan for
improvised roadside bombs, “which are responsible for more”
U.S., Afghan and Pakistani casualties than any other weapon, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  