-- Magyar Telekom Retreats to Record After MSCI Cut: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-11-08T11:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/magyar-telekom-retreats-to-record-after-msci-cut-budapest-mover.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt.,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s Hungarian unit, fell to a record after  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) 
said it will remove the shares of from its  emerging-markets 
index, while adding those of Gedeon  Richter Nyrt .  The phone operator’s stock  declined  as much as 4.8 percent
and was 2.7 percent lower at 286 forint by 12:06 p.m. in
Budapest, the weakest since listing in November 1997. Almost 1.9
million stocks traded, 32 percent above the three-month daily
average. Richter,  Hungary ’s largest maker of medicines, rose 2.2
percent. The  BUX index  was little changed.  The MSCI adjustments will take effect from Nov. 26,
according to a semi-annual review released yesterday by the New
York-based index provider, whose gauges are tracked by investors
managing about $7.5 trillion. Shares of Budapest-based Magyar,
which has a 0.02 percent  weighting  in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, decreased 24 percent this year. Richter’s stock is up 20
percent in the period.  Investors may sell as many as 17.3 million shares, or 1.65
percent of Magyar’s total outstanding stock, Budapest-based
equity analysts at KBC Securities said in an e-mailed note.
“Investors had been speculating on MSCI’s move for months,”
Endre Kosa, a KBC analyst, said in a video posted on the
company’s Facebook page today.  Magyar lost 0.7 percent yesterday after the operator
reported a 37 percent drop in third-quarter profit to 9.3
billion forint ($42 million), missing the 12.2 billion-forint
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of seven analysts.  Lower Dividend  The company will offer guidance on dividends after posting
full-year results, or upon closing a mobile frequency tender
scheduled for this year, Chief Financial Officer Janos Szabo
told reporters yesterday. Magyar’s shares have fallen this year
amid speculation the company will reduce its cash  dividend  from
the 50 forint it paid in the past three years.  “The market has been expecting a 20 forint dividend for
the stock, but expectations now lean on the downside,”
Budapest-based economists, including Akos Kuti, at Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., said in an e-mailed report today. “We find
the share attractive, but wouldn’t rush with buying into it,”
they said.  Equilor has a  buy recommendation  on the shares along with
one other analyst, while 10 advise holding them and four say
sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  