-- Air Canada Jumps to 5-Year High as Profit Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-11-08T21:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/air-canada-jumps-to-5-year-high-as-profit-exceeds-estimates.html
Air Canada (AC/B)  increased to a five-year
high after the nation’s largest carrier reported third-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates amid progress in its cost-cutting plan.  The shares  jumped  7.2 percent to close at C$5.99 in
Toronto, the highest price since July 2008. The Montreal-based
carrier more than  tripled  this year compared with a 7.6 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite
Index.  Chief Executive Officer Calin Rovinescu is working to
reduce costs at the carrier by about 15 percent in the medium
term with the help of higher-density aircraft, new maintenance
agreements and the July start of the Rouge leisure unit. Costs
for each seat flown a mile, a measure of airline efficiency, are
projected to drop as much as 2 percent this year.  Air  Canada  has seen “solid progress” in its cost cutting
plan, Rovinescu said on today on a conference call. “We’re on a
path to sustained profitability.”  Adjusted earnings in the third quarter were C$365 million
($349 million), or C$1.29 a share, beating the C$1.04 average of
nine analyst estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. On that basis,
profit in the year-earlier quarter was C$229 million, or 82
cents, the company said in a statement today.  Adjusted costs for each seat flown per mile decreased 3.4
percent in the quarter from a year earlier.  Domestic Competition  Despite increased domestic competition from  WestJet
Airlines Ltd.’s (WJA)  regional line Encore, Air Canada’s market share
remained consistent in the quarter, said executives on the call.  Air Canada is focusing on the more profitable international
market, a strategy that is “extremely rational,” said  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  “They’re focusing on an area where there is less
competition,” said Spracklin, adding that carrier has 37
percent of the international market share flying out of Canada.
“That kind of dominant market share and long stage length is
highly profitable.”  The company also received two high-density Boeing Co.
777-300 ER aircraft this year, and is expecting three more by
February next year, Rovinsecu said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  