-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Touch Five-Week Low on Fed Speculation
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-11-08T08:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/taiwan-dollar-forwards-touch-five-week-low-on-fed-speculation.html
Taiwan dollar forwards touched a
five-week low after data showed the U.S. economy expanded more
than forecast in the third quarter, stoking speculation the
Federal Reserve will taper its stimulus sooner than predicted.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  declined the most since
August yesterday after the world’s largest economy reported a
2.8 percent annualized gain in gross domestic product, beating
the median estimate of 2 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Investors will examine payrolls and unemployment
figures due today for clues as to when the Fed will start
cutting its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases.  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the Taiwan dollar
touched NT$29.451 today, the weakest level since Oct. 2. The
contracts were little changed at NT$29.410 per dollar as of 4:23
p.m. in Taipei, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
forwards declined 0.1 percent this week.  “The reaction today is in part due to the GDP, but also
the fall in U.S. equities,” a measure of risk sentiment
correlated with Asian currencies, said Trang Thuy Le, a
Singapore-based currency strategist at Credit Suisse AG. “The
timing of tapering would hinge more on the labor data we have
today than the GDP yesterday.”  Currency, Bonds  Global funds bought $8.5 million more Taiwanese equities
than they sold this week, the least since August, taking this
year’s net purchases to $8.4 billion, exchange data show.  In the spot market,  Taiwan ’s dollar weakened 0.1 percent
today and this week to NT$29.505 against the greenback, prices
from Taipei Forex Inc. show. The currency lost 0.3 percent in
the final half hour of trading on suspected central bank
intervention. The monetary authority has sold the local dollar
in the run-up to the close on most days since March 2012,
according to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
increased seven basis points today to 3.2 percent. The measure
was unchanged for the week.  The yield on the government’s 1.25 percent bonds due
October 2018 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
today and this week to 1.1 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed
today and this week at 0.385 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  The Federal Open Market Committee refrained from trimming
its stimulus last month, noting the U.S. economy is showing
signs of “underlying strength.” Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg Oct. 17-18 predicted the Fed would begin paring
stimulus in March compared with previous forecasts for as early
as December.  U.S. employers added 120,000 workers to payrolls in
October, down from a 148,000 gain in the prior month, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
jobless rate is projected to climb to 7.3 percent from 7.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  