-- Talisman Sells Montney to Petronas for $1.4 Billion
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-08T21:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/talisman-sells-montney-assets-to-progress-for-1-4-billion.html
Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the Canadian
oil and natural gas producer being targeted by investor  Carl Icahn , agreed to sell part of its Montney acreage to  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd for C$1.5 billion ($1.4 billion).  The transaction involves about 127,000 net acres,
representing 75 percent of Talisman’s Montney shale holdings in
the Farrell Creek and Cypress areas of British Columbia, the
Calgary-based company said today in a statement. It includes
C$800 million in drilling costs. Talisman  rose  1.6 percent to
C$12.42 at the close in Toronto.  The deal brings Talisman closer to a target of $2 billion
to $3 billion in divestitures by mid-2014 to reduce debt and cut
costs after North American gas prices fell to a 10-year low last
year. Chief Executive Officer Hal Kvisle said earlier this week
that shareholders are impatient with the pace of sales and
Talisman is on schedule to announce one or two “major” deals
by the end of 2013.  “It’s a solid first step,” David Neuhauser, who manages
$100 million at Livermore Partners Inc. in Northbrook,  Illinois ,
including shares of Talisman, said in a phone interview today.
“I want them to sell all assets except for the U.S. and Asian
operations. Everything else should have a ‘for sale’ sign.”  The acquisition is being made by Progress Energy  Canada ,
the company that state-owned Petroliam Nasional bought last year
for C$5.2 billion after an initial rejection from the Canadian
government.  LNG Exports  Petronas, as the Malaysian company is known, will decide
next year on a proposed C$9 billion to C$11 billion liquefied
natural gas export terminal on Canada’s Pacific Coast. It’s
vying to be first among rivals including Royal Dutch Shell Plc
and Chevron Corp. to tap western Canadian shale fields and chill
the gas into a liquid for transport by ship to  Asia .  The company has enough gas without Talisman’s Montney land
to meet its initial proposal to export 12 million metric tons a
year from Canada, Michael Culbert, CEO of  Progress Energy , said
in a phone interview today. It may require the additional
supplies if it expands the project, he said.  “We really look at the economics of this additional land
as being, for the time being at least, targeted toward the
domestic natural gas market,” Culbert said. The company has
applied for a license to export as much as 19.7 million metric
tons a year from Canada’s  National Energy Board , the country’s
regulator.  Sell Stake  Petronas is seeking to reduce its stake in the gas fields,
pipeline and processing facilities for the LNG project to as low
as 50 percent and bring in partners that would commit to take a
portion of the LNG exports.  Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1622)  owns
10 percent.  A  report  released Nov. 6 by the governments of Canada,
 Alberta  and British Columbia said the Montney formation that
straddles the two provinces contains 449 trillion cubic feet of
gas, more than double previous estimates and among the largest
in the world.  Talisman will use the proceeds from today’s sale to pay
down debt, Kvisle said in a phone interview today. He has a
target to lower debt to 1.5 times cash flow.  “We came to realize we were going to have to put capital
into that asset for a number of years with relatively modest
returns,” Kvisle said, since gas from the Montney won’t fetch
“premium prices” until LNG exports begin.  Pipeline Sale  Kvisle, who became CEO in September 2012 and said Nov. 6 he
would step down before the end of 2014, is seeking to shrink
Talisman, which operates on six continents, to focus on  North
America  and  Southeast Asia . Talisman reported a narrower third-quarter  loss  as costs fell.  The company is also working toward announcing the sale of
its 12 percent stake in the Ocensa pipeline in  Colombia , Kvisle
said. The pipeline interest has a book value of $660 million,
Phil Skolnick, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in  New
York , wrote in a note today.  The Montney sale includes lands on which Talisman
previously signed joint-venture agreements with Sasol Ltd.  Excluding the value of production and development funding
from Sasol, the per-acre price is around C$5,700, about 80
percent below what was paid by Sasol,  Michael Dunn , an analyst
at FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary, said in a note today.
Talisman shares may pare gains as investors reassess the deal’s
metrics, he said.  The assets being sold produced the equivalent of about
11,000 barrels of oil a day as of Oct. 1, with output expected
to increase in the fourth quarter, Progress Energy said in a
separate statement. The deal is expected to close in the first
quarter pending regulatory approvals, including a review under
Canada’s foreign-takeover law.  Billionaire investor Icahn reported a 7 percent stake in
Talisman last month and said he may seek talks with management
on “strategic alternatives” and board seats.  Jefferies Group LLC and Scotiabank acted as joint advisers
to Talisman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  