-- Allianz Raises 2013 Earnings Target as Profit Climbs
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-11-08T09:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/allianz-raises-2013-profit-target-on-higher-quarterly-net.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer,
increased its target for full-year operating profit after third-quarter earnings rose 6.3 percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  Net income advanced to 1.45 billion euros ($1.94 billion)
from 1.36 billion euros a year earlier, the Munich-based company
said in a  statement  today. That compared with the 1.37 billion-euro average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Natural disasters, in particular storms that hit  Germany  and
Ireland in July and August, cost the insurer 464 million euros
in the quarter, it said.  Allianz, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann,
raised its 2013 earnings goal to “slightly above” 9.7 billion
euros as higher third-quarter profit in non-life insurance
offset losses from European hailstorms and a fall in investment
income. Insurers’ earnings are under pressure as lower  interest
rates  hurt returns from bonds.  “This is the second quarter in a row that saw major
natural catastrophes,” Dieter Wemmer, the company’s chief
financial officer, said in the statement. “And yet, we were
able to increase profits.”  Allianz raised the operating profit target from a range of
8.7 billion euros to 9.7 billion euros. The company  reported  9.5
billion euros of profit for 2012 and 7.68 billion euros for the
first nine months of this year. It said in August that the upper
end of its target range was “in reach.”  Shares Advance  The company rose as much as 1.4 percent in  Frankfurt , the
biggest increase in more than two weeks. The shares climbed 1.1
percent to 124.3 euros at 9:54 a.m., extending gains this year
to 19 percent and valuing the insurer at 56.7 billion euros.
That compares with a 23 percent advance for the Bloomberg  Europe 
500 Insurance Index.  There will be a negative impact on fourth-quarter operating
profit of 100 million euros to 400 million euros due to claims
from European windstorm Christian, a review of product strategy
in  Korea  and investments in  information technology , Allianz said
in a  presentation  on its website.  Operating profit at Allianz’s property and casualty
insurer, typically the most important in terms of earnings,
advanced 6.4 percent to 1.24 billion euros from a year earlier,
as higher earnings in  Italy  and at the Allianz Global Corporate
and Specialty commercial insurance unit helped offset a decline
in storm-struck Germany.  Flood Losses  Insurance industry losses from this year’s floods and
hailstorms in Germany may be as high as 5 billion euros,
 Hannover Re (HNR1) , the world’s third-biggest reinsurer, said two weeks
ago. The Oct. 28 storm Christian, also known as St. Jude in the
U.K., which mostly hit Germany and  Denmark , may cost the
industry 1.5 billion euros to 2.3 billion euros, catastrophe
modeling firm AIR Worldwide said yesterday.  Operating profit at Allianz’s life and health insurance
division decreased 5.6 percent to 769 million euros on lower
investment earnings in Germany and “investment de-risking in
Italy,” the company said.  The July start of a new life insurance product in Germany
has been “highly successful,” Allianz said. Sales equalled 13
percent of new business of exclusive agents in September, it
said.  Asset Management  Third-quarter operating profit at the asset-management
unit, which includes  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co., declined 11 percent annually to 754
million euros. Third-party managed assets at the unit shrunk by
2.4 percent to 1.4 trillion euros at the end of September
compared with the end of last year, which according to Allianz
“mainly reflects the impact of a weaker  U.S. dollar .”  The asset management unit had third-party net outflows of
26.7 billion euros in the quarter, mainly from traditional
fixed-income products, Allianz said. That compared with net
inflows of 31.5 billion euros a year ago.  Diekmann said in an interview last month that a plan by
Pimco to expand into equities is proving harder than expected.  At the same time,  Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  lost
its position as the world’s biggest mutual fund. It has shrunk
by $37.5 billion since the start of this year, ending last month
with $247.9 billion in assets, according to data provided by
Pimco and compiled by Bloomberg. The  Vanguard Total Stock Market
Index Fund (VTSMX)  ended October with $251 billion.  Lower Amortization  Allianz’s third-quarter earnings were boosted by a 94
million-euro increase in non-operating earnings, mainly from
lower amortization of intangible assets and a decrease in
acquisition-related expenses.  Tougher financial regulation such as Solvency II and Basel
III will create takeover opportunities for Allianz, especially
as mutual insurers may find it difficult to raise capital
depleted by low interest rates or high disaster claims, Diekmann
said in an interview last month.  Solvency II, intended to harmonize the way insurers in
Europe allocate capital against the risks they take, was
originally scheduled to come into force in 2012. It has been
delayed several times over issues such as the treatment of long-term guarantees and may now be implemented on Jan. 1, 2016 with
a transitional period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  