-- American Homes 4 Rent to Tap New Market for Rental-Backed Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-11-08T18:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/american-homes-4-rent-to-tap-new-market-for-rental-backed-bonds.html
American Homes 4 Rent (AMH) , the second-largest landlord for single-family U.S. homes, said it plans to
market bonds backed by some of its more than 21,000 rental
properties after  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s Invitation Homes
completed the first deal of the type this week.  American Homes plans to start marketing the transaction
within 90 days, it said in a statement today.  Wells Fargo & Co .
has been working on a securitization for the Agoura Hills,
California-based company, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last week, asking not to be named because the information
is private.  “We are very excited to finalize the details to take
advantage of this new capital opportunity,” American Homes
Chief Executive Officer David P. Singelyn said in the statement.
The offering may help the company “reduce our cost of capital
over the long term,” he said.  The $479.1 million of debt sold by Invitation Homes may
herald a slew of additional deals by institutional rental-home
operators that have mainly relied on banks for financing since
the industry emerged amid the U.S. housing slump, according to
analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, which structured the offering.  “Securitized loans backed by home rentals totaling in the
billions is not out of the question by this time next year,”
the New York-based analysts Harris Trifon, Ying Shen and Doug Bendt wrote in a Nov. 5 report. “Indeed, barring another
recession, we find it hard to imagine how a relative flood in
deals won’t happen in the next year or two.”  Storage Roots  Public Storage (PSA)  founderB. Wayne Hughes created American
Homes to take advantage of record foreclosures and tightened
mortgage lending, raising money from investors including the
Alaska Permanent Fund Corp. The firm raised a gross $886.8
million in August with an initial public offering and private
placement of shares to investors including the Alaska fund,
which invests royalties from state oil revenue.  The company, whose IPO priced at $16 a share, rose 0.8
percent today to $16.16 as of 12:55 p.m. in New York.  American Homes last month sold $110 million of preferred
shares in what potentially was the first financing that’s tied
to increases in  home prices , the cost of which starts at 5
percent and can rise to as high as 9 percent through 2020,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The rental-home bonds sold by Invitation Homes, American
Homes’s largest rival, will pay an weighted average coupon of
1.66 percentage points more than the one-month London interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A credit
facility used by American Homes carries an interest rate of 2.75
percentage points more than Libor, the company said yesterday in
an earnings statement. The borrowing benchmark was set today at
0.17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  