-- Manitoba Telecom May Sell Stock After Allstream Rejection
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-11-08T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/manitoba-telecom-may-sell-stock-after-allstream-rejection.html
Manitoba Telecom Services Inc. (MBT)  said
it may sell stock to fund its pension deficit after  Canada 
rejected the sale of its MTS Allstream business division to
Egyptian investors.  “Our preference would be to issue equity,” Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Blouin said yesterday in a phone
interview from Winnipeg, Manitoba, where the company is based.
“We’re really looking at analyzing first what type of amount we
would need and exactly what vehicle we would use.”  Manitoba Telecom, the largest phone company in the central
Canadian province, planned to inject C$130 million ($124
million) of the proceeds from the Allstream sale into its
pension plan and repay C$70 million in short-term debt. Canada
last month rejected the C$520 million Allstream sale to Accelero
Capital Holdings Sarl Group, the investment firm co-founded by
Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris, due to unspecified national
security concerns.  Allstream operates a national fibre-optic network that
provides critical telecommunications services to businesses and
governments, Industry Minister James Moore said in a statement
at the time.  The pension deficit has been cut in half this year, in part
due to a 70 basis point interest-rate increase, Manitoba Telecom
said yesterday in its third-quarter earnings  statement . The
company’s pension solvency deficit is C$350 million and Manitoba
Telecom’s 2014 payment to the plan will be about C$55 million,
Blouin said.  Manitoba Telecom said earnings per share declined to 38
cents, from 50 cents a year earlier, as revenue fell 3.7 percent
to C$408.4 million.  Manitoba Telecom will notify the market about its equity
plans “when we’re ready,” Blouin said. “No time line has been
disclosed on that.”  The shares rose 0.3 percent to C$29.49 in Toronto yesterday.
The company reported earnings after the end of regular trading.
The stock, which has declined 9 percent this year, has two buy,
eight hold, and four sell recommendations from analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  