-- Harper Says Canada Support for EU Pact Almost Unanimous
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-11-08T18:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/harper-says-canada-support-for-eu-pact-almost-unanimous.html
Canadian businesses are almost
unanimous in their support for the proposed Canada-European
Union trade agreement-in-principle signed last month, Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  said.  Speaking to business students in Toronto today, Harper said
“support for the agreement is virtually unanimous across
various sectors,” referring to the pact he signed Oct. 18 in
Brussels with European Commission President  Jose Barroso .  The agreement, which would need the approval of EU national
governments and the European Parliament as well as Canadian
provinces, will eliminate about 98 percent of all Canadian and
EU tariff lines on the first day of its implementation.  Harper said while Canada hasn’t “identified a lot of
really obvious losers,” the government has agreed to give
compensation related to three industries: dairy, generic drug
manufacturing and fishing.  Canada will compensate cheese producers for the “short-and mid-term impact,” Harper said, adding that the pact’s
“actual effect on the industry’s Canadian market share in our
judgement would be relatively small.”  Canadian provinces, which purchase large amounts of generic
drugs for their health-care programs, will see higher costs,
Harper said. “These impacts won’t be felt for ten years and
they will be, once again, in our judgement relatively small,”
he said.  Harper also said that under the deal,  Canada  will phase out
requirements that fish caught off the Atlantic coast be
processed in Canada. “There probably will be some impact there,
but the benefits of having a whole range of tariffs removed on
fish products is just going to be comparably much, much
bigger,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Badertscher at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  