-- Harper Says Canada Needs Foreign Investment Discretion
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-11-08T18:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/harper-says-canada-needs-foreign-investment-discretion.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  says
 Canada  shouldn’t be totally transparent on the rules it uses to
review investment by foreign state-owned companies.  Harper, who has faced pressure to clarify last year’s
decision to stem investment by state-owned companies in Canada’s
oil sands, said it would be “foolish” to provide “absolute
clarity.”  Harper imposed new rules last year for investment in
Canada’s oil sands, limiting takeovers of Canadian companies by
state-owned enterprises. Since then, announced deals in the oil
and gas sector have shrunk to $7.3 billion this year from $55
billion in 2012, including  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion
acquisition of Calgary producer Nexen Inc.  Investment by Chinese state-owned companies in Canada’s
energy industry, which amounted to C$33 billion in the seven
years ending in 2012 according to Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, “has now essentially stopped,”  Jim Prentice , vice
chairman of the bank and a former Canadian industry minister,
said in a speech last month in  London .  Prentice called for “a measure of clarity” regarding
Canada’s position on investment from state-owned companies,
according to a text of the speech.  The government in December approved Cnooc acquisition of
Nexen as well as the C$5.2 billion purchase of Progress Energy
Resources Corp. by Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state-owned energy.  ‘Carefully Monitor’  At the time the government said it will “carefully
monitor” deals involving state-owned enterprises in the world’s
11th-largest economy and will “act to safeguard Canadian
interests” when it appears that such acquisitions will
“undermine the private sector orientation of an industry.”  Shares of smaller oil sands developers including Calgary-based  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH)  are lagging behind peers after the
government introduced rules to block state-owned buyers from
purchasing oil-sands companies. Athabasca has declined 37
percent since the rules were made public on Dec. 7, versus a 8.8
percent gain on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy Index.  Changes to Canada’s rules governing investment by foreign
state-owned enterprises may discourage Indian  oil companies  from
participating in projects to ship natural gas from the North
American country, Admiral Nirmal Verma,  India ’s high
commissioner to Canada, said in May at a conference in Calgary.
The changes “add considerable uncertainty,” Verma said.  Speaking to business students in Toronto today, Harper said
that while the nation is open to foreign investment he wouldn’t
want to see entire sectors of the economy be “predominately”
owned by foreign states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  