-- Arsenal Lines Up Move for Javier Hernandez, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-08T11:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/arsenal-lines-up-move-for-javier-hernandez-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Striker Worries  Arsenal is discussing a move for Manchester United’s  Javier
Hernandez  to help solve the London team’s striker shortage, the
 Daily Mail  said.  Manager  Arsene Wenger  will try to sign a striker in the
January transfer period to ease the workload on Olivier Giroud,
the Mail said. Wenger still has his sights on Liverpool’s  Luis
Suarez , but Hernandez is high on the list of alternatives, the
newspaper said.  Wenger is also interested in a loan move for Juventus’s
Fernando Llorente, the Mail said.  Khedira Move  Manchester United is weighing up a 35 million-pounds ($56
million) move for Real Madrid and Germany midfielder Sami
Khedira, the  Mirror said .  United made a late bid to land the 26-year-old before the
season, landing Marouane Fellaini from Everton instead. Fellaini
is facing a wrist operation that could sideline him for two
months and manager  David Moyes  wants to bolster his midfield,
the Mirror said.  Quitting Time  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said he expects England
captain  Steven Gerrard  to retire from international play after
next year’s World Cup, the  Telegraph said .  Gerrard will be 34 when the tournament begins and last year
said he was considering his future before the 2012 European
Championship, the Telegraph said. He’s made 107 appearances for
England since making his debut in 2002.  “Steven probably looks at it as though this is his last
international year and after the World Cup that will be all
finished and he will have lots of time to rest then,” the
Telegraph quoted Rodgers as saying.  Positive Jol  Fulham manager  Martin Jol  has dismissed concerns about his
future with the Premier League club, the  Guardian said .  Fulham has won just three of 10 games and defeat tomorrow
at Liverpool may drop the Cottagers into the relegation zone.
Jol and his team were booed during last weekend’s home loss to
Manchester United.  “You always feel better after wins than after defeats,
especially when you are a bit proud and I think all the managers
at that level are proud,” Jol said. “That is why they are so
ambitious and they work hard, because of their pride. I have to
cope with it, I can understand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 