-- Martin’s Lawyer Alleges Physical Attack by NFL Dolphin Teammate
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-11-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/martin-s-lawyer-alleges-physical-attack-by-nfl-dolphin-teammate.html
Former Miami Dolphins offensive
tackle Jonathan Martin was physically assaulted by an
unidentified teammate, his attorney David Cornwell said.  Martin was harassed for the entire 1 1/2 seasons he spent
at the Dolphins and tried to befriend those teammates who were
abusing him in an effort to end the treatment, Cornwell, of
Gordon and Rees LLP in Atlanta, said in an e-mail.  “This is a textbook reaction of victims of bullying,”
Cornwell said. “Jonathan endured a malicious physical attack on
him by a teammate and daily vulgar comments.”  National Football League Commissioner Roger Goodell
established an independent investigation after the Dolphins
asked the league to probe allegations that harassment led Martin
to leave the team. Miami indefinitely suspended offensive
lineman Richie Incognito.  Dolphins owner Stephen Ross said he will respond to the
allegations after the review by  New York  attorney Ted Wells has
been submitted to the NFL.  “Jonathan looks forward to getting back to playing
football,” Cornwell said. “In the meantime, he will cooperate
fully with the NFL investigation.”  David Dunn, Incognito’s agent, has not responded to
multiple e-mails and a message left at his office seeking
comment.  Earlier yesterday, DeMaurice Smith, executive director of
the NFL Players Association, said he was in contact with Miami
players.  “Every NFL player should expect safe and professional
working conditions,” Smith said in an e-mail. “It is our duty
as a union to learn the full facts, protect the interests of
players involved and hold management accountable to the highest
standards of fairness and transparency.”  Two days ago, Goodell said there was no timetable for the
completion of the probe by Wells.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  