-- Marubeni Cuts Gavilon’s Profit Outlook Due to U.S. Drought
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-11-08T09:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/marubeni-cuts-gavilon-s-profit-outlook-due-to-u-s-drought.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002) , a Japanese trading
company that closed its biggest takeover of Gavilon Group LLC in
July, cut its profit estimate for the U.S. grain collector by
almost two-thirds this year.  Due to the continuing impact of last year’s U.S. drought,
Gavilon may post net income of 5.4 billion yen ($55 million) to
5.5 billion yen in the fiscal year ending March 31, Marubeni
Chief Financial Officer Yokihiko Matsumura said at a briefing in
 Tokyo  today. Matsumura in August forecast more than 15 billion
yen in profit from Gavilon this year, including gains expected
from a revaluation of the asset.  “With the ongoing impact from the drought and escalating
competition, the margins continue to be bad” and the asset
revaluation may now be booked next year, Matsumura said. The
U.S. unit should earn 15 billion yen in profit next year,
excluding any revaluation gains, he said.  Japan ’s biggest agricultural trader paid $2.7 billion for
Gavilon’s equity, and assumed debt that in 2012 stood at $2
billion, to secure North American grain supply and better
compete with market leader Cargill Inc. in  Asia . With Gavilon,
Marubeni’s grain handling doubled to more than 55 million metric
tons a year, the trader said last year.  Marubeni fell 2.1 percent to 747 yen today in Tokyo, while
the benchmark Topix index slid 0.7 percent. The company said in
a separate statement that it cut its forecast for operating
profit this year to 170 billion yen from 175 billion yen.  Marubeni first announced the accord to buy Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon from a group of funds led by Ospraie Management
LLC in May 2012. The trader waited more than a year for
permission from  China ’s antitrust authorities to close the deal,
which was amended to exclude Gavilon’s energy unit.  Ospraie Management said Nov. 6 it agreed to sell the energy
unit of Gavilon to NGL Energy Partners LP for $890 million in
cash.  Marubeni’s net income for the first six months ended Sept.
30 rose 23 percent to 111.8 billion yen, a record, from 91.1.
billion yen a year earlier, Matsumura said today. About half of
the increase was due to the weakening of the yen, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  