-- Harvard Swap Toll Tops $1.25 Billion as Agreements Exited
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-11-09T01:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/harvard-swap-toll-tops-1-4-billion-ending-deals-in-2012-2013.html
Harvard University , the world’s
richest college, lost $345.3 million terminating  interest-rate
swaps  last year, bringing its cost of unwinding debt derivatives
since 2008 to more than $1.25 billion.  Harvard made the most recent payments to exit derivatives
linked to about $942 million of existing and future debt, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based university said in a report today
on the fiscal year ended June 30.  Harvard agreed to pay more than $900 million in 2008 to
exit swaps linked to an ambitious expansion plan in Allston, a
 Boston  neighborhood near the main campus. The use of the
derivatives backfired at the same time the university’s
endowment was on pace to lose more than a quarter of its value.
Since then, the school has raised cash and cut debt to stabilize
its finances.  “Like most colleges and universities, we already have
exhausted the easiest opportunities for budget improvement,”
Daniel Shore, Harvard’s vice president for finance and chief
financial officer, and Treasurer James Rothenberg said in the
report. “As a result, we will face increasingly complicated yet
unavoidable choices as we seek to cover more ground in cost
management.”  Allston Campus  The school agreed to many of the swaps when former
President  Lawrence Summers  was planning to build the Allston
campus, including a $1 billion science center. The swaps, which
locked in  interest rates  for Harvard, also required the school
to post collateral if rates fell. Harvard officials said that
the hedges on debt that remain are unrelated to Allston.  After Drew Faust succeeded Summers as president, the school
terminated swaps to avoid posting millions in collateral. Faust
put the expansion plan on hold as Harvard’s frayed finances
forced the school to take budget-cutting measures, including
cutting some student services.  The school’s losses on terminating the swaps since 2008
were $497.6 million in fiscal 2009; $277.6 million in 2011; and
$134.6 million in 2012.  Faust has since resumed the building plan, and the school
is shifting its construction financing from debt to donations.
In September, the school announced The Harvard Campaign, a
fundraising drive with a record goal of $6.5 billion.  Harvard Deficit  Harvard had an operating deficit of $34 million for the
year, an increase from $7.9 million the earlier period. While
the deficit is a small proportion of the university’s $4.2
billion 2013 revenue, it’s representative of a number of
pressures on the school’s funding sources, such as federal
research grants, Shore said.  U.S. government funding at Harvard fell 2 percent to $653
million in the fiscal year as the increases from the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 expired, the report said.
While non-federal funding increased 17 percent to $191 million,
lifting overall sponsored funds 1 percent to $845 million, the
university faces “looming challenges” in managing its budget,
Shore said.  “We need to think about whether there are more creative
ways to think about alternative revenues,” he said in an
 interview  posted on Harvard’s website, “and at the same time,
whether there are different choices that we can make about how
to manage our expenses so that we can not only survive, but
thrive through what could be a challenging number of years
coming up.”  Online Learning  Other ways to generate revenue might lie in areas such as
online learning, where Harvard has recently established the EdX
venture with the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and the
transfer of university research and technology patents to
industry, Shore said.  “Those are opportunities that are completely consistent
with our mission, because Harvard aspires, among other things,
to have impact in the world,” he said in the interview.  In further moves to stabilize its finances, Harvard raised
holdings in cash and liquid investments outside its endowment to
$1.5 billion from $1.3 billion at the end of the earlier fiscal
year. Outstanding debt fell to $5.7 billion from a high of $6.3
billion on June 30, 2011, the report said.  “While we believe debt is an important enabler of growth,
it currently constitutes an outsized proportion of the
university’s capital structure,” Shore and Rothenberg said in
the report. “We are de-levering in a deliberate yet gradual
manner in order to maintain flexibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  