-- Tata Motors Profit Beats Estimates on Jaguar Demand
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-11-08T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/tata-motors-profit-beats-estimates-on-jaguar-demand.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest
automaker, posted profit that beat analyst estimates as sales at
its Jaguar Land Rover unit jumped, outweighing a loss at the
company’s domestic division.  Second-quarter  net income  gained 71 percent to 35.4 billion
rupees ($564 million), the Mumbai-based company said yesterday.
That exceeded the 28 billion-rupee median of 39  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit at Jaguar Land Rover
rose 66 percent to 507 million pounds ($815 million).  Retail sales at the luxury unit rose at the fastest pace in
four quarters boosted by demand for Jaguar models, including the
F-Type convertible that began shipping in May. The automaker has
started sales of the Range Rover Sport, a sport utility vehicle,
in some markets including the U.K. and  China  and plans to
introduce the model in more markets.  “JLR is obviously enormously successfully right now, and
it’s bizarre and unbalanced that it’s owned by a company that’s
in structural decline,”  Max Warburton , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in  Singapore  with an “outperform” rating on the
stock, said in a phone interview. Jaguar Land Rover “has just
generated the best  cash flow  ever. That’s a game changer because
they can start doing things with that.”  Sales at the company rose 30 percent to 557 billion rupees,
exceeding the 536.6 billion-rupee median estimate.  Tata Motors rose 1.1 percent to 384.15 rupees in  Mumbai 
trading yesterday, before the earnings were announced. The  stock 
has gained 23 percent this year, compared with the 6.4 percent
advance in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Jaguar Sales  Retail sales at Jaguar Land Rover climbed 21 percent to
102,644 units in the quarter. Jaguar deliveries increased 57
percent to 20,024 units, while Land Rover sales rose 15 percent
to 82,620 vehicles. That compared with a 29 percent decline in
sales at Tata Motors’ Indian unit.  The luxury unit, based in Gaydon,  England , expects sales of
its Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles to increase across the world
on new models, Chief Executive Officer Ralf Speth said at a
press conference in Mumbai yesterday. Tata Motors bought JLR
from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2008.  China is the biggest market for Jaguar Land Rover and the
country will widen its lead, Speth said.  China’s gross domestic product is expected to expand 7.6
percent in 2013, the weakest pace in  14 years , according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Enough Room’  “We have about 20 percent-22 percent of our volumes from
China so we are not over-pronouncing Chinese demand,” Speth
said. “If you look at JLR against the bigger premium players,
we’re very small so there’s enough room to grow further.”  The luxury unit is in talks with the government in  Brazil 
to set up a local assembly unit and expects a decision to be
made by the end of the March, Speth said.  In contrast with Jaguar Land Rover, Tata Motors’ Indian
unit posted a  loss  of 8.04 billion rupees in the quarter,
compared with a profit of 8.67 billion rupees in the year
earlier period. That was wider than the 5.48 billion-rupee
median of six analyst estimates.  Sales at Indian unit fell 29 percent to 87.6 billion
rupees, the sixth straight quarter of declines. The automaker
plans to  refinance  10 billion rupees of debt due in March, Chief
Financial Officer Chandrasekaran Ramakrishnan said.  The company’s Indian market share dropped to 9 percent in
the sixth months through September, compared with 13 percent in
the year-earlier period, according to data from the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., the
nation’s biggest carmaker by volume, increased its share to 41
percent from 37 percent.  “The India market share has gone down because people have
lost interest in the product,” Warburton said. “The only way
to change that would be to have a comprehensive new range
of products.”  “Ultimately, the strategic solution for the India business
is to fix, sell or close it,” Warburton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  