-- Aussie Extends Weekly Advance as China Imports Beat Estimates
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-11-08T05:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/aussie-set-for-first-5-day-gain-in-3-weeks-before-china-trade.html
Australia ’s dollar strengthened,
extending its first five-day gain in three weeks, as a bigger-than-expected increase in Chinese imports offset the impact of a
Reserve Bank downgrade to its growth forecasts.  The Australian currency was poised to rise versus most of
its 16 major peers this week. It earlier weakened after the RBA
retained its scope to lower interest rates in its quarterly
monetary policy statement today. The Aussie, the  most overvalued 
after the New Zealand dollar among major currencies, hasn’t
tracked fundamentals, central bank Assistant Governor Guy
Debelle said yesterday.  “The RBA’s doing their absolute best to talk the currency
down and, given the fragile economic outlook, that may help them
to some degree,” said Callum Henderson, the global head of
currency research at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “But
positive news in terms of Chinese imports, particularly
commodity imports, should be beneficial” for the Aussie,
Henderson said.  The Australian currency added 0.1 percent to 94.63 U.S.
cents as of 4:37 p.m. in Sydney, set for a 0.3 percent advance
this week. Yesterday it sank 0.8 percent, the most since Oct.
29. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar rose 0.1 percent to 83.30 U.S.
cents, set for a 0.8 percent climb since Nov. 1.  Australia’s  10-year government bond yield  dipped three
basis points to 4.13 percent, and is up from 4.07 percent on
Nov. 1. Three-year debt yielded 3.07 percent, two basis points
higher than a week earlier. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a
fixed payment made to receive floating rates, was little changed
at 3.50 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Exports Growth  China ’s exports rose 5.6 percent in October from a year
earlier while imports advanced 7.6 percent, resulting in a $31.1
billion trade surplus, the General Administration of Customs
said today in Beijing.  Australia’s economic growth will be between 2 percent and 3
percent in the year to December 2014, the RBA said today in its
quarterly monetary policy statement, compared with 2.5 percent
to 3.5 percent forecast three months earlier.  The problem for Australia and other smaller economies is
that external “financial factors” are driving up currencies,
the RBA’s Debelle said yesterday at an International Monetary
Fund conference in  Washington .  The Aussie is 28 percent overvalued versus its U.S.
counterpart as measured by purchasing power parity based on
consumer prices, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Among major
currencies, that’s second only to the New Zealand dollar, which
is 31 percent overvalued against the greenback.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  