-- Baht Touches Three-Week Low on Concern Protests Will Hurt Growth
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-08T02:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/baht-touches-three-week-low-on-concern-protests-will-hurt-growth.html
Thailand ’s baht touched a three-week
low on concern anti-government protests triggered by a proposed
amnesty law for political offenses will deepen a slowdown in
Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy.  The currency fell for a second week as official data showed
global funds  pulled  $404 million from Thai bonds in the first
four days and $166 million from equities. Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra called yesterday for an end to street
demonstrations in Bangkok after agreeing to a demand for
scrapping the controversial legislation. The Senate is set to
vote on the bill at 2 p.m. today.  “Prolonged political unrest will hurt the economy that’s
already weak, and with the current mood foreigners probably
don’t want to put money in Thailand,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist covering  emerging markets  at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “The political situation will weigh on
the baht, which may underperform its regional peers.”  The baht lost 0.5 percent from a week ago and 0.1 percent
today to 31.365 per dollar as of 9:24 a.m. in Bangkok, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached 31.375
earlier, the weakest level since Oct. 17.  One-month implied volatility in the baht, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, climbed
18 basis points this week to 5.95 percent. The gauge dropped
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, today.  Should the proposed amnesty law be rejected today by the
Senate, it would go back to the lower house for 180 days. Former
Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva told a rally on Nov. 5 that he
will continue to fight until the legislation is scrapped, adding
that the blockage by the Senate doesn’t mean the bill is
abandoned.  Hurting Confidence  Political uncertainty is “another additional headwind”
for the Thai economy, Khoon Goh, a Singapore-based strategist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., the most accurate
baht forecaster over the last four quarters, said in an
interview this week. Analysts at the bank predict the local
currency will weaken 2 percent to 32 per dollar by year-end.  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said yesterday the
political tension has threatened economic growth because it
erodes confidence. The demonstrations could curb gross domestic
product gains this year by between 0.1 percentage point and 0.5
percentage point, from the currently estimated 3.5 percent, the
University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said yesterday.  The yield on the 3.625 percent bonds due June 2023 dropped
five basis points this week and one basis point today to 3.97
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  