-- Bakrie Telecom Downgraded by Fitch, S&P After Missed Coupon
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-11-08T08:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/bakrie-telecom-downgraded-by-fitch-s-p-after-missed-coupon.html
PT Bakrie Telecom’s (BTEL)  debt was
downgraded to default by  Standard & Poor’s  and to a level
signaling imminent default by Fitch Ratings Ltd. after failing
to pay a $21.8 million coupon on a bond due yesterday.  Bakrie Telecom’s long-term foreign and local-currency
rating and its May 2015 $380 million bond were cut to C from CC,
Fitch said in a statement today. The company was unlikely to
find the funds to pay the coupon within 30 days before a default
is triggered, Fitch said. S&P cut the company’s long-term
corporate credit rating to D from CC and its long-term ASEAN
regional scale rating to D from axCC.  The Bakrie Group, whose patriach Aburizal Bakrie is running
for  Indonesia ’s presidency next year, is also in talks with
creditors on bonds issued by a property unit while its coal
miner, PT Bumi Resources, has agreed to settle debt with  China ’s
sovereign wealth fund by swapping part of it for an equity
stake.  “We believe Bakrie Telecom is unlikely to be able to
source the liquidity needed to pay the coupon within the grace
period and that the company will to have to restructure some, or
all, of its debt obligations,” Fitch said in the statement.  Bakrie Telecom’s 11.5 percent dollar bonds due May 2015 and
sold to investors at par traded at 23.4 cents on the dollar
today, after falling 24 cents this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bakrie Telecom shares traded unchanged at
50 rupiah per share, the lowest level possible on the Jakarta
Composite Index.  Net Loss  Bakrie Telecom officials couldn’t be reached for comment
after four calls to the company’s switchboard. President
Commissioner Anindya Bakrie, the eldest son of Aburizal Bakrie,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Bakrie Telecom posted a net loss of 1.5 trillion rupiah
($131 million) for the first nine months of 2013, wider than a
988 billion rupiah net loss in the same period a year earlier.
It has total current liabilities of 4.4 trillion rupiah, more
than six times its current assets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. S&P lowered its rating on Bakrie Telecom’s senior
unsecured notes due 2015 to CC from CCC on Nov. 6.  Fitch said the company’s rating could be further downgraded
to RD in the event of a restructuring of the bond if it imposed
a material reduction in terms, or non-payment of the coupon
within the grace period. The company would need an equity
injection or a merger deal with a stronger investor to see
positive ratings action, it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Chatterjee at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net  