-- Barclays, Deutsche Bank Lose Bid to Halt U.K. Libor Suits
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-11-08T12:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/barclays-deutsche-bank-lose-bid-to-block-u-k-libor-lawsuits.html
Deutsche Bank AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
lost a court bid to stop companies from linking claims about the
manipulation of benchmark rates to lawsuits initially filed over
improper sales of interest-rate hedging products.  The U.K. Court of Appeal in  London  said  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  and
Guardian Care Homes could try to void money-losing swap
contracts because they were pegged to the London interbank
offered rate. The ruling resolves split decisions from lower
courts.  Judge Andrew Longmore said that while the issues were
complicated, they should be resolved at a full trial. “The
banks did propose the use of Libor and it must be arguable that,
at very least, they were representing that their own
participation in setting of the rate was an honest one.”  Regulatory probes into banks’ attempts to manipulate Libor
have led to fines and settlements totaling about $3.7 billion
for firms including Barclays,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  ICAP Plc. (IAP)  Guardian and Unitech said they wouldn’t
have signed swap deals if they had known about the misconduct.  “With or without the Libor claims, the allegations of mis-selling have no merit,” London-based Barclays said in a
statement. Guardian “entered into their swap agreements with
sufficient understanding to exercise their own judgment as to
whether the products would meet their business objectives.”  Long-Standing Case  Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, said in a
separate statement that the allegations about Libor were a bid
to divert attention from Unitech’s unpaid debts. “This is a
long-standing case of a loan that was made and not paid back.”  Thousands of businesses, from fried-fish cafes to dentists
and Italian regional governments, have sued banks over  interest-rate swaps  that were supposed to protect against rising rates,
and that turned out to be costly when  interest rates  plunged
following the financial crisis. The  Bank of England  has held
rates at a record low since March 2009.  The Financial Conduct Authority reached an agreement
earlier this year for lenders including RBS, Barclays and HSBC
Holdings Plc to review deals and compensate customers after it
found “serious failings” in the sale of the products to small
businesses.  “My swap has cost me 12 million pounds ($19.3 million) in
interest alone so any suggestion by Barclays that this claim is
irrelevant is nonsense,” said Gary Hartland, the chief
executive officer of Guardian Care Homes. The trial is scheduled
for April.  Banks’ Misconduct  Unitech’s lawyer, Richard Gwynne, declined to comment.  The two lawsuits are the first in the U.K. to accuse banks
of benefiting from rigging Libor. Today’s ruling may open the
door for more bank customers to claim they lost out because of
the banks’ misconduct.  In the U.S., the city of Houston, Virginia-based regulator
 National Credit Union Administration , and the  University of
California  have sued lenders over manipulation of the benchmark.  The cases are Graiseley Properties Ltd & Ors. v. Barclays
Bank Plc,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division,
Commercial Court, 12-1259; and Deutsche Bank AG & Ors v. Unitech
Global Limited & Anr, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division, Commercial Court, 11-1199 (X1Q6M1JRB282)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  