-- Barrick Gold Discussing Peter Munk’s Succession as Chairman
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-11-08T21:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/barrick-gold-discussing-peter-munk-s-succession-as-chairman.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  is discussing the
succession of Chairman Peter Munk, who previously announced his
intention to retire, and expects governance changes to take
effect at the company’s next annual general meeting.  Munk’s succession is one of several issues raised by
investors, Toronto-based Barrick said today in a filing. The
world’s biggest gold producer also is considering changes to
executive-compensation arrangements, and the “rejuvenation” of
the board through departures and the addition of independent
directors.  Munk, who turned 86 today and has led the company since its
founding 30 years ago, said in March it was “appropriate” that
Barrick consider a path to new leadership at a board level. He
“searched the world” to find John Thornton, who was appointed
co-chairman of the company in June 2012, Munk said in April.  “I think we can finally talk about a definitive date for
Munk’s retirement -- the AGM,” Robert Gill, a Toronto-based
fund manager at Aston Hill Financial Inc., which manages about
C$8 billion including Barrick shares, said today by e-mail.  Barrick shares  dropped to two-decade lows this year as gold
prices fell, the company’s debt rose and delays boosted costs at
its $8.5 billion Pascua-Lama mine project on the border of Chile
and Argentina. The company said Oct. 31 it will suspend
development of the mine and announced later the same day it
agreed to raise as much as $3.34 billion in a share sale to cut
debt.  Replacing Directors  In April, some of Barrick’s biggest Canadian  investors 
criticized the company for awarding Thornton an $11.9 million
signing bonus. Canada’s biggest pension funds want new
independent board members at Barrick and say the miner should
consider replacing directors who have been there longer than 20
years and are close to Munk, two investors briefed on the matter
said in September.  Barrick has said previously it will alter its compensation
policies and add new directors.  “The company’s intention is to update the market before
year end on these initiatives, with governance changes expected
to take effect in conjunction with Barrick’s next annual
meeting,” it said today.  The company’s annual meetings have been in late April or
early May since at least 2005.  Barrick  rose  0.5 percent to C$19.07 at the close in
Toronto, while gold futures in New York declined 1.6 percent to
$1,287.50 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  