-- Bass-Backed NMI Prices Share Sale at Top of Range
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-11-08T13:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/bass-backed-nmi-prices-share-sale-at-top-of-range.html
NMI Holdings Inc. (NMIH) , the mortgage
insurer backed by Kyle Bass and  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , raised $27.3
million in a public offering after selling shares at the top of
their marketed range, valuing the company at about $750 million.  NMI sold 2.1 million shares and investors offered 3,395 for
$13 apiece, the company said in a statement today. The previous
range announced by Emeryville, California-based NMI was $11 to
$13 a share.  NMI’s is the second offering of a mortgage insurer in about
a week. Fueled by a strengthening housing market,  Essent Group
Ltd. (ESNT)  has jumped 25 percent since selling shares Oct. 30 at $17
each.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  and  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  sold stock and
bonds this year to replenish capital drained in the crisis and
boosted sales as U.S. government agencies reduce their role in
mortgage coverage.  “The market-share opportunity created by the government’s
retreat is the main driver, against the backdrop of an improving
housing market,”  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC, said by
phone before NMI’s share sale was priced. “What we’re looking
at here is an opportunity to grab a larger piece of a growing
market.”  FBR & Co. managed the offering. NMI will be listed on the
Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol NMIH, after trading on the
FBR Plus system. The valuation of about $750 million is based on
the 57.7 million shares that were expected to be outstanding
after the offering, according to a Nov. 1 filing.  Home Prices  NMI was started in 2011, raised $510 million from investors
in 2012 and sold its first coverage this year. Led by Chief
Executive Officer Bradley Shuster, NMI had insured 22 loans as
of Sept. 30, while Essent backed more than 120,000. NMI also
reached a deal in July with  Fannie Mae  to cover a pool of about
$5 billion of mortgages.  Bass’s Hayman Capital Management LP owned about 10 percent
of the company before the sale, the filing show. Claren Road
Asset Management LLC, the hedge fund majority-owned by Carlyle,
was NMI’s largest investor with an almost 13 percent stake.  Mortgage insurance  is typically required when buyers pay
less than 20 percent of the cost of a house up front. The
policies cover losses when homeowners default and foreclosures
fail to recoup costs.  In the 12 months through August, home prices in 20 U.S.
cities increased about  13 percent , the biggest jump in seven
years, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index. Shares of MGIC
and Radian have both doubled this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  