-- Batista Overhauls OSX Management for Court Restructuring
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-11-11T21:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/batista-shipbuilder-osx-to-request-bankruptcy-protection.html
Eike Batista  is wagering on a single
Brazilian consulting firm to oversee the court-supervised
restructuring of his oil and shipbuilding companies.  The former billionaire replaced Alvarez & Marsal Inc. with
Angra Partners to coordinate shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) ’s so-called judicial recovery process in Rio de Janeiro, OSX said in
a Nov. 8 statement. The decision sees the departure of Alvarez &
Marsal’s Marcelo Gomes as chief executive office.  OSX, created to provide oil platforms for Batista’s  OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , is following its main client
into bankruptcy proceedings and will share advisory services
with its sister company. The two cases represent the first real
test of 2005 legislation covering bankruptcy in  Brazil , said
John Ashmead, a partner at law firm Seward & Kissel LLP.  “Things are complicated because the companies are related
by ownership, management and inter-company transactions,”
Ashmead said by telephone from New York. “It’s a great
opportunity but it has also great challenges.”  OSX’s board approved the judicial recovery petition,
switched advisers and will seek to change its name, address and
board composition, the Rio-based company said Nov.8. Oil
explorer OGX hired Angra, the Sao Paulo-based firm led by
Ricardo Knoepfelmacher, on Oct. 15.  Ivo Dworschak Filho will become OSX’s third CEO in less
than three months. Shareholders will vote on the measures on
Nov. 28. Batista controls the company with a 67 percent stake.  ‘Domino Effect’  OSX submited bankruptcy protection documents in a Rio state
court today, Eduardo Munhoz, a partner at law firm Mattos Filho,
Veiga Filho, Marrey Jr. & Quiroga Advogados that is an adviser
to Batista, said in a text message. Galdino e Carneiro Advogados
is representing OSX in the case, Munhoz said.  Share trading was halted in Sao Paulo today.  The proceedings mark the failure of the entrepreneur’s
attempt to build an empire of interconnected energy, logistics
and mining companies. Most of OSX’s oil deposits once valued by
Batista at $1 trillion turned out to be duds.  “There is a domino effect here,”  Adriano Pires , head of
the Brazilian Center for Infrastructure in Rio de Janeiro, said
by telephone. “Once the mother company fell, it was more than
expected that OSX would not be able to negotiate with creditors.
It was a chronicle of a death foretold.”  OSX was building three production vessels for OGX before
the explorer’s production tests uncovered an absence of oil in a
series of non-commercial wells. Batista either relinquished
control of, or agreed to sell key assets and stakes in, the four
other listed startups  Dollar Bonds  OSX intends to leave out of the filing three vessels used
as collateral for $1.77 billion of debt, part of the company’s
leasing unit, two people with direct knowledge of the matter
said last week. In a separate e-mailed statement on Nov. 8, OSX
said the filing plans are limited to OSX Brasil and units OSX
Construcao Naval SA and OSX Servicos Operacionais Ltda.  OSX shares  lost  95 percent in the past 12 months, reducing
its market value to 159 million reais ($68.9 million). The stock
rose 8.5 percent to 51 centavos in Sao Paulo in Nov. 8.  OSX and OGX were the only two of Batista’s six publicly
listed companies to sell  bonds  in international markets. OGX’s
notes due 2018 fell to as low as 6 cents on the dollar last
month while OSX’s $500 million of dollar bonds due 2015, backed
by a contract to lease a platform to OGX, have lost 20 cents
this year to 84 cents.  OSX’s  shipyard unit  extended the maturity for a year on a
461 million-real loan from state-run Caixa Economica Federal,
which is guaranteed by Banco Santander SA, according to a
regulatory filing this week. Caixa also granted a loan of 627.4
million reais to the unit, according to its earnings statement.  Non Payment  Since Aug. 18 state development bank BNDES has been pushing
out maturities on a loan for 518 million reais with guarantees
from Banco Votorantim SA and no vessel as collateral, two people
with knowledge said last month.  Discord between OSX and its main client became public
before OGX’s bankruptcy filing. OSX said Oct. 29 it was removing
one of its production vessels from OGX’s Tubarao Azul field on
non-payment and would seek a new client for the unit.  OGX listed OSX as its top creditor among suppliers when it
filed for the protection, according a copy of the list of
creditors obtained by Bloomberg News. The oil producer has
liabilities of 2.45 billion reais with OSX, or 22 percent of the
total 11.4-billion reais debt declared in court, it said, adding
that some of the debt is “disputable.”  Sisterly ‘Tension’  OSX probably will assert claims for damages upon
termination or breach of agreements for $2.6 billion, OGX said
in a September presentation made by advisers Blackstone Group LP
to note holders released as part of the negotiations. The
shipbuilder suspended contracts with OGX for the leasing and
operation of the OSX-2 vessel and WHP-2 platform, OSX said in a
regulatory filing today.  “There is some tension between OGX and OSX,” Octavio
Fragata de Barros, a litigation and arbitration specialist at
law firm TozziniFreire Advogados, said by telephone from Rio.
“Although they are in the same group, each company has its own
board and directors. They need to protect themselves to not be
accused of breaching any fiduciary duties, and they need to
protect the assets of their companies.”  With OSX, Batista sought to profit from Brazil’s local
content rules, which limit the use of imported equipment and
services by the oil and gas industry. The company held its
initial public  offering  in March 2010 after reducing the size of
the sale to lure investors. Two months later, OSX formed a
partnership with Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. to provide
technology for the shipyard, where construction began in July
2011 at the Batista-founded Acu port in Rio state.  OSX shares never recovered their IPO levels even as the
tycoon promised to create “the Embraer of the seas,” referring
to the world’s largest regional-jet maker.  Debt Sale  Until September 2012, the company was saying it had firm
orders for vessels worth $7 billion. Since then, OSX has been
shrinking projects, firing staff and putting units on sale after
contracts were canceled and losses mounted.  In March 2012, the company sold $500 million in dollar debt
to help finance construction of OSX-3, one of three platforms
commissioned by OGX. The production platform was used to
guarantee the bonds. A year later, when output at OGX’s first
field, Tubarao Azul, had already failed to meet company
expectations, OSX shelved plans to sell a second international
debt security amid a rout in its securities, according to a memo
from underwriters obtained by Bloomberg News at the time.  In July, OGX abandoned discoveries it previously declared
commercial and OSX no longer had a source of revenue for two of
its three floating production storage and offloading vessels, or
FPSOs.  Built in  Singapore , the bond-financed ship arrived in
Brazil in July and is preparing to start production at OGX’s
Tubarao Martelo field once it receives an environmental license.  Legislative Test  The OSX-1 platform was used by OGX at the Tubarao Azul
field, until OSX canceled the charter on Oct. 30 because of a
lack of payments. The OSX-2 platform is docked in  Malaysia  while
the company seeks buyers.  Holders of the OSX bonds hired AlixPartners LLP to advise
on a possible restructuring, two people with knowledge of the
matter told Bloomberg News earlier this month.  AlixPartners, the New York-based firm that advised General
Motors Co. on its restructuring when the automotive giant filed
for bankruptcy protection in 2009, will work alongside the
creditors’ legal adviser Bingham McCutchen LLP, said the people.  The fact that OGX and OSX have the same controlling
shareholder doesn’t mean the court would consider both cases as
part of the same dispute, said Juliana Bumachar, corporate
recovery specialist and partner at law firm Bumachar Advogados
Associados.  “This is another company and a different case,” Bumachar
said by telephone from Rio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  