-- Bernanke Says Failing Bank Process Needed to Reduce Moral Hazard
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-08T20:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/bernanke-says-failing-bank-process-needed-to-reduce-moral-hazard.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said a process under development that would allow
regulators to take down a failing bank will help ensure
investors discipline weak firms and prevent them from taking
risks without consequence.  “As we try to make the financial system safer, we must
inevitably confront the problem of moral hazard,” Bernanke said
today in remarks at an International Monetary Fund conference in
 Washington . “Market discipline can only limit moral hazard to
the extent that debt and equity holders believe that, in the
event of distress, they will bear costs,” he said, in remarks
that did not address the outlook for the economy or monetary
policy.  Bernanke said regulators have been working to devise so-called orderly liquidation authority, that would allow a
systemically important financial institution, or SIFI, to be
closed down without the chaos that surrounded the failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and bailout of American
International Group Inc. in September 2008.  “In the crisis, the absence of an adequate resolution
process for dealing with a failing SIFI left policy makers with
only the terrible choices of a bailout or allowing a potentially
destabilizing collapse,” Bernanke said. “A credible resolution
mechanism for systemically important firms will be important for
reducing uncertainty, enhancing market discipline, and reducing
moral hazard.”  Bernanke led the central bank through a financial crisis
and 18-month recession, that was the longest and deepest since
the Great Depression. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached a
12-year low in March 2009. Joblessness peaked at a quarter-century high of 10 percent in October 2009. By March 2010, 10.1
percent of all  mortgage loans  were delinquent, according to data
from the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  The 59-year-old Fed chief devoted most of his remarks to
comparing what happened five years ago to “a classic financial
panic” like the banking panic in 1907 that led to the creation
of the U.S. central bank 100 years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  