-- Bernstein Says ‘Great Rotation’ of Bonds to Stocks Flawed
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-11-08T19:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/bernstein-says-great-rotation-of-bonds-to-stocks-flawed.html
The idea of a “great rotation” from
bonds to stocks is flawed and investors expecting that shift to
boost equity prices may be disappointed, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  “A rotation mental model may stem from incomplete notions
of supply, demand, pricing and flows in  capital markets ,” Luke Montgomery, an analyst at the New York-based firm covering asset
managers, wrote today in a note to clients.  Montgomery cited misconceptions over what happens when one
investment type appears to win favor at the expense of another,
saying there’s no automatic correlation between the migration of
money and asset prices. He also disputed the notion that
individual investors are holding less in stocks than they have
historically, supposedly setting up a major shift.  Investment analysts have been debating whether a major move
from bonds to stocks, coined the great rotation by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch analysts in a January 2011 research
report, is under way.  Michael Hartnett , BofA Merrill Lynch’s
chief investment strategist in  New York , wrote in an Aug. 15
note that the thesis has moved from controversial to consensus,
joining analysts from UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG in
recommending investment approaches based on the idea.
Strategists from HSBC Holdings Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Jupiter
Investment Management Plc. disputed the rotation.  In today’s report, Montgomery questioned how much of a
rotation can occur and what its impact would be. He took aim at
the argument that high levels of  bank deposits  and bond mutual
fund assets created by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s stimulus
efforts might suddenly pour into stocks.  ‘Wider Range’  “While quantitative easing floods investors with liquid
financial assets and can inflate other asset values, this does
not mean deposits in aggregate then become a latent source of
funds for risk assets,” Montgomery wrote.  What’s more, he said, bonds can drop in value without money
flowing into other assets.  “Wealth destruction in bonds can be an independent event -
- bond wealth can simply evaporate and need not be offset by
wealth created in equities, or any other asset class,” he
wrote. “Once the rate hike cycle begins, there is a far wider
range of possibilities for the future market values of (and
allocations to) cash, bonds, and equities than may be envisioned
by the great rotation mental model.”  U.S. investors pulled $165 billion from equity mutual funds
in the three years ended Sept. 30, according to data compiled by
the  Investment Company Institute  in  Washington . The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks, which lost more than half its
value in the 2007-2009 financial crisis, rose 57 percent in the
three years through September.  U.S. households, whom some expect to lead the shift into
stocks, are already “modestly overweight” in equity holdings
compared with their average position since 1951, Montgomery
said. Pension funds are “sharply overweight” in stocks, he
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  