-- Bharara Says Budget Constraints Could Derail Future Prosecutions
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-11-08T17:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/bharara-says-budget-constraints-could-derail-future-prosecutions.html
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said a federal hiring freeze is threatening his office’s ability
to carry out its job of prosecuting financial and other crimes.  “People are going to get away,” Bharara said today at a
Practising Law Institute  event  in  New York . “We’re OK now but
at some point that will cease to be true.”  Other governmental departments and offices have faced
financial constraints as a result of  federal budget  cuts known
as sequestration. Bharara said he’s not able to replace
prosecutors who leave through normal attrition.  Speaking on a panel with Andrew Ceresney, the co-director
of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement
division, and  David Meister , who was until recently the chief of
the division, Bharara also said he will pursue wrongdoing
admissions in “virtually all” civil cases his office brings
against financial institutions even though it may require more
resources to litigate the matters.  In contrast to the SEC’s policy to seek admissions from
defendants only in a subset of cases, Bharara said there is “a
very strong presumption” that if his office pursues a civil
case, they will require admissions of wrongdoing. Companies will
often be willing to pay “huge sums” of money to settle a
matter yet are ready to go to trial over an admission, he said.  “It’s not just the financial component, but the story
needs to be told,” Bharara said. “We’re a little tired of
recidivism.”  Bharara also said prosecutors are looking more into holding
institutions accountable for employees’ misconduct, both
criminally and civilly.  “Sometimes it’s true that there are bad apples, but
sometimes the barrel is rotten, too,” Bharara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  