-- Bitcoin at Record, Senate Seeks to Discuss Virtual Money
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   M a x   R a s k i n
-- 2013-11-08T17:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/bitcoin-at-record-senate-seeks-to-discuss-virtual-money.html
Bitcoin’s price climbed to a record
at $330.01 on the  BitStamp  online exchange, as U.S. senators
scheduled a hearing to discuss the future of the digital money
and other virtual currencies.  The U.S. Senate Committee on  Homeland Security  and
Governmental Affairs will meet on Nov. 18 “to explore potential
promises and risks related to virtual currency for the federal
government and society at large,” it said in a statement today.  The price of Bitcoins has more than doubled even after the
closing five weeks ago of the “Silk Road Hidden Website,”
where people could obtain drugs, guns and other illicit goods
using Bitcoins. While the digital money lost a third of its
value in the days after the website was shut down, it’s becoming
an increasingly popular way of paying for goods and services on
the Web and in stores that accept the tender.  “Bitcoin is obviously getting a lot of attention from the
federal government on the regulatory side,” Nicholas Colas, an
analyst at ConvergEx Group, said in an interview. “Given the
involvement of the currency in illegal activities, that is
entirely warranted. I expect these hearings to be largely
informational, which is good for Bitcoin.”  The hearing, titled “Beyond Silk Road: Potential Risks,
Threats, and Promises of Virtual Currencies,” will invite
witnesses to testify about the challenges facing  law enforcement 
and regulatory agencies, and include views from “non-governmental entities who can discuss the promises of virtual
currency for the American and global economies.”  Bitcoin Trade  Bitcoin reached a record on BitStamp, one of the more
active Web-based exchanges where the digital money is traded for
dollars, euros and other currencies. Bitcoins were trading at
$323 apiece at 12:36 p.m. in  New York .  The virtual currency exists as software that’s designed to
be untraceable, making it an attractive tender for those seeking
to trade anonymously via the Web. There are about 30
transactions per minute, at an average amount of 16 Bitcoins,
according to a  report  this week by the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago.  “The architecture of the system is elegant from a
computer-science perspective, but hard for a non-tech person to
understand,” Colas said. “Getting industry professionals to
close this gap will be very helpful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Max Raskin in New York at 
 mraskin5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  