-- BlackRock’s Rieder Fixes Fink’s Big Regret at Bond Funds
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-11-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/blackrock-s-rieder-fixes-fink-s-big-regret-at-bond-funds.html
Rick Rieder had a clear mission when
he was named chief investment officer for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s
actively managed bond funds in 2010: fix one of Laurence D. Fink’s biggest regrets.  Fink, chief executive officer of New York-based BlackRock,
had built the firm from a bond shop into the world’s largest
asset manager through  acquisitions . In the process, the fixed-income unit had lost its course, with 59 percent of funds
trailing peers in the 2008 financial crisis. As investors poured
$1 trillion into bond mutual funds in the U.S. in the next four
years, Fink watched  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management
Co. more than double in size while his active fixed-income unit
languished.  Today the business has become a favorite for Fink, who has
highlighted his improved fixed-income performance more than 20
times on four  conference calls  this year. At a time when most
bond managers, including Pimco, suffered redemptions, BlackRock
last quarter attracted $7.2 billion into its active fixed-income
funds. Rieder, 52, speaks daily with Fink as part of the CEO’s
circle of advisers and touts the benefits of his go-anywhere
 Strategic Income Opportunities Portfolio (BSIIX)  to clients after
beating 89 percent of rivals this year.  “In 2009, due to turnover and performance issues, we
weren’t actively recommending them,” said Brian Rowe, director
of manager research at Seattle-based consultant Wurts &
Associates, which advises institutional investors on more than
$74 billion in assets at BlackRock and elsewhere. “Now, as you
see Rick put his imprimatur all over BlackRock’s funds, they’re
getting more disciplined and you’re seeing outperformance.”  Attracting Money  Rieder’s $9.6 billion Strategic Income fund is attracting
money as expectations that the three-decade rally in bonds may
have ended drive investors into non-traditional strategies. His
performance helped the firm’s fixed-income lineup beat 61
percent of peers in 2012 and 57 percent this year through
September, according to Morningstar Inc.  Rieder’s unit, which suffered from $22 billion in net
redemptions in the five years through Dec. 31, has also been
shielded from withdrawals this year because it isn’t as focused
on intermediate-term bond offerings, which have long been the
core bond holdings for investors and are now suffering the bulk
of fixed-income redemptions.  Intermediate-term bond funds generally have a duration of
3.5 to 6 years, according to Morningstar. The higher the
duration, the more sensitive a fund is to changes in  interest
rates .  ‘Real Volatility’  “Volatility in fixed income is real and going to be here
permanently, so we’re in for a very different fixed-income
market than the last 30 years,” Rieder said in an interview at
the firm’s headquarters. “Interest rates bailing you out is a
thing of the past.”  Hired in 2009 when BlackRock  bought  his hedge-fund firm, R3
 Capital Partners , Rieder was promoted to CIO the next year.
Strategic Income, which Rieder started managing in August 2010,
returned 3.3 percent in the year ended Nov. 6, compared with a
1.2 percent drop in the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index.  Rieder reduced sensitivity to interest rates in Strategic
Income, cutting the effective duration below 2 years from as
high as 3.7 years before he took over, according to Morningstar
data. As of Sept. 30, the fund’s duration was 1.4 years,
compared with 5.6 years for the Barclays Aggregate.  Strategic Income’s unconstrained approach means it doesn’t
have to track the Barclays Aggregate, the most widely used
fixed-income benchmark, so it isn’t restricted by quality,
sector or region, and it can employ hedging techniques. Rieder
said he’s finding opportunities in riskier credit including
commercial mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities
and high-yield bonds with maturities of generally no more than
five years.  Gross’s Losses  Investors put $44.9 billion into nontraditional bond funds
through Sept. 30 while pulling $61.7 billion from intermediate-term bond funds in the U.S., according to Chicago-based
Morningstar.  Gross’s $248 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the biggest
intermediate-term bond fund, lost $33.2 billion to redemptions
this year through Oct. 31, according to Morningstar estimates.
 Jeffrey Gundlach ’s $34 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond
Fund, which makes up more than half of Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine’s assets, lost $3.1 billion to withdrawals.
BlackRock’s largest total return offering, the Total Return Fund
co-managed by Rieder, has $2.9 billion in assets.  ‘Greatest Failures’  Investors fled from traditional fixed income as interest
rates surged in May, when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress that the central bank might pull back its
unprecedented stimulus.  In the first three quarters, BlackRock’s active bond funds
took in $6.2 billion, led by deposits of $4.8 billion for
Strategic Income. BlackRock, which oversees $4.1 trillion, has
48 percent of its bond assets in passive funds and is relying on
active products to bring in deposits as investors flee fixed-income offerings pegged to market benchmarks.  While BlackRock missed out on the cash flooding into fixed
income after the financial crisis,  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, the world’s largest bond manager, grew to $2
trillion in assets.  “One of the greatest failures of BlackRock has been our
fixed-income mutual fund flows over the last few years, compared
to our great competitors,” Fink told analysts and investors in
a January 2011 conference call. “Obviously our performance in
2008 was a chief cause of that.”  Wharton MBA  As BlackRock reaped fixed-income deposits in the third
quarter, Pimco’s mutual funds in the U.S. lost $25 billion to
withdrawals, Morningstar estimated, and  San Mateo , California-based  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  reported redemptions of $8.5
billion in the bond category.  “The dialogues we’re having with clients related to fixed
income are more active than they have been in years,” Fink said
in an Oct. 16 conference call discussing quarterly results. On a
July call, he said Rieder’s fund was “well positioned to be one
of BlackRock’s largest and most-important products.”  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, started remaking
the bond unit in 2010 when he promoted  Peter Fisher  to head of
fundamental fixed income and Rieder became deputy CIO under
Curtis Arledge. When Arledge left that year, Rieder succeeded
him.  Rieder has come far from his freshman days at Hobart
College in Geneva,  New York , where he almost flunked out of
school. Rieder, who grew up in Scarsdale, New York, transferred
to  Emory University  in Atlanta and graduated third in his class
with a bachelor’s in business administration before earning an
MBA from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School. He
spent 21 years at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before founding
R3 Capital in 2008.  Smart Intern  One weekend a month, he wakes up at 3:30 a.m. and works
until 6 p.m. both days, analyzing as many as 400 pages of
economic charts to glean where markets are headed. He unveils
his findings in a monthly call with clients.  With a self-deprecating style, Rieder calls his intern
smarter than he is and jokes of an inability to do handiwork
such as screwing in a light bulb.  Fisher led a reorganization of the bond division last year,
giving unit heads greater autonomy and accountability, before
leaving his post to join the BlackRock Investment Institute in
February. Rieder focuses on investing while Kevin Holt, his co-head of Americas fixed income, handles business management.
Rieder and Holt oversee about $650 billion and more than 200
investment professionals.  ‘Best Ideas’  Strategic Income, which opened in February 2008, averaged
3.3 percent returns in the past three years to outperform 70
percent of rivals Morningstar classifies as nontraditional bond
funds. The fund had an off-year in 2011 when it fell 0.7
percent, compared with a 7.8 percent gain in the Barclays
Aggregate as investors sought the safety of Treasuries amid
European turmoil.  “The theory is you can get the very best ideas of a
particular fixed-income manager, in this case, Rick, and the
broad range of expertise that a firm like BlackRock has,” said
 Eric Jacobson , a senior fund analyst at Morningstar. “The risk,
of course, is that when you give that much freedom to somebody,
you give them the freedom to fail.”  A challenging climate doesn’t deter Rieder, who said he
rejected the safer route of returning to work as a financial
analyst at SunTrust Banks Inc. after graduating from Wharton. He
was offered a job as a trader at brokerage E.F. Hutton & Co.,
and took it.  Muni Bonds  “Before the crisis, nothing happened,” Rieder said. “Now
there’s a lot to do and things to sink your teeth into. Fixed
income is finally interesting.”  In today’s environment, Rieder said he likes assets that
provide income and minimize interest-rate risk, such as
floating-rate bonds and sovereign debt in Portugal, Ireland and
 Italy . He’s buying municipal bonds because he doesn’t see other
major U.S. cities defaulting following  Detroit ’s bankruptcy in
July.  The economy was strong enough for the Fed to begin tapering
in March, according to Rieder, who said central bank spending
isn’t improving employment.  “This country won’t grow as fast because the education
system isn’t growing,” Rieder said. “The Fed thinks
unemployment is cyclical, but it’s structural.”  Equities Setback  He sees charter schools, which operate independently with
public funding, as part of the answer. Rieder, who cited data in
a September presentation showing that 42 percent of public
students in the largest U.S. cities don’t finish high school,
helps lead educational programs in Atlanta and  Newark ,  New
Jersey .  BlackRock’s success in fixed income contrasts with the
setback in the active-equity business. That unit’s chief
investment officer, Chris Leavy, went on medical leave in June
after replacing managers at strategies accounting for almost 40
percent of the division’s $118 billion. Fink remains optimistic
that the firm’s stock pickers can emulate Rieder’s turnaround,
after redemptions of $16.3 billion at the active-equity unit in
the first three quarters.  “Much of the confidence I have in making these changes in
our equity platform stems from the success we had in the
rebuilding of our fixed-income side,” Fink said on last month’s
conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  