-- Brazil Real Declines as Budget Deficit, Fed Concern Sink Demand
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-11-08T20:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/brazil-real-tumbles-as-budget-deficit-fed-concern-sink-demand.html
The real fell to a two-month low on
concern  Brazil  isn’t doing enough to curb its  budget deficit  and
as speculation mounted that the  Federal Reserve  will begin
curtailing stimulus.  The currency dropped 0.3 percent to 2.3133 per dollar at
the close in Sao Paulo, sliding to the lowest level since Sept.
5 and extending its weekly decline to 2.6 percent. Local bonds
fell, pushing yields on debt maturing in 2023 up nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 12.43 percent, the highest
since the securities were sold in March 2012. The yields climbed
55 basis points for the week.  The budget  deficit  swelled in September to the largest
since 2009, prompting plans by the government to eliminate tax
breaks on consumer goods to shore up public finances.  Standard &
Poor’s  may lower the nation’s rating sooner if the government
allows more fiscal deterioration, Regina Nunes, managing
director in Brazil at the company, said in an interview.  “The fiscal problem is generating a lot of doubts,”
Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at BGC Liquidez DTVM in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “And the focus is also on
what the Fed will do.”  The real has tumbled since Oct. 31, when the government
reported that the budget deficit increased in September to 3.3
percent of gross domestic product, the largest in four years.  Brazil needs to focus exclusively on fiscal issues and
investment as S&P evaluates the nation’s BBB credit rating over
the next 24 months, Nunes said in the interview.  Ratings Outlooks  S&P and Moody’s Investors Service lowered their outlooks
this year on Brazil’s rating, which both companies put at two
levels above junk.  The government will eliminate tax breaks on  consumer goods 
and end a program to stimulate exports to curb deficits,
Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said yesterday.  “We are used to dealing with the markets’ complexity and
moods,” Augustin said at his office in Brasilia. The government
must “react with calm, seek to inform and undo possible
misunderstanding and continue with the policies it believes will
deal with the negative circumstances.”  The central bank auctioned $1 billion of credit lines today
as part of a $60 billion intervention announced Aug. 22 to
support the currency and curb import price increases. Brazil may
extend the program beyond December, Carlos Hamilton, the central
bank’s economic policy director, said this week.  Traders added to speculation that the Fed will reduce asset
purchases supporting the economy after a report showed U.S.
employers added more jobs than forecast in October.  Payrolls in the U.S. increased by 204,000, following a
revised 163,000 gain in September that was larger than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 120,000 advance.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2016 climbed
six basis points to 11.80 percent today, extending their
increase this week to 38 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  