-- Brazil Seeks China Corn Imports of 10 Million Tons Amid Glut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-08T13:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/brazil-seeks-china-corn-imports-of-10-million-tons-amid-glut-1-.html
Brazil , the biggest corn exporter
after the U.S. in the past season, is pushing to win a share of
China’s imports of the grain for the first time as the outlook
for surging U.S. output threatens to curb the South American
nation’s shipments.  The country has a 10 million-metric-ton corn surplus it
hopes to ship to China, Brazilian Agriculture Minister Antonio Andrade said at a media conference in Beijing today. Failure to
direct the surplus to China may cause Brazilian exports to drop
to 18 million tons in 2014 from 21 million this year, Silvio
Porto, director of Brazil’s Conab crop-forecasting agency said
in Brasilia today.  Brazil is seeking to secure Chinese purchases at a time the
U.S. is poised to produce a record amount of the grain used to
feed livestock as American crops recover from the most-severe
drought since the 1930s last year. While  China  is the second-largest grower, its purchases may jump to a record 7 million
tons in the year through Sept. 30 as hog herds and poultry
inventory expand, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates.  Corn has slumped 40 percent this year as supplies surge.
Futures for delivery in December were unchanged from yesterday
at $4.2050 a bushel as of 7:45 a.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade.  The U.S. harvest may reach a record 14.029 billion bushels,
or 1.3 percent more than the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
prediction in September and 30 percent larger than in 2012,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 36 analysts.  Quarantine Agreement  Brazil and China signed a quarantine agreement on Nov. 6,
paving the way for the South American nation to begin exports
for the first time. The corn pact follows similar approvals for
Argentina and Ukraine last year, allowing China to lessen its
reliance on the U.S.  “Opening the door to Brazilian corn gives some competition
to U.S. exports,” said  Li Qiang , chairman of  Shanghai  JC
Intelligence Co. in Shanghai.  Argentina and Ukraine are set to match Brazilian exports of
18 million tons in the current 2013/14 season, according to USDA
estimates.  Brazilian corn growers are forecast to reap between 78.5
million and 79.8 million tons of the grain in the current
season, up from 81 million in the previous harvest, the
government said today.  China will also send quarantine officials to Brazil next
month to study the lifting of a ban on its beef due to mad cow
disease, Andrade said. Brazil expects the ban to be lifted soon,
he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  