-- Brazil Soccer Champion Fluminense Fights to Beat Historic Drop
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-11-08T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/brazil-soccer-champion-fluminense-fights-to-beat-historic-drop.html
A year after rewriting records on its
way to winning a fourth Brazilian soccer championship,
Fluminense is in danger of making the wrong kind of history.  The Rio de Janeiro-based club, whose players have included
current and former Brazil national team captains  Thiago Silva 
and Carlos Alberto, has six games to avoid becoming the first
champion to drop out of the elite division the following season.  “It’s not normal in Brazil,” said Pedro Daniel, an
economist who analyzes the country’s soccer industry for auditor
BDO Brazil. “It’s never happened that one club is champion and
next year was relegated.”  A 1-0 loss to local rival Flamengo on Nov. 3 left Flu, as
the 111-year-old club is known, 16th of 20 teams, with only goal
difference keeping it out of the  four-team drop zone . It next
faces Corinthians in two days.  For club president Peter Siemsen, who was elected in 2010,
a yearlong tax wrangle with the Brazilian government and
injuries to players including captain and record-breaking
striker Fred have contributed to turning his champions into
relegation scrappers.  Title-winning coach Abel Braga, whose team took a record 76
points from its first 35 games last season, was fired in July
after five straight losses. His successor, ex-Real Madrid
manager Vanderlei Luxemburgo, has managed six wins from 23
matches and is without a victory in eight straight games. The
sequence has led to chants calling for his exit.  “The majority of fans are still with us,” Siemsen said by
telephone. “We’re fighting now in a very hard way. We still
believe we can stay in this division.”  Fan Trouble  Some supporters are less convinced. After the derby match
against Flamengo ended in a last-minute defeat on an own goal, a
group of fans vandalized the team’s headquarters. Some players
had their cars damaged and sponsors billboards were torn down,
according to sports daily Lance!. Siemsen said those involved
were “crazy fans connected with hooligans.”  Fluminense, founded by a group of  Rio aristocrats  in 1902,
has historically been associated with the city’s wealthy elite.
It was among the last clubs in Brazil to include black players
and its fans are known for throwing white powder onto the field,
a tradition dating back to an incident a century ago when a
player attempted to disguise his skin color by covering it with
rice powder.  Today, the club attracts fans from all sections of society,
though they were heavily outnumbered against Flamengo, Brazil’s
best-supported team. Last year, Fluminense generated 151.2
million reais ($66 million) in sales, less than half of what top
earner Corinthians made, according to a report by BDO.  ‘Weird Team’  “Fluminense is a weird team,” said Amir Somoggi, who
advises several of  Brazil ’s top clubs on business strategy.
“They won a lot of cups, but don’t make any money. They have a
beautiful team, but not many fans.”  Demotion won’t hurt Fluminense’s finances as much as teams
in some other major soccer leagues because television contracts
are fixed long term, according to Somoggi. The loss of its major
backer Unimed, whose name has adorned the team’s jersey’s since
1999, would be a cause for concern, he added.  “Without Unimed, Fluminense would probably be second or
third division,” said Somoggi, who estimates that the health-care services provider and insurer pumps about 90 million reais
annually into the team. “If they quit investing, I don’t know
how Fluminense will survive.”  Brazilian teams are run as member-owned organizations,
meaning they can’t be bought by wealthy individuals or
companies.  Fluminense ’s relationship with Unimed is unique, and
some fans oppose it because of the company’s influence on team
matters, according to Daniel, the economist.  Successful Strategy  “Unimed pays the majority of the salaries at Fluminense,”
Daniel said. “The president of Unimed, Celso Barros, is a
famous fan who puts his money in Fluminense.”  In a statement, Unimed said the sponsorship “gives great
visibility” to its brand in Brazil while helping Fluminense
“build winning teams.” Two national championships and one
Brazilian Cup title in the past six years “demonstrate the
success of our strategy,” Unimed added.  The company said that it’s interested in renewing the
sponsorship, though will evaluate the results achieved through
partnership before any decision.  Siemsen said he’s confident Unimed will renew and the issue
of unpaid taxes dating back more than two decades may soon be
resolved. Fluminense owes the government about 400 million
reais, and has been involved in putting together a 20-year
repayment plan for Brazilian soccer clubs to repay debts
totaling 4.5 billion reais. The agreement still needs to be
ratified by lawmakers.  Good Situation  “Since last November we faced a very, very tough situation
so we fought,” Siemsen said. “Last week, we had a new law and
we renegotiated our tax debt to return to a good situation.”  The president is now seeking a positive outcome on the
field, where the club’s performance has swayed from year to
year. In 2009, it won six of its last seven games to avoid
demotion and rebounded to win the title the next season.  To prepare for the Nov. 10 match against Corinthians, the
squad arrived in  Sao Paulo  six days early as it seeks to repeat
that relegation escape.  “In truth I believe we can stay up,” Siemsen said. “I
don’t think we will go to the second division.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  