-- British Airways Owner IAG Raises Forecast on Profit Surge
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-08T10:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/british-airways-owner-iag-raises-forecast-on-profit-surge.html
British Airways parent  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  doubled third-quarter earnings
and lifted the full-year outlook as it squeezes value from
Spanish arm Iberia and the U.K. unit taps a trans-Atlantic boom.  IAG had an operating profit of 690 million euros ($925
million) before one-time items, versus 270 million euros a year
earlier,  Europe ’s No. 3 airline group said today in a statement.
That beat the 651 million-euro average estimate of four analysts.  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  is seeking more than
3,100 job cuts as he makes a Spanish turnaround central to his
strategy. Iberia’s operating profit jumped to 74 million euros
in the quarter from 1 million euros, while Barcelona-based
discount carrier Vueling, of which London-based IAG recently
took full control, made a 139 million-euro contribution.  “Progress and strength were across the board,” James Hollins, an analyst at Investec Securities in London, said in a
note. “We were premature moving from ‘buy’ to ‘hold’ in August
and the group is outperforming our short-term expectations.”  IAG advanced 5.7 percent, the biggest jump in three months,
and was trading up 18.9 pence or 5.4 percent at 367.9 pence as
of 9:28 a.m. in London.  Top Performer  The stock  has exactly doubled in price this year, valuing
the company at 7.52 billion pounds and eclipsing rivals  Air
France-KLM Group (AF) , which has added 2.9 percent and has a market
capitalization less than one-quarter that of IAG in dollar terms,
and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  of  Germany , which is barely changed.  Air France-KLM and Lufthansa, Europe’s biggest airlines by
passenger traffic, said Oct. 31 they were struggling to reach
earnings goals as a stronger euro and sluggish economic growth
undermine the benefits of their savings programs.  IAG is also worth $2 billion more than  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,
Europe’s top discount carrier, which on Nov. 4 predicted its
first profit drop in five years as competition crimps fares.  Still, Madrid-based Iberia must continue to restructure,
Walsh said on a conference call, adding that “further
improvements in productivity will be necessary to ensure that we
have an airline that is viable, profitable and can pursue growth
on a sustainable basis.”  The CEO said Oct. 22 he expects the unit to post a full-year profit in 2014 for first time since 2008, aided by a lower
break-even point following the establishment of Iberia Express.  British Airways had a three-month operating profit of 477
million euros, up from 268 million euros a year earlier, aided
by strong demand on its key trans-Atlantic routes.  Vueling Growth  IAG’S European network produced a “good performance,”
overall, according to Walsh, with Iberia paring unit costs after
capacity cuts, though he said more work to reduce expenses is
needed and that talks are continuing with unions to achieve that.  “The current restructuring proposals don’t go far enough
to provide us with the basis for investment for future growth,”
said Walsh, who has curbed Iberia fleet growth compared with BA.  Discount operator Vueling can expect “further
opportunities” as former flag-carrier airlines continue to
restructure, leaving gaps in the short-haul market, he said.  Vueling delivered the group’s strongest operating margin
for the third quarter at 25 percent, almost double the BA figure
of 12.8 percent and four times Iberia’s 6.2 percent.  IAG returned to providing guidance on earnings -- suspended
while it awaited shareholder backing for $17 billion of plane
purchases -- saying it expects to post an operating profit of
about 740 million euros this year as Walsh targets earnings of
1.6 billion euros in 2015. It said previously that the 2013
figure would at least equal 2011’s 485 million euros.  Volume Focus  The CEO said the group should be profitable at a “low
level” in the traditionally weak fourth quarter.  Exchange-rate fluctuations “had a big impact” in the
third quarter, Walsh said, with a net effect of 42 million euros
as the headwind on revenue more than offset cost benefits.  British Airways began operating  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner
and the Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo in the third quarter as it
seeks to phase out higher fuel-burn 747 jumbos. New routes at BA
mean the driver for sales growth will shift from yield -- a
measure of pricing -- to volume in 2014, according to IAG.  Investec’s Hollins said the emphasis on adding seats at a
company that’s benefitted from a period of capacity constraint
across the industry gives “some cause for concern.”  IAG is evaluating Boeing’s new 777X wide-body, which would
be of interest to both British Airways and Iberia, said Walsh,
who has been briefed on the jet by Ray Conner, CEO of the U.S.
company’s commercial aircraft division.  The long-range plane, which Cologne-based Lufthansa has
already agreed to buy, will have worldwide interest and provides
an incentive for rival Airbus to improve its product, Walsh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  