-- Bumi Holders to Vote Dec. 4 on Deal to Split From Bakries
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-11-08T08:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/bumi-holders-to-vote-dec-4-on-deal-to-split-from-bakries.html
Shareholders of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the coal
producer at the center of an ownership dispute, will vote next
month on a proposed $501 million deal that will separate the
group from founding investors the Bakrie family.  A general meeting in London will vote on the plan on Dec. 4
as well as a name change to Asia Resource Minerals Plc, the
company said today in a statement. The sale of Bumi’s 29.2
percent stake in PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI)  to the Bakrie Group was
agreed on at a 116 percent premium to the current market value,
it said today. Bumi confirmed plans to return at least $400
million in cash to shareholders.  For longer than 18 months Bumi has been at the heart of a
battle for control between the Bakries and Nathaniel Rothschild,
42, scion of a centuries-old British banking dynasty, as waning
coal prices, board infighting and probes in the U.K. and
 Indonesia  weighed on the stock. The shares plunged 69 percent
last year as the Bakries and Rothschild made rival proposals to
unwind the $3 billion deal that brought them together in 2010.  Bumi, owner of stakes in two Indonesian coal suppliers,
last month agreed to sell its PT Bumi stake to the Bakries as
part of a two-step plan to separate from one of Indonesia’s
wealthiest families. Bumi Chairman Samin Tan has agreed to buy
the Bakries’ 23.8 percent holding in Bumi Plc for $223 million.  The Bakries’ Long Haul Holdings has placed $50 million in
an escrow account with Deutsche Bank AG, Bumi said today. It has
no commitment from Tan or the Bakries, nor seen any evidence
from them that the necessary funds are available, Bumi said.  The stock gained 4.8 percent yesterday to 224.25 pence by
the close in  London , valuing the company at 541 million pounds
($871 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  