-- California Seen Beating Renewable Energy Generation Goal
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-11-08T00:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/california-seen-beating-renewable-energy-generation-goal.html
Public support for rooftop solar and
investments by major companies will push renewable energy
generation beyond  California ’s targets by 2020, a Los Angeles
energy lawyer said.  Projects by Microsoft Corp. and other companies are showing
an appetite for wind and solar power that will continue even if
the federal government doesn’t extend tax credits that expire at
the end of the year, said Jerry Bloom, chairman of Winston &
Strawn LLP’s energy, project development and finance practice
group.  “People are saying we don’t care there is a 33 percent cap
in California; we need more,” Bloom said at the Platts
California Power and Gas Conference in  San Francisco . The state
is requiring that solar, wind and other renewable sources make
up 33 percent of the electricity supply by 2020.  A new California law allowing owners of rooftop solar to
receive retail rates for excess power they sell to their local
utilities will drive behind-the-meter solar projects, said Bryan Miller, vice president of public policy and power markets at
Sunrun Inc., a rooftop solar developer.  Large corporations including Google Inc., Apple Inc. and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  have been investing in renewable energy as
part of sustainability or environmental initiatives, Bloom said.
He said he expects Congress to extend production tax credits for
wind and other renewable resources and that states have shown
they will step in with incentives if necessary.  “It’s the Bill Gateses, the Yahoos and the Googles and
Apple that just bought a solar facility to operate themselves,”
Bloom said. “They give us the ability to push regulators and to
get roadblocks out of the way.”  An expiration of the federal incentives would just drive
the prices of renewable energy credits higher, Miller said. The
new law, AB 327, removed constraints on developing rooftop solar
and will let the state get more than 33 percent of its power
from renewables, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Stubbe in Houston at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  