-- Canada Dollar Drops to Two-Month Low as U.S. Data Fuel Fed Bets
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-08T22:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/canadian-dollar-falls-as-u-s-jobs-growth-fuels-fed-speculation.html
Canada ’s dollar slid to the weakest
level in two months as stronger-than-forecast U.S. job growth
fueled bets the  Federal Reserve  will start slowing the monetary
stimulus that’s boosted riskier assets.  The currency rose against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers after Canada reported its employers added jobs for
a  third straight month  and housing starts rose to a five-month
high. The Fed buys $85 billion of bonds a month to cap borrowing
costs and spur improvement in the economy and labor market.  “One of the big things that has helped the loonie over the
last year before we started to see weakness in the last couple
months is the Fed and a lot of the other central banks flooding
the world with liquidity,”  Scott Smith , senior market analyst
at Cambridge Mercantile Group, a foreign-exchange and payments
company, said by phone from Calgary. “When you have good data
in the U.S., that’s going to push up expectations of when the
Fed’s going to look to pare back.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.2 percent to
C$1.0479 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It reached
C$1.0504, the weakest level since Sept. 6. The currency lost 0.6
percent this week. One Canadian dollar buys 95.43 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  fell, pushing yields on benchmark  10-year
debt (GCAN10YR)  to a three-week high. The yields jumped nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.61 percent, the highest since
Oct. 16. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 lost 72
cents to C$90.71.  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, gained 0.2
percent to $94.35 per barrel in  New York  and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks climbed 1.3 percent.  Second-Best  The Canadian currency was the second-best performer today
among the 10-developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The loonie gained 0.5
percent, trailing only the  U.S. dollar ’s 0.8 percent advance.
The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trade partner.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian
currency versus its U.S. peer rose to a three-week high. The
three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate reached 1.34
percent, the most since Oct. 17. Risk reversals measure the
premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Futures traders increased their bets that Canada’s currency
will decline against the greenback, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net  shorts  -- was 18,002 on Nov. 5,
the widest since Sept. 20. It was 15,237 as of Nov. 1.  U.S. ‘Acceleration’  The addition of 204,000 workers to U.S. payrolls in October
followed a revised 163,000 gain in September that was larger
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 120,000 advance. The jobless rate rose to
7.3 percent from an almost five-year low.  “It speaks to an acceleration in the economic cycle in the
States faster than it will happen in Canada, which suggests a
bid for the U.S. dollar over Canada,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at National  Bank of Canada , by
phone from Toronto.  U.S. gross domestic product jumped 2.8 percent in the third
quarter, beating a 2 percent forecast in a Bloomberg poll, a
report showed yesterday.  Fed Stimulus  The Fed said last month it would maintain its monthly bond-buying as it awaited further evidence of U.S. economic progress.
The purchases tend to debase the greenback while fueling risk
appetite. A Bloomberg survey last month forecast the central
bank will begin slowing the pace of purchases in March.  Canadian employment rose by 13,200 in October, and the
jobless rate held at 6.9 percent,  Statistics Canada  said today
in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  projected
unemployment would increase to 7 percent and employers would add
11,000 positions, according to median forecasts.  Housing starts in the nation totaled 198,282 at a
seasonally adjusted annual pace last month, Ottawa-based Canada
Mortgage & Housing Corp. said on its website today. That was up
from 195,929 units in September. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey forecast a reading of 190,800.  The Bank of Canada last month cut its growth projections
for the next two years and removed language about the need for
higher  interest rates  that had been included in every policy
statement for a year.  The central bank, which has held its  key rate  at 1 percent
since 2010+-, said the export pick-up that underpins its growth
projections is taking longer than expected to materialize.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  