-- McDonald’s October Sales Rise as New Items Draw Diners
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-11-08T14:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/mcdonald-s-october-sales-rise-as-new-items-draw-diners.html
  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13
months rose 0.5 percent in October as new items boosted sales in
 Europe  and the U.S.  Analysts estimated a 0.2 percent increase, the average of
10 estimates according to Consensus Metrix. Growth in Europe was
0.8 percent, Oak Brook, Illinois-based McDonald’s said in a
statement today, exceeding analysts’ projected 0.2 percent gain.  Chief Executive Officer  Don Thompson  has been overhauling
McDonald’s menu worldwide. In Europe, where the company gets
about 40 percent of its revenue, McDonald’s has advertised new
and value items, such as different smoothie and McCafe coffee
drink flavors in the U.K. At its domestic locations, McDonald’s
also is promoting new fare, including chicken wings and pumpkin-spice lattes.  “They’ve added some more premium-type products,” Darren Tristano, executive vice president at restaurant researcher
Technomic Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “And
when you compare them to other fast-food restaurants, that I
think is going to help them lift their brand.”  McDonald’s fell 0.3 percent to $96.89 at 9:42 a.m. in  New
York . The shares  advanced  10 percent this year through
yesterday, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index
gained 22 percent.  Same-store sales rose 0.2 percent last month in the U.S.
Analysts projected a 0.4 percent gain, on average.  Falling Confidence  U.S. confidence fell to a 10-month low in October as the
reopening of the federal government failed to reassure
Americans. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
index of  consumer sentiment  dropped to 73.2 last month, the
weakest this year, from 77.5 in September.  Fast-food chains are locked in a battle to attract U.S.
consumers. While McDonald’s has rolled out a $2 barbecue ranch
burger this month,  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  recently started
selling a barbecue rib sandwich and lower-fat fries. Wendy’s Co.
is advertising pretzel buns.  McDonald’s, which gets about one-third of  revenue  from the
U.S., is revamping its Dollar Menu to include a $2 burger and
chicken sandwiches. The chain is facing pressure from its
domestic store owners who have met to discuss higher costs,
including rents, and the increasingly difficult economics of
selling food for $1.  Asia Sales  Same-store sales fell 2.8 percent in the company’s Asia
Pacific,  Middle East  and Africa region, the fourth straight
monthly decline. Analysts estimated a 1.7 percent drop,
according to Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Kaul
Advisory Group in Wayne, New Jersey.  “Consumer sentiment is very cautious” in  China , and
people there are dining out more at local chains, Thompson said
on a conference call last month. Same-stores sales in  Japan 
slumped 9.7 percent in October.  Global comparable-store sales fell 0.1 percent in September
and rose 1.9 percent in August.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of a
company’s growth because they include only the older,
established locations. McDonald’s has more than 34,900
restaurants worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  