-- Central Banks Renew Reflation Push as Prices Weaken
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-11-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/central-banks-renew-reflation-push-as-prices-weaken.html
Central banks around the world
renewed efforts this week to reflate their economies as slowing
prices emerge as a threat to global prosperity.  A day after the  European Central Bank  unexpectedly halved
its benchmark interest  rate  to a record-low 0.25 percent and
 Peru  cut its main rate for the first time in four years, the
Czech central bank yesterday intervened in  currency markets . The
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  yesterday left open the chance of
cheaper borrowing costs by forecasting below-trend economic
growth.  “Central banks want to err on the side of keeping policy
easier for longer as they don’t see an inflation danger out
there,” said Kit Juckes, global strategist at Societe Generale
SA in  London . “There is a fear of deflation for some and nobody
wants to increase the risk of it.”  The need to sustain or reinforce stimulus was demonstrated
this week by new estimates from the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development that showed average inflation across
its 34 members slowed in September to an annual rate of 1.5
percent. That’s close to the 1.3 percent of May, which was the
softest since the world was plagued by recession in 2009.  “It does look as though inflation is certainly not a
concern on the upside anymore,” Robert Sinche, global
strategist at Pierpont Securities Holdings LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” on Nov. 5. “ Monetary policy  around the world is
probably going to stay accommodative for a good deal longer.”  Draghi Eases  Two months after the  Federal Reserve  delayed pulling back
its $85 billion of monthly asset purchases, the ECB on Nov. 7
joined the reflation push with a rate cut aimed at tackling what
President  Mario Draghi  called a “prolonged period of low
inflation.”  The reduction was anticipated by just three of 70
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  and came after the euro-area’s inflation  rate  slid to 0.7 percent in October, the
weakest in four years and less than half the ECB’s target of
just below 2 percent.  “Weaker-than-expected inflation should unlock lower rates
and that’s what happened,” said Richard Barwell, an economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  Meantime in Australia, Governor  Glenn Stevens  and
colleagues yesterday forecast below-trend growth and rising
unemployment in 2014, three days after leaving their main  rate 
at a record low of 2.5 percent.  Australia’s Forecast  The central bank projected gross domestic product will rise
by between 2 percent and 3 percent in the year to December 2014,
compared with 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent forecast three months
ago. The outlook for inflation is “to remain consistent” with
the 2 percent to 3 percent target, the RBA said.  “The RBA has kept the door open to further easing,” said
Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.
“Luckily, inflation is within target to allow the possibility
of further rate cuts.”  Stevens called Australia’s dollar “uncomfortably high,”
joining counterparts in bemoaning the strength of exchange rates
after the  U.S. dollar  renewed its decline in recent weeks.  In the  Czech Republic , Governor Miroslav Singer went
further in pledging yesterday to intervene to weaken the koruna
“for as long as needed” to spur inflation. He set a target of
“near” 27 per euro, a level last seen in 2009. The Czech
National Bank, which has kept its benchmark at 0.05 percent for
a year, is fighting off an inflation slowdown that followed 18
months of recession, the longest on record.  Peru’s Surprise  Peru’s central bank, led by President Julio Velarde,
trimmed its  overnight rate  a quarter point to 4 percent,
surprising all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank
acted as slower exports threaten growth, and said inflation will
slow to the middle of its target range next year.  Several central banks want to see their currencies get
cheaper to support exports and prices. The Reserve Bank of  New
Zealand  says it may delay rate increases to temper the kiwi,
while  South Korea  has signaled disapproval of a rising won.  By contrast, success in cooling inflation by intervening in
markets gave Iceland’s central bank room to leave its seven-day
collateral lending rate at 6 percent on Nov. 6.  Other central banks also held their fire this week. The
 Bank of England  on Nov. 7 kept its benchmark at 0.5 percent and
its bond purchase program at 375 billion pounds ($600 billion).  Malaysia held its main rate at 3 percent for a 15th
straight meeting to support economic growth, rather than take on
inflation that reached a 20-month high in September.  Asset Bubbles  The easy monetary policy around the world may come at a
price if it ends up inflating asset-price bubbles that burst and
damage economies. The RBA yesterday said there could be
“concerns from the perspective of financial stability” if
household leverage rises, while Swiss National Bank President
Thomas Jordan yesterday said low rates threatened to inflate a
real-estate bubble.  Speculation that the Fed may nevertheless accelerate a
withdrawal of stimulus grew yesterday as American employers
added more workers to payrolls in October than forecast by
economists. Still, the Commerce Department reported that the
Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the personal consumption
expenditures price index, slowed to 0.9 percent in September,
matching a four-year low reached in April.  The U.S. is growing slowly and low inflation levels are in
“unacceptable, dangerous territory at the moment,”  Bill Gross ,
the founder of Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
yesterday.  If the Fed does choose to taper stimulus just as others are
deploying more monetary aid, it will spell a “new environment
of monetary policy dispersion between major central banks,”
Scott Thiel, deputy chief investment officer of fundamental
fixed income at BlackRock Inc., said in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  