-- China Cinda Said to Get Approval for $3 Billion Initial Sale
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-11-08T08:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/china-cinda-said-to-get-approval-for-3-billion-hong-kong-ipo.html
China Cinda Asset Management Co. , one
of four funds created in 1999 to buy bad debts from the nation’s
banks, won approval from the  Hong Kong  stock exchange for an
initial public offering, said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The state-controlled asset manager plans to start gauging
demand next week for the share sale, which may raise as much as
$3 billion, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Cinda’s listing is the latest step in its transformation
from an asset manager established to clean up soured loans from
the 1990s into a financial company with businesses spanning
trusts, real estate and  investment banking . The share sale would
help revive the IPO market in Hong Kong, where proceeds are
rebounding from a nine-year low.  “Market sentiment is slowly improving as tapering gets
delayed in the U.S. and better economic indicators come out of
 China ,” said Ronald Wan, chief China adviser at Asian Capital
Holdings Ltd., which has about $100 million of assets under
management.  A $3 billion IPO would be the city’s biggest since November
2012, when People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China Ltd.
raised $3.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
Hong Kong-based external spokeswoman for Cinda couldn’t
immediately comment on the status of the IPO.  Shuanghui Listing  Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd., the Chinese company
that bought the world’s biggest pork supplier, plans to raise as
much as $6 billion from a Hong Kong IPO next year, people with
knowledge of the plan said Nov. 6. Power Assets Holdings Ltd.,
controlled by  Asia ’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , will seek as much
as $5 billion through an IPO of its Hong Kong unit, people with
knowledge of the matter said Sept. 27.  Companies raised $8 billion through IPOs in Hong Kong last
year, the least since 2003, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds have grown to $11.3 billion this year, more
than triple the value for the same period of 2012, according to
the data.  Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are among banks working on Cinda’s
share sale, the people said.  China’s Ministry of Finance holds an 83.5 percent stake in
Cinda, while the national pension fund owns 8 percent, according
to a  bond prospectus  published in October last year. Zurich-based UBS holds a 5 percent interest, while Citic Capital
Holdings Ltd. controls 2 percent and Standard Chartered Plc owns
1.5 percent, the document showed.  Foreign Investors  Cinda raised 10.4 billion  yuan  ($1.7 billion) selling a
16.5 percent stake to the pension fund, UBS, Citic Capital and
Standard Chartered in March 2012, valuing the company at 62.9
billion yuan.  The company had 20,488 employees and 31 branches across
China by the end of 2011, the bond prospectus showed. It has
subsidiaries involved in financial leasing,  fund management ,
insurance and real estate, according to Cinda’s website.  Cinda recovered 240 billion yuan from 1.5 trillion yuan of
bad loans between 1999 and 2011, according to the prospectus. As
of the end of last year, it held stakes worth at least 45
billion yuan in 136 state-owned companies, according to China
Chengxin International Credit Ratings Co.  The Chinese government set up Cinda, China Orient Asset
Management Corp., Huarong Asset Management Co. and Great Wall
Asset Management Corp. in 1999 to help rid the banking industry
of 1.4 trillion yuan of non-performing loans. Authorities
initially gave the agencies 10 billion yuan of capital each and
10 years to offload the bad debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  