-- China Stocks Fall for Weekly Loss Before Plenum, Inflation Data
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-08T07:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/china-s-stocks-fall-before-trade-data-as-agriculture-shares-drop.html
China’s stocks  fell, capping a weekly
loss for the benchmark index, before the start of a Communist
Party meeting tomorrow. Technology and agriculture shares slid.  Sanan Optoelectronics Co. dropped 3.3 percent, paring this
year’s gain to 43 percent.  China  Cosco Holdings Co. slumped the
most in two months after the largest shipping company said an
 executive director  is under investigation. Zhongken Agricultural
Resource Development Co. lost the most in two weeks, paring this
week’s gain to 17 percent. The government is scheduled to
release data on consumer prices and industrial output tomorrow.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index fell 1.1 percent to 2,106.13
at the close, adding to a 2 percent loss this week. China’s
 exports  rose 5.6 percent in October, compared with a median
estimate for 1.7 percent growth in a Bloomberg News survey. The
yuan was poised for a weekly advance as the central bank raised
the  reference rate  on anticipation the Communist Party meeting
will lead to further economic reforms.  “The export data may be strong due to the U.S. recovery,
but we have to look at the quality of the growth too,” said
Zeng Xianzhao, an analyst at Everbright Securities Co. in
Chongqing. “With the  yuan  appreciating more, the impact of
exports on the economy will start to decline, compared with the
past. Also, there are a lot of worries about liquidity.”  The CSI 300 Index decreased 1.4 percent to 2,307.95 today,
while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.7 percent.
The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index fell 2.2 percent in  New York 
after faster U.S. economic growth fueled concern the  Federal
Reserve  may reduce stimulus sooner than expected.  Economic Data  China’s  interest-rate swaps  were poised for their biggest
weekly increase since June as the central bank drained funds for
the third time in four weeks. The People’s Bank of China
refrained from selling 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts that
are used to add funds yesterday, after auctioning 8 billion yuan
($1.3 billion) of seven-day repo agreements on Nov 5.  China’s exports improved from a 0.3 percent decline in
September. Imports advanced 7.6 percent last month, resulting in
a $31.1 billion  trade surplus , the General Administration of
Customs said today. Premier  Li Keqiang  said last month that
China can’t neglect the importance of exports, which support 30
million jobs directly.  Consumer-price inflation probably quickened to a 3.3
percent rate last month, compared with 3.1 percent in September,
according to economists’ median estimates. Producer prices may
have fallen 1.4 percent in October, while industrial output
probably grew 10 percent, slowing from the previous month’s 10.2
percent rate. Data on retail sales and fixed-asset investment
are also scheduled for release tomorrow.  Plenum Outlook  A gauge of  technology stocks  in the CSI 300 fell 1.5
percent, paring this year’s rally to 32 percent. Sanan slumped
3.3 percent to 19.59 yuan. Goertek Inc. dropped 0.7 percent to
33.81 yuan after rallying 61 percent this year. Technology
stocks have gained this year on speculation they will benefit
from government reforms to spur innovation and make domestic
consumption a bigger contributor to the economy.  Measures of material and energy companies in the CSI 300
have fallen at least 28 percent this year, making them the worst
performers.  The outperformance of Chinese non-state-owned enterprise
stocks versus SOEs suggests overly optimistic expectations at
the Communist Party meeting that are difficult to fulfil, Hao Hong, a strategist at BoCom International Holdings Co., wrote in
a note to clients today.  Plenum Hopes  “Hopes are running amok” before the start of the plenum,
Hong wrote. Investors should “hold for more evidence of a
successful reform before rebuilding market positions,” he said.  The four-day Communist Party gathering will be the third
full meeting of the party’s current  Central Committee , including
General Secretary Xi Jinping and Premier Li. It was at such a
third plenum in 1978 that  Deng Xiaoping  and his allies
inaugurated a series of reforms that began to open up China to
foreign investment and loosen state controls over the economy.  China Cosco fell 3.9 percent to 3 yuan. Executive Director
Xu Minjie is under investigation by a regulatory body, the
company said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday.  Zhongken Agricultural lost 3.5 percent to 8.62 yuan.
Beijing Dabeinong Technology Group Co. retreated 3.3 percent to
14.85 yuan.  “Investors are getting nervous and selling some of their
holdings in sectors that have outperformed in recent days such
as agriculture and technology,” said Gerry Alfonso, a trader at
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co, in Shanghai. “Investors are
taking profit on those sectors and not taking chances on policy
direction in case the market got it wrong. Some investors might
be getting concerns about the lack of detail coming from the
plenum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  