-- China Party Issues Call to Respect Maoist Past Before Plenum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-08T07:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/china-party-issues-call-to-respect-maoist-past-before-plenum-1-.html
Forces hostile to  China ’s Communist
Party shouldn’t use mistakes made in its first 30 years of power
to question its right to rule, an article in the flagship
People’s Daily said on the eve of a leadership meeting.  Party members should study remarks by President Xi Jinping
about the country’s past and “advance firm confidence in our
party’s history, confidence in the road of socialism with
Chinese characteristics, confidence in theory, confidence in the
system,” the full-page article by the party  Central Committee ’s
history research office said.  The article fits with broader efforts to unite the party
before the Nov. 9-12 Third Plenum, where leaders may debate
reforms designed to guide the economy for the next decade. State
media have compared the plenum’s significance to one held in
1978, when  Deng Xiaoping  spurred changes that led to 30 years of
economic expansion.  Today’s editorial also reflected challenges of reconciling
economic growth after 1978 with the previous years, when
Chairman Mao Zedong led the country through the Great Leap
Forward and the Cultural Revolution. Millions of people died in
those periods as the economy stagnated and young people turned
on their elders with accusations that they weren’t sufficiently
loyal to Mao.  “The commentary is designed to get cadres to read from the
same script,” Russell Leigh Moses, dean of academics at the
Beijing Center for Chinese Studies, said by e-mail today. “The
fact that it’s appeared shows that not all of them are doing
so.”  Mao’s Portrait  The article focused on remarks made by Xi in January, when
he said China’s 1978 reforms shouldn’t negate what came before.
At the same time, the article said leaders shouldn’t ignore or
cover up mistakes of the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution or the
period before.  Mao’s portrait still hangs in front of  Tiananmen Square  in
central Beijing, and over the last decade there have been calls
to return to many tenets of his thinking amid rising inequality
and corruption.  In recent months, Xi has led self-criticism sessions with
party cadres, echoing meetings from the first days of the party
in the early 1940s designed to strengthen unity around central
leaders.  “The plenary session will play a very important role in
the process of China’s reform and opening up,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei told a briefing in Beijing today. “We
believe this meeting will achieve full success.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  