-- China Cosco Director Xu Quits Amid Probe; Shares Drop
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-11-08T16:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/china-cosco-director-xu-quits-amid-probe-shares-drop.html
China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  Executive
Director Xu Minjie resigned after the nation’s largest shipping
company said he was under investigation by a regulatory body.  Xu quit because of “personal reasons,”  China  Cosco said
in a statement to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange yesterday. The
company said on Nov. 7 that Xu was being probed, without
elaborating on why or by whom.  The probe, which comes after  PetroChina Co. (857)  in August
removed four senior managers amid an investigation by
authorities, signals a broadening crackdown on corruption by
China’s new leaders under President Xi Jinping. That may pave
the way for more reforms at state-owned enterprises in a
conclave of Communist Party leaders that begins today, said Hu Xingdou, a professor at the School of Humanities and Social
Sciences at Beijing Institute of Technology.  “The anti-graft efforts by the new leadership is
unprecedented,” Hu said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“The investigations may help the leadership implement market-oriented reforms at state-owned enterprises that are monopolies
at the moment.”  China Cosco fell 5 percent to close at HK$3.58 in Hong
Kong, the biggest drop since July 3. It fell 3.9 percent to 3
yuan in Shanghai trading yesterday, the largest decline since
Sept. 13.  The investigation won’t have a “material adverse effect”
on the Tianjin, northern China-based company and its operations,
the company said in the Nov. 7 statement.  Managers Removed  PetroChina said in August that four senior managers had
been removed amid an investigation by authorities. In July, a
court gave former Railway Minister  Liu Zhijun  a suspended death
sentence for abuse of power and receiving bribes.  China Cosco’s board said it will assess the investigation
from time to time and advise shareholders of any material
developments. The company said it was told about the probe by
parent China Ocean Shipping Group Co.  Xu, 54 at the time of China Cosco’s annual report in April,
is also an executive vice president of China Ocean Shipping,
vice chairman of  China International Marine Containers Group Co. (2039) 
and chairman of Cosco Logistics Co., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. He’s a graduate of the Qingdao Ocean Shipping
Mariners College and holds business degrees from Shanghai
Maritime University and the Maastricht School of Management.  Xu didn’t answer his mobile phone yesterday.  China Cosco said last month that its third-quarter net loss
narrowed to 1.04 billion  yuan  ($171 million) from 1.53 billion
yuan a year earlier. The company said in August that it was
selling stakes in two real estate units to its parent for 3.73
billion yuan to avoid a third straight annual loss that could
trigger delisting from Shanghai stock market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  