-- China Swap Rate Completes Biggest Weekly Gain Since June on PBOC
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-08T09:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/china-swap-rate-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-june-on-pboc.html
China’s  interest-rate swaps  had their
biggest weekly increase since June as the central bank drained
funds for the third time in four weeks.  The People’s Bank of China refrained from selling 14-day
reverse-repurchase contracts that are used to add funds
yesterday, after auctioning 8 billion  yuan  ($1.3 billion) of
seven-day repo agreements on Nov 5. That resulted in a net
withdrawal of 5 billion yuan this week, after an injection of
29.1 billion yuan in the five days ended Nov. 1, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of one-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed payment
needed to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose 21
basis points this week to 4.35 percent as of 5:08 p.m. in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the
largest weekly advance since the period ended June 21. The rate
was unchanged today.  “The central bank indeed started to tighten, as is
evidenced by the suspension of reverse-repo sales yesterday,”
said Gao Hui, an analyst at Founder Securities Co. in Beijing.
“And this time, it may not resume soon as we don’t expect any
factors in November that will repeat the crunch at the end of
October.”  The PBOC said it will keep a prudent monetary policy and
continue stabilizing inflation expectations as the foundation
for stable consumer prices isn’t solid, according to a report
posted on the central bank’s website on Nov. 5.  The yield on the 4.08 percent government bonds due August
2023 rose 16 basis points this week to 4.33 percent, according
to data from the Interbank Funding Center. That was the highest
for a  benchmark  10-year sovereign note since 2008. The yield
climbed one basis point today.  Trade Data  China ’s exports gained 5.6 percent last month from a year
earlier, more than the median estimate of 1.7 percent growth in
a Bloomberg News survey, official data showed today. Imports
rose 7.6 percent, also exceeding the estimate. Industrial output
may have increased 9.6 percent in October from a year earlier
and consumer prices rose 3.3 percent, according to the median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys before official reports due
tomorrow.  The  seven-day repo rate  fell 65 basis points this week to
3.95 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate advanced five basis
points today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  