-- China Exports Rise More Than Estimated After Sept. Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-08T09:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/china-s-oct-export-growth-tops-estimates-as-imports-gain-7-6-.html
China ’s  exports  rebounded by more
than estimated last month and the  trade surplus  widened to the
biggest this year, helping sustain an economic recovery as
leaders gather to map out a blueprint for growth.  Overseas shipments increased 5.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, the General Administration of Customs said today
in Beijing, compared with a median estimate for 1.7 percent
growth in a Bloomberg News survey and September’s unexpected
decline of 0.3 percent. Imports rose 7.6 percent, leaving a
trade surplus of $31.1 billion, the biggest this year.  Stronger global demand suggested in today’s report may
bolster confidence that Premier  Li Keqiang  will meet this year’s
7.5 percent growth target and ease pressure on the government to
spur domestic consumption and investment. President  Xi Jinping ,
who will lead a four-day summit starting tomorrow to decide on
reform measures, said growth must avoid straining resources,
capital and markets, the Xinhua News Agency reported on Nov. 5.  “China’s export numbers suggest some -- although not yet
decisive -- improvement in global demand momentum,”  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Hong Kong, said in a note. Import figures reflect “healthy
expansion of demand” within China, he said.  The export growth figures understate the true picture by
about 2 percentage points because of inflated data from over-invoicing in the second half of 2012 and first half of 2013,
Kuijs said. Regulators in May cracked down on fabricated
paperwork for outbound shipments used to disguise capital
inflows.  Stocks Fall  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.1 percent at
the close, capping a weekly loss for the gauge, with technology
and agriculture shares sliding.  Estimates from 44 analysts on exports ranged from a 2.2
percent decline to 8 percent expansion.  Imports (CNFRIMPY)  were projected
to grow 7.4 percent, the same as September’s pace, and the
median estimate was for a trade surplus of $24.8 billion.  Premier Li said last month that China can’t neglect the
importance of exports, which support 30 million jobs directly.  “If exports drop quickly, there will be employment
problems,” Li said, according to a transcript of an October
speech published this week.  October’s trade surplus takes the total for this year to
$200.5 billion, the biggest 10-month total since 2008 and
compared with $230.7 billion for the whole of 2012.  Yuan Pressure  The increase in the surplus suggests that pressure will
build for the  yuan  to appreciate, Liu Li-Gang, chief  Greater
China  economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
Hong Kong, said in a note today.  The currency has appreciated about 2.3 percent against the
dollar this year, the most among 11 major Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It weakened 0.04 percent to 6.0930 per
dollar today.  Premier Li’s comments about the importance of exports
suggest “the Chinese authorities are concerned about declining
trade competitiveness” due to the strengthening yuan and rising
costs, Liu wrote.  Exports to the U.S., China’s largest market, rose 8.1
percent in October from a year earlier, today’s data showed, the
biggest jump since February. Figures from the U.S. yesterday
showed fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, the economy expanded in the third quarter at
a faster pace than forecast and  consumer credit  rose more than
projected.  Car Exports  China’s sales to the European Union, its second biggest
market, jumped 12.7 percent last month, the biggest gain since
February, customs data showed.  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) , the publicly traded unit of
China’s largest closely held carmaker, said this week that the
volume of its exports in October rose 17 percent from a year
earlier.  October’s export growth wasn’t “a terribly strong number”
because the three-month average still showed a relatively stable
export sector, said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong .  “It doesn’t really change our cautious economic outlook
for next year,” including a forecast for the economy to expand
less than 7 percent, Zhang said today on Bloomberg Television.
That compares with the 7.4 percent median estimate for next year
and 7.6 percent for 2013, according to Bloomberg News surveys of
analysts last month.  General Trade  Imports for general trade, which refers to goods used in
China’s own economy rather than for re-export, rose 18.5 percent
in October from a year earlier, today’s data showed. That’s the
biggest increase in at least 18 months.  The National Bureau of Statistics will tomorrow publish
October data on  inflation  and industrial output and January-October fixed-asset investment. The central bank is scheduled to
release  money supply  and lending numbers by Nov. 15.  Data earlier this month showed China’s official
manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’  Index (SHCOMP)  rose more than
estimated in October to an 18-month high and a measure from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics topped projections.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  