-- Christie’s Bipartisan Call Ignored as Democrats Rule Statehouse
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-11-08T05:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/christie-s-bipartisan-call-ignored-as-democrats-rule-statehouse.html
Republican Governor  Chris Christie 
this week exhorted a “dispirited America” to follow New
Jersey’s lead in bipartisan cooperation.  Democratic state lawmakers wonder what he’s talking about.  Christie, 51, was re-elected in a landslide victory after
winning over women, Democratic, independent and minority voters.
The potential 2016 presidential candidate made no such inroads
with the legislature, which the same voters kept dominated by
Democrats. During his first term, the body blocked Christie’s
efforts to reshape the state Supreme Court and cut taxes, and
sidestepped his opposition to same-sex marriage and a minimum-wage increase.  “We’re not afraid to do the things that we need to do,”
said Senate President Stephen Sweeney. “We’re not going to back
away from those things we believe in.”  The Democratic victories in legislative races were helped
by record spending by independent special-interest groups.
Eleven days before the election,  New Jersey ’s election was sixth
among the 10 U.S. races that drew the most outside funding since
2006, according to the state Election Law Enforcement
Commission, which cited data from the National Institute on
Money in State Politics.  Outside Spending  Within New Jersey, races and ballot questions drew a record
$37.8 million from outside groups, more than twice the previous
record in 2009, according to the commission.  The spending shows that in the state and across the nation,
Democrats may be preparing to give Christie a rough second term,
said former Governor Christie Whitman, a Republican. National
Democrats want to keep a lock on the legislature to check
Christie on issues such as  Supreme Court  nominations and his
proposed tax cut, which she said would help him in a
presidential primary.  Many groups “decided the governor was going to win big and
it wasn’t worth spending their money there,” Whitman said Nov.
6 at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at  Rutgers University  in
 New Brunswick . “What they did in this state and what they’ve
done in a number of other states as well is spend their money on
the legislative races to hold those seats.”  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since Whitman in 1997, attracted Democrats and independent
voters with his leadership after  Hurricane Sandy  struck the
state in October 2012. In this week’s election, he became the
first Republican gubernatorial candidate to win more than 60
percent of the vote since Tom Kean in 1985.  Limited Appeal  In an Oct. 23 Rutgers-Eagleton poll, 61 percent of
respondents had a favorable view of Christie, and 85 percent
approved of his Sandy response. Yet on their biggest concerns,
the economy and jobs, his rating fell to 42 percent, and on
taxes, it dropped to 38 percent.  Beyond the home-state popularity Christie built after
Sandy, he has few selling points for a national Republican
audience, according to Mo Elleithee, communications director of
the  Democratic National Committee .  “The Christie boomlet right now feels a little bit to me
like the Rudy Giuliani boomlet, where people were saying,
‘Here’s a Republican who knows how to win in blue territory,’
after, in part, some sort of emotional connection to a national
tragedy,” Elleithee told reporters. “We’ve seen that model
before and it’s not transferable and it’s not sustainable.”  Map Blamed  Giuliani, buoyed by approval for his leadership as  New York 
City mayor after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack, abandoned
his bid for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination after a
poor showing in primaries.  That Christie praised Democratic President Barack Obama
during a post-Sandy tour wasn’t evidence of bipartisan spirit,
said Senate Majority Leader Loretta Weinberg, 78, a Democrat
from Teaneck.  “I’m sorry, but he can say it because he and  Barack Obama 
shook hands and gave each other a man hug?” she said yesterday.
“That’s the president’s job, to come and deal with people in a
state that suffered a major catastrophe, and that’s the
governor’s job, to help the residents of New Jersey.”  Christie, speaking to reporters publicly for the first time
in more than a month in Union City on Nov. 6, attributed
Democrats’ success to legislative maps redrawn in 2011 after the
census.  “Republican Senate candidates across the state got 100,000
more votes than Democrats and they didn’t win one seat,”
Christie said. “That’s a pretty well gerrymandered map. I won
by 22 points and we didn’t win one Senate seat.”  Democratic Domain  Democrats have led the New Jersey Assembly since 2002 and
the Senate since 2004. They controlled the governor’s office
from 2002 to 2010, when Christie ousted  Jon Corzine  after voters
rejected the incumbent’s handling of the recession.  Christie’s first-term successes included legislative
approval to overhaul tenure and pensions, considered rights by
public-employee unions that typically support Democrats. He
succeeded after forging alliances with prominent Democrats in
the state, including Essex County Executive Joseph DiVincenzo,
who endorsed him over his Democratic challenger, state Senator
Barbara Buono.  Senator Ray Lesniak, an Elizabeth Democrat, said yesterday
that cooperation will go only so far.  “We’ve pulled our punches too often and we sat down when
we should have stood up,” Lesniak said. “We now have four
years of Democratic control in the Senate without having to
worry about whether Chris Christie’s popularity will affect our
position and majority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  