-- Clooney Nazi Loot Film to Open in Berlin Amid Haul Probe
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-11-08T13:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/clooney-nazi-loot-film-to-open-in-berlin-amid-haul-probe.html
George Clooney ’s film “The Monuments
Men,” about the Western allies’ efforts to protect art
treasures at risk in World War II, will premiere at the Berlin
Film Festival, the festival announced today.  The movie’s theme took on new relevance this week after
prosecutors announced they uncovered a cache of 1,406 artworks -
- including pictures by  Pablo Picasso ,  Marc Chagall , Pierre
August Renoir and Max Beckmann -- in a Munich apartment. Seized
during a tax evasion enquiry, many of the works were looted by
the Nazis from German museums and Jewish families, the
authorities said.  “The art theft of that era is more topical than ever after
the Munich discovery,” Dieter Kosslick, director of the Berlin
Film Festival, said in a statement sent by e-mail. “‘Monuments
Men’ will finally give worldwide publicity to this subject,
about which far too few people know.”  Clooney, who produces, directs and stars in the movie, co-wrote the script with Grant Heslov. It is based on a 2009 non-fiction book called “The Monuments Men” by Robert Edsel with
Bret Witter.  Other cast members include Cate Blanchett,  Matt Damon ,  Bill Murray  and  Jean Dujardin . The film was shot in Germany’s Harz
Mountains and at Berlin’s Studio Babelsberg this year.  Edsel interviewed surviving participants in a joint U.S.-
British military operation involving museum directors, curators,
artists, architects and archivists.  The Berlin Film Festival runs from Feb. 6 to Feb. 16. The
film will debut in the U.S. on Feb. 7, the festival said.  Muse highlights include the London and New York  weekend
guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Greg Evans  and  Craig
Seligman  on movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  