-- Cocoa Extends Drop as West African Harvest Advances; Sugar Rises
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-11-08T11:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/cocoa-extends-drop-as-west-african-harvest-advances-sugar-rises.html
Cocoa fell for a third sesion in  New
York  on speculation investors are selling to profit from higher
prices as mostly dry weather favors harvesting in West Africa,
the world’s main growing region. Sugar gained.  The crop in West Africa started “very strong,”  Barry
Callebaut AG (BARN) , the biggest bean processor, said in an earnings
call yesterday. Bean deliveries to ports in  Ivory Coast , the top
grower, were estimated to have gained 51 percent from the start
of the season on Oct. 1 to Nov. 3, according to KnowledgeCharts,
a unit of Commodities Risk Analysis in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .
Relatively dry weather over the next five days will favor the
harvest, MDA Weather Services said yesterday.  “Drier weather in central West Africa should make for
improved harvest conditions,” Sterling Smith, a futures
specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a report
e-mailed yesterday. Prices dropped yesterday as a “stronger
dollar and willingness by funds to take profits took the
most-active March contract below the $2,700 a ton level.”  Cocoa for delivery in March declined 0.3 percent to $2,684
a metric ton by 6:11 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Futures trading volumes were 23 percent higher than the average
in the past 100 days for this time of day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Cocoa for the same delivery month slid
0.5 percent to 1,704 pounds ($2,740) a ton on NYSE Liffe in
London.  Futures fell 1.8 percent yesterday as the dollar rallied
after the  European Central Bank  unexpectedly cut its main
refinancing rate to a record 0.25 percent to boost growth in the
17-member currency region. Ivorian bean deliveries were
estimated at 210,000 tons from Oct. 1 to Nov. 3 from 139,000
tons a year earlier, KnowledgeCharts data showed.  Typhoon Route  Raw sugar for March delivery gained 0.2 percent to 18.07
cents a pound on ICE. Refined, or white, sugar for March
delivery was little changed at $480.90 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Arabica coffee for delivery in December was little changed
at $1.039 a pound in New York, after rallying as much as 3.6
percent yesterday. Robusta for delivery in January gained 0.1
percent to $1,462 a ton in London.  Typhoon Haiyan may reach the far north of  Vietnam ’s major
coffee areas in the Central Highlands this weekend, Andy Karst,
a meteorologist at World Weather Inc. in  Overland Park ,  Kansas ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. Coffee beans in Vietnam
are maturing, “so it wouldn’t have to be a super typhoon to
cause bean droppage,” he said.  Vietnam is the world’s biggest grower of the robusta
variety.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  