-- Cohen’s Trades Won’t Be Evidence in Steinberg Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-08T18:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/cohen-s-trades-won-t-be-evidence-in-steinberg-trial.html
Evidence that SAC Capital Advisors LP
founder Steven A. Cohen liquidated his entire position in Dell
Inc. after getting a tip from ex-analyst Jon Horvath shouldn’t
be included in the trial of SAC portfolio manager Michael
Steinberg, U.S. prosecutors said.  Steinberg’s lawyer, Barry Berke, is seeking to include
evidence that other SAC fund managers, including Cohen, traded
on data provided by Horvath to show it wasn’t considered
nonpublic information, Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps said
in a memo filed today in federal court in  Manhattan .  Prosecutors said they don't intend to use evidence Cohen
and other fund managers traded on Horvath’s tips because 
evidence about other traders isn't relevant to Steinberg. That's
why Steinberg's lawyers should be prevented from using e-mail
messages between Horvath and SAC portfolio manager Gabriel Plotkin
in the trial set to begin Nov. 18, prosecutors said.  The e-mails at issue were exchanged between the fund
managers and Horvath on Aug. 26, 2008, two days before Dell was
set to report second-quarter earnings, the U.S. said. Horvath, a
technology analyst at SAC, e-mailed his boss, Steinberg, and
Plotkin to warn them the computer-maker would miss estimates.  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company,”
Horvath began the Aug. 26 message, which provided details on
gross margins, expenditures and revenue. “Please keep to
yourself as obviously not well known.”  Bad News  Horvath had obtained the bad earnings news from Jesse Tortora, a friend who received nonpublic information from a Dell
employee, prosecutors said. Horvath also learned Cohen held a
long position in Dell and notified Steinberg, prosecutors said.
Horvath and Tortora, a former analyst at Diamondback Capital
Management LLC, have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
U.S.  “Horvath became aware that the head of the firm, Steven
Cohen, held a ‘long position’ in Dell securities, reflecting
Cohen had a positive view of the company,” prosecutors wrote.
“If Cohen lost money based on a portfolio manager’s
recommendation, Cohen was likely to be upset, and the portfolio
manager’s losses on the trade would be netted against any
furture profits in Cohen’s book.”  Steinberg, who held a short position in Dell stocks and
options worth about $8 million, earned more than $1 million as a
result of the analyst’s tip, prosecutors said.  Trading Ideas  Cohen had “research traders” whose job it was to ensure
that portfolio managers’ trading ideas were properly
communicated to him, prosecutors said. On Aug. 26, 2008, SAC
research trader Anthony Vaccarino received an e-mail from
Horvath warning him about the new information about Dell
earnings and Vaccarino provided the tip to Cohen.  Within minutes after receiving Horvath’s message, Cohen and
Plotkin reduced their holdings in Dell, prosecutors said. Cohen,
who owned about 500,000 shares of Dell, began “liquidating his
entire position” prosecutors said. By the time Dell announced
its earnings on Aug. 28, 2008, Cohen avoided losses of $1.7
million in his portfolio and another $1.8 million in a second
portfolio, the U.S. said.  “Nice job on Dell,” Cohen wrote to Steinberg and his
analyst, according to prosecutors, citing an SAC e-mail.  Plotkin, who held about 1.6 million shares, began selling
Dell stock and eventually had reduced his position to about 1
million shares. Plotkin avoided losses of about $2 million,
prosecutors said. Plotkin hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing.  Within Minutes  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleged in a
July administrative action that Cohen sold millions of dollars
in Dell stock within minutes of receiving what regulators called
the “highly suspicious” e-mail from Horvath and Steinberg.  Cohen hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing. SAC, based in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , is scheduled to appear in court today to
plead guilty to insider trading before U.S. District Court Judge
Laura Taylor Swain. The hedge fund was indicted for trading on
nonpublic information in a scheme that stretched back to 1999,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said.  U.S. District Court Judge Richard Sullivan, who’s presiding
over Steinberg’s criminal case, hasn’t ruled on the government’s
bid to exclude the evidence. Berke, Steinberg’s lawyer, has
until Nov. 14 to reply to the government’s request.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment about the government’s assertions. Berke didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  