-- Companies Sell Most Bonds in Two Months in Europe as Yields Fall
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-11-08T15:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/companies-sell-most-bonds-in-two-months-in-europe-as-yields-fall.html
Companies issued bonds at the fastest
pace since the beginning of September this week as borrowing
costs declined to a near five-month low in Europe.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and BNP Paribas SA led 22 billion euros ($29
billion) of sales compared with 10.6 billion euros last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield on
investment-grade notes dropped four basis points to 1.8 percent,
the lowest since June 14, Bloomberg  bond index  data show.  The European Central Bank’s decision to cut its main
refinancing rate to a record low of 0.25 percent yesterday will
encourage borrowers. In the U.S., American employers added more
workers to payrolls in October than economists forecast, fueling
speculation the Federal Reserve will accelerate plans to reduce
stimulus.  “Interest rate risk in the European market is benign,
unlike the dollar market,” said Ray Doody, head of acquisition
and leveraged finance in Europe at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 London . “We’re seeing a high level of issuance.”  In the high-yield market, German cable operator Unitymedia
KabelBW GmbH, a unit of Liberty Global Inc., was among companies
raising 1.6 billion euros from bonds this week, up from 250
million euros the previous period, Bloomberg data show. The
Cologne-based company’s 15-year senior secured note is the
longest-dated junk bond ever sold, according to Doody.  The average yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade securities dropped six basis points this week to 5
percent, the lowest since May 22, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  13.375% Coupon  In the market today, Edcon Holdings Pty Ltd., a South
African clothing retailer owned by Bain Capital Partners LLC,
sold 425 million euros of 5 1/2-year senior notes to yield
13.375 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
notes, which can be bought back by the Johannesburg-based
company after 1 1/2 years, are rated CCC or eight levels below
investment grade at Standard & Poor’s.  In high-grade issuance,  WPP Plc (WPP)  hired banks to arrange
meetings with investors on Nov. 11 in London to market a sale of
bonds in euros for the biggest advertising company, according to
a person familiar with the matter. A transaction would be the
London-based company’s first in the currency since 2008,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  