-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Fell in November to Two-Year Low
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-11-08T15:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-declined-in-november-to-two-year-low.html
Consumer sentiment in the U.S. fell
in November to the lowest level in almost two years as
households reeled from last month’s partial government shutdown.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment  index  for this month dropped to 72, the
weakest since December 2011, from 73.2 in October. Economists in
a Bloomberg survey called for an increase to 74.5, according to
the  median  estimate.  Fiscal gridlock among lawmakers may be crimping Americans’
willingness to spend as households look to boost savings.
Still, higher equities, falling  gas prices  and an improving job
market are helping ease budgets in the weeks before the holiday
retail season.  “We had a great deal of uncertainty around the federal
government and whether the shutdown would have a lasting effect
in terms of employment gains and the economy’s momentum,” said
Robert Rosener, associate economist at Credit Agricole CIB in
 New York , who correctly projected the drop in sentiment. “As
consumers see signs that growth is picking up, we think
confidence will pick up alongside that.”  Forecasts of the 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 71.5 to 80. The index averaged 89 in the five years before
December 2007, and 64.2 in the 18-month recession that ensued.  Another report today showed employers added more workers to
payrolls in October than forecast by economists, betting that
the world’s largest economy would weather the impact of the
federal government shutdown.  Payroll Gain  The addition of 204,000 workers followed a revised 163,000
gain in September that was larger than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
increase of 120,000. The jobless rate rose to 7.3 percent from
an almost five-year low.  Stocks rose, trimming the first weekly drop in a month for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the better-than-forecast
jobs report added to signs growth is strong enough for the
economy to withstand a stimulus reduction. The  S&P 500  increased
0.4 percent to 1,754.23 at 10:17 a.m. in New York. The index has
gained 22.5 percent this year through yesterday, giving a lift
to personal wealth.  Consumer spending  rose in the third quarter at the slowest
pace since 2011, and companies invested the least in a year, the
Commerce Department said yesterday in Washington.  The Michigan sentiment survey’s  current conditions  index,
which tracks Americans’ view of their personal finances,
decreased to 87.2 in November, the lowest since January, from
89.9.  The gauge of  expectations  six months from now fell to 62.3,
the weakest in two years, from 62.5 the month before.  Inflation Expectations  Respondents anticipated an inflation rate of 3.1 percent
over the next  year , up from last month’s projection of 3
percent. Over the next  five years , Americans expect prices to
climb 2.9 percent compared with 2.8 percent in October’s survey.  Other measures of  consumer confidence  have also worsened
recently. A report yesterday showed the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index reached the lowest level in more than a year as
views on the buying climate and finances turned more
pessimistic.  At the same time, cheaper fuel prices are taking pressure
off household budgets. The average cost of a gallon of  regular-grade  gasoline fell to $3.21 on Nov. 7, the lowest since
December 2011, according to data from AAA, the country’s biggest
motoring group. Since the end of August, prices at the pump have
tumbled 38 cents per gallon.  Even as balance sheets mend for some Americans, companies
such as Whole Foods Markets, based in Austin,  Texas , have
signaled that the hit to sentiment may damage their sales.  “We are not immune to the larger macro environment,” said
John P. Mackey, the grocery chain’s co-chief executive officer,
in a Nov. 6 earnings call. “As several retailers are reporting,
discretionary spending has been impacted as consumer confidence
has dropped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in  Washington  at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  