-- Copper Rises as U.S. Job Gains Boost Outlook for Demand, Economy
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-08T19:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/copper-swings-between-gains-and-drops-amid-european-slowdown.html
Copper futures rose for the second
straight day as a jump in payrolls boosted economic optimism and
prospects for demand in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest
user of the metal.  The addition of 204,000 workers last month topped the
120,000 median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
government figures showed today. The improvement in the labor
market countered concern that the Federal Reserve will curb
fiscal stimulus. Copper  inventories  monitored by the  London 
Metal Exchange extended a slump to the lowest since March.  “The jobs report paints a better demand picture, and any
time we see positive economic news like this out of the U.S.,
it’s going to help copper,” Michael Smith, the president of T&K
Futures & Options in Port St. Lucie,  Florida , said in a
telephone interview. “The market may be starting to discount
the Fed a bit. Eventually, it’s all about supply and demand.”  Copper futures for December delivery rose 0.2 percent to
settle at $3.254 a pound at 1:18 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The price, up 0.4 percent yesterday, dropped 1.3 percent this
week, the most since Sept. 13.  Fed policy makers said last week they needed to see more
evidence the economy will continue to improve before they trim
$85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage debt.
The central bank won’t begin to scale back until March,
according to the median estimate of 40 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey last month.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months gained 0.3
percent to $7,167.50 a metric ton ($3.25 a pound). The price has
dropped 9.6 percent this year.  China  is the top consumer.  Aluminum, lead and nickel dropped in London, while zinc and
tin advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  