-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Ease After Jobs Report; Statoil Leads Sales
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-11-08T21:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/credit-swaps-in-u-s-ease-after-jobs-report-statoil-leads-sales.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell after a report showed American employers added more workers
in October than projected. Statoil ASA led weekly bond sales of
$38 billion in the U.S., the busiest in six periods.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 2.1
basis points to 71.8 basis points at 3:55 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Labor Department figures showed employers were increasing
hiring to meet greater demand as they looked past last month’s
U.S. government 16-day partial shutdown. Stronger employment is
a boon for corporate creditworthiness, even amid speculation the
report will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to accelerate a
withdrawal of stimulus.  The index widened after the report before falling,
indicating an “ambiguous” effect of the jobs data, according
to Markit Group Ltd.’s Gavan Nolan.  “In normal times, a stronger labor market boosts risk
assets – the  U.S. economy  is dependent on consumption and more
people in work means more spending,” he wrote in an e-mailed
note. “But these aren’t normal times, and economic data has to
be viewed through the prism of unconventional monetary policy.”  The Fed is buying a total $85 billion of government and
mortgage-backed securities a month in a policy known as
quantitative easing.  Fed Purchases  “The pace of the Federal Reserve’s asset purchases depends
on labor market conditions, so better than expected jobs numbers
may bring the start date of QE tapering forward,” Nolan wrote.  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Statoil,  Norway ’s largest oil company, this week raised $4
billion of debt in five parts while Citigroup Inc. issued $1.3
billion of fixed-and floating-rate bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings were the most since $55.8
billion in the five days ended Sept. 27 and compare with a 2013
weekly average of $30 billion.  Bonds of  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  fell a day after a $2 billion offering
by the largest U.S. producer of potash and phosphate fertilizer.  Mosaic Bonds  The company’s $600 million of 5.625 percent securities due
November 2043 fell 1.07 cents from the issue price to 98.84
cents on the dollar, yielding 5.71 percent at 2:32 p.m. in  New
York , according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The extra yield
investors demand to own the debt instead of similar-maturity
Treasuries narrowed to 182.7 basis points from 188 at issuance.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 6.8 basis points to 352.6 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries rose 0.1 basis point to 127.6 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt fell 12 basis points to 534.6.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  