-- Daimler Executives Probed Over Hiring of Former Merkel Assistant
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-11-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/daimler-executives-probed-over-hiring-of-former-merkel-assistant.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  management board members
are being investigated by Berlin prosecutors into the hiring of
a former aide to  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  The investigation of top managers is a “logical part” of
the probe of Eckart von Klaeden, who was hired by Daimler as a
lobbyist, Martin Steltner, a spokesman for Berlin prosecutors,
said in an interview. He declined to identify any board members
or say how many are under investigation.  “It’s not illegal if a government official changes jobs
and joins a company as a lobbyist,” Steltner said. “It would
be illegal if the official did something in favor of the company
while still in office in the expectation that would somehow pay
off after he moved over. We have to review whether that was the
case.”  Von Klaeden, a former state minister at Merkel’s
chancellery, announced in May he would join Daimler as head of
external affairs. He stayed at his government job until
September.  Daimler is cooperating with prosecutors and is convinced
that the executives acted properly, Ute von Vellberg, a
spokeswoman for Stuttgart-based Daimler, said in an e-mailed
statement.  A spokeswoman for Merkel declined to comment. Von Klaeden’s
tasks in the chancellery “didn’t include facilitating,
preparing or let alone make decisions related to the automotive
industry,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, told
reporters on Nov. 4.  The investigation by the Berlin prosecutors’ office was
triggered by an anonymous tip.  Von Klaeden has contacted prosecutors through his lawyer
and is “fully” cooperating, he said in an e-mail on Nov. 3,
saying he was confident that the allegations will be completely
cleared.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  