-- De Blasio Faces Limits of NYC Mayor’s Power as Budget Gaps Loom
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-11-08T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/de-blasio-faces-limits-of-nyc-mayor-s-power-as-budget-gaps-loom.html
New York Mayor-elect Bill De Blasio
scored a landslide victory championing an ambitious agenda that
includes taxing the rich to pay for universal pre-kindergarten,
building or preserving 200,000 units of low-income housing and
creating better-paying jobs for city residents.  When the 52-year-old Democrat is sworn in on New Year’s
Day, he’ll confront a deficit of as much as $2 billion in the
next fiscal year and the limits of his power. The only tax he
can raise without the approval of Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and the
state legislature is on property. To boost the levy on income
above $500,000 to pay for his education plan, he’ll have to go
through  Albany , where Cuomo has appointed two commissions on how
to lower taxes.  As the first Democrat to run the biggest U.S. city in 20
years, de Blasio will be challenged to pay for his programs
while balancing a  $70 billion budget  and maintaining the city’s
AA credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s , higher than  Los Angeles 
and  Chicago . His most difficult task will be settling expired
labor contracts and negotiating new ones with New York’s almost
300,000 public workers, some of whom haven’t gotten a raise
since 2009.  After failing to agree with three-term Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  on some policies, labor leaders are banking on getting 
a sympathetic ear. They’re also lowering expectations for
retroactive raises, which could run as high as $8 billion, more
than 10 percent of the budget.  Better Relations  “No one wants to bankrupt the city,” said Michael Mulgrew, head of the  United Federation of Teachers , which
represents 200,000 members. “I expect our relations with de
Blasio to be much better. It will have to start with undoing a
lot of the harm to the system done by this mayor.”  De Blasio, a self-described progressive and New York’s
public advocate, beat Republican Joseph Lhota on Nov. 5 by an
almost 50-point margin, the most for a non-incumbent in city
history and the widest since Mayor Edward Koch was elected to a
third term in 1985 by 68 points.  He’s ruled out providing full back pay covering all
employees for the years worked without a contract, saying it’s
too expensive. Throughout the campaign, de Blasio was vague
about his approach to labor negotiations, dodging questions on
issues such as requiring workers to contribute to their health
insurance and what productivity concessions might be gained in
return for higher wages.  Investor Reaction  Investor reaction to de Blasio has been muted. Since he
beat six other opponents in the Democratic primary on Sept. 10,
the extra yield that investors demand on  New York  general-obligation bonds over top-rated debt maturing in nine years has
been little changed.  De Blasio characterized Bloomberg’s relationship with city
workers as a “top-down approach” that created an adversarial
relationship. The mayor-elect said he would treat municipal
employees and their unions with “more respect.” The current
mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  “We have to balance our budget,” de Blasio told reporters
after a Sept. 19 appearance at a labor breakfast in Harlem. “I
hope to do something, if we can, on retroactive pay, but we’re
not going to be able to do the full amount.”  Any settlement would be spread out over time rather than
paid in one lump sum, said James Parrott, deputy director of the
 Fiscal Policy Institute  in New York, a labor-backed research
group.  Cuomo’s Role  Bloomberg closed a deficit of about $1 billion in the
current budget without raising taxes, in part through a one-time
revenue windfall as residents sold stocks and property to avoid
an increase on capital-gains levies in 2013.  De Blasio has said he’s against raising property taxes.
Discussions on his proposal to increase the top income-tax rate
on residents to 4.4 percent from 3.9 percent will have to wait
until January, said Cuomo.  “Universal pre-K is something I’ve been talking about for
years,” the governor, a 55-year-old Democrat, said on public
radio interview Nov. 6. “So I’m there. The question becomes the
financing method.”  The Bloomberg administration pegs the tab for retroactive
raises at almost $8 billion. Budget monitors estimate the cost
could range from $6.3 billion to  $7.2 billion  by the end of this
fiscal year. The city has set aside about $265 million in the
current budget, which ends June 30, to cover anticipated
collective-bargaining agreements, rising to $983 million in
2017.  Budget Hole  Each 1 percent raise awarded to city workers increases
operating costs by about $300 million a year, according to the
 Citizens Budget Commission , a business-funded watchdog.  “To give even modest wage increases retroactively can blow
a hole through your budget in the first year,” said Maria
Doulis, director of city studies for the CBC.  Delaying settlements to the fiscal year that starts July 1
would cause the amount of retroactive pay to increase even more,
she said.  At the same time, as  Wall Street  cuts jobs and crimps
bonuses, personal-income taxes, the second-largest source of
city revenue, will increase at a slower rate than before the
recession,  according  to the Independent Budget Office. The
securities industry accounted for 5 percent of private-industry
jobs and 22 percent of wages in the city in 2012, according to
state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  Wall Street  Wall Street lost 25,600 jobs from November 2007 to August
of this year,  according  to DiNapoli. Every job shed on Wall
Street leads to the loss of two additional ones in other city
industries, according to the comptroller.  Unions say the city consistently underestimates the amount
of revenue it will collect and always manages to find money to
restore budget cuts proposed by the mayor.  The IBO expects the city will collect $664 million more
than the Bloomberg administration estimates it will get this
fiscal year, widening to $2.7 billion in 2017.  “They always plead poverty,” said Al O’Leary, a spokesman
for the Patrolman’s Benevolent Association, which represents
23,000 police officers. “They have the ability to manipulate
numbers to make it look as if the city doesn’t have money, but
they have a huge amount of money coming in, and they have the
ability to use it as they see fit.”  On Table  City Comptroller  John Liu , a union-backed Democrat who lost
in the primary to de Blasio, said reining in outsourcing could
free up “billions of dollars” to help pay for raises.  Unions also may be willing to start contributing to health-care premiums or work-rule changes in exchange for raises, said
Domenic Recchia, chairman of the city council’s finance
committee.  “Everything will be on the table,” Recchia said.  The current budget assumes that municipal labor unions will
accept a deal with no wage increases for contracts that expired
after 2010. It also projects that the unions for teachers and
principals, whose contract ended in 2009, will forgo the two
years of 4 percent raises other unions received in the 2008-to-2010 bargaining round.  Assuming the teachers receive the same two years of 4
percent raises and that all the unions negotiate contracts with
2 percent annual increases for the 2010-to-2013 round of
bargaining, the city could face a one-time liability of $7.2
billion, according to the  Citizens Budget Commission .  De Blasio won’t take Bloomberg’s “take it or leave it”
approach to bargaining, and labor leaders will get a fair
hearing, said Ed Ott, former executive director of  New York
City ’s Central Labor Council, a coalition of 300 local unions.
That doesn’t mean the unions should expect a quick resolution of
contracts. After being out of office for two decades, Democrats
have to convince voters they can manage the city responsibly,
Ott said.  “I think there will be serious, respectful, tough
negotiations,” said Ott. “There are an awful lot of
organizations with needs and wants. We can’t bum-rush the door
and hope we all get in and get what we want.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  