-- Detroit Awaits Ruling on Bankruptcy Eligibility
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/detroit-bankruptcy-trial-ends-today-with-final-arguments.html
Detroit ’s bankruptcy trial ended
yesterday without a ruling from the judge on whether the city
can remain under court protection, where creditors are limited
in what they can do to challenge the city’s restructuring
process.  Following more than eight hours of arguments by nine
lawyers in federal court in Detroit, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Steven Rhodes said he will issue a ruling after the city and its
opponents file legal briefs next week about how labor law may
affect his decision.  The day ended with Rhodes asking lawyers for the city and
the state to respond to allegations that Governor  Rick Snyder 
and the emergency manager he appointed, Kevyn Orr, acted in bad
faith in the months before the case was filed.  On June 10, in a meeting with residents, Orr told a retired
city worker that pensions were “sacrosanct” under  Michigan 
law. Four days later, he proposed a plan to cut payments to the
city’s retirement systems.  “This may not be the moment where he used the best
words,”  Bruce Bennett , an attorney for the city, said of Orr’s
statement. “If your honor believes this statement was
misleading,” Orr corrected himself when the June 14 cuts were
proposed.  Lawyers for city unions and retired employee groups argued
that Snyder and other state officials wanted to push the city
into federal  bankruptcy court  because that was the only way to
get around a ban on pension cuts in Michigan’s constitution.  Union Argument  Union and retiree lawyers made their closing arguments
after lunch yesterday, beginning with Sharon Levine of
Lowenstein Sandler PC, who represents the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees.  Levine said it was “absurd” that state officials spent
more time hiring consultants to prepare for a bankruptcy than
Orr spent negotiating with creditors to avoid a filing. Orr made
his first debt-cutting proposal on June 14 and filed for
bankruptcy on July 18.  Snyder did nothing to solve the city’s problems except
prepare for bankruptcy from the time he took office in 2011,
Levine said. She called Detroit’s cash crunch in 2013, when the
city was projected to have only $7 million in cash out of a $1
billion budget, a “self-created emergency.”  Objectors put on witnesses who said the city didn’t try to
negotiate with them. They presented e-mail that showed  Jones
Day , Orr’s former law firm, was offering advice to state
officials about Detroit more than a year before the bankruptcy
was filed.  Negotiations Impractical  A July 8 communications plan put together by the city shows
that Orr wasn’t serious about negotiating, said Jennifer K.
Green, an attorney for a city pension system that’s fighting the
case. That plan emphasized that negotiations were impractical
even though Orr hadn’t held any negotiating sessions with
creditors, Green said.  Matthew Schneider, an attorney for Snyder, attacked those
claims. Any planning Snyder or state officials did for a
bankruptcy was designed to help the city, he said.  “Their theory is, ‘Don’t go speaking to weather experts
because that must mean you want the storm to come,’” Schneider
told Rhodes yesterday. “Isn’t this what you expect out of your
government? You expect planning. It would be irresponsible to
fail to prepare.”  Vulnerable City  Ending the bankruptcy would leave Detroit vulnerable to
lawsuits and other actions that could disrupt its turnaround
effort. The $18 billion bankruptcy is the biggest ever filed by
a U.S. municipality and the trial featured unprecedented
testimony from a sitting governor, who has made revitalizing
Detroit a central goal of his administration.  Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , Rhodes must
find that the city either tried to reach a deal before it filed
its case on July 18, or that talks were impractical.  When the trial opened on Oct. 23, Bennett, of Jones Day,
said a “mountain of evidence” showed Detroit is entitled to
court protection. That evidence included hundreds of documents
and testimony from Orr, Snyder and investment banker Kenneth
Buckfire, a financial adviser to the city.  Yesterday Bennett summarized some of that evidence,
focusing on two questions Rhodes will consider: Did the city
make a good-faith effort to negotiate with unions and the groups
representing retired city workers? And was negotiating a deal
with those groups and other creditors impractical?  Counterproposals Sought  The city presented creditors with Orr’s June proposal for
cutting debt and held meetings that month and in July to discuss
the plan and seek counterproposals. Union and retiree groups
attended and asked questions, but didn’t offer a
counterproposal, Bennett said.  An association of retired police officers, city unions and
the city’s two retirement funds all told Detroit they could talk
and even come up with recommendations for cost savings, but
couldn’t sign an agreement that would be binding on the
retirees, Bennett said. That meant even if talks yielded a deal,
the city would still have to get each retiree to approve,
Bennett said.  One union, the  United Auto Workers , said it would never
agree to any cuts to pension benefits, according to Bennett.
Delaying the bankruptcy to talk more would have made the fiscal
emergency worse, he said.  Deal Path  “What would more time have led to?” Bennett asked.
Bankruptcy opponents have not presented anything “that the city
could have looked at and said: ‘There was a path to a deal.’”  While Bennett was presenting his argument, two bond
insurers filed a lawsuit in bankruptcy court seeking to force
Detroit to set aside tax money to pay bonds that voters had
approved beginning in 1999.  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp. and Assured
Guaranty Municipal Corp. insured about $233.2 million of the
bond debt. When the city defaulted on a $9.4 million bond
payment in October, the two companies were forced to pay
bondholders, according to their complaint.  Also yesterday, the city announced that it will postpone
until Feb. 28 imposing a new health insurance plan for retirees,
which was to take effect Jan. 1. The city will continue
negotiating with a retirees, who agreed to withdraw their
lawsuit challenging the changes.  Monthly Stipend  Orr’s plan was to replace city-paid benefits by shifting
those who are eligible to Medicare, or paying a $125 monthly
stipend to buy health insurance to comply with the federal
Affordable Care Act. Orr had said the changes would save the
city $120 million a year.  Buckfire and Orr testified that they never received
counterproposals from the unions or retiree groups.  About a month before the July 18 filing, Orr proposed
canceling the unfunded  liability  owed to the city’s two pension
funds and the unsecured pension bonds held by investors.  Snyder, a Republican, who nominated Orr, a corporate lawyer
and former Democratic political appointee, both testified that
the proposal was necessary because the city doesn’t have enough
money to cover the debt. The unions and retirees said Snyder
violated Michigan’s constitutional ban on cutting pensions when
he authorized the bankruptcy.  Andy Dillon, a Democrat appointed treasurer by Snyder,
testified that Michigan lawmakers wouldn’t be willing to provide
any money to cover the cost of Detroit’s pension system or
retiree health care. Dillon is a former speaker of the Michigan
House of Representatives.  To remain in bankruptcy, the city must convince Rhodes that
it’s insolvent, that it’s entitled under state law to file for
bankruptcy, that it tried to negotiate with creditors or was
unable to do so, and that it intends to file a plan to adjust
its debts.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at  schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  