-- Deutsche Bank Wins $8 Billion Sebastian Suit on Margin Calls
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-11-08T15:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/deutsche-bank-wins-8-billion-sebastian-suit-over-margin-calls.html
Sebastian Holdings Inc., the
investment fund run by Norwegian businessman Alexander Vik, lost
a lawsuit against  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  claiming the lender’s 2008
margin calls cost him as much as $8 billion.  Judge Jeremy Cooke said in a ruling today that Sebastian
Holdings didn’t have any valid claims and should pay the bank
about $236 million. The dispute stems from losses suffered by
Vik’s fund at the height of the global financial crisis.  Deutsche Bank asked for about $530 million to cover losses
on Sebastian’s currency trading as markets tumbled late in 2008,
and liquidated the fund’s positions. Vik sued saying the bank’s
improper conduct led to the termination of trades that would
have made him billions of dollars.  Vik testified in June that he hadn’t authorized a former
Sebastian trader, Klaus Said, to risk so much of his money and
it was Deutsche Bank’s responsibility to stop him. The losses
were Vik’s “worst nightmare” and left him wanting to puke,
according to e-mails and phone calls cited in the 12-week trial.  The damages sought by Sebastian made the case one of the
largest ever brought in a U.K. commercial court, Deutsche Bank
said in court documents. It argued Vik knew about the risks
being taken and called his estimate of lost profits
“ambitious.”  Fabricated Evidence  Deutsche Bank, based in  Frankfurt , said in a statement that
the court found that Sebastian Holdings’s allegations were
“based on fabricated evidence and false testimony.” Judge
Cooke said in a 400-page ruling that the evidence Vik gave at
trial was “simply dishonest.”  Sebastian said in an e-mailed statement it may appeal the
decision. It said the judge found Deutsche Bank had been grossly
negligent in dealing with the fund’s transactions, and made
mistakes in the margin calls.  “Those findings against one of the largest banks in the
world –- supposedly a highly regulated and properly run
institution – are very serious,” Sebastian Holdings said.  Sebastian’s lawyer, David Railton, told Cooke today that
Deutsche Bank had given misleading evidence and the fund
shouldn’t have to pay all of its legal costs.  “Your lordship has found the bank maintained a false and
dishonest case” for about three years, before changing its
arguments ahead of the trial, he said.  The case is: Deutsche Bank AG v. Sebastian Holdings Inc.,
High Court of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial Court,
09-83.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  