-- Djokovic Advances at ATP Finals as Federer Retains Title Chance
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-08T00:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/djokovic-advances-at-atp-finals-as-federer-retains-title-chance.html
Novak Djokovic reached the semifinals
of tennis’s season finale after record six-time champion  Roger Federer  kept alive his bid to reach the knockout stage for the
11th time in 12 appearances.  Djokovic, the No. 2 seed from  Serbia , beat  Argentina ’s Juan Martin del Potro 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 last night in the ATP World Tour
Finals at  London ’s O2 arena, where Federer earlier defeated
 France ’s Richard Gasquet 6-4, 6-3. Federer and del Potro will
meet tomorrow to decide the other qualifier from Group B.  Djokovic, 26, joins top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  in
qualifying for the semifinals after two round-robin matches at
the event for the top eight men. The defending champion from
Serbia has won his last three tournaments, beating Nadal, del
Potro and  David Ferrer  in the finals, and has now extended his
winning streak to 19 matches.  “I’m playing the best tennis I think I played throughout
the whole season,” Djokovic told reporters. “That’s something
that I take as a positive for this moment and for obviously next
season. I’m definitely feeling confident, more confident than I
was a few months ago.”  Djokovic, who beat  Switzerland ’s Federer in his London
opener, will end the first stage tomorrow by taking on Gasquet,
who was eliminated with yesterday’s loss. The semifinals are
 scheduled  for Nov. 10, with the final the following day.  Djokovic’s match against No. 4 seed del Potro saw both
players miss early break-point opportunities. The Serb converted
his fifth chance to go up 4-2 and served out the opening set.  Lucky Break  In the next set, the break again came in game six, this
time on a piece of good fortune for del Potro when his attempted
winner hit the top of the net and dribbled over. The Argentine
won 80 percent of the points on his first service in the set,
enabling him to even the match.  Del Potro squandered two break-point opportunities to gain
the upper hand early in the final set, where Djokovic again
secured the only break in the sixth game and served out the
victory in one hour, 54 minutes. Djokovic hit 34 winners to del
Potro’s 24 in the match, and won 70 percent of the points on his
second serve, compared to 48 percent for his opponent.  Federer, the record 17-time men’s Grand Slam singles
champion, took 81 minutes to beat Gasquet, winning 68 percent of
the points on his first serve and breaking four times.  Should Federer fail to beat del Potro tomorrow, he’ll end
2013 with only one tournament win, his worst season since 2001.
The sixth seed has lost three of his four most-recent matches
against del Potro, though holds a  14-5  career advantage,
including a quarterfinal win at the Paris Masters last week.  “That win for me in Paris psychologically was very
important,” Federer told reporters yesterday. “I truly believe
my confidence is higher, and that’s what I need to beat the
best, and Juan Martin is part of that group.”  Nadal secured his semifinal berth two days ago and finishes
group play today against Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic .
Switzerland’s  Stanislas Wawrinka , who like Berdych has a 1-1
record and can also qualify from Group A, faces the already
eliminated Ferrer of Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  