-- Draghi Said to Have Pushed for Rate Cut in Timing Tussle
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/draghi-said-to-have-pushed-for-rate-cut-in-timing-tussle.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi pushed for yesterday’s interest-rate cut over opposition
from Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and at least two other
Governing Council members, according to four euro-area central
bank officials.  Weidmann and members from countries traditionally aligned
with the Bundesbank wanted to wait until December when forecasts
and more data will be available before deciding, said two of the
people who asked not to be identified because the talks are
confidential. Chief Economist Peter Praet proposed the cut and
won support of most members including  France ’s Christian Noyer,
one person said. Two officials said Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen opposed the move. An ECB spokesman declined to comment.  The Frankfurt-based ECB lowered its key interest rate by a
quarter point to 0.25 percent after a drop in inflation to the
slowest pace in four years threatened its mission to keep prices
stable. The decision, which Draghi said was supported by a
“significant majority,” was predicted by only three of 70
economists in a Bloomberg News survey, and sent the euro
tumbling the most in almost two years versus the dollar.  The opposing minority comprised as much as a quarter of the
ECB’s Governing Council, two of the central bank officials said.
According to one, that faction favored waiting until December
before considering whether to deliver a bigger package that
paired a rate cut with more liquidity measures.  Governing Council  The 23 Governing Council members, which consist of 17
national central bank governors and the ECB’s six-member
Executive Board, don’t normally comment on their voting
behavior. A Bank of France spokeswoman said that Noyer never
reveals his vote.  Yesterday’s meeting delivered a cut that was already
discussed in July, when available data showed the euro zone was
still suffering from its longest-ever recession. That move was
opposed by seven council members including Weidmann and
Asmussen, Spiegel reported at the time.  Countries whose governors have sided with the Germans in
past decisions include the Netherlands,  Austria , and  Finland .
The people didn’t specify the breakdown by country of the
decision.  Crisis Fighter  The ECB’s first rate reduction since May burnishes Draghi’s
reputation as a crisis-fighter and aligns his bank with
counterparts such as the Federal Reserve in recently seeking to
reinforce rather than retract monetary support. It leaves the
euro-area’s main rate just a quarter-point from zero, increasing
the likelihood of unconventional tools such as a negative
deposit rate if prices slow further or the economy stalls.  “There comes a point where inflation is so weak, and
coming in weaker than anticipated, that the case for loosening
policy becomes too hard to resist,” said Richard Barwell,
senior European economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in
 London , who predicted the cut.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  