-- DuPont Joins Deere on Software in Challenge to Monsanto
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-11-08T13:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/dupont-joins-deere-on-software-in-challenge-to-monsanto.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S.
chemical company, is collaborating with  Deere & Co. (DE)  to sell
software intended to boost crop yields, a move that may
challenge  Monsanto Co. (MON)  as it expands into the same area.  DuPont’s Pioneer seed unit will combine its Field360
software with  Wireless Data Transfer  technology from Deere, the
world’s largest maker of agricultural equipment. Uploading data
from the field as it’s collected can help growers make better
decisions on seeds, fertilizer and other inputs, Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont said today in a statement.  The Deere partnership bolsters DuPont’s farm-data offerings
to better compete with Monsanto, the world’s biggest seed
company. Monsanto last month bought The Climate Corp. for $930
million to provide farmers with weather and field data, and last
year it paid $210 million for Precision Planting LLC to boost
yields with variable planting technology.  DuPont uses GPS and tractor data to map such factors as
grain moisture, historical yields and nutrient deficiencies. The
data allows DuPont to advise growers on seed variety selection,
on the timing of planting and harvest and on fields with low
yields, said Joe Foresman, DuPont Pioneer director of services.  “What we are doing today with Deere enables us to do that
faster,” Foresman said by phone. “The key thing here is speed
and getting to a point where a farmer realizes benefits
immediately.”  Customer Data  DuPont used customers’ data to map 20 million acres in the
past year, including 12 million acres during last year’s harvest
and 8 million during spring planting, Foresman said. The company
provided 1.5 million acres of variable rate seeding
prescriptions through its Field360 product, for which it charges
$500 per farm, he said.  DuPont plans to charge more after upgrades to the service
are announced early next year, Foresman said. Monsanto next year
will start charging $10 per acre for its precision planting
product, which improved corn yields 5 to 10 bushels an acre in
farmer trials this year, the company said Oct 2.  DuPont doesn’t have an exclusive agreement with Deere and
plans to work with other equipment makers, Foresman said. Terms
of DuPont’s agreement with Moline, Illinois-based Deere weren’t
disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  