-- Dynegy Posts Profit as Units Exit Chapter 11: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2013-11-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/dynegy-posts-profit-as-units-exit-chapter-11-bankruptcy.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  reported third-quarter
net income of $22 million on revenue of $446 million, three days
after the last of the companies in the power producer’s group
emerged from bankruptcy reorganization.  For the three quarters ended Sept. 30, the net loss was
$265 million, Houston-based Dynegy said yesterday in a
regulatory filing. Revenue for the nine months totaled
$1.07 billion.  In August, Dynegy got permission from the bankruptcy judge
to sell its non-operating Danskammer plant for $3.5 million and
the assumption of environmental cleanup obligations. The
collapse of a sale to another purchaser disabled the four so-called operating companies from implementing their plan until
Nov. 4, although it was approved when the judge signed a
confirmation order in March.  The Dynegy parent previously left bankruptcy under a
separate plan.  For a rundown on the two bankruptcies and sale of the last
plants, click here for the Aug. 23 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Dynegy Holdings and the four operating companies filed
under Chapter 11 in November 2011. The ultimate parent Dynegy
Inc. filed under Chapter 11 in July 2012 and emerged from
bankruptcy along with Dynegy Holdings in October.  Dynegy rose 1.2 percent to $19.73 yesterday on the  New York 
Stock Exchange. The shares reached a 12-month closing high of
$24.76 on May 21 and a low of $17.96 on Nov. 11, 2012.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-bk-38111,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).
The case for the parent is In re Dynegy Inc., 12-bk-36728, in
the same court.  Updates  Suntech Seeks Dismissal of Involuntary U.S. Bankruptcy  Suntech Power Holdings Co., once the world’s largest solar-panel maker, filed court papers urging a judge to dismiss the
involuntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition filed in mid-October
by four holders of some of the $541 million in convertible
notes.  Based in Wuxi,  China , Suntech advances several reasons why
the involuntary bankruptcy is defective. Most prominently,
Suntech says that at least two of the four involuntary
petitioners acquired their claims expressly to file an
involuntary petition, an action prohibited in bankruptcy law.  Suntech points out that none of the petitioning noteholders
filed a required statement saying they hadn’t purchased the debt
to file an involuntary petition. The petitioning noteholders
include Trondheim Capital Partners LP and Michael Meixler.  The court should dismiss the case “in the interests of
creditors and the debtor” under Section 305 of the  Bankruptcy
Code  to ensure there is no disruption of ongoing negotiations
with holders of a majority or more of the notes, Suntech said.  Dismissal of the involuntary petition will come to
 bankruptcy court  for a hearing on Dec. 12.  Suntech says the four creditors own only 0.27 percent of
outstanding debt. Suntech defaulted on the notes in March.  New York was also the wrong place to file, Suntech says,
because the company has no place of business or assets in the
U.S.  Instead, the New York court should allow Suntech to proceed
with the bankruptcy it filed voluntarily in the  Cayman Islands ,
the company said. Eventually, Suntech said, the four creditors
will be allowed to vote on a reorganization to be proposed in
the Cayman Islands, where the company is incorporated.  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The involuntary bankruptcy is In re  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP) , 13-bk-13350, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ).  New Filings  Atlantic Club Casino Files in New Jersey to Sell Soon  The  Atlantic Club Casino Hotel  in  Atlantic City , New
Jersey, filed a Chapter 11 petition on Nov. 6 in Camden, New
Jersey, designed to sell the property “in the near term.”  The property has 801 rooms, 75,000 square feet of gaming
space, and seven restaurants. Last year, revenue of $103.8
million resulted in a $43.3 million net loss. For the first nine
months of this year, revenue of $88.6 million threw off a $7.4
million loss before interest, taxes, and deprecation.  The ultimate parent, Resorts International Holding LLC,
acquired the project along with three others in 2005 from
Caesar’s Entertainment Inc. and Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. The
others were sold or given to secured lenders, leaving Atlantic
Club with no secured debt.  When a sale fell through this year, the owners saw no
alternative to bankruptcy given their unwillingness to fund
losses and buyers’ reluctance to purchase the property without
protection from bankruptcy court. A sale while in bankruptcy
requires approval from state gaming regulators.  Liabilities include $5.7 million in taxes and $1.7 million
on capital leases. There is $9 million in accounts payable and
$16.6 million in accrued expenses on the balance sheet,
according to a court filing.  The casino rebranded itself for appeal to local gamblers,
devoting 70 percent of the gaming space to so-called penny
slots.  The bankruptcy will be financed with a $15 million secured
loan provided by an affiliate of Northlight Financial LLC. The
loan will pay 11.75 percent interest.  The  Revel casino , also in Atlantic City, emerged from
Chapter 11 in May with a reorganization plan approved by the
bankruptcy judge in Camden.  The assets and debt of the Atlantic Club are both less than
$50 million, according to the petition  The case is In re RHI Acquisitions NJ LLC, 13-34483, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  New Jersey  (Camden).  Indianapolis Hotel Owner Files to Stop Foreclosures  The owner of the Hilton Garden Inn hotel in  Mount Laurel ,
New Jersey, and six other hotels owned by Bharat N. Patel filed
petitions for Chapter 11 protection on Nov. 4 in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Indianapolis to stop lender National Republic Bank from
installing receivers in foreclosure proceedings.  The Chicago-based bank has a disputed mortgage in the
amount of $21.3 million on the Mount Laurel property, according
to a filing in bankruptcy court. Taking all seven hotels
together, the bank is owed $121 million, National Republic said
in a court filing.  The New Jersey hotel opened in October 2011. It has 140
rooms and is 16 miles (26 kilometers) from Center City,
Philadelphia.  Patel owns three dozen hotels in the U.S.  The bank is opposing the use of cash representing
collateral for the mortgages.  The petition lists the assets and debt as both exceeding
$10 million on the Mount Laurel property.  The first-filed case is In re Mt. Laurel Lodging Associates
LLC, 13-bk-11697, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of
 Indiana  (Indianapolis).  Statistics  Bankruptcy Filings Show More Signs of Bottoming Out  Bankruptcy filings in the U.S. remain on track to end up at
the fewest in five years. Statistics in October suggest there
might be an uptick in consumer bankruptcies in coming months.  The trend for business bankruptcies and corporate
reorganization remains down.  The approximately 90,000 bankruptcies of all types in
October brought the year’s total to 892,000, a 13 percent
decline from the same period last year, according to data
compiled from court records by  Epiq Systems Inc. (EPIQ)   October’s total filings were 17 percent more than September
on a daily basis, although 2.5 percent fewer than the same month
in 2012.  Suggesting filings might mount in coming months, October
recorded the fourth highest this year and the most since May.  The approximately 3,500 commercial bankruptcies of all
types in October were the second-fewest in 2013 and 27 percent
lower than October 2012.  October this year had the fewest Chapter 11s of any October
since the recession. Chapter 11 is where larger companies
reorganize or sell assets. October basically tied for the fewest
Chapter 11s in 2013. Chapter 11 filings can be more volatile,
because one company may file with 50 affiliates and each counts
as a separate filing statistically.  The states with the most bankruptcies per capita in October
were Tennessee,  Georgia  and  Alabama . That order has held since
earlier this year, when Georgia replaced Alabama in second
place.  Bankruptcies throughout the U.S. declined 14 percent in
2012 to 1.19 million from 1.38 million the year before.  The 2011 figure represented a 12 percent decline from the
1.56 million in 2010, the most since the record 2.1 million in
2005. In the last two weeks before the laws tightened in 2005,
630,000 American sought  bankruptcy protection .  Bankruptcy Video  Listening in the Dark at the NCBJ; Executive Benefits  Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia asks Bloomberg News bankruptcy
columnist Bill Rochelle how he responded when the lights went
out during his luncheon keynote speech at the annual convention
of the National Conference of Bankruptcy Judges last week in
Atlanta.  In the video, like his talk at the NCBJ, Rochelle analyzes
the two bankruptcy cases coming to the U.S.  Supreme Court  this
term. He explains why the seemingly less important case, Law v.
Siegel, may end up being more significant than Executive
Benefits Insurance Agency v. Arkison, dealing with whether
someone can waive the right for a final ruling by a life-tenured
federal district judge.  Rochelle believes Law could be a watershed in federal
jurisprudence if the opinion subjugates federal courts’
historical equity powers to the plain language of an imperfect
statute.  The video concludes with a proposal for a federal Court of
Bankruptcy Appeals to resolve the 10 circuit splits that arose
in the last year alone. Having uniformity in bankruptcy law
throughout the country would bring an added benefit by deterring
forum shopping, Bill says. To listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Defaulting Is No Waiver of Stern v. Marshall Rights  A default judgment doesn’t provide implied consent for the
entry of a final judgment in bankruptcy court on an issue where
the bankruptcy judge otherwise doesn’t have final adjudicatory
power, U.S. District Judge Edgardo Ramos ruled on Nov. 6.  The trustee for a trust created under a confirmed Chapter
11 plan sued in bankruptcy court alleging fraudulent transfer
claims against company insiders. None of the defendants answered
the complaint after it was served twice by mail.  After a default judgment was entered, the defendants in
substance made a motion to vacate the default. In the process
they raised a defense about the power of the bankruptcy court
under the Supreme Court’s Stern v. Marshall opinion two years
ago.  The bankruptcy judge denied the motion for rehearing and
entered judgment. On appeal, the defendants won.  The trustee argued that defaulting amounted to implied
consent waiving defenses under Stern. Ramos disagreed.  Ramos said that courts finding waiver had cases where the
Stern defense wasn’t raised until after trial and lengthy
pretrial proceedings. Thus, Ramos said there was no implied
consent for entering a final judgment in bankruptcy court.  Consequently, Ramos treated the bankruptcy court’s rulings
as proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law, not as
final judgments reviewed under Section 158(a)(1) of the
Judiciary Code.  Ramos went on to find that the default judgment should have
been vacated. He sent the case back to bankruptcy court for
further proceedings because vacating the default didn’t
necessarily mean that the defendants had valid defenses
defeating the lawsuit.  The case is Ariston Properties LLC v. Messer (In re FKF3
LLC), 13-bk-03310, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Web Addresses, Phone Number Aren’t Estate Property  A competitor has no standing to reopen a bankruptcy and
have the trustee sell property that wasn’t scheduled and
therefore not abandoned automatically, U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady in Alexandria,  Virginia , ruled yesterday in overturning
a decision in bankruptcy court.  A company that ended up in Chapter 11 allegedly didn’t
schedule all of its property, such as computer servers, Web
addresses and telephone numbers. A competitor, after the case
was closed, filed papers to reopen the case.  The Chapter 7 trustee later held an auction where the
competitor came out on top with an offer of $28,000, outbidding
officers of the bankrupt company who had opened a business of
their own using property they believed to be abandoned.  O’Grady first ruled that the competitor lacked the
standing, thus invalidating the subsequent sale.  The judge next examined individual items of property to
determine if they were or weren’t scheduled and thus abandoned.  He said that servers fall within the rubric of
“computers” listed on the schedules and therefore were
abandoned and beyond the ability of the trustee to sell.  Looking to Virginia law, O’Grady said that a customer has
no property interest in a Web address or phone number, thus
taking those items beyond the trustee’s ability to sell. He said
that “subjective value does not equate to ownership under
Virginia law.”  Even if the Web name and phone numbers were property and
weren’t scheduled, they were executory contracts with the
service providers automatically rejected when they weren’t
assumed. Since the underlying contracts went up in smoke, there
was nothing for the trustee to sell later.  The case is Alexandria Surveys LLC v. Alexandria Consulting
Group LLC, (In re Alexandria Surveys International LLC, 13-bk-00891, U.S. District Court, Eastern of District Virginia
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  