-- Telefonica Margins Widen in Spain as Debt-Cut Target Met
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-11-08T17:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/telefonica-quarterly-profit-slides-as-spanish-phone-demand-wanes.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s largest phone
company, improved profitability in its home market last quarter
and said it reached a debt-reduction target earlier than planned
after selling assets.  While revenue in its biggest market fell 12 percent to 3.2
billion euros ($4.3 billion), the profit margin widened by 2.8
percentage points from a year earlier to 50.2 percent of sales,
the company said today. Net debt is now 44.6 billion euros,
below a year-end target for less than 47 billion euros.  Spain exiting a two-year recession last quarter is helping
Madrid-based Telefonica hang onto more customers after it
introduced bundled voice, data and pay-television offers to
fight discounters. Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta has
sold assets in Ireland and the  Czech Republic  to cut debt and
refocus on larger countries including  Brazil  and Italy, where he
is increasing Telefonica’s influence over  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   “The improvement in margins in Spain is quite
remarkable,” Borja Mijangos, an analyst at Interdin Bolsa in
Madrid, said by phone. The net debt figure “shows the efforts
made by the company to clean up its balance sheet.”  The group’s operating income before depreciation and
amortization fell 13 percent to 4.68 billion euros. Analysts
projected 4.78 billion euros, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales declined 9.5 percent to 14.1 billion euros,
exceeding the 13.9 billion-euro average estimate.  KPN Deal  Telefonica  shares  climbed 0.8 percent to 12.44 euros in
 Madrid , bringing the gain to 22 percent in 2013 after three
consecutive years of decline. The company has a market value of
56.6 billion euros.  “The shares had a good rally over the past four months due
to M&A activity but not really because of an improvement in the
business,” Paul Marsch, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London ,
who recommends selling the stock. “The company still faces many
challenges.”  Telefonica resumed deal-making during the quarter after
asset sales helped reduce debt. In July, it agreed with Royal
KPN NV to combine their German wireless businesses. Two months
later, it agreed to gradually buy out co-investors in Telco SpA,
the vehicle that owns 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia and
controls its board.  Net debt was 46.1 billion euros at the end of September and
has fallen further since the sale of assets such as the Czech
and Irish businesses. Net debt has shrunk by almost 14 billion
euros since June 2012.  Profit Falls  Net income fell 21 percent to 1.09 billion euros, compared
with analysts’ 942 million-euro  average estimate .  Oibda from  Latin America  dropped 17 percent to 2.24 billion
euros. Sales fell 6.8 percent to 7.1 billion euros, hurt by
exchange-rate fluctuations in Brazil,  Argentina  and  Venezuela .
In Brazil, the largest market in the region, Oibda decreased 29
percent to 822 million euros as revenue declined 15 percent.  “I’m not too concerned about Latin America as the growth
is stable if you exclude the impact of currencies,” Mijangos of
Interdin said.  Telecom Italia said yesterday net income slumped by more
than a quarter to 505 million euros as the Milan-based carrier
unveiled plans to sell its Argentine business, assets including
wireless towers in Italy and Brazil, and a mandatory convertible
bond to raise a total of about 4 billion euros.  Telefonica bought 103 million euros of Telecom Italia’s 1.3
billion-euro convertible bond sale yesterday to mitigate a
dilution of its indirect stake, the Spanish company’s finance
chief Angel Vila said on a webcast conference call today.
Telecom Italia’s new strategy is moving in the right direction
by strengthening the domestic business and gaining financial
flexibility, Vila said.  Deutsche Telecom AG yesterday reported a second consecutive
quarter of revenue growth, propelled by a recovery in the U.S.
mobile-phone business, while price competition in  Europe  hurt
profitability.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  reports Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  