-- Telus Profit Beats Estimates on Wireless Customer Growth
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 6 0 8 1 8 9 1 ]   H u g o   M i l l e r   [ ]
-- 2013-11-08T21:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/telus-profit-beats-estimates-on-wireless-customer-growth.html
Telus Corp. (T)  reported third-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as the wireless carrier
gained more high-spending smartphone subscribers than predicted.  Excluding some costs and gains,  earnings  were 58 Canadian
cents (55 cents) a share, the Vancouver-based company said today
in a statement. The average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg
was 54 cents. Sales climbed 3.6 percent to C$2.87 billion
compared with the C$2.91 billion projected by analysts.  Chief Executive Officer Darren Entwistle has ignored the
content-acquisition strategy of rivals at  Rogers Communications
Inc. (RCI/B)  and  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and instead is plowing profits into increasing
the speed of its wireless networks and returning more money to
shareholders. Telus has been able to keep attracting smartphone
customers and its stock has outpaced Rogers and BCE this year.  Telus added 106,000 wireless customers on contract during
the quarter, compared with the 104,000 average estimate of
analysts. Rogers, based in Toronto, added 64,000 subscribers in
the quarter on that basis and Montreal-based BCE gained 102,714.
Those two companies fell short of estimates, something they
blamed in part on a government-mandated shift to two-year
contracts from the traditional three-year plans.  Telus’s average revenue per contract user increased 1.7
percent to C$62.49 in the quarter.  The carrier’s shares rose 1.7 percent to C$36.90 at 4 p.m.
in Toronto. The  stock  has climbed 14 percent this year, as BCE
gained 8.7 percent and Rogers advanced 4.2 percent.  Public Mobile  Several small wireless carriers began operating in central
 Canada  in recent years, aiming to woo customers away from the
incumbents with no-frills calling plans. Telus last month agreed
to buy Public Mobile for an undisclosed amount to boost
subscriber growth.  Buying Public Mobile gives Telus sought-after wireless
spectrum and more consumers, albeit prepaid customers who tend
to spend less and change carriers more often, Chief Financial
Officer John Gossling said in an interview today. It also
provides tax credits, in the form of carry forwards from Public
Mobile’s past operating losses, that Telus can use to reduce its
tax bills in the future, he said.  The company’s bid to purchase Mobilicity has been blocked
by the government, which says it won’t allow BCE, Telus or
Rogers to amass more wireless spectrum by acquiring their
struggling rivals until a moratorium on spectrum transfers ends
next year. Gossling said Telus is still interested in
Mobilicity’s AWS spectrum. He declined to comment on what
measures Telus is taking to try and reach a deal.  Net income  rose 10 percent to C$356 million, or 56 cents a
share, from C$323 million, or 49 cents, a year earlier.  The company increased its quarterly  dividend  by 2 cents, or
5.9 percent, to 36 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  