-- Embraer Winning Global Regional Jet Contest: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-11-08T02:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/embraer-winning-global-regional-jet-contest-corporate-brazil.html
Embraer SA (ERJ) , a pioneer in building
regional jets, is emerging as the global leader of a market
that’s shrinking as airlines opt for bigger aircraft.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the Embraer competitor that began selling
the planes two decades ago, is focusing on developing a larger
model for carriers’ main jet operations and hasn’t landed a
regional deal in the U.S. this year. Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp.’s
new entry faces a second delay and won’t be ready until 2017.  The result is a clearer field for Embraer amid a slowdown
in industrywide regional-jet orders to less than half of 2007’s
peak of 408.  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil-based Embraer is due to
start shipping upgraded E2 models in 2018, with newer technology
than Bombardier and a heritage that Mitsubishi can’t match.  “With the proposed E2, Embraer looks more likely to be the
leading, i.e., dominant, producer in regional jets because
Mitsubishi is late, late, late,” Cai Von Rumohr, a Cowen
Securities LLC analyst in  Boston , said by telephone. He rates
Embraer’s American depositary receipts as  market perform  and
doesn’t cover Mitsubishi or Bombardier.  Embraer is positioning itself to survive the shakeout with
the E2 upgrade announced earlier this year, adding improved
engines and a new wing design to its signature E-jets.  Extremely Competitive  “The business plan of the E2 was based on very solid,
maybe even conservative assumptions,” of orders, Embraer Chief
Executive Officer Frederico Curado said on a conference call
with analysts last week. “The airplanes will be extremely,
extremely competitive.”  Bombardier said it’s not abandoning the regional-jet market
even as it works on its CSeries, a future rival to the smallest
Boeing Co. and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  models. Mitsubishi has said the MRJ
will benefit from new engines cutting fuel use 20 percent
compared with existing regional aircraft.  A fivefold increase in jet-fuel prices, to $2.80 a gallon,
since 1994 is helping drive airlines toward larger planes, which
they can pack with more passengers, and away from the regional
models once embraced for their combination of speed and the
ability to serve smaller airports better than models from  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS, the world’s biggest plane makers.  Last week,  New-York  based JetBlue Airways Corp. underscored
that move by delaying an order for 24 Embraer E190 planes, the
smallest in its lineup with capacity for about 100 passengers,
to 2020 through 2022, instead of taking them from next year into
2018. Its fleet of E190s will be limited to 60, down from a
previous order of 100 with options for another 100.  Future Demand  Future demand for regional jets will come primarily from
full-service carriers, such as AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  and
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, seeking an economical way to serve
limited markets, George Ferguson, a senior air transport analyst
with Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey , said.  “That makes it a much smaller size market for the regional
jets than for the narrow-body,” Ferguson said. “It’s a very
small market and Embraer is doing a nice job of taking that.”  Investors are rewarding Embraer with a stock-market premium
over Montreal-based Bombardier. The Brazilian company closed
yesterday at 17.29 reais, about  17 times  estimated 2013
earnings, while Bombardier’s ratio was about 12 times, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Embraer rose 20 percent  this year 
compared with a 24 percent increase for Bombardier.  Regional jets remain an important offering for Bombardier,
said Philippe Poutissou, vice president of marketing at the
company’s commercial aircraft unit.  ‘No Suggestion’  “There should be no suggestion that we are pulling out, or
pulling back, from the regional-jet marketplace,” Poutissou
said in an interview. The company hasn’t announced plans yet to
update its CRJ regional lineup.  Hirofumi Takahashi, president of Mitsubishi Aircraft
Corporation America Inc., in Addison,  Texas , declined to comment
on the delays in producing the MRJ model. The parent company
announced in August that it would hand over its first plane in
the second quarter of 2017.  The imbalance between demand for regional jets and single-and twin-aisle aircraft shows the challenge for Embraer,
Bombardier and Mitsubishi. The global order backlog for full-size airliners now numbers 7,856, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, while the total for aircraft in the 60-to 120-seat
range is 633.  Last One  Embraer and Bombardier are now vying for a regional-jet
order from American, which may be the last one this year in the
U.S. after purchases by United, Delta Air Lines Inc. and two
commuter operators,  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  and SkyWest
Inc. since December.  Embraer prevailed in all of those contests except for
Delta. An American order is contingent on its bankruptcy exit,
and the airline has declined to say when it might buy new
regional planes as it works to leave court protection and
complete its planned merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   While Embraer is still under the cloud of a bribery
investigation by the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission dating from 2010, investors
aren’t focusing on that case, according to Darryl Genovesi, a
UBS AG analyst in New York.  “The bigger issue for Embraer is that they’ve been missing
estimates -- three quarters in a row,” said Genovesi, who rates
Embraer’s ADRs neutral.  Lower Margin  Embraer said in an emailed statement to Bloomberg that it
can’t comment on the SEC investigation.  Embraer’s third-quarter consolidated operating margin fell
to 5.9 percent from 7.2 percent a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Pressure is coming from having an
order mix tilted to more of the smaller, lower-margin E-175
models than the E-190 and slow growth in sales, Genovesi said.
Bombardier’s operating margin slid to 4.58 percent in the third
quarter from 5.15 percent a year earlier.  At the same time, Embraer benefits from being able to
finance upgrades for the E2 lineup with  cash flow  from its
defense unit and its business-jet divisions, Genovesi said.  Bloomberg Industries’ Ferguson said Bombardier’s struggles
to find buyers for a new model like the CSeries, which can seat
as many as 160 people, show Embraer’s advantages in pitching the
upgraded E2 jets.  “Bombardier is learning that just because you’re offering
something in a space that has 8,000 orders doesn’t mean people
want it,” Ferguson said. “That gives Embraer a leg up, because
they have a bunch of operators already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  