-- Emerging Stocks Slump as Gold Shares Sink on Dollar Rally
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-11-08T21:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/emerging-stocks-head-for-longest-stretch-of-losses-since-march.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated,
capping the biggest weekly slide in four months, as growing
speculation the Federal Reserve will curtail economic stimulus
drove a rally in the U.S. dollar and sank gold producers.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 1.5 percent to
995.30, extending its slump for the week to 3.2 percent.
Benchmark stock gauges from South Africa to Russia and  China 
dropped more than 1 percent, while the Borsa Istanbul National
100 Index posted the second-biggest decline among the 94 world
equity gauges tracked by Bloomberg.  DRDGold Ltd. (DRD)  and AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. decreased at least 3.7 percent in Johannesburg as
the precious metal drove losses in commodities.  The dollar climbed to a two-month high, Treasuries dropped
the most in four months and gold tumbled as data showed U.S.
employers added more workers than forecast, fueling speculation
the Fed may start reducing stimulus by the end of this year. The
gauge for stocks in developing nations has retreated as much as
16 percent since May 22, when the U.S. central bank signaled its
$85 billion asset-buying program could be trimmed if the economy
showed sustained improvement.  “The outlook is positive for the U.S. and that might lead
people to think that the Fed will begin tapering sooner rather
than later,” John Carey, a portfolio manager at Pioneer
Investment Management who manages $200 billion in assets
globally, said by phone from  Boston . “That could lead to some
strength in the dollar and rising interest rates. Markets react
sometimes in exaggerated ways and people are maybe more fearful
than is justified and that may be what’s going on today.”  Biggest Losses  All  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped
today, as commodity shares sank at least 1.5 percent. The broad
measure fell for a seventh day in the longest losing streak
since March 19. It trades at 10.4 times projected earnings,
compared with the  valuation  of 14.3 for the MSCI World Index.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund declined 0.2 percent to $41.16. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 3.9 percent to 23.83.  Fed policy makers said last week they needed to see more
evidence the economy will continue to improve before they trim
monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage debt. The Fed won’t
begin tapering its bond buying until March and will continue
purchasing securities until October, according to the median
estimate of 40 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last month.  ‘Lingering Fears’  “It appears as though the consensus has pretty much
shifted from a March taper to closer to a December taper,”
Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $236 billion as chief
portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee
Falls,  Wisconsin , said by phone. “The moves in the emerging
markets are indicating to me that there are still some lingering
fears of what sort of effect this could have on those sort of
economies.”  Brazil ’s Ibovespa extended its weekly decline to 3.3
percent. Mobile carrier  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  sank after parent
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s chief executive officer said its Brazilian
assets are strategic, damping speculation the local unit will be
sold.  Russian stocks  declined to the lowest level in a month as
builder  LSR Group (LSRG)  and power company OAO Inter RAO UES dropped
after MSCI Inc. cut them from an index tracked by investors. The
Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index tumbled 2.5 percent, the most
in two months, as Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS led losses in
lenders. Benchmark gauges in the Czech Republic and  Poland 
retreated at least 0.7 percent.  Gold Shares  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index dropped 1.3 percent as
DRDGold sank to the lowest level in two months, while AngloGold
Ashanti retreated 3.8 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.1 percent, adding to a
2 percent loss this week, before the start of a Communist Party
meeting tomorrow. Sanan Optoelectronics Co. dropped 3.3 percent,
paring this year’s gain to 43 percent. China Cosco Holdings Co.
slumped the most in two months after the largest shipping
company said an executive director is under investigation. The
government is scheduled to release data on consumer prices and
industrial output tomorrow.  India’s (SENSEX)  benchmark stock index fell for a fourth day,
capping its biggest weekly loss in three months, as the rupee
dropped to a six-week low.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  dropped 1.9 percent,
leading a gauge of banking shares to a fifth day of losses, the
longest losing streak since July.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  slid
to a three-week low, leading a slide in the S&P BSE  India  Oil &
Gas Index.  Thailand ’s stocks dropped the most in Asia and the baht
fell to the weakest level in a month as a delay in voting on the
government’s amnesty bill spurred concerns of more protests
against the measure.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 318 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  