-- Emerging Markets Super-Cycle Promises Growth: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-11-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/emerging-markets-super-cycle-promises-growth-cutting-research.html
The  emerging-markets  juggernaut that
propelled the globe out of the 2009 recession is taking a pause
rather than running out of steam.  That’s the analysis of economists at  Standard Chartered 
Plc, who have updated their 2010 theory that the world economy
is in a “super cycle” of historically high economic growth
which lasts a generation. It remains on track, they conclude in
a Nov. 6 study.  Such periods are rare. One lasted from 1870 to 1913,
between the U.S. Civil War and the run-up to World War I. The
second went from 1946, following World War II, to 1973, the
economists said. If their estimates are accurate, the world
economy will swell by an annual average of 3.5 percent from 2000
to 2030, faster than the 3 percent of the prior three decades.  The outlook was challenged this year as developing
economies such as  China  slowed: The  International Monetary Fund 
forecast they will grow in 2013 at the weakest pace since 2009.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is down 4 percent this year,
versus a 19 percent rise for the broader MSCI World Index.  While they have lowered their growth forecasts for China
and  India , the Standard Chartered team still  expects  global
expansion to accelerate over the next three years as developing
economies implement structural improvements allowing their
economies to be more productive.  China will still have average annual growth of 7 percent
through 2020 and 5.3 percent between 2021 and 2030, replacing
the U.S. as the world’s largest economy by 2022.  That will help lift emerging markets’ share of global gross
domestic product to as much as 63 percent by 2030 from 38
percent in 2010. World trade could quadruple to $75 trillion by
2030 from $17.8 trillion last year. The ranks of the middle
class will also jump, according to the report.  Financial markets in developing nations will also expand,
led by China and India, and the  yuan  will become a leading world
currency, Standard Chartered said.  Threats to the optimism include questions over whether
economies are continuing to make structural improvements, the
risks posed by aging populations, how fast U.S. interest rates
will rise when Asian debt is so high and signs the commodity
boom is over and that the model of relying on exports is flawed,
the economists said.  * * *  The  Federal Reserve ’s influence on equity prices has surged
three-fold in the past decade as monetary policy increasingly
drives financial markets.  In an attempt to quantify the Fed effect, Stephen L. Jen
and Fatih Yilmaz of SLJ Macro Partners LLP found the U.S.
central bank has been three times more important in determining
how stocks trade in the past 10 years than it was from 1980 to
2002. They compared the influence of the Fed’s interest-rate,
money-supply and exchange-rate tools against that of inflation,
corporate profits and economic growth.  On average, the Fed’s policy stance explains 40 percent of
the variations in equity prices, compared with corporate
profits, which explain just 15 percent of share swings, London-based Jen and Yilmaz wrote in an Oct. 30 report.  With the Fed delaying its decision to begin tapering its
$85 billion of monthly asset purchases, this analysis suggests
“buoyant equity prices, artificially low bond yields, but a
not-too-weak dollar” for the rest of this year, they said.  * * *  European policy makers could help create 1 million jobs if
only they could clear up uncertainty about their actions.  That’s the estimate of Yacine Rouimi at Societe Generale
SA, who said in a Nov. 5 report that if policy uncertainty
returned to its pre-crisis level, it would be enough to increase
GDP growth by 2 percentage points within three years.  Spain and  Italy  would benefit the most in terms of growth
from a return to the environment prior to the debt turmoil, with
businesses leading the way by investing more, Rouimi said.  “This should provide a compelling argument for euro area
governments to swiftly clarify issues such as the banking union
and financial sector regulation,” he said.  In a separate  study , published by the central bank of
 Poland , economists Maciej Albinowski, Pitor Cizkowicz and
Andrzej Rzonca said the  European Central Bank ’s decision to
lower its benchmark rate toward zero in recent years could have
undermined trust in it.  “Distrust in the ECB during the crisis could partly be a
product of an inappropriate cure to the crisis,” they said.  * * *  High-frequency trading is a source of stability, not just
volatility.  Using the trading patterns of 120 stocks on the Nasdaq
Composite Index from 2008-2009, economists Jonathan Brogaard,
Terrence Hendershott and Ryan Riordan found that speed trading
can help deliver more efficient prices by pushing markets away
from temporary pricing errors even on days where trading is
choppy.  High-frequency trading in stocks came under increased
regulatory scrutiny after the so-called flash crash in May 2010,
during which the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  The practice involves using powerful technology and complex
computer programs to execute orders in milliseconds and profit
from fleeting discrepancies in security prices across different
trading venues. Companies active in high-frequency trading have
warned that interfering with their strategies would raise
investor costs and harm financial stability.  The research suggests that high-frequency trading
“provides a useful service to markets,” the economists said in
the  report , published by the ECB. “They reduce the noise
component of prices and acquire and trade on different types of
information, making prices more efficient.”  Efforts by policy makers to curb the activities without
looking to compensate for the benefits they provide could
“result in less efficient markets,” the paper said.  * * *  Emerging markets may avoid a financial crisis akin to that
witnessed in the late 1990s, when economies from  Latin America 
to  Asia  were battered, according to economists at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC .  The developing world’s foreign debt as a share of GDP has
shrunk since 1998 and governments also owe less as a percentage
of their economies,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based economists
Jay H. Bryson and Mackenzie Miller said in an Oct. 28 report.  Excluding China and the economies in the  Middle East  and
North Africa, the current account gap of developing nations
stands at about 2 percent of GDP this year, better than the 2.6
percent of 1997. It also takes about 25 percent of the emerging
countries’ exports to service their external debt, 10 percentage
points lower than in 1997. The net gain in credit extended to
private companies in developing nations since the late 1990s can
also be entirely explained by China’s rise.  “As long as the underlying economic fundamentals in
developing economies remain solid, most of these countries
should not have problems servicing their debts, at least not in
the foreseeable future,” Bryson and Miller wrote. “In other
words, a wave of financial crisis a la 1997-98 does not appear
imminent.”  * * *  Every aspect of the international monetary system is
malfunctioning, according to its guardian.  In a study published this week, three IMF economists
observed how the system of floating currencies is the most
volatile since the end of the Bretton Woods system and exchange
rates are seldom in line with economic fundamentals.  The free flow of capital has not brought the expected
benefits to the world economy and often causes damage, while the
intermingling of financial markets has often magnified the
effects of crisis and led to contagion, said Rakesh Mohan,
Michael Debabrata Patra and Muneesh Kapur.  Even the dollar’s role as the main  reserve currency  is
“increasingly being tested,” although there are few
alternatives in sight, the IMF officials said.  Such an environment requires individual countries to
stabilize their own economies and markets, with central banks
broadening their mandates from managing inflation alone to
include market and banking regulation and supervision. Monetary
policy makers in advanced nations may also need to better
acknowledge the impact their policies have elsewhere, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  