-- Temperatures to Drop Below Normal Across Eastern U.S. Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-11-08T13:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/temperatures-to-drop-below-normal-across-eastern-u-s-next-week.html
Temperatures across the eastern half
of the U.S. are forecast to drop below normal through mid-November, with freezing cold expected in Chicago, before
becoming more seasonal later in the month, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  From the northern Great Plains and western  Canada  to the
mid-Atlantic region and the Northeast, temperatures are expected
to be at least 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 2.8 Celsius)
below normal from today until Nov. 12, Rogers said.  The cooler air will settle in the South and East from Nov.
13 to 17, while much of western Canada and the U.S. West will
see temperatures rise about 3 degrees above normal.  “The brunt of the Midwest cold push is around Tuesday-Wednesday, with highs only in the 30s for Chicago and lows in
the low 20s,” said Rogers, based in Bethesda,  Maryland . “The
highs in  New York City  by the middle of next week are only in
the 40s.”  Below-normal temperatures, especially in Eastern and
Midwestern cities, tend to increase energy consumption as more
people heat homes and businesses. November marks the start of
the U.S. heating season, when natural gas demand peaks.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas use,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm. About 49 percent of all homes use
the fuel for heating.  By Nov. 18 to 22, temperatures across the U.S. and western
Canada are expected to be seasonal. In Ontario and Quebec,
readings may be about 3 degrees above normal, Rogers said.  The normal average temperature in New York on Nov. 16 is
about 49 degrees, according to  MDA Weather Services  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. In  Boston , it’s 45; in  St. Louis , 48;
Dallas, 57; Houston, 62; Chicago, 40; Burbank, California, 60;
and in Calgary, it’s 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  