-- Merkel NSA Anger Won’t Harm U.S. Trade Ties, Joffe Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-11-08T01:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/merkel-nsa-anger-won-t-harm-u-s-trade-ties-joffe-says.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
condemnations of U.S. surveillance programs won’t damage strong
trade and investment ties between the two countries, said  Josef Joffe , editor and publisher of Germany’s Die Zeit newspaper.  “Merkel would be the last one to cut a very profitable
relationship with the U.S., and vice versa,” Joffe said during
an interview today with  Bloomberg News  in  New York .  The German leader denounced “spying among friends” last
month after Der Spiegel magazine reported that the U.S. National
Security Agency had bugged her private mobile phone, and said
“trust must be re-established” between the allies.  “Will the relationship persist? Absolutely,” Joffe said.
“If you listen to noises coming out of Germany, it goes like
this -- this is horrible, this is a breach of trust, however it
must not affect the overall relationship, such as the
negotiations on  trade  and investment, trans-Atlantic partnership
involving our corporations and so on.”  The durability of its relations with  Germany  reflects the
strength of the U.S.’s economic and military influence as
described by Joffe in a new book, “The Myth of America’s
Decline” (Liveright, 352 pages, $26.95).  Germany was the fifth-largest U.S. trading partner during
the first eight months of 2013, according to U.S. Census data.
Through August, the last month for which information is
available, the U.S.  exported  $31.5 billion of goods to Germany
this year and had  imports  of $73.9 billion.  The benefits of the economic relationship run both ways,
Joffe said.  Looking Cool  “It is very strong because who else is there for the U.S.
in  Europe ?” he asked. “Right now, the Germans look so good
because the others look so bad -- the French and the Brits. By
default they look cool.”  Joffe said there’s no reason to subscribe to the notion
that the U.S., with the world’s biggest economy and largest
military, is losing global influence to the likes of  China .  “If you look at the military assets the U.S. has, I’m
puzzled why anybody should talk about decline,” he said. “If
you have a navy that dwarfs the next 14, if you have a  defense
budget  that is almost good for half the world military spending,
you have usable power -- which is how you get there first with
the most. Nobody even gets close in this ability to fight a war
halfway around the world.”  The U.S. is getting younger, with immigration and high
fertility, which will keep the country from “freezing up,” he
said.  While  China’s economy , the world’s second-largest, is
growing more quickly, an aging population and state control will
keep it from overtaking the U.S., Joffe wrote in his book.
China’s gross domestic product  rose  7.8 percent in the third
quarter, compared with a 2.8 percent annualized rate in the U.S.  “By 2025, under current  United Nations  and Census Bureau
projections, China would account for less than a fifth of the
world’s population but almost a fourth of the world’s senior
citizens,” Joffe wrote, citing Nicholas Eberstadt, a
demographer at the  American Enterprise Institute , a Washington-based policy group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  