-- Merlin Entertainments Gains on Debut After $1.5 Billion IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-08T12:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/merlin-entertainments-advances-on-debut-after-1-5-billion-ipo.html
Merlin Entertainments Plc (MERL) , the
private-equity backed owner of Madame Tussauds, rose in its
London trading debut after raising about 957 million pounds
($1.5 billion) in an initial public offering.  The shares gained as much as 13 percent and were up 9.4
percent at 344.75 pence as of 11:35 a.m. in London. They were
priced at 315 pence, near the top of an original range of 280 to
330 pence. The amount raised could increase to 1.05 billion
pounds including a so-called over-allotment option, Merlin said
in a statement.  “The IPO has clearly been very successful and the shares
have gone to a modest premium,” Jeffrey Harwood, an analyst at
Oriel Securities Ltd. in London, said by phone. “Merlin is a
strong company with a successful record of delivering returns
for its shareholders and has strong growth prospects.”  Owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and
Lego Group owner Kirkbi A/S, Merlin is among a host of private-equity backed firms attempting to list in  Europe , where IPO
volumes have nearly doubled to about $24 billion compared with
the same period in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Development Plan  “We have long stated our belief that becoming a public
company was Merlin’s ultimate destiny, providing the right long-term ownership to enable the next stage of development,” Nick Varney, chief executive officer of the London-based company,
said in today’s statement.  Merlin, which had net debt of about 1.3 billion pounds at
the end of 2012, abandoned a sale to the public three years ago
in favor of selling a stake to CVC, and opted against a  New York 
IPO earlier this year, people familiar with the matter said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc, along with
Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Unicredit
Bank AG managed the IPO. Lazard Ltd. was financial adviser.  Numericable SAS,  France ’s largest cable operator owned by
Carlyle Group LP and Cinven Group Ltd., also rose on its trading
debut in Paris today after raising about 652 million euros ($875
million) in the country’s biggest IPO in four years. The stock,
priced at 24.80 euros, climbed as high as 27.40 euros.  Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. began an IPO of U.K.
wind-power generator Infinis Plc on Oct. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in  London  at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net  