-- Tesla Stock Decline Muted as Panasonic Voices Support
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-08T22:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/tesla-stock-decline-muted-as-panasonic-voices-support.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s share price slide
this week, triggered by news of a third Model S fire and
quarterly results that dissatisfied some investors, eased as the
its main battery-cell supplier voiced support for the carmaker.  Tesla slipped 1.3 percent to $137.95 yesterday in New York
after dipping more than 5 percent. The maker of premium electric
cars led by Elon Musk plunged 15 percent and 7.5 percent in the
two days after releasing results on Nov. 5.  The company is investigating a Nov. 6 fire involving a
Model S near Murfreesboro,  Tennessee , the third Tesla accident
to result in a blaze in about five weeks. The fire occurred
after the car hit a metal tow hitch that had fallen onto
Interstate 24, the Tennessee Highway Patrol said. The driver
wasn’t hurt.  “We pay great attention to safety issues and so does
Tesla,” Hideaki Kawai, chief financial officer for Kadoma,
Japan-based  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , said in an interview yesterday. “I
don’t have any concerns.”  Panasonic, which last month announced plans to supply
Tesla with as many as 2 billion lithium-ion battery cells, has a
1.2 percent stake in the Palo Alto, California-based electric-car maker. The company also counts  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  as  investors  and customers.  Investigation Encouraged  This week’s almost 15 percent decline for Tesla was the
biggest since January 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The short-term oriented folks are probably the ones that
have been selling off this week,” said Elaine Kwei, an equity
analyst with Jefferies Group in New York who rates Tesla a buy.
“It’s always a tug of war with this company.”  Clarence Ditlow, executive director of the Center for Auto
Safety in  Washington , in an interview on Nov. 7 called on the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to investigate
circumstances that led to the fire in Tennessee.  “NHTSA is in close communication with Tesla and local
authorities gathering information about the incident to
determine if additional action is necessary,” Karen Aldana, a
spokeswoman for the agency, said on Nov. 7 in an e-mail.  The investigating trooper hasn’t yet been contacted by
NHTSA regarding the Tesla fire, Dalya Qualls, a spokeswoman for
the Tennessee Highway Patrol, said in an e-mail.  Earlier Fires  Liz Jarvis-Shean, a Tesla spokeswoman, declined to comment
on Ditlow’s suggestion that the Model S battery casing needs to
be strengthened.  Two earlier Model S fires, in Washington state Oct. 1 and
in  Mexico  in mid-October, occurred the same month Tesla shares
dropped 17 percent, its first monthly decline since February and
the biggest since December 2010.  NHTSA said on Oct. 24 that it found no evidence the Oct. 1
fire, which happened on the first day of a government shutdown,
resulted from defects or violations of U.S. safety standards.
The agency said it was aware of the Mexico incident and would
monitor the performance of Tesla vehicles.  Even after three days of declines, Tesla shares have surged
more than fourfold this year after the electric-car maker
reported its first quarterly profits. The stock’s performance
is the best this year in the Nasdaq 100 Index, with a gain of
307 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  