-- Estonia Plans Startup Fund to Build Another Skype
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-11-08T07:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/estonia-plans-startup-fund-to-build-another-skype-correct-.html
(Corrects source of financing in second paragraph in story
published Nov. 6)  Estonia  is seeking to revamp its
venture capital industry to quicken the development of startup
technology companies and help build “a second Skype” in the
Baltic nation.  The country plans a new fund with 60 million euros ($81
million) for which government agency  KredEx  plans to use
European Union support and a further 20 million euros ($27
million) coming from private investors, Andrus Treier, the head
of  KredEx , said in an interview in Tallinn on Nov. 5. The so-called fund of funds will be created next year and replace
financing from state-owned Eesti Arengufond, which directly
invests in companies, he said.  “If there’s a single big success story, a second  Skype , it
will probably be enough to highlight Estonia for the next
decade,” Treier said. The fund “will help build venture
capital infrastructure, the ecosystem for entrepreneurs.”  The newest euro area member is struggling to revive its
 capital market  which was hit by one of the worst recessions
globally after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The country needs to build on the case of Skype
Technologies SA, which was developed in Estonia a decade ago and
sold before becoming the most popular Web-calling service,
Treier said.  Skype Founders  Four Estonian engineers co-founded Skype with venture
capitalists Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis. The engineers’
Ambient Sound Investments sold its minority stake in Skype to
online-auctions provider  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in 2005.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
bought Skype from a consortium that included Zennstrom for $8.5
billion in 2011.  Startups founded by Estonians, including GrabCad, Erply and
TransferWise, have raised more than 20 million euros in
financing since last year, with one sixth of the funds coming
from Estonia, according to data from Arengufond. London-based
tech incubator Seedcamp Ltd. has 19 percent of its investments
in companies created by Estonians, according to Arengufond.  The new venture capital fund will invest in three to four
privately managed sub-funds, Treier said. KredEx will cooperate
with the European Investment Fund to pick fund managers, he
added.  “On top of financing startups, our goal is to educate fund
managers who in the long term would themselves be able to
attract new funding from private investors,” Treier said.
“Hopefully, we’ll also spark interest among stronger global
fund managers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  