-- European Stocks Drop as Investors Weigh Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-08T16:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/european-stock-index-futures-drop-on-france-s-downgrade.html
European stocks  dropped, paring a
weekly gain, as investors weighed better-than-estimated U.S.
jobs data against the probability of an easing in Federal
Reserve stimulus sooner than estimated.  Total SA fell 1.2 percent, contributing the most to the
 benchmark gauge’s decline , after an investor sold shares in
Europe’s second-largest oil producer. Finmeccanica SpA slumped 6
percent after saying it will miss its 2013 profit target.
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA jumped to the
highest price in almost six years after raising its outlook.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.2 percent to 322.72 at
the close in  London , after earlier losing as much as 1.2
percent. The measure climbed 0.4 percent this week, for its
longest streak of weekly gains this year.  “Investors are speculating that the Fed could start
tapering before the end of 2013, which is now setting the ground
for heightened uncertainty and volatility,” said John Plassard,
vice president at Mirabaud Securities LLP in Geneva.  A U.S. Commerce Department report yesterday showed that the
world’s largest economy grew at a better-than-estimated 2.8
percent annual rate in the third quarter. Data today showed
October payrolls increased more than forecast. The addition of
204,000 workers topped the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
that called for a 120,000 advance.  Timing Taper  A Bloomberg News survey last month had showed economists
expected quantitative easing to continue for several months. The
Fed won’t begin tapering bond buying until March and will
continue its purchases until October, according to the median
estimate of 40 analysts in that poll.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 10 of the 18
western European markets today.  France ’s CAC 40 slid 0.5 percent
and  Germany ’s DAX was little changed. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added
0.2 percent.  In Europe, Exane BNP Paribas SA downgraded the region’s
equities to neutral from overweight. Stock valuations have
become a constraint for investment, given risks to economic
growth and a potential tapering of Fed stimulus, the brokerage
said. The Stoxx 600 traded at 15 times the projected earnings of
its constituents on Nov. 6, the highest level since early 2009.  France’s long-term foreign and local-currency credit rating
was lowered one step to AA from AA+ by Standard & Poor’s, which
said slower growth will restrict the government’s ability to
improve public finances. The outlook for the rating is stable,
the ratings company said.  Total Stake  Total fell 1.2 percent to 43.80 euros. Groupe Bruxelles
Lambert SA is selling a 0.3 percent stake in the company for
about 360 million euros ($483 million), according to terms of
the deal.  Finmeccanica SpA slumped 6 percent to 5.11 euros, for its
biggest decrease since February. The company said it won’t meet
its 2013 target for earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization. Profit will be 5 percent to 10 percent lower than
its 1 billion-euro goal, the company said.  Rheinmetall AG tumbled 5.8 percent to 43.40 euros, for its
biggest loss since July. The company said military-budget cuts
by governments led to a loss at its defense division, which
coupled with administrative expenses, wiped out profit from its
car-components unit in the nine months ended September.  Richemont Earnings  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA retreated 0.7 percent to 92.35
Swiss francs after posting first-half operating profit that
missed analysts’ estimates. The owner of the Cartier brand said
operating profit dropped to 1.37 billion euros in the six months
through September. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey forecast 1.4
billion euros.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  retreated 5.6 percent to 68 euro cents
after unveiling plans to sell its Argentine business and assets
including wireless towers in Italy and  Brazil . The phone company
also completed a sale of mandatory convertible bonds.  IAG gained 8 percent to 376.9 pence after saying third-quarter earnings more than doubled and raising its full-year
outlook. The parent of British Airways posted operating profit
of 690 million euros before one-time items, beating the 651
million-euro average estimate of four analysts.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc rose 3.4 percent to 1,210 pence.
The world’s second-largest maker of commercial jet engines
raised the earnings target for its defense aerospace unit after
booking more contracts from the U.S. government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  