-- Euro Bulls Crack as Odds of Return to 2013 Lows Jump
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-11-08T14:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/euro-bulls-crack-as-odds-of-return-to-2013-lows-jump-currencies.html
The surprise decision by the European
Central Bank to cut interest rates means there’s now about an
even chance that the euro, this year’s best-performing major
currency, will erase all of its gains in a matter of months.  There’s an almost 50 percent probability that the euro,
which has risen more than 5 percent from an April low versus the
dollar, will give back its advance by mid-2014, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The odds are the highest in seven weeks and up
from 37 percent prior to the ECB lowering rates to a record.  While the euro-area economy is seen shrinking 0.3 percent
this year in a Bloomberg survey, the currency still managed to
appreciate on speculation ECB President Mario Draghi would
refrain from further stimulus. That changed yesterday, catching
off guard traders who had pushed bullish bets close to record
highs. Standard & Poor’s heaped more pressure onto the euro when
it cut France’s credit rating by one step to AA.  “We’ve seen a pretty significant positioning clear-out in
Europe,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit, said yesterday in a phone interview. “Euro
positioning had gotten fairly bullish.”  Currency Wars  The ECB’s move has global implications, marking the central
bank’s first overt step in an effort to nudge the euro lower as
a way to combat disinflation and help exporters, Daragh Maher, a
currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said
yesterday in e-mailed comments. Such moves are referred to as
currency wars as central banks seek to spark their economies
through lower exchange rates.  European companies have in recent weeks bemoaned the strong
euro. German airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG last month cited the
currency’s rise when its profit estimate fell short of analyst
forecasts, while luxury-goods maker LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA said Oct. 16 that gains versus the dollar and yen
shaved 6 percent off third-quarter revenue.  At its peak on Oct. 29, the euro was up 7.2 percent this
year against a basket of nine developed-market peers, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. That increase has
since been trimmed to 5.4 percent, still making it the best
performer in the group. The euro dropped each calendar year from
2009 to 2012, plunging 20 percent.  ‘Uncomfortable’ Levels  Over the last few weeks, the market saw the euro “reach
levels that many people thought the ECB would be uncomfortable
with,” Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in London, said in an interview yesterday on
Bloomberg Radio. “It seems that, if they are really worried
about importing some inflation, this is the way to do it.”  The euro climbed to $1.3832 on Oct. 25, the strongest level
since November 2011, after reaching an almost five-month low of
$1.2746 in April.  The common currency tumbled as much as 1.6 percent after
the cut in the ECB’s  refinancing rate  to 0.25 percent from 0.5
percent yesterday, which was anticipated by just three out of 70
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The euro fell 0.4 to
$1.3370 as of 9:12 a.m. in New York, poised for its biggest two-week decline in more than a year.  S&P cut France’s credit rating from AA+ today, saying in a
statement that “lower economic growth is constraining the
government’s ability to consolidate public finances.”  Most Bullish  There was a 45 percent chance yesterday that the euro would
fall to its April 4 year-to-date low of $1.2746 by the end of
the second quarter of 2014, the highest probability since Sept.
17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There was a 37
percent chance of the same move on Nov. 6.  Futures traders were the most  bullish  on the euro since May
2011 in the week ended Oct. 25, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a gain in the shared currency
compared with those on a decline, or net longs, totaled 72,434.
That compares with an average of 3,780 since the CFTC started
tracking the data. The measure reached an all-time time high of
120,000 in May 2007.  With inflation at the weakest level in four years and less
than half the ECB’s target, Draghi is seeking to avoid a
negative price spiral that would risk pushing the 17-nation
economy back into recession.  Inflation Cools  Draghi is “ringing the alarm bell for deflation,” Richard Franulovich, the chief currency strategist for the northern
hemisphere at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York, said yesterday
in a phone interview. That “cements the case for a lower euro
in coming days and weeks.”  Euro-area  inflation  cooled to 0.7 percent in October, the
lowest since November 2009, from 1.1 percent in September, the
European Union’s statistics office said on Oct. 31. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 42 economists was for the
rate to stay at 1.1 percent. The data marked the ninth-straight
month that the rate has been less than the ECB’s 2 percent
ceiling.  A record-low benchmark interest rate increases the
likelihood of unconventional tools such as a negative deposit
rate if price gains slow further or the economy seizes up. The
ECB left the deposit rate at zero yesterday.  The real possibility of negative rates “means the euro
will now struggle, as this is a material shift,” Geoffrey Yu, a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in London, said
yesterday in an interview.  Henrik Gullberg, a London-based currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG, the biggest global foreign-exchange trader,
said yesterday that the ECB doesn’t seem willing to make further
cuts for the next couple of months.  Balance Sheet  The euro may still gain as the balance-sheet assets of the
ECB and Federal Reserve continue to diverge.  Since the beginning of May, commercial banks in Europe have
 paid back  the equivalent of $130 billion borrowed under the
ECB’s Longer-Term Refinancing Operations Program, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That helped shrink the ECB’s  assets  to 2.3
trillion euros ($3.1 trillion), while the Fed’s have  increased 
to a record $3.9 trillion. The more-than $700 billion gap is the
widest since member states established the ECB in 1998.  “The relative balance-sheet movement supports a stronger
euro-dollar,” said Daingerfield of RBS, which forecasts that
the euro will rise to $1.39 by year-end. “Our view is that
euro-dollar will grind higher going into year-end.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sees the euro at $1.40 by Dec. 31,
citing a recovery in the trading bloc and capital inflows. The
euro-area economy returned to growth in the second quarter,
rising 0.3 percent from the same period the prior year.  Economic Growth  An appreciation of 10 percent in trade-weighted terms in
the euro has the same effect as an interest-rate increase of 0.5
percentage point to 1 percentage point, according to
calculations last month by Nordea Markets. UniCredit SpA said
last week that such a gain would shave 0.8 percentage point off
 gross domestic product  over two years, with most of the impact
in the first 12 months.  Options traders are becoming more bearish on the euro,
widening the premium on contracts to sell the shared currency
versus the dollar compared with those allowing for purchases.
The three-month 25-delta risk-reversal rate was at minus 0.75
percent compared with minus 0.38 percent two weeks ago, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s clear that the currency market was caught off
guard,” Ian Gordon, a New York-based foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of America Corp., said yesterday in a phone
interview. “It fits into our view that the inflation and growth
profile was going to push the ECB into more action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  