-- Lew to Urge Japan, China to Cut Current Account Surpluses
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-11-08T18:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/lew-to-travel-to-asia-next-week-for-talks-on-trade-sanctions.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
will urge Asian nations to continue lowering current-account
surpluses when he visits the region next week, Treasury
officials said.  Lew, who is traveling to  Japan ,  China , Singapore,  Malaysia 
and  Vietnam  starting Nov. 12, also will discuss the importance
of countries allowing financial markets to determine their
exchange rates and that they refrain from using currencies for
competitive purposes, according to the officials, who requested
anonymity as a condition for briefing reporters.  Lew’s second visit to Asia this year is part of the Obama
administration’s effort to improve economic ties with the region
and prevent trading partners from manipulating their currencies
to promote exports. Lew will also seek to advance talks on the
Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement that would create a 12-nation trade bloc.  Lew will reaffirm President  Barack Obama ’s commitment to
finish negotiations by the end of this year, the Treasury
officials said today.  The Treasury secretary will reiterate the need for China to
move closer to a market-determined exchange rate as emphasized
in the department’s Oct. 30 currency report, one of the
officials said. The  yuan  is “significantly undervalued,” the
Treasury said in its twice-yearly review of currencies and
economic policies, in which it declined to name China or any
major trading partner a currency manipulator.  Abenomics  In Japan, Lew will reiterate that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government needs to move ahead with structural changes to
the economy to increase incomes and raise domestic demand, one
of the Treasury officials said. Japan also should pursue fiscal
consolidation in the medium term, the official said.  Abe, is attempting to revitalize his nation’s economy
through a program of monetary easing, fiscal stimulus, and
structural reforms -- the so-called three arrows of a strategy
known as Abenomics.  Lew will raise so-called illicit finance issues surrounding
North Korea and  Iran , one of the officials said. The Treasury
secretary will discuss ways countries can increase pressure on
North Korea to persuade it to abandon nuclear and ballistic
missile programs.  Lew will emphasize that sanctions have given Iran an
incentive to negotiate in a serious and substantive manner, the
official said. He will also tell his counterparts it’s essential
that they continue to enforce sanctions and remain vigilant
against any efforts by Iran to evade them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  