-- Ex-ICAP Brokers Said to Face U.K. Prosecutors in Libor Probe
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-11-08T14:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/ex-icap-brokers-said-to-face-u-k-prosecutors-in-libor-probe.html
Three former  ICAP Plc (IAP)  brokers charged
in the U.S. over their involvement in Libor-rigging will be
interviewed by U.K. prosecutors within weeks, two people with
knowledge of the probe said.  Daniel Wilkinson and Colin Goodman, who live in  England ,
will be interviewed by the  Serious Fraud Office  in the next few
weeks, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. Darrell Read, who lives in  New Zealand ,
will also be questioned, the people said.  Seven people have been charged over manipulation of the
London interbank offered rate, including five in the U.S. Tom Hayes, a former UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. trader who has been at
the center of the probe, has been accused in both countries.  “We are making arrangements to speak to the SFO in
December,” said Matthew Frankland, Wilkinson’s lawyer in
 London . “There is no date arranged yet. We are in dialog with
them.”  Nilima Fox, a spokeswoman for the SFO, and Brigitte
Trafford, a spokeswoman for ICAP, declined to comment. A message
sent to Goodman through LinkedIn wasn’t immediately returned.
Contact details for Read couldn’t be immediately located.  The SFO has said it is investigating 22 people as potential
co-conspirators to the three men it has already charged.
Prosecutors may attempt to interview more of the possible co-conspirators before the Christmas holiday, one of the people
said.  Two former RP Martin Holdings Ltd. brokers, Terry Farr and
James Gilmour, were charged by the SFO one month after Hayes.
All three are scheduled to enter pleas in December.  Hayes Charges  Hayes was charged by the  U.S. Department of Justice  along
with former UBS trader Roger Darin last December, six months
before he faced criminal proceedings in Britain. No public
attempts have been made by the U.S. to extradite any individuals
accused over Libor.  The SFO charged Hayes with conspiring with employees of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Royal Bank of Scotland Group, HSBC
Holdings Plc, Rabobank Groep and Deutsche Bank AG, as well as
Tullett Prebon Plc, ICAP and RP Martin Holdings, to manipulate
yen Libor rates over a four-year period. Hayes was charged half
a year after being interviewed by the SFO.  Global regulators have fined UBS, Barclays Plc, RBS, ICAP
and, most recently, Rabobank, about $3.7 billion for distorting
Libor and similar benchmarks.  More than $300 trillion of loans, financial products and
contracts are linked to Libor. Regulators are looking at how
derivative traders and bankers who submitted interest-rate data
colluded to ensure benchmarks benefited their own trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  