-- Fed to More Accommodative Under Yellen, Pimco’s Bill Gross Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-11-08T16:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/fed-to-more-accommodative-under-yellen-pimco-s-bill-gross-says.html
     Nov. 8 (Bloomberg) --Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said he expects the Federal Reserve to be more
accommodative under Janet Yellen with the economic expansion
sluggish and the risk of deflation.  The U.S. is growing slowly and inflation levels are at
“unacceptable, dangerous territory at the moment,” Gross,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . The Fed
is  “moving into forward guidance in a big way, and at some
point we may expect to see a nominal GDP target as well as a
higher inflation target in the United States.”  Gross, the founder and co-chief investment officer of
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, expects the central bank
to add to stimulus even after a report showed today that
American employers added more workers to payrolls in October
than forecast. Yellen, the Fed vice chairman, was nominated by
President  Barack Obama  to succeed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke when
his term ends Jan. 31.  The Federal Open Market Committee will keep its target rate
for overnight loans between banks at a range of zero to 0.25
percent into 2016. Gross said. The Fed dropped the rate to a
record low in December 2008 to help the economy recover from the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Traders are pricing in a 17 percent probability that the
Fed will raise its benchmark overnight rate by its January 2015
meeting, down from a 70.7 percent likelihood on Sept. 5, the day
before lower-than-forecast August payroll data was released.  Fed Commitment  Treasuries lost the most in four months after the Labor
Department report, pushing up the yield on the 10-year  note  15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 2.75 percent at 11
a.m. in New York.  Payrolls grew by 204,000 in October even with a 16-day
partial government shutdown over budget and debt talks. That’s
versus the 120,000 median forecast of 91 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The unemployment rate rose to 7.3 percent
from 7.2 percent.  “It was better than expected, but with a huge asterisk
because of all the distortions,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , Pimco’s
chief executive and co-chief investment officer, said in a
separate Bloomberg Television interview. “Because it questions
the Fed commitment to continue support these markets, good news
becomes bad news for the markets.”  The U.S. economy will grow 1.6 percent in 2013, according
to 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after growing 2.66
percent over the past 20 years.  Bond Purchases  Fed policy makers said last week they needed to see more
evidence the economy will continue to improve before they trim
$85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage debt.
Fiscal policy “is restraining economic growth,” the FOMC said
Oct. 30 at the end of a two-day meeting in  Washington .  Gross has recommended investors purchase shorter-term
Treasuries as the Fed weighs tapering quantitative easing and
the market underestimates how long it will then take the central
bank to begin raising interest rates.  The $248 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  managed by Gross
has declined 0.93 percent this year, trailing 49 percent of
rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past
five years, the fund has advanced 7.9 percent, beating 72
percent of peers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  