-- Fed’s Lockhart Says Fed Can’t Rule Out QE Tapering Next Month
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-08T18:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/fed-s-lockhart-says-fed-can-t-rule-out-qe-tapering-next-month.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President Dennis Lockhart said the central bank will consider
reducing its bond-buying program at next month’s policy meeting.  “I would not take off the table at least consideration at
that time,” Lockhart told reporters in Oxford,  Mississippi , in
response to a question on tapering in December. “The question
of changing the mix of accommodative tools ought to be on the
table at every meeting for the foreseeable future.”  The Federal Open Market Committee last week voted to
continue its monthly bond purchases at a pace of $85 billion,
saying it needs more evidence the economy has improved following
a partial U.S. government shutdown. The economy added 204,000
jobs last month and the unemployment rate rose, the Labor
Department reported today.  “It is an encouraging number,” Lockhart told reporters
after speaking to the University of Mississippi’s banking and
finance symposium. Still, “I would be reticent to draw very
profound conclusions to one month’s positive jobs number.”  Lockhart said the Fed’s tools include both asset purchases
and communications, or “forward guidance” of plans for
interest rates and how they would be affected by “thresholds”
such as the unemployment rate.  The Fed won’t reduce its bond purchases until March,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg on Oct. 17-18 after the shutdown. Economists had
initially expected a tapering of so-called quantitative easing
in September.  “If we find the employment data to be convincing, that job
growth is going to be sustained, that will certainly advance the
time in which it would be appropriate to possibly pull back on
asset purchases,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  