-- Finmeccanica Predicts Cash Drain on Suspended Helicopter Payment
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-08T08:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/finmeccanica-predicts-cash-drain-on-suspended-helicopter-payment.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,  Europe ’s most
indebted defense company, predicted a cash outflow for this year
amid suspended helicopters payments and a sluggish rail
business, prompting the stock to drop the most in a month.  The company said late yesterday that it will see a cash
outflow of 350 million euros ($469 million) to 450 million euros
in 2013, compared with a 100 million-euro inflow previously
anticipated. The cash drain in part reflects  India  suspending
payments for helicopter following a bribery investigation that
shook up top management earlier this year.  “The downgrade to free cash flow guidance is a material
negative credit development for Finmeccanica that, in our view,
could provoke further negative ratings action,” Darren Hook, a
London-based analyst at Barclays,  said in a note and cut the
rating on the company to “underweight” from “overweight.”  The revised target deepens a crisis at the Italian
manufacturer, which is still reeling from a bribery
investigation that felled former Chairman Giuseppe Orsi and the
head of the helicopter unit in February. Finmeccanica said
yesterday it will require a deeper review of its train unit
after it failed to meet targets.  Finmeccanica slumped as much as 48 cents, or 8.8 percent,
to 4.95 euros in Milan, clipping this year’s gain to 16 percent.  Objectives Missed  Earnings before interest, tax, and amortization will fall 5
percent to 10 percent short of a 1 billion-euro objective, the
Rome-based company said after the market closed yesterday. The
third quarter net loss was 73 million euros, after the company
had a 74 million euro gain in the year-earlier period.
Finmeccanica still projects to post a profit for the year.  “AnsaldoBreda did not achieve any of the objectives
given,” Finmeccanica said, and announced plans to further
redefine its structure to reflect a reduced backlog. The
aerospace and defense activities, which Finmeccanica considers
central to its operations, reached targets in the first nine
months, it said.  Net debt rose to 5.2 billion euros, 300 million more than
the year-earlier period.  The results no longer reflect Finmeccanica agreed a sale of
most of its 40 stake in Ansaldo Energia to Italian state lender
Cassa Depositi & Prestiti SpA last month. Finmeccanica will
retain 15 percent, with the bank also acquiring the 45 percent
share held by private-equity firm First Reserve.  Finmeccanica will gain initial proceeds of 273 million
euros when the deal is completed, probably this year, with
additional funds due through 2017, it said Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  