-- French Wheat Planting Slows as Main Growing Regions Receive Rain
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-11-08T17:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/french-wheat-planting-slows-as-main-growing-regions-receive-rain.html
French soft-wheat planting slowed in
the most recent week as the main growing regions in the European
Union’s largest producer of the grain received rain, data from
crop office FranceAgriMer showed.  Farmers had planted 81 percent of the soft-wheat crop as of
Nov. 4, FranceAgriMer reported on its website today, up from 70
percent a week earlier and compared with 75 percent seeded at
the same time a year ago. Planting progress of 11 percentage
points compares with growers sowing 17 percent of the intended
area a week earlier, the data show.  “In principle there’s no concern, we were well in advance
on the sowing until now, so we can take a bit of delay,” said
Celine Sicard, an analyst at InVivo, a Paris-based cooperative
that is the biggest exporter of French wheat.  The city of Bourges in the Centre region and Poitiers in
Poitou-Charentes had five rainy days in the week, Troyes in
Champagne-Ardenne and Dijon in Burgundy had four while St.
Quentin in Picardy had rain on three, according to  Meteo France .
Picardy was  France ’s biggest wheat-growing region this year
ahead of Centre.  Winter wheat develops its primary root system during autumn
before dormancy, and a longer growing period may allow for a
more vigorous crop in spring. Planting last year was interrupted
by rainy weather in October.  Showers in France as well as the U.K. may keep planting on
hold over the weekend, before drier weather next week that will
improve field conditions and allow seeding to resume, Commodity
Weather Group wrote in a report today. That makes it likely that
all intended acreage will be planted, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  