-- French Credit Swaps Fall as Investors Shun Debt Downgrade
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-11-08T13:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/french-credit-swaps-fall-as-investors-shun-debt-downgrade.html
The cost of insuring against a French
default fell to the lowest in more than three years, as
investors ignored a sovereign-credit rating downgrade by
 Standard & Poor’s .  Credit-default swaps on  France  fell for a sixth day,
declining 1 basis point to about 51 basis points at 1:45 p.m.
That would be the lowest closing price since April 20, 2010. The
contracts have fallen from 219 basis points on Jan. 13, 2012
when France lost its top rating at S&P.  “You need to ignore the S&P downgrade of France,” said
 Harvinder Sian , fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “It is behind the market.”  The nation’s long-term foreign- and local-currency grade
was lowered one step to AA from AA+, S&P said in a statement
today. The outlook on the new grade, the third highest, is
stable, according to the rating company.  “The French government’s current approach to budgetary and
structural reforms to taxation, as well as to product, services,
and labor markets, is unlikely to substantially raise France’s
medium-term growth prospects,” S&P said.  Investors have largely disregarded such downgrades,
reflecting a shift from reliance on ratings companies to a focus
on in-house analysis. Since S&P’s first downgrade of France,
French  government bonds  returned more than 10 percent, according
to the Bloomberg France Sovereign Bond Index.  U.S. 10-year Treasury yields were 2.6 percent today, almost
unchanged from the 2.56 percent on Aug. 5, 2011, the day S&P
stripped the country of its AAA rating.  ECB Impact  Today, French bonds fell, sending 10-year borrowing costs
up. The yield on France’s 1.75 percent securities due in May
2023 rose three basis points to 2.19 percent, about 20 basis
points less than the 2024 securities the nation sold for the
first time yesterday.  After the  European Central Bank  reduced its benchmark rate
to a record low of 0.25 percent, “any rating-induced widening
should thus be bought,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-rate strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “We believe the
negative impact from the downgrade should be offset by the ECB
rate cut.”  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  criticized the
ratings cut and defended President  Francois Hollande ’s policies
as a “massive” attempt to restore economic health. In the past
year, the president has cut payroll taxes, loosened  labor laws 
to make firings easier and lengthened working lives.  ‘Solid’ Credit  “France is and will remain a country whose credit is solid
and that will continue to finance its debt at among the most
attractive rates in the world,” the finance minister said on
France Info radio.  France lost its AAA level at  Fitch Ratings  in July, after
Moody’s Investors Service lowered the country to Aa1 from Aaa in
November last year.  Hollande said today that France’s low borrowing costs
demonstrate confidence in his policies. The government is
“doing everything” to reduce the deficit, improve
competitiveness and create jobs, he told a news conference in
Paris.  The Socialist president, whose popularity is at a record
low, has faced increasing resistance as he seeks to raise taxes
to trim the  budget deficit . He decided last week to suspend a
truck levy in the face of protests, two days after backing down
on a plan to increase taxation on savings programs.  French gross domestic product will expand 0.2 percent this
year and 0.9 percent next year, before increasing 1.7 percent in
2015, the European Commission said earlier this week. That’s in
line with the Hollande government’s own forecasts. As a
percentage of GDP, public debt will climb to 96 percent in 2015
from 90.2 percent in 2012 when Hollande succeeded  Nicolas Sarkozy , the commission predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  