-- German Trade Surplus Rises More Than Estimated on Exports
-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 2013-11-08T08:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/german-trade-surplus-rises-more-than-estimated-on-exports.html
Germany ’s  trade surplus  widened more
than estimated in September, risking added criticism that the
nation’s reliance on exports is hindering Europe’s economic
recovery.  The surplus widened to 20.4 billion euros ($27.4 billion)
from a revised 13.3 billion euros in August, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News predicted an increase to 15.4 billion euros.
Exports gained 1.7 percent, also beating estimates, while
imports dropped 1.9 percent.  The European Union this week threatened a probe of
Germany’s trade surplus, adding to criticism from the
International Monetary Fund and a U.S. Treasury report that
rebuked the surpluses as a drain on European and global growth.
Germany, Europe’s largest economy, said last week the critique
was “not justified” and that  exports (GRBTEXMM)  were a sign of strength.  The nation’s current-account surplus, a measure of all
trade including services, climbed to 19.7 billion euros from
10.1 billion euros the prior month. The European Commission
forecasts that the surplus will reach 7 percent of output this
year and 6.6 percent in 2014.  Fines Possible  Ultimately, countries can be fined for failing to correct
imbalances under a euro-area law designed to strengthen Europe’s
competitiveness -- a regulation that Germany endorsed as part of
the response to the debt crisis. EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn on Nov. 5 called for Germany to
do more to boost consumption and foster higher wages. He
recommended tax cuts, reductions in social contributions and
infrastructure spending.  The IMF reprimanded Germany last week, urging Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s government to curtail its export surplus to an
“appropriate rate” to help euro partners cut deficits.  Merkel’s bloc, now in talks with Social Democrats to form a
new government, signaled that the negotiators were standing by
Germany’s export strength even as they consider a range of new
spending initiatives.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi yesterday
praised the euro-area’s total current-account surplus, which was
at 17.4 billion euros in August, and said that the region’s
economic fundamentals allow governments to “pursue the right
economic policies.” At the same time, he warned that
“structural reforms are the necessary and sufficient condition
for this to happen.”  Draghi spoke after the ECB cut its benchmark interest rate
to a record low of 0.25 percent to fight a drop in inflation to
the lowest level in four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Gordon in Frankfurt at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  