-- France’s Bonds Decline With Spain’s After S&P Ratings Downgrade
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-08T13:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/german-notes-set-for-second-weekly-gain-after-france-downgrade.html
France ’s  government bonds  declined
after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the country’s sovereign-credit
rating by one level.  Spanish bonds dropped following a rally yesterday when the
 European Central Bank  unexpectedly cut its key  interest rate  to
counter a risk of deflation. S&P downgraded France to AA from
AA+ with a stable outlook saying the government’s reform of tax,
labor markets, products and services won’t raise medium-term
growth prospects. The cost of insuring French debt against
default fell to the least in more than three years. Benchmark
German bunds were little changed.  “French yields rose slightly after the downgrade but we
expect any increase to be limited as the move has been largely
expected,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European interest-rate
strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “The news may have
provided some impetus for the market to take profits on Italian
and Spanish bonds after a big rally yesterday. But in the bigger
scheme of things, the impact will probably be limited.”  The yield on France’s 1.75 percent bond due in May 2023
increased three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.18
percent at 1:05 p.m.  London  time. The price dropped 0.21, or
2.10 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,343) face amount, to 96.305.  The French government-bond market is the second biggest in
the euro area, trailing only  Italy , and is the fourth largest
among global sovereign-debt markets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on French debt fell one basis point to
51.4 basis points today, the lowest since April 2010, based on
closing prices. That compares with a euro-era high of 253 basis
points set in November 2011.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  A report today showed  industrial production  in France
unexpectedly dropped 0.5 percent in September from August when
it expanded 0.7 percent. The median of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent gain.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. stripped France of its AAA ranking in
July, after Moody’s Investors Service reduced it to Aa1 from Aaa
in November last year. Investors have largely shrugged off those
announcements.  Since S&P’s first downgrade on Jan. 13, 2012, French
government bonds returned more than 10 percent, according to
Bloomberg France Sovereign Bond  Index. (BFRA)   ‘Diminished Power’  “In part this reflects a diminished power to shock on the
part of  ratings agencies  since the global crisis began,” said
 Richard McGuire , head of European interest-rate strategy at
Rabobank International in London. “It’s central bank liquidity
that has been in the driving seat in terms of determining the
euro-zone yield and spreads. This is why the ever popular notion
of shorting France versus  Germany  has remained very much the
pain trade despite the convincing fundamental arguments.”  Spanish 10-year yields increased one basis point to 4.06
percent. The rate dropped 10 basis points yesterday, the biggest
decline since Oct. 1. The yield on similar-maturity Italian
bonds was little changed at 4.09 percent after falling to 4.04
percent yesterday, the  lowest  since May 28.  Italy may reduce its government-bond issuance plan for the
rest of the year, debt agency chief Maria Cannata said at a
conference in Brussels today.  Rate Cut  The Frankfurt-based ECB, led by President  Mario Draghi ,
reduced its main  refinancing rate  by 25 basis points to a
record-low 0.25 percent yesterday. The decision was predicted by
three of 70 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Officials
kept the  deposit rate  at zero and lowered the marginal lending
rate to 0.75 percent from 1 percent.  Germany’s 10-year bund yielded 1.70 percent after sliding
to 1.65 percent on Oct. 31, the lowest since Aug. 8.  The extra yield investors demand for holding French bonds
maturing in May 2023 over German securities due in August 2023
widened by two basis points to 49 basis points. The average
spread over the past five years, based on their generic yields,
is 69 basis points. The yield difference may widen further in
the near term, according to BNP Paribas SA.  “Typically, France tightens after a rating-agency
downgrade, which is unlikely to us this time,” BNP Paribas
analyst Eric Oynoyan wrote in a research note. “We think France
is vulnerable to a spread widening not because of the downgrade
but on the contrary, because valuation has become too expensive
recently.”  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in the euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Finland and  Belgium ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  French securities gained 0.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.  Spain ’s
returned 11 percent, Italy’s earned 7 percent, while German
bonds lost 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  