-- Germany Clashes With France Over Power to Close Failing Banks
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-11-08T10:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/germany-clashes-with-france-over-power-to-close-failing-banks.html
Europe’s two biggest economies
clashed over awarding the power to close failing banks, with
Germany saying the onus must be on national governments and
 France  opting to give the final say to the European Commission.  The disagreement broke into the open for the first time
today during a conference on banking union in Berlin at which
German Deputy Finance Minister Thomas Steffen and French
Treasury chief Ramon Fernandez outlined their opposing stances.  The proposed resolution authority, along with European
Central Bank oversight of euro-area lenders, form the core of a
banking union that is intended to sever the link between bank
and sovereign debt. While European policy makers agree on the
need for a banking union after the crisis that began in  Greece 
four years ago, they are divided on the means of achieving it.
Finance Ministers are due to deliberate the matter next week.  The “basic decision” on closing a failing bank would be
taken by the board of national authorities, though the formal
decision should be taken “not by the commission but the
council” of the European Union, Steffen said, citing a
“conflict of interest” with the commission.  Fernandez said that the decision on resolution can either
be legally invested with the EU commission or with the council,
which represents member states’ governments. “We think it would
be more rational to be the commission,” he said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government has led opposition to
a proposal from Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial-services
chief, for a Single Resolution Mechanism to handle euro-area
bank failures, claiming the plan is on shaky legal ground and
could endanger national control of budgets.  Barnier Plan  Barnier’s plan gives the final say on bank closures to the
Brussels-based European Commission, the EU’s executive and
regulatory arm.  Germany  and other countries reject this
arrangement, citing potential conflicts of interest for the
commission.  Fernandez signaled the potential for compromise, saying
that giving the resolution power to the council “is possible.”  “Honestly, this is not the most critical point,” he said.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs
meetings of euro-area finance chiefs, said yesterday that he’d
be prepared to discuss the German proposal.  “The Netherlands prefers that the commission do this,”
Dijsselbloem told reporters in The Hague. “But we can certainly
discuss having the Council of the European Union do this on the
condition that decisions could be made quickly and effectively.
It musn’t be politicized or lead to delays, because resolution
decisions must be made quickly.”  Fernandez also made clear that “the scope of the
resolution mechanism” is still under discussion, saying “it
should cover all banks.”  Steffen proposed a system of voting dependent upon whether
public money is involved. If taxpayer funds are needed, that
“needs to be approved by the member state,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  