-- German Stocks Little Changed After U.S. Payrolls Jump
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-08T17:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/german-stocks-drop-as-investors-await-u-s-payroll-data.html
German stocks  were little changed
near a record after a report showed U.S. payrolls rose in
October more than forecast.  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, fell
1.2 percent after lowering its full-year profit forecast.  K+S AG (SDF) 
added 1.5 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded its
recommendation on the potash distributor.  The  DAX (DAX)  slipped less than 0.1 percent to 9,078.28 at the
close of trading in Frankfurt, paring earlier losses of as much
as 1 percent. The  index (BFRA) , which gained 0.8 percent this week,
closed at a record yesterday after the European Central Bank,
led by President Mario Draghi, unexpectedly cut its main
 refinancing rate  by 25 basis points to 0.25 percent. The broader
HDAX Index retreated 0.1 percent today.  “The U.S. jobs data are good,”  Robert Halver , head of
capital markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt, said in
a telephone interview. “It is nice from a fundamentals
perspective to have a stable economic picture but there is no
immediate need to talk about tapering.”  U.S. payrolls increased in October more than forecast,
Labor Department figures showed. The addition of 204,000 workers
last month followed a revised 163,000 gain in September. The
median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 120,000 advance. The  unemployment rate  rose to 7.3 percent
from an almost five-year low.  A U.S. Commerce Department report yesterday showed that the
world’s largest economy grew at a better-than-estimated 2.8
percent annual rate in the third quarter, renewing speculation
that the reductions may come sooner.  Fed Stimulus  A Bloomberg News survey last month showed economists
expected the Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing to continue
for several months. The Fed won’t begin tapering bond buying
until March and will continue its purchases until October,
according to the median estimate of 40 analysts in that poll.  Standard & Poor’s lowered  France ’s long-term foreign and
local-currency credit rating one step to AA from AA+ today, with
a stable outlook. The ratings company said slower growth will
constrain the government’s ability to improve public finances.  The  yield  on France’s 10-year government bond expiring in
2023 increased 6.9 basis points to 2.22 percent. Since S&P’s
first downgrade on Jan. 13, 2012, French government bonds
returned more than 10 percent, according to the Bloomberg France
Sovereign Bond Index.  Puma Slips  Puma retreated 1.2 percent to 220.60 euros after lowering
its full-year profit forecast, saying it will book one-time
charges of about 130 million euros ($174 million) this quarter.
Earnings for the year will be significantly below those of 2012,
said Puma.  K+S added 1.5 percent to 20.81 euros. JPMorgan upgraded
Europe’s biggest potash distributor to neutral from underweight,
citing stabilizing prices and expectations that a restructure of
the company will be announced with its third-quarter results.  Allianz SE (ALV)  climbed 1 percent to 124.25 euros. Europe’s
biggest insurer increased its target for full-year operating
profit after third-quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates.  Net income advanced to 1.45 billion euros from 1.36 billion
euros a year earlier, the Munich-based company said in a
 statement . That compared with the 1.37 billion-euro average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG rose 1.8 percent to 14.49 euros. The
carrier’s low-cost Germanwings unit reiterated a forecast to cut
operating losses by 90 million euros by the end of the year as
returns improve on European short-haul routes.  “We will accomplish an improved result this year if
conditions remain the same,” Germanwings Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Winkelmann said in an interview in Hamburg
yesterday.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 6.7 percent greater than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  