-- GM’s Cadillac Marketing Chief Plans to Keep Ad Agency
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-11-08T21:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/gm-s-cadillac-marketing-chief-plans-to-keep-ad-agency.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s new marketing
chief for Cadillac said he plans to keep the brand’s advertising
agency and focus on building its image in the U.S. and China.  GM, based in  Detroit ,  Nov. 5  named Uwe Ellinghaus, a former
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  marketing executive, to the new
position of Cadillac chief marketing officer. He starts Jan. 1.  “Cadillac is today probably an admired brand and also
well-liked brand but not a particularly -- as we marketeers call
it -- relevant brand,” Ellinghaus, 44, said. “My biggest job
is to explain to people why they should go for Cadillac, why it
meets their daily requirements, why the expression of style is
right for them.”  Ellinghaus’s hiring is part of efforts by Bob Ferguson,
GM’s global Cadillac leader, to elevate the brand in the U.S.
and  China  to compete at the level of BMW, Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen AG’s Audi. He’s been helped by new products,
such as the redesigned Cadillac CTS that arrived in U.S.
showrooms last month.  The CTS scored a marketing win this week when it was  picked 
as Motor Trend’s Car of the Year.  “If it’s not obvious yet, the CTS’ intended function is to
take the fight to BMW, Mercedes-Benz, and Audi -- and win. It
had to beat them on style, on performance, on comfort, and on
quality,” the magazine wrote  online . “It has.”  GM rose 2.1 percent to $36.66 at the close in New York. The
 shares  have climbed 27 percent this year, compared with a gain
of 24 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Product Push  The CTS is one of 10 new or redesigned Cadillac vehicles GM
is bringing out in the U.S. by the end of 2015. The product push
includes the ATS compact sedan, which helped increase Cadillac’s
U.S. sales by 27 percent this year through October.  Ellinghaus’s hiring is one of several moves Ferguson has
made within Cadillac since taking control of the brand last
year. The changes included naming Interpublic Group of Cos.’s
Rogue as Cadillac’s ad agency; hiring Steve Majoros from
Campbell Ewald, where he was a managing director, to be global
marketing team director; and moving marketing executive Don
Butler to a role as vice president of global Cadillac strategic
development in April. Butler left GM in August.  “I have no plans for the time being to change” the ad
agency, Ellinghaus said. “Give me some time to assess the
situation, to assess my own people and the agency network. For
the time being, of course, we’ll continue to work with Rogue.”  In general, he said, ad agencies “are only as good as you
steer them. As long as you don’t know the direction for the
brand yourself, don’t ask your advertising agency what the brand
strategy could look like. This is like asking a hair dresser
whether you need a new haircut.”  Cadillac Design  The design of Cadillac models should help take customers
from German luxury competitors, Ellinghaus said.  “As great as these cars are they’re almost a little
ubiquitous,” he said of the competitors. “Design is No. 1
purchase reason in China. It’s No. 1 purchase reason in Europe
and it’s No. 1 purchase reason in the U.S.”  Cadillac’s U.S. deliveries totaled 148,206 this year
through October. That trails Mercedes at 245,125 and the BMW
brand at 240,139. Audi’s sales for the period were 127,412.  Ellinghaus is joining GM from Montblanc International in
Hamburg, where he was executive vice president of marketing and
sales at the maker of pens, watches and accessories. He worked
in several marketing positions at BMW from 1998 to 2012,
according to GM, including as the automaker’s chief marketing
officer from 2010 to 2012.  “I need one thing more than anything else in my job life:
This is to be part of a passion brand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  