-- Google, Pier 1, Time Warner, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-08T11:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/google-pier-1-time-warner-apple-intellectual-property.html
By Victoria Slind-Flor  Nov. 8 (Bloomberg) -- Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility unit
is seeking a patent on a technology covering the use of an
electronic neck tattoo as microphone for a mobile electronic
device.  According to application  20130297301 , published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark office on Nov. 7, the
electronic skin tattoo can include an embedded microphone, a
transceiver for enabling wireless communication with the mobile
device and a power supply configured to receive energizing
signals from a personal area network associated with the device.  The tattoo would be placed near a user’s throat. It could
be applied with adhesive to either humans or animals, or could
be embedded in a band or collar, according to the application.  The application was filed in May 2012.  Pier 1 Wins Infringement Case Over Prepaid Gift Card Patents  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR) , the  Fort Worth , Texas-based retail
chain, didn’t infringe two patents for prepaid gift cards owned
by Alexsam Inc., a federal appeals court ruled yesterday.  The Washington-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit, without issuing an opinion, affirmed a lower court
finding that Pier 1 didn’t infringe patents 6,000,608 and
6,189,787.  Closely held Alexsam’s patents cover systems to activate
and recharge stored-value cards. The Texas-based patent-licensing company has claimed it’s entitled to royalties on
every gift card sold. It has sued several retailers in addition
to Pier 1.  The company has had mixed success trying to enforce the two
patents. On June 18 a jury in Marshall,  Texas , said Gap Inc.
didn’t infringe the patents. Barnes & Noble Inc. won a non-infringement ruling from a different Marshall jury on June 7 in
a case in which Alexsam sought more than $72 million.  In May, retailers including  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and  J.C. Penney
Co. (JCP)  lost a court bid to invalidate the patents.  Pier 1’s appeal is Alexsam Inc. v. Pier 1 Imports Inc.,
13-1003, 13-1026, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Alexsam v. Shell Oil Co.,
2:08-cv-00015, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Time Warner Unit Tells Park Districts to Change Train Ride Name  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers unit sent cease-and-desist letters to Chicago-area park districts telling them they
can’t use the name “Santa’s Polar Express” for their Christmas
train rides for children, Chicago’s WSL-TV  reported .  The film company claims the use of the name infringed IP
rights related to the “ Polar Express”  movie released nine
years ago, according to WSL-TV.  The Clarendon Hills Park District said it wasn’t willing to
pay a licensing fee and will change the name of its train ride
to “Santa Train,” WSL-TV reported.  The district also will look for something to read to the
children aboard the train other than of the “Polar Express”
book on which the film was based, according to the television
station, according to WSL-TV.  For more trademark news, click here.  Vietnam Vets’ Tour Group Sues Travel Company for Infringement  A Texas nonprofit organization that operates tours of
 Vietnam  for veterans of the  Vietnam War  and their families sued
a  Virginia  travel company.  Military Historical Tours Inc. , of Woodridge, Virginia, is
accused of making unauthorized use of the phrase “Vietnam
Battlefield Tours.” Until 2005, the company focused primarily
on trips for World War II and Korean War veterans and their
families, according to the complaint filed Oct. 31 in federal
court in  San Antonio .  Vietnam Battlefield Tours of San Antonio  was set up as a
nonprofit in 2005 by a group of Vietnam War veterans. The
organization submitted a trademark application in December 2012
and registered “Vietnam Battlefield Tours” in August.  In August 2010, Military Historical Tours submitted an
application to register that same term as a trademark, according
to court papers. The Texas company said it opposed the
application, which the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  rejected
in proceedings that concluded in March 2012.  Vietnam Battlefield Tours claims that even after the
adverse ruling from the patent office, the Virginia company has
continued to use the term without authorization in magazine ads.
These ads target the same market as Vietnam Battlefield Tours,
the company said in its pleadings.  The public is confused by the name similarity and the
Virginia company is attempting to piggyback on the fame of
Vietnam Battlefield Tours, according to court papers.  The Texas company asked the court to bar Military
Historical Tours’ use of the mark, and for awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees. Alleging that the
infringement is intentional, Vietnam asked that the damages be
tripled to punish the Virginia company for its actions.  Military Historical Tours didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Vietnam Battlefield Tours v. Military
Historical Tours Inc., 13-cv-00995, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Texas (San Antonio).  Copyright  Apple Sends Apple-Tracker.com Operator DMCA Takedown Notice  The operator of a website that tracked the availability the
newest iPhones and iPads nearest to a searcher’s zip code has
disabled it following the receipt of an infringement notice from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Mordy Tikotzky halted his Apple-Tracker.com web application
after he was sent a takedown request under the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act.  He said in a  statement  on his website that he was “really
not interested in picking a fight with Apple.”  According to the DMCA notice, which Tikotzky posted on his
site, he was accused of scraping data from the Apple.com
website.  The letter, sent by Ryan Bricker of Atlanta’s Kilpatrick
Townsend & Stockton LLP, says that Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s terms of use for the website bars the use of “any
‘deep-link,’ ‘page-scrape,’ ‘robot,’ ‘spider’ or other automatic
device, program, algorithm or methodology, or any similar or
equivalent manual process, to access, acquire, copy or monitor
any portion of the site or any content.”  Photographer Seeks Interest, Doubling Amount Stemtech Must Pay  Stemtech Health Sciences Inc., a nutritional-product
company, was ordered to pay a  New York  photographer $1.6 million
for unauthorized use of one of his images, and may also have to
pay more than $1.8 million in prejudgment interest.  Andrew Paul Leonard, a photographer specializing in
microphotography, sued the San Clemente, California-based
company in federal court in  Delaware  in February 2008. He
accused Stemtech of using one of his images beyond the scope of
its license. He said he was partly paid for the licensed use of
the image and received no payment for the unauthorized use.  The image was used for at least 18 months on a number of
Stemtech websites without Leonard’s permission, he said.  The jury found that his work was original, that he owned
the copyright and that it was used without his permission by
Stemtech and its distributors. Stemtech intentionally induced
its independent distributors to use the image and profited from
the unauthorized use, the jury said.  On Oct. 18, counsel for the photographer requested that the
court award him prejudgment interest of $1.86 million, which
would bring the total award to about $3.46 million. Stemtech
protested, saying in a filing that day that the photographer
failed to provide evidence of why he was entitled to interest.  Although U.S. District Judge Leonard P. Stark denied the
interest request, he gave the photographer until today to make a
filing to justify the interest award.  The case is Leonard v. Stemtech Health Sciences Inc., 08-cv-00076, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Societe Generale Sues Ex-Employee for Trade-Secret Theft  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , the French banking and financial
services company, sued a former commodities researcher and his
wife for trade-secret misappropriation.  The complaint, filed in New York state court on Oct. 28,
claimed that before he left Society Generale to join  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Jeremy Friesen e-mailed its proprietary information to
his wife, Shefali Kumar Friesen.  Among the items Paris-based  Societe Generale  claims were
stolen are computer code “underlying two extremely valuable
quantitative models,” and a document describing the research
analysis behind the creation of one of the company’s commodity
index products.  Friesen, who had worked in Societe Generale’s Hong Kong
office, moved to New York in April, according to court papers.
He submitted a resignation letter to Society Generale on Oct. 4
and joined Morgan Stanley, which isn’t a party to the suit.  Before he left, he sent a number of e-mails to his wife,
attempting to get past Societe Generale’s firewall, the company
said in the complaint. In addition to the research tools, he is
accused of sending his wife a spreadsheet with information for
more than 2,000 contacts and a draft of an unpublished Societe
General commodities-research publication.  His former employer said in its pleadings that Friesen
acknowledged sending the company’s documents to his wife’s
personal e-mail, and did so in an effort to sidestep company
policies that bar employees from sending Societe Generale
documents from their corporate e-mail accounts to their personal
e-mail address.  Societe Generale asked the court to bar the use of its
 trade secrets  by the Friesens, and to order the return of its
confidential material. Additionally, the company asked for an
order for the inspection of all of the Friesens’ computer
equipment, and awards of attorney fees, litigation costs and
money damages, including extra damages to punish the Friesens
for their actions.  The company also asked that it be awarded the back pay and
relocation expenses it paid Friesen during the periods of his
alleged disloyalty.  The Friesens are represented by New York’s  Ellenoff
Grossman & Schole LLP , which didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Societe Generale v. Friesen, 653761/2013, New
York Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ). 