-- Grieg Jumps as Fredriksen’s Marine Harvest Purchases 26% Stake
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-11-08T14:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/grieg-jumps-as-fredriksen-s-marine-harvest-purchases-26-stake.html
Grieg Seafood ASA (GSF)  jumped the most in
4 1/2 years in Oslo trading after  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the
world’s largest salmon farmer, bought a 634 million-krone ($103
million) stake that raises the prospect of a takeover.  Grieg Seafood rose as much as 26 percent, the most since
April 17, 2009, and was up 23 percent at 21.9 kroner as of 3:46
p.m. in the Norwegian capital, making it the biggest mover on
the Oslo exchange’s  All-Share (OSEAX)  Index. About 2.1 million shares
have traded, more than 23 times the three-month average daily
volume. Marine Harvest shares fell 0.5 percent.  “We view this as an initial step in acquiring the whole
company, in line with Marine Harvest expansion ambitions,”
Nadia Bendriss, a credit analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Oslo, said
in a note. Grieg’s operations in Finnmark provide Marine Harvest
with the possibility to expand in a region where it doesn’t have
assets, while the Grieg’s Rogaland and Canada operations could
be integrated, according to Bendriss.  The purchase reflects an increase in acquisitions in the
fisheries industry amid recovering fish prices. Global announced
deals grew by more than four times in value this year to almost
$4 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Marine Harvest
ended a takeover bid for Cermaq ASA in June after failing to get
a sufficient acceptances.  “We were offered an equity post yesterday evening and we
decided to buy it at that price,” Marine Harvest Chief
Executive Officer Alf-Helge Aarskog said in phone interview
today. “If we’re offered another, we’ll consider it.”  While Marine Harvest hasn’t yet examined the potential
synergies between the two companies, it has “good cooperation”
with Grieg Seafood in many markets, Aarskog said. He declined to
comment on whether Marine Harvest was actively seeking to
increase the stake further.  “Marine Harvest wouldn’t acquire these shares if they
didn’t believe it was possible to get control,” Henning Lund
and Fredrik Steinslien, analysts at Pareto Securities AS, said
in an e-mailed note.  Billionaire  John Fredriksen ’s Geveran Trading Co. owns 27
percent of Marine Harvest, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  