-- Microsoft Patent Chief to Join Shook Hardy: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/microsoft-patent-chief-to-join-shook-hardy-business-of-law.html
Former Microsoft Corp. chief patent
counsel Bart Eppenauer is joining Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP as a
partner and will be the managing partner of the firm’s new
 Seattle  office, opening Dec. 1.  Eppenauer, who was chief patent counsel at Microsoft
starting in 2003, led the patent group in the legal and
corporate affairs department, where he developed Microsoft’s
portfolio of more than 35,000 issued patents worldwide, the firm
said. He also managed a team of more than 100 patent
professionals and worked closely with government and judicial
officials, academics and industry leaders on IP policy issues.  Eppenauer was an associate for three years in Shook’s
intellectual property practice before leaving to join
Microsoft’s legal team in 1997.  “We are extremely excited to be opening a Seattle office
and to have Bart rejoining the firm,” Shook Chairman John
Murphy said in a statement. “Bart’s legal and business
experience is unparalleled and this was a truly unique
opportunity for us to open an office in a region in which we
already have a substantial footprint from a practice
standpoint.”  Shook is among Microsoft’s “premier provider” firms for
legal services, the firm said. The firm’s intellectual property
group includes 58 attorneys, 42 of whom are registered to
practice before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  “I have worked closely with Shook’s intellectual property
group for more than a decade in my role at Microsoft and I am
very pleased to be rejoining them,” Eppenauer said in a
statement. “Shook is a standout, forward-looking firm in terms
of delivering creative, efficient and highly effective legal
services to their clients.”  The Seattle office will be Shook’s ninth in the U.S. and
11th worldwide. The firm has more than 440 attorneys.  “It will be a smaller office at the outset, but offer the
highest quality in terms of experience and service to our
clients,” Murphy said. “That has been a successful blueprint
throughout the history of our firm.”  Latham Environmental Lawyer Nominated for Interior Post  President Obama will nominate Janice Schneider, a partner
in law firm Latham & Watkins LLP, to be assistant secretary for
land and minerals management in the Interior Department,
Bloomberg BNA’s Alan Kovski reports, citing a White House
statement.  If confirmed, Schneider will oversee the Bureau of Land
Management,  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement, and Office of Surface Mining
Reclamation and Enforcement.  Schneider, a partner in Latham’s Washington office, is
global co-chairman of the firm’s energy and infrastructure
project siting and defense practice and local department
chairman of the environment, land and resources department.  Before joining Latham in 2001, Schneider worked for the
U.S. Department of the Interior and the U.S. Justice Department
and was counselor to the Deputy Secretary of the Interior,
according to her firm biography.  News  New York Lawyer Wells to Lead NFL’s Workplace Probe of Dolphins  National Football League Commissioner Roger Goodell said
there’s no time limit for an independent probe into alleged
harassment in the Miami Dolphins’ workplace, which will be led
by New York attorney Ted Wells.  Wells, a senior partner in the law firm of Paul Weiss
Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP, will direct “a thorough and
objective” investigation and submit a report to Goodell, the
NFL said in an e-mailed statement.  “Ted Wells will have full authority to investigate as he
deems appropriate,” Goodell said. “Consistent with doing a
thorough investigation, we have not imposed a specific timetable
on him.”  The Dolphins asked the NFL to investigate allegations that
harassment led Jonathan Martin to leave the team. Fellow
offensive lineman Richie Incognito was indefinitely suspended.  “I am committed to creating a professional environment for
all of the members of the Dolphins family,” Dolphins owner
Stephen Ross said in an e-mailed statement. “Once the review is
completed and I have all of the facts, we will respond
accordingly.”  Ross said the Dolphins will be “fully cooperating with the
review,” while Miami coach Joe Philbin said the team will take
“all necessary steps” to correct anything that Wells finds
amiss.  ESPN reported that Incognito, 30, asked Martin, 24, to
contribute financially to an unofficial team trip to Las Vegas
that Martin didn’t attend. The network also said the Dolphins
and the NFL have a copy of a voice message from April in which
Incognito used a racial slur and threatened Martin’s life.  David Dunn, Incognito’s agent, hasn’t responded to multiple
e-mails and a message left at his office seeking comment on the
ESPN reports.  Billy Hunter’s firing in February as head of the National
Basketball Players Association came after an audit of the union
overseen by Wells.  The review concluded that, while Hunter did nothing
illegal, he failed to manage conflicts of interest, lacked
proper corporate governance and didn’t disclose that his $3
million-a-year contract wasn’t properly ratified.  Wells also was involved in an internal investigation into
the men’s basketball program at Syracuse University, where
federal prosecutors in November 2012 dropped a yearlong probe
into former assistant coach Bernie Fine, saying there wasn’t
enough evidence against him to support allegations of sexual
abuse.  “My task is to assemble the facts and present my findings
to the commissioner,” said Wells, whose report for Goodell will
be made public. “I will do so fairly and comprehensively so
that Commissioner Goodell can address this matter properly. I
will begin my work immediately and report my findings to the
commissioner as soon as practical.”  Deals  Cravath Represents Toll Brothers on Shapell Acquisition  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP represented  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) 
on its agreement to buy Shapell Industries Inc.’s homebuilding
business for about $1.6 billion, gaining 5,200 lots in the Los
Angeles and San Francisco Bay areas as buyer demand for housing
rises. Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP advised Shapell.  The Cravath team included partners Eric L. Schiele, mergers
and acquisitions; Stephen L. Gordon, tax; and Kevin J. Grehan,
real estate.  Gibson Dunn’s team is co-led by Los Angeles real estate
partners Michael Sfregola and Dhiya El-Saden and includes the
following partners: Paul Issler, tax; Patrick Dennis, co-chairman of the environmental litigation and mass tort practice
group; Maurice Suh, litigation; and Sean Feller, benefits.  Toll, the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, will pay for
Beverly Hills, California-based Shapell with debt and a share
offering, the companies said yesterday in a statement. The deal
will more than double the number of California lots controlled
by Toll to about 9,200, with most in coastal markets where
vacant land is hard to come by, Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr. said.  Developers are stocking up on land as U.S.  home  values
climb at their fastest pace in seven years. Earlier this week,
Barry Sternlicht’s  Irvine , California-based Tri Pointe Homes
Inc. agreed to buy the homebuilding division of Weyerhaeuser Co.
for $2.7 billion.  In the Shapell deal, 10 percent to 15 percent of the
purchase price will be covered by issuing new Toll shares, and
Toll plans to sell about $500 million of land from the Shapell
portfolio. The Horsham, Pennsylvania-based builder also stands
to make money immediately by selling homes in Shapell’s backlog.  Toll will keep about 150 Shapell employees. Others with the
company will continue to work for the family’s commercial real
estate division, which wasn’t sold to Toll.  For more, click here.  Moves  Katten Hires Hedge Fund and Private-Equity Specialist  Katten Muchin Rosenman UK LLP said Barry Breen will join
the London office as a partner in the financial-services
practice. He was previously at Sidley Austin LLP.  Breen will continue his focus on advising investment
management and fund clients on hedge fund, infrastructure and
private-equity matters, the firm said in a statement.  “Barry’s proven diversity of know-how in the field of
hedge fund investments, operations and regulation broadens and
deepens the already wide array of services we offer our growing
list of clients in this area,” Katten Chairman Vince A.F. Sergi
said in the statement.  Katten Muchin Rosenman UK is the London affiliate of Katten
Muchin Rosenman, which has 600 attorneys in the U.S. and in
Asia. The London team acts for clients in the financial
services, real estate and corporate sectors.  Pryor Cashman Adds Trusts and Estates With New York Partner  Pryor Cashman LLP said Daniel J. Scott joined the firm as a
partner in the trust and estates group in New York. He
previously was with Chadbourne & Parke LLP.  In addition to trusts and estates matters, Scott’s work
includes planning for celebrities, athletes, artists,
entrepreneurs and high net-worth individuals, their families and
businesses. He also advises clients on the structuring,
administration and transfer of closely held businesses.  “He brings energy, enthusiasm and a comprehensive skill
set in the area of wealth planning and preservation to our
esteemed client base,” Ronald H. Shechtman, Pryor Cashman’s
managing partner, said in a statement.  Pryor Cashman has more than 130 attorneys in its main
office in New York and a site in Los Angeles.  Davis Wright Adds Health-Care Partner in Seattle  Health-care lawyer Emily Studebaker joined Davis Wright
Tremaine LLP as a partner in Seattle. She was previously at
Garvey Schubert Barer, where she focused on counseling
ambulatory surgery centers and physician practices. She
currently is general counsel and executive director of the
Washington Ambulatory Surgery Center Association.  “We are very pleased to add to the firm her deep
understanding of the continued evolution of health care
regulation in general, and of the ambulatory surgery industry in
particular,” Rick Ellingsen, chairman of the health-care
practice at Davis Wright, said in a statement.  Studebaker’s regulatory work has included counseling
ambulatory surgery centers and physicians on fraud and abuse
laws, as well as assisting with licensing, accreditation, and
certification. In the transaction area, she has represented
clients in acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures.  Davis Wright has about 500 lawyers at nine offices in the
U.S. and  Shanghai .  Freeborn Expands Private-Equity Team With New Partner Jungels  The Chicago-based law firm Freeborn & Peters LLP hired Gary A. Jungels as a partner in both the private equity and venture
capital industry team and the corporate practice group. He was
formerly a partner at Mayer Brown LLP.  Jungels has experience in private equity and venture
capital as well as fund formations and joint ventures. He has
represented fund sponsors and management teams in structuring,
negotiating and closing funds, the firm said.  “His experience with fund formations will provide a
valuable service to our private equity and venture capital
clients,” Jeff Mattson, co-leader of the firm’s corporate
practice group and its private equity and venture capital
industry team, said in a statement.  Freeborn & Peters has more than 200 professionals at two
Illinois offices.  Litigation  Police Found Blunkett Voice Mails in News Corp. Lawyer’s Safe  Recordings of voice mails left by former Home Secretary
David Blunkett on the phone of a woman he was having an affair
with were discovered in the safe of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. lawyer.  Police found the tapes and a draft News of the World
article about Blunkett’s three-year relationship with Kimberly
Quinn in Tom Crone’s safe at News Corp.’s U.K. unit, Andrew
Edis, a prosecution lawyer, told the jury yesterday. The
prosecution said the story, which was published in 2004, was the
result of phone hacking.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit and Andy Coulson, a 45-year-old former editor
of the now defunct News of the World, are among eight people
standing trial for a string of offenses stemming from wrongdoing
at News Corp. U.K. tabloids. Crone, the company’s former lawyer,
isn’t accused of wrongdoing.  Rupert Murdoch, the company’s chairman, closed the News of
the World tabloid in July 2011 in a bid to defuse a scandal over
revelations journalists had hacked the phone of a missing
teenager, Milly Dowler, who was later found murdered.  The messages related to Blunkett were “deeply personal and
intrusive,” Detective Constable Tim Hargreaves told the court.  Edis played a recording of a conversation in which Coulson
confronted the lawmaker before the story was published. Coulson
refused to reveal his sources and said he was “sure it was
right.”  “I wouldn’t be exposing myself in this way unless I
believed the story to be true,” Coulson, who later became a
media adviser to Prime Minister David Cameron, said to Blunkett.
“I am confident.”  The other defendants include Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old former managing editor of the News of the World, and Ian Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news editor, who are both
accused of phone hacking. The newspaper’s one-time royal
reporter, Clive Goodman, 56, is charged with conspiring to
commit misconduct in a public office.  Brooks’s husband, her former assistant Cheryl Carter, and
the U.K. unit’s former head of security, Mark Hanna, face
charges of conspiring to pervert the course of justice.  Video  Stop-And-Frisk Judge Removed, Fights Back  Last month, a federal appeals court panel put a hold on
changes to the New York Police Department’s stop-and-frisk
practices and created a controversy by removing Judge Shira
Scheindlin, who had ordered the changes.  The panel said Scheindlin ran afoul of judicial ethics
rules by encouraging lawyers to bring the stop-and-frisk case,
which she would hear as “related” to others on her docket, and
by speaking to reporters while the case was under way.  Many lawyers have come to the judge’s defense. Nancy
Gertner, a former federal judge says that the panel, not
Scheindlin, violated the rules since no party had moved to
disqualify her.  For video link, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  