-- India’s Nifty Futures Decline After Indexes Fall on Weaker Rupee
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-11-08T02:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/india-s-nifty-futures-decline-after-indexes-fall-on-weaker-rupee.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures fell after
benchmark indexes declined for a third day yesterday to the
lowest level in more than a week.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for November delivery dropped
0.5 percent to 6,196 at 9:47 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying
CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index fell 0.5 percent to 6,187.25 yesterday. The S&P
BSE Sensex lost 0.4 percent to the lowest level since Oct. 28.
The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR Index of U.S.-traded
shares slid for a seventh day. One-month rupee forwards
decreased for a third day today.  The Sensex fell yesterday after the rupee weakened to a
five-week low against the dollar, threatening to fan inflation
and limit the central bank’s ability to cut interest rates and
spur an economy growing at the slowest pace in a decade. Foreign
investors were net buyers of Indian stocks for a 23rd straight
day on Nov. 6. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped today after
faster-than-estimated U.S. economic growth stoked concern the
Federal Reserve will pare stimulus sooner than expected.  “The markets are delicately poised,”  Arun Kejriwal ,
director at Mumbai-based Kejriwal Research & Investment Pvt.,
said in a phone interview. “Foreign inflows are strong and that
will act as a floor for the markets. At the same time, we need
more proof of an economic rebound to sustain the rally.”  MSCI Changes  Shares of  Tech Mahindra Ltd. (TECHM)  may move. The software maker
reported net income of 7.18 billion rupees ($115 million) for
the quarter ended Sept. 30 after the market closed yesterday,
compared with the median estimate of 7.22 billion rupees in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. The stock will be added to the
MSCI India Index after the close of trading on Nov. 26, MSCI
Inc. announced yesterday in its semi-annual review.  Nestle India Ltd. and Yes Bank Ltd. will also be added to
the index. Unitech Ltd., Bank of India, Canara Bank and
Wockhardt Ltd. will be removed.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner of Jaguar and Land Rover, may
report today profit of 28 billion rupees for the quarter ended
Sept. 30, according to the median estimate of 39 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Net incomes at 16 of the 20 companies in the Sensex that
have posted results exceeded analyst estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. About 47 percent of the 30 companies
in the index missed forecasts in the previous quarter.  International investors bought a net $46.1 million of
stocks on Nov. 6, extending this year’s purchases to $16.4
billion, the highest after Japan among 10 Asian markets tracked
by Bloomberg.  The Sensex has risen 7.2 percent this year and  trades  at
13.8 times projected 12-month profits, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.5 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  