-- Instant Tax Service Shut by Judge for Fraudulent Conduct
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-08T00:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/instant-tax-service-shut-by-judge-for-fraudulent-conduct.html
Instant Tax Service , described by a
U.S. judge as the fourth-biggest tax preparation business in the
nation, was ordered closed after a court found it engaged in
abusive and fraudulent practices.  U.S. District Judge Timothy S. Black in Dayton, Ohio, said
the ‘evidence of fraud and deception’’ perpetrated by ITS
Financial LLC, the company’s formal name, and Chief Executive
Officer Fesum Ogbazion, was so overwhelming that an order
barring it from the tax-return preparation business “is
necessary to protect the public and the Treasury.”  Evidence presented during a nine-day trial in July showed
the CEO and his businesses encouraged franchisees to file false
tax returns and lured low-income customers into its offices by
marketing fraudulent loan products, Black said. Other wrongdoing
included forging customer signatures on loan checks and using
the proceeds to operate its businesses, he found.  The U.S. Justice Department sued the firm and Ogbazion last
year. Black decision was dated yesterday.  The company, in a post-trial filing, argued the evidence
told a “different story.” The government’s proof was drawn
from isolated incidents over several years, Instant Tax Service
argued, contending it had taken “corrective action” that
remedied most of the past problems identified at trial.  The “death penalty” injunction was unwarranted, it said
in the July 31 filing.  Black was unconvinced.  “Defendants’ repeated attempts at trial and in argument to
downplay the gravity of their lawlessness was stunning,” the
judge said in his decision. “The court concludes that even
today defendants have not fully recognized their culpability.”  The case is U.S. v. ITS Financial, 12-cv-95, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Ohio  (Dayton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  