-- Iran Accord Seen Near as Top Diplomats Flock to Geneva
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-11-09T09:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/iran-deal-signaled-by-foreign-ministers-flocking-to-geneva.html
World powers are sending their top
diplomats to Geneva for an unscheduled third day of talks with
 Iran , signaling a possible agreement to break the decade-long
stalemate over the Islamic republic’s nuclear program.  The Chinese and Russian foreign ministers are due to join
their French, German, U.K. and U.S. counterparts today in the
Swiss city, where negotiators have been seeking for the past two
days to complete an initial accord.  “Foreign ministers don’t show up to be embarrassed,” said
Jim Walsh, a security analyst at the  Massachusetts  Institute of
Technology in Cambridge, who has traveled to Iran for talks with
nuclear officials. “They’re in town because they’re close
enough to a deal to come.”  The world powers are seeking to curtail a nuclear program
that they say may have military purposes. The U.S. and  Israel 
have said they’re willing to use force to stop Iran from getting
nuclear weapons if diplomacy doesn’t work. The Persian Gulf
nation of 80 million people says its nuclear work is peaceful
and wants the trade curbs that have squeezed its economy to be
loosened.  Negotiators were discussing details yesterday after
agreeing on a framework on the first day, according to Iranian
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif. Iran has been offered
“limited, targeted and reversible relief” from sanctions in
return for concrete and verifiable concessions on its nuclear
work, according to White House spokesman Jay Carney.  ‘Lots of Work’  There is “no certainty” that an agreement will be reached
today, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said in a radio
interview with France Inter. The document the sides are working
on isn’t acceptable at present, he said.  This week’s objective is an accord that would serve as a
first step toward a comprehensive agreement. Supreme Leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei sent a message of support on Twitter late
yesterday for Iran’s negotiators, who have been criticized by
conservatives at home for conceding too much.  Iran’s deputy foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, said after
yesterday’s session ended that there’s still “lots of work to
do.” Secretary of State John Kerry had earlier tempered
expectations on his arrival, saying there were still “important
gaps that have to be closed.”  Kerry, who met with Zarif and European Union foreign policy
chief Catherine Ashton for five hours yesterday, is expected to
reconvene with his Iranian counterpart today.  Tehran                          Trip  In another sign of the renewed push for a deal, the
International Atomic Energy Agency said its director, Yukiya Amano, will join inspectors arriving in Tehran on Nov. 11.  The agency, which monitors Iran’s 17 declared nuclear
facilities, is seeking access to people and sites that they’ve
been barred from visiting, to investigate a possible military
dimension to Iran’s nuclear program.  Kerry traveled to Geneva from Israel, where he’d met Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of the most outspoken critics
of the recent diplomacy with Iran.  Netanyahu, who said yesterday that he “utterly rejects”
any agreement that may emerge in Geneva, insists that Iran’s
nuclear program must be dismantled in full. Iran is willing to
limit the “size, scope and dimensions” of uranium enrichment
without bringing it to a complete halt, Araghchi said.  Any agreement with Iran, holder of the world’s fourth-largest proven oil reserves, would be “pretty bearish for
oil,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.  Brent crude for December settlement rose 1.6 percent
yesterday after Kerry said a deal wasn’t assured.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  