-- Is Silicon Valley Arrogant? Not by My Definition
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-11-08T15:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/is-silicon-valley-arrogant-not-by-my-definition.html
The tech world is all atwitter over
accusations of arrogance. In  an essay  in the Wall Street Journal
headlined “Silicon Valley Has an Arrogance Problem,” Farhad
Manjoo decried the industry’s “superiority complex” and wrote:
“For Silicon Valley’s own sake, the triumphalist tone needs to
be kept in check.”  He probably intended his piece as a friendly warning, but
not everybody in the Valley took it that way. (Just peruse the
comment threads.)  What sparked Manjoo’s column was  a speech  last month by
Stanford University lecturer Balaji Srinivasan titled “Silicon
Valley’s Ultimate Exit.” Srinivasan proposed that techies
should think about leaving the U.S., in part to escape from
regulators who stifle progress but also because, even though the
tech industry is the nation’s only reliable creator of wealth,
Americans will eventually “try and blame the economy on Silicon
Valley.”  Now, I love a good controversy, and Srinivasan’s proposal,
whether meant seriously or mischievously, raises important
questions. But before we consider any of them, there is another
nagging issue: What exactly makes his proposal arrogant?     The
burden of Manjoo’s argument seems to be that Srinivasan, like
many successful techies, is rather full of himself. And it’s
true that we nowadays have a sloppy tendency to use “arrogant”
when what we mean is “conceited.” But there’s an older
definition of the word that might actually assist in our
analysis. There was a time when arrogant wasn’t synonymous with
overbearing or swaggering -- when it meant, in effect, to be
conceited without having anything to be conceited about. In this
older sense, arrogance represented an overestimation of one’s
own capabilities.  Arrogant Sins  This, for example, is the sense in which reformer John
Bradford used the word when, shortly before his execution in
1555, he confessed to the sin of “arrogancy.” If not for
arrogance, he wrote, “how should I, of all wretches the
greatest, think me to look to the highest room and vocation that
is upon earth.” His point was that he thought more highly of
himself than he should have.  In fact, there’s an old tradition in theology of equating
arrogance with a false self-belief. One finds echoes of the same
usage well into the 19th century. So, for example, it was common
for abolitionists to refer to the slaveholding states as
“arrogant” -- not because they were stuck up, but because
their exaltation of their system was baseless.  Arrogance understood as a false belief, then, might stand
in contrast to an earned pride in one’s own achievements. The
Oxford English Dictionary’s first definition is “Making or
implying unwarrantable claims to dignity, authority, or
knowledge.” The important word is “unwarrantable.” An Olympic
medalist in the 100-meter dash who calls himself the fastest man
in the world might sound overbearing, but he isn’t arrogant. One
remembers the words of sci-fi writer Herbert Russell Wakefield
in his classic short story “Professor Pownall’s Oversight,”
describing the chess master: “He is great; he knows it; he can
prove it, that is all.”  Thus, when Tiger Woods is  described as  “the most arrogant
golfer and perhaps the most arrogant athlete ever,” the charge
cannot possibly be accurate if Woods’s play backs up his
attitude. He might be overbearing; he might be swaggering; but
as long as he is the best golfer in the world, he isn’t
arrogant. By contrast, when Washington Redskins quarterback
Robert Griffin III is  described as  arrogant, the word is being
used in its more traditional sense: The idea is that he isn’t
(yet) as good as he seems to think he is.  All of which brings us back to Manjoo’s critique of Silicon
Valley. He takes note of  Larry Page ’s call for  a safe place  to
try out new technologies and Peter Thiel’s support for
 seasteading . It isn’t clear whether Manjoo considers these
examples of Silicon Valley’s arrogance problem. One hopes not,
because they seem to me more examples of Silicon Valley’s
entrepreneurial solutions.  Exciting Possibilities  The idea of testing out technologies before they’re applied
in the world is a good one. Going to sea to find new ways to
live isn’t to everybody’s taste, but it nevertheless presents to
the debate a new and exciting possibility.  As for Srinivasan,  his speech  wasn’t really about
secession. He relied on the work of the late economist Albert O.
Hirschman to suggest that exit rights are at the heart of both
freedom and progress. Exit, Srinivasan argued, “means giving
people tools to reduce influence of bad policies on their lives
without getting involved in politics: the tools to peacefully
opt out.” Over the next decade, he argued, it is vital to
“reduce the importance” of political and regulatory decisions.  This statement of libertarian principle led Srinivasan to
an insight about the function of technology: to provide people
with options and choices. His admittedly controversial vision of
an “opt-in society” somewhere outside the U.S.’s borders is a
common -- and in many ways commendable -- Silicon Valley dream.  None of this is arrogant in the traditional sense of the
word. His commentary about technological change is couched in
the language of choice, not inevitability. He wants to journey
to a particular future, but unlike so many utopians, he isn’t
insisting that everyone else come along for the ride.  Is Silicon Valley perfect? Far from it. Is there too much
swagger? Maybe so. But the wheel of history turneth.
Technological brilliance doesn’t necessarily imply a special
insight into tomorrow.  I’m old enough to remember the dawn of Silicon Valley. I
was an undergraduate at Stanford 40 years ago, back when “tech
giant” meant Hewlett-Packard Co. When I told the teaching
assistant in an engineering class that my term project was a
program that would mimic a pinball machine, he warned me that
the undertaking would present enormous difficulty, even for an
experienced programmer. Another time, I attended an off-the-record talk by one of the world’s leading theorists of
artificial intelligence -- a cocky bearded fellow who said he
didn’t feel guilty about taking money from the Defense
Department (in those days, still considered naughty at Stanford)
because the contract was to construct what everyone in the field
knew to be a practical impossibility: a program that would
understand human speech.  You can like or dislike Srinivasan’s vision. Just don’t
call it arrogant. It’s an idea, no more: provocative, well-conceived and, in some ways, attractive, but still an idea. As
the U.S. turns increasingly inward -- less influential in the
world, less confident in its own potential -- exciting ideas are
what we need most.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at Yale University. He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama” and the
novel “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln.” Follow him on
Twitter at  @StepCarter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 