-- Payrolls Beat Forecasts as U.S. Weathers Shutdown: Economy
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-11-08T21:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/job-growth-beats-forecasts-as-u-s-weathers-shutdown-economy.html
American employers added more workers
to payrolls in October than economists projected as the world’s
largest economy powered through the federal government shutdown.  The gain of 204,000 workers topped the most optimistic
forecast in a survey of economists and followed a 163,000
increase in September that was larger than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The  jobless
rate  rose to 7.3 percent from an almost five-year low.  “The government shutdown really didn’t have a material
impact on employment,” said Brian Jones, senior U.S. economist
at Societe Generale in New York, whose forecast for a payroll
gain of 175,000 was the highest in the Bloomberg survey. “The
labor market is actually quite healthy, regardless of what
people may think. The economy is doing better.”  The figures indicate employers were increasing hiring to
meet greater demand as they looked past the 16-day budget
impasse and a debate over raising the nation’s debt ceiling.
Speculation that the report will prompt the Federal Reserve to
accelerate a withdrawal of stimulus caused Treasuries to sink
the most in three months, gold to slide and the dollar to
strengthen.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries jumped 15 basis points to
2.75 percent at 4:03 p.m. in New York. Gold futures dropped 1.6
percent to $1,287.70 an ounce. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 1.3 percent, the most in three weeks. The dollar climbed
0.4 percent against the euro.  Economists’ Estimates  The median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a gain of 120,000 jobs, with estimates ranging from
increases of 50,000 to 175,000. The report, delayed by the
shutdown, was originally slated for Nov. 1.  The difference between today’s outcome on payrolls and the
average estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 3.4
times larger than the poll’s standard deviation, or the average
divergence between what each economist forecast and the mean.
That was the biggest surprise since April.  The partial government shutdown soured consumer moods, even
as job prospects brightened, a survey indicated today. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  consumer
sentiment  index for November dropped to 72, the weakest since
December 2011, from 73.2 in October.  Payrolls increased at manufacturers by the most since
February, retailers added about twice as many workers as the
month before, and leisure and hospitality employment was the
strongest in six months.  Broad-based Gains  The wide-ranging nature of the increase was reflected in
the report’s diffusion index, which measures the breadth of
private industries hiring. It climbed last month to the highest
level since February.  Among those finding work was Blair Landen, 22, who was
hired in October after her one-month internship at
rehabilitation-product maker Saebo Inc.  She had been looking for positions since the spring, before
her graduation from the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill. When applying and interviewing for jobs yielded little,
she started networking, creating a spreadsheet with about 70
contacts that eventually helped her find her current position.  “It was a very frustrating process,” said Landen, who now
lives in  Charlotte . “When you talk to 10 people, you might have
one person who has a lead on a company that’s hiring right now -
- maybe. It’s kind of like a never-ending cycle.”  Holiday Hiring  Retailers boosting hiring ahead of the holiday shopping
season include Amazon.com Inc. The world’s largest online
retailer is creating more than 70,000 full-time seasonal jobs
and expects to convert “thousands” of those positions to
permanent roles after the season ends as it did in 2012,
according to a  statement .  United Parcel Service, Inc., the world’s biggest package
shipping company, is hiring 55,000 seasonal employees to handle
an 8 percent increase in peak season daily volume, according to
an Oct. 25 statement. The employees will work as drivers,
helpers, package sorters, loaders or unloaders to help with
demand during the most compressed holiday season since 2002,
Atlanta-based UPS said.  “The outlook for the economy suddenly brightened today,”
 Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said in a note. “The labor
market has considerable momentum and to ask whether it is
sustainable is just not the right question.”  Fed Policy  Fed policy makers said last week they needed to see more
evidence the economy will continue to improve before they trim
$85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage debt.
Fiscal policy “is restraining economic growth,” the Federal
Open Market Committee said Oct. 30 at the end of a two-day
meeting in Washington.  Economists surveyed before that meeting said they didn’t
see the Fed starting to reduce purchases until March, according
to the median of 40 responses. The next gathering of the FOMC is
in December.  “We know that the Federal Reserve is interested in scaling
back the quantitative easing program,” said Kevin Logan, chief
U.S. economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. “The data we
received today doesn’t compel them to do that, but it certainly
doesn’t prevent them. The door is open for a decision to scale
back the program in December.”  The unemployment rate, derived from a separate Labor
Department survey of households, was forecast to rise to 7.3
percent from September’s 7.2 percent, according to the Bloomberg
survey  median .  Furloughed Workers  As many as 800,000 federal workers were furloughed during
last month’s government shutdown. The Labor Department, in its
survey of 60,000 households, extrapolated the effects of the
impasse to arrive at the unemployment rate.  Americans who weren’t working during the week spanning Oct.
6 to Oct. 12 were counted as unemployed, even if they were paid
or expected to get paid retroactively, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics. The accuracy of the October household
survey may have been affected by a one-week delay in data
collection and respondents’ confusion over their employment
status because of the shutdown.  The household survey also showed that the  participation
rate , which measures the share of working-age people in the
labor force, decreased to 62.8 percent, the lowest since March
1978, from 63.2 percent.  “You really want to see how the job market does in
November before making any assessments about the underlying
health of the job market,” said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist
at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania , who
correctly projected the rise in the unemployment rate to 7.3
percent. “There are a lot of things pushing and pulling on the
October numbers.”  Manufacturing Employment  Factories (USMMMNCH)  added 19,000 workers in October, according to the
survey of employers. Industries adding factory jobs in October
ranged from motor vehicles and fabricated metals to furniture
and food processing.  Private employment rose 212,000 in October, exceeding the
125,000 gain forecast by economists and the 150,000 increase in
September. Government employment decreased by 8,000 last month
as federal agencies cut payrolls.  Workers at America’s top federal contractors were also
among those affected by the lapse in appropriations.  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , which had $36.9 billion in government contracts in
2012, put 2,400 workers on leave the second week of October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  