-- JPMorgan Banker Backed $200 Million Madoff Loan in 2008
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-11-08T15:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/jpmorgan-banker-backed-200-million-madoff-loan-in-november-2008.html
A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  banker
who managed  Bernard Madoff ’s account said the con man was on
track to receive a $200 million loan less than a month before
his arrest if the request hadn’t been dropped.  Daniel Bonventre, one of five ex-Madoff employees on trial
for allegedly aiding the fraud, asked JPMorgan in November 2008
to borrow twice Madoff’s credit limit of $100 million, with U.S.
Treasuries as collateral, Mark Doctoroff, who left the bank last
year, testified yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan .  “They are doing well financially,” Doctoroff said of
Madoff’s securities firm in an e-mail to JPMorgan’s credit
department on Nov. 17, 2008. “They are looking at the current
market as an opportunity to make investments, true to their
value investing style.”  The five former employees are accused of helping Madoff
hide his fraud from customers, banks and regulators for years,
and getting rich in the process. It’s the first criminal trial
stemming from the scheme, which prosecutors say started in the
early 1970s and imploded at the peak of the financial crisis.  The loan was part of a last-ditch attempt by Madoff to
secure cash as his  Ponzi scheme  was collapsing and Bonventre’s
role in the application process was one of the many examples of
his involvement in the fraud, prosecutors have said.  Fake Trades  Doctoroff, who was Madoff’s relationship manager at the
bank from about February 2008 until Madoff’s arrest in December
that year, said he didn’t know at the time Madoff had a formal
investment advisory unit -- the center of the Ponzi scheme
involving fake trades -- or that Madoff’s JPMorgan account was
used for that business. He said he never met Madoff.  “Told Dan you would call him back if a problem, or let me
know and I will -- but think we should process, ” Doctoroff
said in the e-mail, a copy of which was displayed on flat-screen
monitors for the jury. While the loan never went through,
Doctoroff said yesterday he thought it would have been granted,
and that he didn’t know why the loan process stopped.  Bonventre, who oversaw the broker-dealer and proprietary
trading operations of Madoff’s company, where real trading took
place, pleaded not guilty and has denied involvement in the
fraud, saying he was duped like thousands of others.  ‘Wasn’t Suspicious’  Doctoroff said Bonventre told him during the loan request
that Madoff’s company had $676 million in capital and no losses.
The loan “wasn’t suspicious,” he said.  Bonventre’s lawyer, Andrew Frisch, asked if the loan
request and the fraudulent capital figures given by Bonventre
could have come from Madoff himself. Doctoroff agreed Madoff
could have given the fake figures to Bonventre.  The other defendants in the case, all accused of helping
make fake documents for decades, are Annette Bongiorno, who
worked for Madoff for 40 years and ran the investment advisory
business; Joann Crupi, who managed large accounts; and computer
programmers George Perez and Jerome O’Hara. All five have
pleaded not guilty.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment on the testimony.  The office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan is
investigating how JPMorgan handled Madoff’s funds and whether it
turned a blind eye to the fraud. Bharara is weighing a deferred
prosecution agreement or fine to resolve the probe, a person
familiar with the matter said last month.  Trustee Suits  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm in
 bankruptcy court  to help repay victims, is also seeking about $1
billion in lawsuits against JPMorgan, which has denied the
claims in court filings. Picard had sought as much as
$19 billion in damages against the bank before losing a series
of court rulings in the bank’s favor.  Another witness, William Nasi, who was a messenger for
Madoff’s company starting in 1968, testified yesterday that the
securities firm would regularly issue checks in his name for
thousands of dollars, which he would then cash and give directly
to Bongiorno or Madoff. A copy of one such check to Nasi, from
Oct. 4, 2004, for $3,000, was displayed for the jury.  Bongiorno would usually receive about $2,500 in that way
every 10 days, and she preferred payment in $100 bills, said
Nasi, whose duties included picking up six large bags of the
firm’s U.S. mail every day and running errands at banks.  ‘Ben Franklins’  Bongiorno would say, “Bring me back Ben Franklins,” Nasi
said. When Nasi would return and hand the cash to Bongiorno,
“she just said ‘thank you’ and dropped it in her purse.”  Eventually Madoff stopped using Nasi’s name “for legal
reasons” and because the amounts he was supposedly receiving
were too “astronomical” to be realistic, Nasi said.  Madoff’s former secretary also testified yesterday, telling
the jury she heard the con man shout at his brother  Peter Madoff , in an argument about Bonventre, that he “knows how
everything works.”  The conversation ended with Madoff telling his brother to
mind his own business, using an expletive, Eleanor Squillari
testified. Squillari was Madoff’s receptionist and personal
assistant from 1984 until his 2008 arrest.  Frisch asked Squillari during cross-examination if she knew
exactly what Bernard Madoff and his brother were discussing when
they argued about Bonventre. She said no. She agreed the fight
could have been about trading operations or something else
related to the job.  Testimony Barred  In a ruling outside the presence of the jury, U.S. District
Judge Laura Taylor Swain this week granted the defense’s request
that Squillari be barred from testifying that O’Hara and Perez
looked “smug” when they left a private meeting with Madoff
around 2006. Defense lawyers said it was unfair speculation,
while prosecutors said it was “central” to their case alleging
the men extorted Madoff to assist his fraud.  O’Hara and Perez, who joined Madoff’s firm in the 1990s,
acknowledged that a “dramatic meeting” with Madoff took place
in 2006, according to their lawyers’ Oct. 17 opening statements
to the jury. The men claim that they arranged the encounter to
challenge Madoff’s request for computer code they believed might
be abused, and that they were “extremely nervous” about
confronting him and being fired.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  