-- Netanyahu Challenges U.S. After ‘Very Bad’ Offer to Iran
-- B y   A m y   T e i b e l   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-11-08T11:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/kerry-returns-for-peace-talks-with-netanyahu-amid-iran-frictions.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faced off against the Obama administration over
proposed sanctions relief for Iran, calling the U.S.-backed
offer “a very bad deal” for the international community.  Netanyahu told reporters before a meeting with visiting
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry today that Israel “utterly
rejects” and “is not obliged by this agreement,” which world
powers and Iran said was emerging at a current round of nuclear
talks in Geneva.  White House spokesman Jay Carney said in Washington
yesterday that Iran has been offered “limited, targeted and
reversible relief” from sanctions in return for verifiable
concessions on its nuclear program.  “I understand that the Iranians are walking around very
satisfied in Geneva, as well they should be, because they got
everything and paid nothing,” Netanyahu said. “Iran got the
deal of the century and the international community got a bad
deal. This is a very bad deal.”  Netanyahu doesn’t believe Iran’s assertions that its
nuclear program is peaceful and says a nuclear-armed Iran would
threaten Israel’s survival. He warned yesterday that moderating
the pressure on the Iranians would be a “mistake of historic
proportions.” Iran says its nuclear program is peaceful.  Halt Enrichment  The Israeli leader has urged the U.S. and five other powers
-- France, Germany, the U.K., Russia and China -- taking part in
talks with Iran to reject any proposal unless it ensures a halt
to all uranium enrichment and the construction of a plutonium-producing reactor. He’s dismissed overtures to the West by
Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, and reiterated that Israel
may attack Iran to prevent the acquisition of nuclear weapons.  After meeting with Netanyahu, Kerry boarded a plane for
Geneva to join other Western politicians to help try to clinch
the accord. Participants in the Geneva nuclear talks said an
initial deal is possible when they convene today for a second
day of negotiations.  The tensions over Iran have frayed relations that Netanyahu
and the White House have worked to repair in recent months. The
friction has also clouded Kerry-led efforts to end decades of
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Netanyahu last month linked developments on Iran to
progress on peacemaking with the Palestinians, telling Kerry in
Rome that relaxing pressure on Iran would make it harder for
Israel to compromise.  Settlement Construction  He reinforced that linkage today in his remarks before the
meeting with Kerry, saying that his refusal to “compromise on
Israel’s security and our vital interests” extends also to
talks with the Palestinians.  “I think the pressure has to be put where it belongs, that
is, on the Palestinians who refuse to budge,” he said.  Yesterday, Kerry criticized Israel’s conduct during the
talks, which he labored to renew in July after a three-year
breakdown. In a television interview, he said Netanyahu risks
appearing uncommitted to an agreement because of continued
construction in Jewish settlements in the West Bank and east
Jerusalem, areas Israel captured from Jordan in 1967 where the
Palestinians hope to establish the core of a future state.  “It sends a message that somehow, perhaps you’re not
really serious,” he said.  In recent weeks, Israeli officials have announced they are
pushing ahead with plans to erect thousands of new apartments in
captured areas. More than half a million Israelis live on
territories Israel seized, and the Palestinians say the growing
numbers make it hard for them to establish a viable state.  Failure to reach an accord in the current round of talks
could lead to a new Palestinian uprising, or intifada in Arabic,
against Israel, Kerry cautioned.  “The alternative to getting back to the talks is the
potential of chaos,” he said. “Does Israel want a third
intifada?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Teibel in Jerusalem at 
 ateibel@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Jerusalem at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  