-- Kerry Says No Iran Nuclear Deal Yet as Critical Gaps Remain
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-11-08T16:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/kerry-says-no-iran-nuclear-deal-yet-as-critical-gaps-remain.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
tempered expectations of a possible deal that would break the
decade-long stalemate over  Iran ’s nuclear work by saying discord
remains.  There is “not an agreement at this point in time,” Kerry
told reporters after making an unscheduled stop in Geneva to
participate in the nuclear talks. “We hope to try to narrow
those differences but I don’t think anybody should mistake that
there are some important gaps that have to be closed.”  Kerry joined counterparts from  France ,  Germany  and the
U.K., who also arrived today in the Swiss city to seek an accord
over Iran’s disputed nuclear work. He’ll meet Iranian Foreign
Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif later today after consulting
European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton .  During two days of talks in Geneva, world powers have edged
closer to an accord over Iran’s disputed nuclear work. While all
the details have yet to be worked out, a framework has been
agreed upon, Zarif said yesterday in an interview. Iran has been
offered “limited, targeted and reversible relief” from
sanctions in return for concrete and verifiable concessions on
its nuclear work, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in
Washington.  Talks are at a “sensitive and critical stage” and Kerry’s
presence is needed to resolve issues where differences remain,
Iran’s deputy foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, told
journalists.  ‘Utterly Rejects’  Kerry arrived after making another unscheduled visit to
 Israel  early today to talk with Prime Minister  Benjamin
Netanyahu , who said he “utterly rejects” and “is not
obliged” by any potential agreement that may emerge from the
Geneva meetings.  “I understand that the Iranians are walking around very
satisfied in Geneva, as well they should be, because they got
everything and paid nothing,” Netanyahu said.  Tensions over Iran have frayed relations that Netanyahu and
the White House have worked to repair in recent months. The
Israeli leader has urged the U.S. and five other powers taking
part in talks with Iran -- France, Germany, the U.K., Russia and
China -- to reject any proposal unless it ensures a halt to all
 uranium enrichment  and the construction of a reactor that could
produce plutonium.  Iran is willing to limit the “size, scope and dimensions”
of its enrichment program without bringing it to a complete
halt,Araghchi said. Iran had previously signaled it’s willing
to make compromises, shelving a demand for immediate recognition
on the right to enrich uranium, and saying it may be ready to
limit its stockpile of uranium enriched to 20 percent purity.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors who monitor
Iran’s 17 declared nuclear facilities are due to fly to Tehran
next week. They’re seeking access to people and sites that
they’re barred from visiting, to investigate a possible military
dimension to  Iran’s nuclear program . The Persian Gulf nation of
80-million people insists its nuclear work is peaceful.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Geneva at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  