-- N.Y. Thruway Authority Downgrade by Moody’s on Tappan Zee
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-09T00:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/n-y-thruway-authority-rating-cut-by-moody-s-on-tappan-zee-cost.html
The  New York  State Thruway Authority
had its credit rating cut one step to A2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said the agency may not raise tolls fast enough
to cover costs for a new $3.9 billion Tappan Zee Bridge.  The drop to the sixth-highest rating also reflects the
possibility that the bridge contractor, a group led by Irving,
Texas-based  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , won’t be able to meet the project’s
schedule and stay within budget, even though most of the costs
are fixed under a design-build contract, Moody’s said today in a
report.  The agency, which operates the longest U.S. toll road, is
already saddled with $3.9 billion in debt, which will more than
double as it sells $2.4 billion in bonds and borrows another
$1.6 billion through a federal loan it won Oct. 31 to build the
new span over the Hudson River.  Of those bonds, as much as $1.6 billion will be junior-lien
securities that will allow the authority to increase its
borrowing capacity, according to a resolution approved by the
Thruway board yesterday. The interest rate on the debt can’t
exceed 5.5 percent, the resolution said. The securities will be
sold within weeks, Dan Weiller, an authority spokesman, said
today by e-mail.  ‘Negative Pressure’  “Failure to deliver the project within budget and on time
due to higher project costs, a longer permitting or construction
period, or insufficient toll increases to support associated
debt would place negative pressure on the rating,” Moody’s
said. Moody’s also changed its outlook for the debt to stable
from negative.  “We are confident that the Thruway Authority’s credit will
remain stable or improve,” Thomas Madison, the agency’s
executive director, said in a statement.  Governor Andrew Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, has made
building the new span that’s about 20 miles (32 kilometers)
north of  Manhattan , a priority, comparing it in scope to the
19th century construction of the Erie Canal. It’s among the
largest public-works projects in the U.S. The federal
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan
the state received is the largest ever issued under the program.  The downgrade by Moody’s and a similar cut Oct. 29 by
Standard & Poor’s hasn’t deterred investors from buying the
agency’s debt.  A tax-exempt Thruway Authority bond maturing in April 2015
traded today at an average yield of 0.47 percent, or about 0.1
percentage point more than benchmark munis, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with an average of 0.3 percentage
point over the past 99 days. The volume of securities traded
today was the most since August, the data show.  Keith Stephens, a Fluor spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone call requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  