-- Natural Gas May Gain as Cold Weather Spurs Demand, Survey Shows
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-11-08T12:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/natural-gas-may-gain-as-cold-weather-spurs-demand-survey-shows.html
     Nov. 8 (Bloomberg)-- Natural gas futures may advance next
week as colder-than-normal weather increases demand for the
heating fuel, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Six of 12 analysts, or 50 percent, forecast that gas
futures will rise on the New York Mercantile Exchange through
Nov. 15. Three, or 25 percent, said futures will fall and three
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 70 percent
of participants said gas prices would advance. Gas has rebounded
after dropping to an 11-week intraday low on Nov. 5.  An update to the National Weather Service’s Global Forecast
System model yesterday showed a mix of normal and lower-than-usual temperatures in the eastern U.S. next week. The low in New
York on Nov. 14 may be 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 Celsius), 10
less than usual, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,
 Pennsylvania .  “Without a corresponding guarantee of warm weather ahead,
the recent selloff appears increasingly fragile, with investors
likely to cover short positions next week,” said Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in
New York. “As such, we think that prices will likely move
slightly higher on the week.”  Natural gas for December delivery climbed 0.6 cent to
$3.519 per million British thermal units in the first four days
of trading this week on the New York exchange. The futures
dropped to $3.379 per million Btu on Nov. 5, the lowest price
since Aug. 16.  Temperatures in  Chicago  on Nov. 14 may fall to 23 degrees
Fahrenheit, 12 less than usual, AccuWeather data show. About 49
percent of U.S. households use gas for heating, according to the
EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  6     3         3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  