-- Netanyahu Attack on Iran Deal Threatens Rift With U.S.
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-11-08T22:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/netanyahu-attack-on-iran-deal-threatens-rift-with-u-s-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s rejection of a potential agreement on  Iran’s nuclear
program , which he denounced as a “very bad deal,” threatens to
ignite the most serious U.S.- Israel  dispute in years.  His public criticism follows a series of meetings on the
topic with U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who flew to
Geneva today to join talks with Iranian Foreign Minister
Mohammad Javad Zarif. They’re seeking to nail down the first
step in an accord that would relieve some sanctions against Iran
if it curtails certain nuclear activities.  The clash over Iran negotiations follows an effort by
President  Barack Obama  to reassure Netanyahu of his support for
Israel, including a trip there in March, after a series of
disputes. Kerry’s talks with Netanyahu have sought to avoid a
blanket rejection of initial moves toward a nuclear pact, which
could fuel opponents in the  U.S. Congress  pressing to toughen
sanctions.  Netanyahu told reporters today that Israel “utterly
rejects” and “is not obliged by” an agreement that world
powers and Iran are trying to put together. He spoke before a
morning meeting with Kerry, who stopped in Tel Aviv from  Jordan 
en route to Geneva for the nuclear talks.  “I understand that the Iranians are walking around very
satisfied in Geneva, as well they should be, because they got
everything and paid nothing,” Netanyahu said. “Iran got the
deal of the century and the international community got a bad
deal. This is a very bad deal.”  ‘Important Gaps’  Obama called Netanyahu today to discuss the Geneva talks
and “underscored his strong commitment to preventing Iran from
obtaining a nuclear weapon, which is the aim of the ongoing
negotiations,” according to a White House statement.  Kerry, upon arriving in Switzerland, made a point of saying
that negotiators hadn’t concluded a deal.  Brent crude  for
December delivery rose for the first time in four days, gaining
as much as 1.9 percent after Kerry said “some important gaps”
remain.  “The tone of Prime Minister Netanyahu’s comments are sure
to cause consternation in the White House,”  Robert Danin , a
senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  and former
U.S. government Mideast policy official, said in an e-mail. “It
is too early to say that it will lead to a rift; indeed I don’t
think the White House wants that or is prepared to allow one to
emerge.”  ‘Significant Turbulence’  “But should they come to believe that Netanyahu is trying
to mobilize American public opinion against the president’s
policies, then there will be a real potential for significant
turbulence in the relationship,” Danin said.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies in Washington, who has helped write
sanctions legislation, said pressure will build in Congress to
move ahead with added strictures against Iran because some
allies consider a potential interim nuclear deal to be too weak.  “My sense is it’s going to be a very, very tough sell to
hold off” congressional action on additional sanctions,
“especially with the Israelis and the Saudis just completely
freaking out,” said Dubowitz, who consults with the Obama
administration and Congress on sanctions policy.  The Senate Banking Committee is preparing to discuss
legislation imposing new curbs on Iran. Chairman  Tim Johnson , a
South Dakota Democrat, said in a statement that he hasn’t
decided on timing for committee action.  Additional Sanctions  “I don’t know the outcome of negotiations now under way in
Geneva, and I plan to wait to hear any results of those talks
from our negotiators before making a final decision on any
additional sanctions,” Johnson said.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said in a statement today that “any agreement that does not
require the full and complete halting of the Iranian nuclear
program is worse than no deal at all.” Easing sanctions
“without a guarantee that Iran will end its nuclear program is
foolish,” House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California Republican, said in a statement.  Groups that lobby on Iranian sanctions and nuclear
proliferation spent $9.1 million in the three months ended Sept.
30, according to disclosure reports. The 31 organizations that
listed Iran among their lobbying issues include the  American
Petroleum Institute  and other oil industry groups.  The American Israel Public Affairs Committee has spent $2.2
million so far this year on lobbying. In each of this year’s
disclosure forms, AIPAC has said it is lobbying on “economic
and diplomatic tools to stop Iranian nuclear program.”  ‘Best Chance’  Criticism of the Geneva negotiations risks derailing “the
best chance to guard against a nuclear-armed Iran,” said  Daryl Kimball , executive director of the Washington-based Arms Control
Association.  “Unfortunately, some key players -- including Israeli
Prime Minister Netanyahu and some members of Congress -- are
demanding much more from the talks and risk getting nothing,”
Kimball said in an e-mail. “Demanding the perfect deal and
getting nothing is reckless and dangerous.”  White House deputy spokesman  Josh Earnest  said today it’s
“premature” to criticize a deal that’s still being negotiated
and that the U.S. and Israel are “in complete agreement” about
keeping Iran from obtaining the capacity for nuclear weapons.  If an initial agreement provides relief from sanctions it
would “be proportional to whatever concessions the Iranians
themselves make” and “would be completely reversible,”
Earnest told reporters.  Historic Mistake  Netanyahu says a nuclear-armed Iran would threaten Israel’s
survival. He said yesterday that moderating pressure on the
Iranians would be a “mistake of historic proportions.” Iran
says its nuclear program is peaceful.  The Israeli leader has urged the U.S. and five other powers
taking part in the talks with Iran -- France, Germany, the U.K.,
Russia and China -- to reject any proposal unless it ensures a
halt to all Iranian  uranium enrichment  and the construction of a
plutonium-producing reactor.  The tensions over Iran have frayed relations that Netanyahu
and the White House have worked to repair in recent months. The
friction has also clouded Kerry-led efforts to negotiate an
agreement to end decades of Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Netanyahu last month linked developments on Iran to
progress on peacemaking with the Palestinians. He reinforced
that linkage today in his remarks before meeting with Kerry,
saying his refusal to “compromise on Israel’s security and our
vital interests” extends to talks with the Palestinians.  ‘Selling Out’  Iran has asserted its right to enrich uranium and has said
it will accept tougher safeguards to meet international concerns
while continuing some level of enrichment.  A public U.S.-Israeli dispute over an Iran deal could lead
to the worst tensions between the allies since 1992, when then-Secretary of State  James Baker  said President  George H.W. Bush 
wouldn’t approve $10 billion in loan guarantees to help house
emigrating Soviet Jews unless Israel promised to halt settlement
expansion. Before that dispute was resolved, some Israeli
cabinet members said Bush was an anti-Semite and anti-Israel.  Netanyahu said today Israel’s concerns about the nature of
an Iran deal are “shared by many, many in the region, whether
or not they express that publicly.”  The “essence of the concern” is that “America is selling
out too cheaply and it’s giving in, an extremely serious change
in the whole balance of power in the region,” said Jonathan
Rynhold, a researcher at the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic
Studies at  Bar-Ilan University  near Tel Aviv.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Geneva at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  