-- New Zealand Says Regulator Decision Is Threat to Fast Broadband
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-11-08T23:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/new-zealand-says-regulator-decision-is-threat-to-fast-broadband.html
New Zealand ’s government says a
regulator’s decision to cut the cost of existing copper wire-based Internet services by almost a quarter threatens a proposed
fast broadband network.  “If the copper price takes a hit at this level then there
is a real threat that ultrafast broadband won’t get built either
to as many people, or in the time frame we want or possibly even
at all,” Communications Minister  Amy Adams  said in an interview
broadcast on TV3 today.  Shares in Chorus Ltd., the government’s biggest partner in
the NZ$4.5 billion ($3.7 billion) project, slumped 23 percent
since the Commerce Commission’s copper price ruling on Nov. 5.
The company said the resulting drop in revenue will hurt its
ability to fund its share of the fast broadband roll-out and may
put it in default with its bankers.  Adams has ordered an independent assessment of Chorus’s
ability to fulfill its obligations. Once that review is in, the
government will determine its response which may include over-ruling the regulator’s decision, she said.  “We think consumers benefit the most when there are the
right incentives for people to build the most innovative,
leading replacement technology,” Adams said. “Has the Commerce
Commission ended up setting copper prices so low that we can’t
afford to build replacement technology?”  The government would expect Chorus to make its own
adjustments and there may be scope to change the contract with
the government to make it more viable, she said. Seeking a new
partner is less likely because of the disruption to the existing
roll-out, which is in its third year, she said.  Prime Minister John Key’s government is betting fast
broadband will boost economic performance by improving
productivity and allowing new industries to develop.  “We all want prices to be as low as they can, but are we
willing to trade off access to world-leading technology just to
have slightly lower prices on what is an increasingly outdated
network,” Adams said. Consumers “would be unlikely to want to
take a NZ$10 drop if it meant no fiber.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  