-- NFL Bullying Accusation Forces Teams to Look at Own Locker Rooms
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/nfl-bullying-accusation-forces-teams-to-look-at-own-locker-rooms.html
The allegations that Richie Incognito
bullied fellow Miami Dolphins lineman Jonathan Martin have other
National Football League teams taking a closer look at their own
locker rooms.  The case, while still being investigated by the NFL, has
raised the question of what the Dolphins knew about the
situation, and how much players, the coaching staff and
management should actually have known before Martin left the
team and Incognito was indefinitely suspended.  With the season just past the midway point and the chase
for playoff berths entering a key phase, coaches, players and
team front offices find themselves looking inward as well as at
the next opponent. The Dolphins, for example, play the winless
Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the league’s prime-time “Monday Night
Football” telecast on Nov. 11, and coach Joe Philbin has called
that game his focus while answering reporters’ questions almost
exclusively related to the alleged bullying he says he knew
nothing about.  “How the Dolphins could not know what was going on in that
locker room is just startling, on any level,” Richard Lustberg,
founder of the  Psychology of Sports  website, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s management’s responsibility to understand
what’s going on within their company.”  ‘Mind Blowing’  Philbin has said he was unaware about any alleged
harassment until being contacted by Martin’s representatives
after the second-year lineman from Stanford University left the
team on Oct. 28. Quarterback Ryan Tannehill was among the
Dolphins players who told reporters this week that they had no
idea there was conflict within the locker room, with Tannehill
calling the situation “mind-blowing.”  Tom Coughlin of the New York Giants was among coaches to
address their teams this week about the need for respect among
players.  “Vigilance is a key issue there,” said Coughlin, who then
cited a quote from a former U.S. secretary of defense. “I’m
reminded of Donald Rumsfeld when he said, ‘You manage by setting
boundaries with freedom in the middle.’ And the principles, if
you know the quote, are freedom, commitment, trust and teamwork,
but you cannot violate those principles.”  No Timetable  There’s no timetable for the NFL’s investigation, and it’s
unclear exactly what happened involving Martin, 24, a second-round draft pick in 2012, and Incognito, 30, a nine-year NFL
veteran who was kicked off the football team at the University
of  Nebraska  and cut by the St. Louis Rams for issues that
included run-ins with teammates, opposing players and coaches.  ESPN has reported that Incognito asked Martin to contribute
$15,000 last summer to an unofficial team trip to Las Vegas. In 
April, Incognito left him an expletive-filled voice message that
contained a racial slur and threats of physical violence, Martin's 
lawyer David Cornwell said in an e-mailed statement last night.  David Dunn, Incognito’s agent, hasn’t responded to multiple
e-mails and a message left at his office seeking comment on the
ESPN reports.  Former Dolphins offensive lineman Lydon Murtha, who played
with both Incognito and Martin, wrote in a  column  yesterday for
Sports Illustrated that Martin had verbally committed and then
backed out of the Las Vegas trip after it was booked and paid
for -- from hotels and private jet to show tickets. The
veterans, including Incognito, asked that Martin, perceived as
“standoffish and shy” by the rest of the offensive linemen,
pay his share, Murtha said.  Player Support  Other Dolphins players supported Incognito this week, with
Tannehill calling the 2012 Pro Bowl selection the “best
teammate I could ask for.” Tannehill also said Incognito and
Martin were friends who spent time together off the field.  “Does he like to give guys a hard time? Yes. Does he like
to pester guys and have fun? Yes,” Tannehill said of Incognito.
“But he brought a lot of laughter and a lot of cohesiveness. To
be put in a situation where everyone is attacking the locker
room, saying it’s such a bad place, such a bad culture, no
leadership to stand up, that’s not the situation. No one knew
there was a situation to be stopped.”  A key component is the so-called locker room culture, said
former NFL coach Brian Billick.  Under Attack  “You can see from the players, they feel like they’re the
ones under attack right now,” said Billick, who won a Super
Bowl with the Baltimore Ravens and is now an analyst for Fox.
“They’re trying to justify the actions of two of their team
members that interact with one another in a way that, yeah, if
you look at it from the outside, people might question it and
not understand it. That has more to do with their lack of a
filter to understand how a locker room works.”  After Martin left the team, Dolphins General Manager Jeff Ireland received a phone call from one of Martin’s agents, Kenny
Zuckerman, to complain about Incognito’s behavior, according to
NBC Sports’ website Pro Football Talk. Ireland then said that
Martin should physically confront Incognito, Pro Football Talk
said, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.
Zuckerman hasn’t returned messages seeking comment. The Dolphins
said they won’t comment until after the review process  Lustberg, the sports psychologist, said everybody connected
to the Dolphins’ situation shares some fault and that the story
has gone beyond one about sports to a socially charged discourse
about what is and isn’t acceptable within NFL locker rooms.  Misjudged Status  “Jonathan Martin was unable, for whatever reason, to cope
with all this happening to him,” Lustberg said. “In terms of
Richie Incognito, he either misjudged Martin’s mental status or
misjudged how -- if all these texts come out at the end of the
day and you’re not ready to face how it appears, you’re in
trouble. He can say, ‘I didn’t mean it; It wasn’t meant in that
context.’ But once you put it in writing it’s up for scrutiny
and up for discussion.”  Former New York Jets quarterback Boomer Esiason said
yesterday on his daily radio show on WFAN in New York that the
public is mistakenly trying to apply “logical thinking from the
corporate world” to the locker room.  “We’re all kind of jumping to conclusions and I’m guilty
of doing the same thing,” Esiason said. “Nobody is approving
of being a bully, nobody is saying that’s OK, nobody is saying
the language in which Richie Incognito was talking to Jonathan
Martin is OK. But again, I have to understand the context in
which those conversations took place and the conversations
between the two men for the past 18 months.”  Diverse Groups  New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees, in his 13th
professional season, said that all NFL locker rooms have players
with different backgrounds and personalities.  “You will see guys fighting on the field and 30 minutes
later they are in the cafeteria having lunch together,” Brees
told reporters this week. “There is stuff, especially when you
are in a competitive atmosphere, things will happen and if you
just take it out of context it’s hard to understand or grasp.”  The Giants and Seattle Seahawks are among NFL teams that
employ sports psychologists to counsel and interact with
players. After the Miami situation, more clubs may follow suit,
said Greg Dale, a professor of sports psychology and sports
ethics at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina. He also
said in a telephone interview the most significant changes need
to take place within the locker room.  “If coaches aren’t willing to talk more about team culture
and what’s acceptable for us,” Dale said, “then all the
training in the world isn’t going to make a difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  