-- Nine Days Cooking on $90,000 Budget Draw Performa Artist
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/nine-days-cooking-on-90-000-budget-draw-performa-artist.html
Tonight, Indian artist  Subodh Gupta 
will get a taste of marathon cooking as part of his commission
for  Performa 13 ,  New York ’s live art biennial.  Gupta, who turned his love of food into paintings of shiny
pots and pans, will spend nine days preparing traditional Indian
fare at the  Old Bowery Station , a downtown chef incubator.  “I will cook very common food that you don’t find in a
hotel or a restaurant,” said Gupta, 49, in a telephone
interview from his home in New Delhi. “You find this kind of
food in your mother’s home.”  The artist’s paintings have sold at auction for as much as
$1.4 million. His giant skull made from stackable stainless-steel containers has been exhibited by billionaire  Francois Pinault ’s Palazzo Grassi in  Venice .  Titled “Celebration,” Gupta’s project has a budget of
$90,000 and is one of 13 Performa commissions ranging from a
play staged in a bath house to a concert featuring singers on
bikes.  “ Leonardo da Vinci  did performance art and so did
Caravaggio,” said  RoseLee Goldberg , Performa’s founder. “Most
people don’t recognize this history.”  Goldberg raised $2.5 million for this fifth edition of
Performa, which includes more than 100 artists and 48 venues,
ranging from the Brooklyn Academy of Music to a tiny East
Village theater housed in a school for girls from low-income
families.  Baths Theater  Artist Rashid Johnson, known for his conceptual painting
and sculpture, will direct LeRoi Jones’s play “Dutchman” at
the  Russian & Turkish Baths .  Norwegian Tori Wranes, who works with voice and sculpture,
is presenting an event in which a choir of as many 50 people
performs while riding bikes.  Gupta has shipped hundreds of shiny pots and pans from  New
Delhi  to New York to build a chandelier-like installation at the
Old Bowery Station. In the past two years he’s been painting
food he’s eaten -- including the leftovers.  “It’s like writing a diary,” he said. “You are what you
eat.”  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Philip
Boroff on  books .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 