-- No Fracking in Germany for Now Backed in Merkel Coalition
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-11-08T14:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/no-fracking-in-germany-for-now-backed-in-merkel-coalition.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democratic bloc and the  Social Democratic Party  agreed to a
temporary ban on exploring unconventional natural gas reserves
in  Germany  until environmental issues are resolved.  Coalition negotiators decided that hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, using toxic chemicals can’t be done in Germany because
the practice may threaten the quality of the country’s drinking
water, Deputy Environment Minister Katherina Reiche and the
SPD’s Ute Vogt told reporters today in Berlin.  “We have agreed on a moratorium on unconventional
exploration that is to be in place until it’s clear that there
are no health implications,” Vogt said after a meeting of the
negotiating group that’s part of coalition talks between
Merkel’s bloc and the SPD. The agreement requires approval by
party leaders.  Tapping German shale gas has gained importance in the
agenda as industry is forced to pay rising energy costs as a
result of Merkel’s nuclear exit. Fracking typically involves
drilling hundreds of wells and cracking rock with a high-pressure mixture of water, sand and chemicals to unlock gas or
oil.  The possible use of fracking has sparked opposition from
local residents and even German brewers on concern it could
taint the purity of the country’s beer. Merkel’s second-term
coalition partner, the Free Democrats, had opposed a fracking
moratorium, delaying an agreement on the practice until after
the Sept. 22 elections, Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said
in June.  The exploration industry has begun research to stop using
chemicals when fracking and, if successful, the ban may be
lifted, Reiche said. “We expect a technological solution for
this problem,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  