-- North Korea Arrests South Korean Spy in Pyongyang, KCNA Says
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-11-08T02:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/north-korea-arrests-south-korean-spy-in-pyongyang-kcna-says-1-.html
North Korea  said it arrested a South
Korean spy who was trying to foment instability, creating a new
irritant in ties between the two adversaries and drawing a
denial from the South.  The South Korean intelligence agent was detained in the
capital Pyongyang and at first claimed to be Chinese, the state-run Korean  Central News Agency  said yesterday, citing an
unidentified spokesman for the Ministry of State Security. The
North’s claim is groundless, Unification Ministry spokesman Kim
Eui Do said today at a briefing in  Seoul .  The arrest may further sour ties that hit a low in February
when North  Korea  tested its third atomic device and then
threatened nuclear strikes against the U.S. and  South Korea  over
United Nations sanctions. On Nov. 6, North Korea rejected the
idea of a summit after South Korean President Park Geun Hye said
she was willing to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un if it
led to concrete results.  “The fact that North Korea has made the arrest official
means that it could use this case to influence the relations
with South Korea,” Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean
studies at  Dongguk University  in Seoul, said by phone. “Who
this person really is and whether he was really sent by the
South Korean government as a spy would be the key questions to
resolve.”  The North Korean ministry spokesman said that before
entering Pyongyang, the alleged intelligence agent spent nearly
six years spying on the North from a neighboring country while
“disguising himself as a religionist.”  ‘Dishonest Elements’  “He entered the DPRK to rally dishonest elements within
the boundary of the DPRK and use them for undermining the
stability of the social system,”  KCNA  said, referring to the
North’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea.  A growing number of ethnic Koreans and North Korean
defectors in  China  have sold to the media information they
collect on the North near the border, Koh said. “This could be
one of those people,” he said.  The announcement on the detention of the alleged South
Korean spy comes less than two weeks after the North repatriated
six detained South Koreans in a goodwill gesture. The two Koreas
remain technically in conflict after the 1950-53  Korean War 
ended without a formal peace treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  