-- North Dakota Crude Burns in Alabama After Train Derailment
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-11-08T20:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/north-dakota-crude-burns-in-alabama-after-train-derailment.html
A train carrying North Dakota crude
to the  Gulf Coast  derailed in rural Alabama, touching off rail
car fires that will be allowed to burn themselves out.  No injuries were reported in the accident, which took place
in a year in which several crude-oil trains derailed in the U.S.
and Canada, including the accident that set off a deadly blast
in the Quebec town of Lac-Megantic in July. Rail shipments of
domestic oil, particularly North Dakota’s Bakken grade, climbed
in recent years with growing production.  Part of the 90-car, three-locomotive unit train derailed
shortly before 1 a.m. local time,  Michael Williams , a spokesman
for  Genesee & Wyoming Inc. (GWR) , which owns the Alabama & Gulf Coast
Railway, said in a statement on the company’s website today.
Eleven cars were believed to be on fire, and emergency crews
decided to let them burn, the website said.  The train was en route from Amory, Mississippi, to Walnut
Hill, Florida, Genesee & Wyoming said. It was carrying sweet
North Dakota crude, according to Don Hartley, a regional Alabama
emergency management official.  “I would imagine this line is going to be closed for a
couple of days at least,” Hartley said by phone, adding that
some traffic may be re-routed in the interim.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  isn’t sending
investigators,  Kelly Nantel , a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Genesis Terminal  The train was to deliver crude to  Genesis Energy LP (GEL) ’s
terminal in Walnut Hill, said Bob Deere, chief financial
officer. Operations at the terminal won’t be affected because
the company will bring in shipments over other rail lines, he
said by phone from Houston today.  The largest U.S. railroads hauled 93,312 carloads of crude
oil in the third quarter, the most recent period for which
statistics were available, according to the  Association of
American Railroads . That’s an increase of 44.3 percent from the
same period a year before, and a decline of 14.1 percent from
the second quarter, the group said.  The July 6 derailment of a train carrying 72 cars of crude
oil in Lac-Megantic, which killed 47 people, led to increased
scrutiny of the safety of moving crude oil by rail. Regulators
in Canada and the U.S. imposed new requirements, including
stricter labeling rules, and sought to make tank cars less prone
to rupture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  