-- Norway Ready to Cut Budget If Krone Too Strong, Premier Says
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-11-08T15:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/norway-ready-to-cut-budget-if-krone-too-strong-premier-says-1-.html
Norway ’s Prime Minister Erna Solberg
said her government is ready to cut its budget proposal should
the  exchange rate  prove too strong for exporters to stay
competitive.  “If the Norwegian krone starts to appreciate more, we have
to cut back on our budget,” Solberg said today in an interview
in Oslo. “One of the long-term goals of this government is to
make sure there is competitiveness for our non-oil businesses so
they become better. And one of the areas for competitiveness is
investments and the exchange rate.”  Solberg’s government, which took office last month, today
unveiled a set of proposals that targets using more of the
nation’s oil wealth to cover the cost of tax cuts and spending
on infrastructure and education. Use of Norway’s $800 billion
sovereign wealth fund will be equivalent to 5.7 percent of trend
mainland gross domestic product, up from an estimated 5.2
percent for this year, the government said.  Central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen has also deployed
policy to tame the currency. Olsen, in an interview last month,
said the krone played a role in his rate decisions, a stance
that has helped drive down the currency by about 11 percent
against the euro this year.  The krone slumped as much as 1.5 percent against the euro
to 8.2318, the lowest since Oct. 29, 2010. It was down 1.2
percent as of 3:58 p.m. in Oslo. Versus the dollar, it dropped
1.6 percent to 6.1442. It was the biggest loser of the major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Lehman Brothers  Still, since the end of 2008 -- the year  Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc. failed -- Norway’s krone has gained 18 percent
against the euro. The currency remains 28 percent overvalued,
according to a purchasing power gauge compiled by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Solberg said her readiness to adjust the budget goes in
both directions, and that she’ll add to spending if Norway’s
main trading partners don’t recover according to forecasts.  “It will depend quite a lot on what happens in Germany and
 Sweden ,” she said. “Germany and Sweden are our two biggest
export markets for traditional goods.”  Legislators and central bankers in Scandinavia’s richest
economy have struggled to calibrate policy to contain krone
gains without fueling record household debt and property prices.
As the euro area fought through its debt crisis, western
 Europe ’s largest oil exporter emerged as a haven. While that
helped keep unemployment below 4 percent, it also fueled the
risk of overheating.  Solberg’s minority coalition, which ousted a Labor-led
government in September elections, still needs the support of
the two smaller parties to pass its budget proposal.  “I’m sure that they will be tough but I think they will be
manageable,” she said. “The first comments made by Liberals
and  Christian Democrats  have been quite positive toward our
budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  