-- Norway’s New Government to Spend More of Nation’s Oil Wealth
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-11-08T12:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/norway-s-jensen-says-revised-budget-will-be-responsible.html
Norway ’s new government presented a
revised budget that will raise spending of the nation’s oil
wealth to cover tax cuts and boost infrastructure and education.  The government will use 2.9 percent, or 139 billion kroner
($23 billion), of its sovereign wealth fund to plug deficits in
2014. That’s 3.9 billion kroner more than the ousted Labor-led
coalition proposed last month. The use of oil money will amount
to 5.7 percent of trend mainland gross domestic product, up from
an estimated 5.2 percent this year.  “It’s a good budget that is well adapted to the challenges
in Norway’s economy,” Finance Minister Siv Jensen said today.  The government cut forecasts from last month, estimating
that mainland economic growth, which excludes oil and gas
output, will be 2 percent this year and 2.5 percent next year.
The Conservative and Progress Party minority coalition wants to
cut taxes and fees by 4.8 billion kroner next year, including a
reduction in the basic tax rate to 27 percent from 28 percent.  “Growth in the mainland economy seems to have slowed
somewhat this year,” the government said. “The slowdown may
well be temporary, but may also signal that high costs for
businesses and high household debt are becoming a drag on
growth.”  Oil Spending  The stimulus is “adequate,” said Hans Olav Syversen, a
Christian Democrat who heads the finance committee in
parliament. The new government needs the support of his party
and the Liberals to pass the budget.  “We have a revised budget in May,” he said in an
interview at parliament today. “We can look at the developments
in the months ahead and then come back in May to see whether the
right thing to do is to boost spending.”  The Liberals’ Terje Breivik, also a member of the finance
committee, foresees tough negotiations next week before the
budget is approved. Stimulus is “one of the strongest sides of
this budget,” he said.  Norwegian governments have kept oil money spending below
the 4 percent limit of the fund since 2009. Norway places most
of its oil revenue in a fund, which invests abroad to avoid
stoking inflation in the domestic economy. The Government
Pension Fund Global is the world’s largest sovereign wealth
fund. Norway today estimated the fund will grow to 5.34 trillion
kroner at the end of 2014.  No Shift  There has been “no shift to irresponsible spending, but
new direction emphasizing investment,” said Knut Anton Mork,
chief economist in Oslo at Svenska Handelsbanken AB, in a note.
“With the Progress Party in government, even heading the
Ministry of Finance, many have feared a shift away from the
policies of fiscal restraint that were designed for maintaining
the real balance of the sovereign wealth fund.”  Governments have been keeping oil spending in check to
avoid overheating. Norges Bank left its main rate at 1.5 percent
last month and has signaled faster tightening after efforts to
fight back to krone’s appreciation paid off.  The krone slid 0.7 percent to 8.1678 as of 1:35 p.m. in
Oslo.  Should Welcome  Legislators and central bankers have sought to calibrate
policy to avoid spurring krone gains and guarding an economy
where household debt has swelled to a record and housing prices
have soared. As the euro area struggled through its debt crisis,
western Europe’s largest oil exporter emerged as a haven. While
that helped keep unemployment below 4 percent, it also fueled
the risk of overheating.  “The net budget weakening of 3.9 billion kroner is too
small to have much of an impact on the overall balance of the
economy,” said Mork. “Norges Bank should welcome this measure
of stimulus to take some of the heat off the building pressures
to ease as the economy levels out, especially after yesterday’s
ECB cut.”  The minority coalition now needs to negotiate with its
smaller support parties in parliament to pass the budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  