-- Numericable Rises in Market Debut After Raising $875 Million
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-11-08T17:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/numericable-rises-in-trading-debut-after-raising-875-million.html
Numericable SAS (NUM) ,  France ’s largest
cable operator, rose in its trading debut after raising about
652.2 million euros ($875 million) in the country’s biggest
initial public offering in four years.  The  shares climbed  15 percent to 28.50 euros in Paris. They
were priced at 24.80 euros, at the top of the offer range, after
demand outstripped supply by 10 times, Numericable said. The
amount raised could increase to as much as 750 million euros
including a so-called over-allotment option.  The IPO is the largest listing in Paris since December
2009, when automotive distributor CFAO SA raised more than 800
million euros. Numericable, based in Champs-sur-Marne on the
outskirts of French capital, is joining online advertiser Criteo
SA and floor maker Tarkett SA in attempting to list in their
home market and in the U.S. this quarter.  Volumes of IPOs on European exchanges have about doubled to
$24 billion this year as investors resumed buying on
strengthening economies and an easing euro debt crisis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the largest IPO by a U.S. technology company since
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s debut in May 2012, Twitter Inc. yesterday jumped
73 percent in its trading debut in New York after raising $1.82
billion.  Network Building  Numericable, which competes with  Orange SA (ORA)  in selling TV,
phone and faster Internet packages, plans to invest in high-speed fixed networks to tap into rising demand for speedier
Internet connections. Numericable is also betting consumers will
pay more for their monthly fixed subscriptions if their set-top
boxes include extra services such as YouTube and Twitter.  The company had approached Vivendi SA about a potential
merger with its SFR unit, people familiar with the matter told
 Bloomberg News  in January. Concerns over valuation and deal
structure stood in the way of a potential tie-up, they said.  Asked about prospects for consolidation with SFR, Chief
Executive Officer Eric Denoyer said today in an interview that
“there won’t be many fixed networks in France in the end --
probably only two.” Numericable’s IPO valuation “reflects that
potential, taking into account the future value of our
network,” he said.  IPO Proceeds  “We’re building a network and the IPO gives us the means
to do that,” Denoyer said. The company has now gained access to
new means to pay back debt and invest in its networks, he said.  Europe’s cable assets are in demand. Billionaire  John Malone , the biggest U.S. investor in the region’s cable
operators, acquired Virgin Media Inc. this year and has
increased his stake in Dutch provider Ziggo. Vodafone Group Plc
snapped up  Kabel Deutschland  in  Germany . In  Spain , Grupo
Corporativo ONO SA is also considering an IPO.  Numericable’s  network  connects to about 10 million homes in
France, half of which use the faster fiber technology. The
company forecasts revenue growth of 2 percent to 5 percent a
year from 2013 to 2016, with an adjusted margin on earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 50
percent in 2016. Last year, sales shrank 0.3 percent to 1.3
billion euros and the Ebitda margin was 47.6 percent.  Another private equity backed company,  Merlin
Entertainments Group Ltd. (MERL)  in the U.K., gained in London trading
today after raising $1.5 billion in its IPO. Blackstone Group
LP, CVC Capital Partners Ltd. are among its owners. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG managed the share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  