-- Nvidia Rises After Profit Tops Estimates on New Business
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-08T21:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/nvidia-s-third-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-on-new-business.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  rose after the maker of
graphics processors reported fiscal third-quarter profit that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as revenue from new businesses
helped make up for declining personal-computer demand.  Nvidia  shares  rose 7 percent to $15.56 at the close in New
York, after the company released its results yesterday. The
shares have risen 27 percent this year compared with a 24
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang is trying to lessen
Nvidia’s dependence on PCs by getting the company’s products
into new markets, such as handheld gaming devices and servers.
Sales of Tegra, a chip for mobile phones and the basis of
Shield, a portable gaming machine Nvidia is building and selling
itself, helped compensate for weaker sales of chips for laptops.  “We did see a nice bounce back in Tegra,” said Betsy Van Hees, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in San Francisco. She has
the equivalent of a buy  rating  on the stock. “Expectations were
pretty low,” for earnings and forecasts, she said.  Profit before certain costs was 26 cents a share in the
period that ended Oct. 27, the company said in a statement
yesterday. That compared with an average analyst projection of
25 cents. Net income fell to $118.7 million, or 20 cents a
share, from $209.1 million, or 33 cents, a year earlier.  Sales declined 12 percent to $1.05 billion, in line with
analysts’ estimates.  Fourth-Quarter Outlook  Nvidia’s plans for Tegra go beyond phones and the processor
range will continue to appear in new tablets, computers,
vehicles and other devices, said Huang.  “We had anticipated a rebound for the year starting this
quarter and it’s pretty much on track,” he said in a phone
interview. “Tegra is more than about phones.”  Revenue will be $1.05 billion, plus or minus 2 percent, in
the fiscal fourth quarter ending in January, the Santa Clara,
California-based company said in the statement. That indicates
sales of $1.03 billion to $1.07 billion, lower than the  average 
analyst estimate of $1.08 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting production costs, will be 54.2 percent in the fiscal
fourth quarter, Nvidia said.  The company said it is increasing its quarterly  dividend 
payment to 8.5 cents a share from 7.5 cents, and added $1
billion to its stock repurchase program. It has a total of $1.29
billion available for buying its own shares before January 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  