-- NYSE Proposes One-Year Pilot Program for Larger Stock Trades
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-11-08T21:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/nyse-proposes-one-year-pilot-program-for-larger-stock-trades.html
The  New York  Stock Exchange has asked
regulators to approve a plan aimed at luring investors seeking
to trade in bulk -- lots of 500 shares or more.  NYSE Euronext said in a  filing  yesterday that it wants to
start a one-year pilot for a new class of order types using
minimum share sizes. Requests to buy and sell stock under the
program would be hidden, a characteristic borrowed from dark
pools that is designed to keep rivals from front-running orders.  NYSE’s market share has fallen as trading platforms
multiplied. In particular, the exchange operator has seen volume
move to venues at broker-dealer firms, many of which are dark
pools. Earlier this year, executives from  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. and Bats Global Markets Inc. met with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to raise the issue. They
argued that off-exchange trading, which accounts for close to 40
percent of daily volume according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
widens spreads and increases volatility.  “This offers for the first time in an exchange environment
the ability for institutional block-type liquidity to trade with
orders of similar characteristics,” Joe Mecane, head of U.S.
equities at NYSE Euronext, said in a phone interview.  Order types  The U.S. stock market is fragmentated across more than 50
venues. An SEC study published in October found that the average
order size in dark pools is similar to that seen on exchanges,
fewer than 400 shares per order and 232 shares for each trade.  The proposal has two order types, an Institutional
Liquidity Order that would be for 5,000 or more shares with
$50,000 or more market value, and an Oversize Liquidity Order,
which would be orders of at least 500 shares that want to trade
with the larger request. The orders will be ranked and allocated
according to price then size then time of entry into NYSE’s
systems, said the filing.  “The program has the potential to attract additional
institutional and block trading interest to the exchange
environment, and thereby improve transparency of access
arrangements, priority and allocation, and fees,” NYSE said in
the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  