-- Obama Said to Back Democrat Push for $10.10 Minimum-Wage
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/obama-said-to-back-democrat-push-for-10-10-minimum-wage.html
President  Barack Obama  supports an
effort by congressional Democrats to raise the federal  minimum
wage  to about $10 an hour, higher than the rate he called for
earlier this year, according to a White House official.  Proposals from House and  Senate Democrats  would boost the
rate to $10.10 over two years, up from the current $7.25 an hour
and more than the $9 proposed by Obama in his February State of
the Union speech. The president backs the increase as a way to
help working families, according to the official, who described
Obama’s support yesterday on condition of not being identified.  While Democrats, who control the Senate, overwhelmingly
favor the change, it stands little chance of passing in the
Republican-led House of Representatives, said Democratic Senator
 Richard Durbin  of Illinois. That’s because House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, opposes such efforts, he said.  “It’s going to that same room, that little dark room,
where Boehner puts all of the bipartisan measures out of the
Senate,” Durbin told reporters yesterday after a meeting of
Senate Democrats. In a politically divided Congress, the House
and Senate have refused to take up certain bills approved in the
other chamber.  An increase to $10.10 an hour is in measures proposed
earlier this year by Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa and
Representative  George Miller  of California, both Democrats.
Senate Democrats are packing the legislative calendar this month
with bills that appeal to the party’s core supporters, which
includes unions, proponents of boosting workers’ hourly pay.  Labor Support  The wage legislation and a bill passed yesterday by the
Senate to bar employment discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation have strong support from the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest labor group and a top contributor to Democratic Senate
campaigns.  Democrats are defending 21 Senate seats in 2014, compared
with 14 for Republicans, who need at least a six-seat net pickup
to gain a majority in the chamber for the first time in eight
years. Labor political action committees have given 87 percent
of their $12.1 million in contributions for the 2014 elections
to Democrats, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group that tracks campaign giving.  Max Gleischman , a spokesman for Durbin, said that Democrats
attending yesterday’s meeting heard from  Jason Furman , Obama’s
economic adviser; Larry Mishel, president of the Economic Policy
Institute; John Arensmeyer, chief executive officer of the Small
Business Majority; and Adam Looney, a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington.  Raising the minimum wage is “an important economic issue”
that sends “a message to working families struggling paycheck
to paycheck that we can help them,” said Durbin, the chamber’s
No. 2 Democrat.  The Senate bill is S.460 and the House bill is H.R.1010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  