-- Mol Raises Stakes in Croatia Talks by Preparing INA Sale
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-11-08T19:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/mol-raises-stakes-in-croatia-talks-by-preparing-ina-sale.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest refiner,
said it will prepare the sale of its INA Industrija Nafte d.d.
unit after talks stalled with the Croatian government over
management rights in the company.  Mol’s board of directors authorized management to “start
the preparations for the sale of Mol’s stake in INA,” the
Budapest-based company said in a statement to the Budapest
bourse today. It also authorized it to conclude an agreement
with  Croatia  “that can lead to value creation through the
execution of INA’s growth strategy.”  Mol’s Chief Executive Officer  Zsolt Hernadi  is wanted by
Interpol and sheltered by his home country after Croatia issued
an arrest warrant as part of a bribery probe into the deal that
gave Mol INA’s management rights in 2009. Mol denied any
wrongdoing and said Oct. 3 that it would reconsider the
“nature” of its involvement in INA.  “It is clear that the frame for negotiations has
changed,” the Croatian government said in an e-mailed statement
after Mol’s comment. The government will do “everything it can
to preserve INA as a regional energy leader, and to safeguard
the interests of the company, its employees and the country’s
energy security,” Croatia’s Economy Ministry said separately in
an e-mail.  Mol’s shares declined 0.3 percent at the close in Budapest,
extending this year’s slump to more than 17 percent.  INA  gained
1 percent to pare its drop this year to 1 percent.  There are still “significant differences” between the
negotiating parties, Mol’s chief negotiator Jozsef Molnar told
reporters in Zagreb today after the latest round of talks.
Croatia suggests a “new model” of corporate management for
INA, Croatia’s Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak said after the
talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  