-- Holder’s Credit Grab at JPMorgan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-11-08T00:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/holder-s-credit-grab-at-jpmorgan.html
These are confusing times to be a
consumer of financial journalism. Sometimes it seems as if
everyone in the business world is trying to inflate their
numbers, especially the cops.  It has been about three weeks since news first broke that
government lawyers had reached a civil settlement with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  with a price tag of $13 billion. We haven’t seen the
paperwork, because the terms aren’t final. Yet it’s obvious from
the many  leaks  to the  news media  that the Justice Department is
trying to grab credit for the full amount. And often a couple of
 key  facts  keep  getting left out of the coverage: The deal
includes several state and federal agencies. And the Justice
Department’s piece would be much less than $13 billion.  At least $4 billion had little if anything to do with the
Justice Department. That’s how much JPMorgan  agreed  to pay
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to resolve a 2011 lawsuit filed by
their government conservator, the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , in a settlement disclosed Oct. 25. Of course, it’s easy
to see why the Justice Department wants to include this $4
billion: to make its own headline number look bigger.  Deal-padding has become standard practice for the
government when parading white-collar scofflaws. This week,
federal prosecutors in  New York  unveiled a guilty-plea  agreement 
with SAC Capital Advisors LP that included $1.8 billion in
penalties. The firm won’t pay that much, though. U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara’s office gave  Steven A. Cohen ’s hedge fund a $616
million credit for a settlement it reached in March with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Prosecutors could have
skipped the complexities and called this a $1.2 billion penalty.
But $1.8 billion is more, which explains why they went with
that.  More Cooking  Similarly, as Los Angeles Times columnist Michael Hiltzik
has  pointed out , the $25 billion headline number on last year’s
national mortgage settlement between large banks and federal and
state regulators was a farce. Only $5 billion was cash. The rest
was credits that the banks got for modifying underwater  mortgage
loans , which probably was in their interest to do anyway.  Sometimes the inflation is less obvious. At a media event
last year, the Justice Department said 530 defendants had been
charged criminally as part of a yearlong initiative on  mortgage
fraud . In August, long after being called out by Bloomberg News
reporters who figured out that number was bogus, the department
 admitted  the actual figure was 107, or 80 percent less.  In an amusing twist, the Justice Department’s attempt to
claim credit for all $13 billion from JPMorgan has sparked a
needless backlash against the department itself. Several news
outlets have  noted  that a big chunk would be tax-deductible for
JPMorgan. This has sent a bunch of politicians into a tizzy.  On Oct. 29, five U.S. senators, including Massachusetts
Democrat  Elizabeth Warren , wrote a  letter  to U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder saying they “are troubled by the numerous
media reports that indicate the settlement being negotiated may
allow JPMorgan Chase to claim a tax deduction for as much as $4
billion, or roughly 30 percent of the settlement amount.” They
complained that it would, “in effect, shift part of the
settlement cost from JPMorgan Chase onto Main Street taxpayers”
and urged Holder “to prevent this from happening.”  Judging by what they wrote, it seems that it hadn’t dawned
on the senators that the $4 billion represented the amount that
JPMorgan is paying under its agreement with the Federal Housing
Finance Agency. Nor should it  shock  anyone that this money would
be a deductible expense: The 2011 lawsuit by the housing-finance
agency wasn’t a  law-enforcement  matter; it was a business
dispute. Nothing more.  Creative Accounting  The agency sued JPMorgan in its capacity as conservator for
Fannie and Freddie, claiming that mortgage bonds they bought
from JPMorgan before the financial crisis weren’t as advertised.
For these purposes, the agency was an ordinary plaintiff suing
for damages. It hired an outside  law firm  to litigate the case.
And when the parties settled, they stipulated that the agreement
didn’t constitute an admission by JPMorgan “of any liability or
wrongdoing whatsoever.”  The  Justice Department  never should have included the $4
billion in its own leaked settlement figure. But because it did,
some people concluded that the whole $13 billion was related to
law enforcement.  The housing-finance agency has reached similar settlements
with several other large banks. It even let some of them,
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , keep their
 settlement  terms  confidential . Those banks, too, will get to
claim tax deductions. But you don’t see prominent lawmakers
firing off letters to Holder complaining about the deals with
Citigroup or Wells Fargo -- because the Justice Department isn’t
trying to take credit for them and the details aren’t public.  Many investors have come to expect creative accounting
nonsense from big corporations trying to make their results look
better. But the public should demand better from the Justice
Department. When prosecutors put out misleading numbers, they
undermine the government’s moral authority to enforce the law.
Here’s a simple request for Holder: Please stop.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 