-- London’s Second Female Lord Mayor Says Banks Must Regain Trust
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-11-08T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/london-s-second-female-lord-mayor-says-banks-must-regain-trust.html
Fiona Woolf, the second woman to head
the  City of London  in 800 years, said bankers in her district
must keep working to regain the public’s trust and backed the
 Bank of England ’s latest move to support lenders.  “If you are in a role that is promoting London and the
whole of the U.K. services sector, it makes it much more
difficult to promote it when there are these reputational issues
hanging over us,” Woolf said in an interview at London’s
Guildhall. “I’m hoping to be able to say that we are well
regulated. You can only earn trust. You can’t buy it.”  Woolf, 65, who starts as the 686th  Lord Mayor  today, will
oversee about 3,500 staff that manage the British capital’s
historic core and promote the financial-services companies based
in the Square Mile. The City is also home to the Bank of
 England , whose governor,  Mark Carney , last month unveiled an
overhaul giving banks cheaper liquidity insurance and letting
them use a broader range of collateral to access money.  “It’s a very open and pragmatic way for the BOE to provide
finance,” Woolf said. “It sounds like a nicely balanced
approach. The banks have to be able to do business, and
liquidity in the market is important.”  Woolf, who qualified as a solicitor in 1973, follows in the
footsteps of Mary Donaldson, who became the first female Lord
Mayor in 1983.  Financial Ambassador  As Lord Mayor, Woolf assumes a year-long ambassadorial role
representing financial and business-services firms after serving
as an alderman and City Sherriff. She replaced Roger Gifford, a
former chairman of the Association of Foreign Banks in London.
The post is separate from that of London Mayor  Boris Johnson ,
who represents 8 million people and is directly elected by
voters in all of the city’s boroughs.  The Lord Mayor is selected by livery companies, which
represent groups of workers, from among aldermen elected by both
local businesses and about 8,000 residents of the City, where
the Romans founded London about 2,000 years ago. Woolf’s
predecessors as Lord Mayor include the 15th century
philanthropist who inspired the children’s story of “Dick
Whittington and his Cat,” in which a poor boy in medieval
England traded his cat for a fortune in gold and jewels.  About six years after the financial crisis began, British
banks’  shares are recovering,  though they’ve faced fines for
scandals involving the manipulation of the Libor interest-rate
benchmark, mis-sold insurance and probes into possible
misconduct in the  currency market .  ‘Banker Bashing’  London is home to about 251 foreign banks, and sees around
$1.9 trillion in foreign exchange turnover each day, or more
than a third of global market share, according to the City of
London’s website. The U.K. is also the second largest fund-management center, providing employment to about 60,000 people.  Carney’s latest effort to support lenders follows the Bank
of England’s resumption of bank supervision after a 16-year
break. The former Financial Services Authority was criticized
for missing early signs of the crisis that led to the state
takeovers of lenders including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
and Northern Rock Plc.  “The tempo and volume of banker bashing has abated, and
people are looking to the future rather than past,” Woolf said.
“How long can you pore over the coals of 2008? The regulatory
regime has been transformed. That’s certainly getting
everybody’s attention. There is a lot going on in terms of
training for ethical standards for banks.”  Barclays Plc, Britain’s second-largest bank, has replaced
its management team after it was fined 290 million pounds ($466
million) in June last year for rigging the London interbank
offered rate. Banks and politicians also face calls to rein in
compensation and tighten up a light-touch regulatory system.  Hiring Women  Woolf was law firm  CMS Cameron McKenna ’s first female
partner in 1981, and has advised over 28 governments and the
 World Bank  on privatization and energy reforms. She’s married to
Nicholas Woolf, a former tax partner at  Arthur Andersen  who now
spends his time between health-care charities.  Woolf said one of her priorities is to encourage firms in
the City to hire more women and people from minority
backgrounds. The U.K. Office for National Statistics published
figures last week showing that for every 158 males entering the
City for work daily, only 100 females do the same.  Banking also lags other industries in the number of board
positions held by women, according to data compiled by
recruitment firm Egon Zehnder International. Women make up about
19 percent of European bank boards, compared with 33 percent in
the household-products industry, which has the highest level of
female representation, the data show.  “The perception of the City as a place to work from a
diversity perspective is quite negative,” Woolf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  