-- Hong Kong Refused TV Licence to Applicant OKed by Regulator
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-11-09T07:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/hong-kong-regulator-recommended-approval-of-all-tv-license-bids.html
Hong Kong’s broadcasting regulator
said it recommended the approval of all three applications for
new free TV licenses, including the one rejected by city Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying.  Hong Kong Television Network Ltd. (1137) ,  PCCW Ltd. (8)  and  i-Cable
Communications Ltd.  all met financial, technical and managerial
criteria, according to a  letter and document  dated Nov. 7 from
Hong Kong’s Communications Authority to legislators. The missive
followed Leung and his cabinet’s rejection of H.K. TV Network’s
bid last month, when they gave licenses to the other two
broadcasters.  “The Authority considered it best in the public interest
to recommend the grant of licenses to those which met the
relevant requirements,” according to the document.  “On the
whole, the Authority considered that all three applicants had
demonstrated their compliance.” Ranking the applications wasn’t
“necessary or appropriate,” it said.  Tens of thousands marched in protest last month against
Leung’s decision, pushing his popularity to near-record lows.
The outcry over the licenses, the first granted in almost four
decades, highlights the demand for choice in a market dominated
by  Television Broadcasts Ltd. (511)  and concerns that Hong Kong’s
policies lack accountability. Legislators on Nov. 7 voted
against conducting an inquiry into the decision.  ‘Very Unusual’    “It is very unusual for the government and the Executive
Council to make a decision without taking into account an
industry regulator’s recommendation,” Albert Chan Wai Yip, a
lawmaker from the People Power party, said by phone today. “I
have never seen this happen in other industries such as
telecommunications and ports.”  Chan said there may be political considerations in the
licensing decision and the Legislative Council will continue
follow up the situation.  The Executive Council may have abused its power on the
licensing decision, Civic Party legislator Dennis Kwok said
today. The Legco panel on Information Technology and
Broadcasting plans to invite Communications Authority Chairman
Ambrose Ho to elaborate further on its recommendations, Kwok
said in a phone interview.  Four phone calls to the Commerce and Economic Development
Bureau, which oversees the TV licensing issues, seeking comments
about the broadcasting regulator’s recommendations went
unanswered today.  Waning Support  Leung has struggled to gain broad public support since
taking office in July last year, when he defeated front-runner
Henry Tang, who had the support of tycoons including Asia’s
richest man  Li Ka-shing . Opposition lawmakers have since sought
to pass votes of no confidence against Leung for his missteps.  Public discontent in Hong Kong has soared in the past four
years as  home prices  doubled to a record, and Asia’s worst
wealth gap widened. While Leung has raised minimum wages,
increased spending on the elderly, and imposed property curbs,
opposition lawmakers have criticized him for a lack of integrity
and transparency.  The city said earlier this month that a consultant’s report
showed Hong Kong’s free-to-air television market is unable to
support five operators. Applicants were assessed based on their
financial soundness, investment plans, and technical and program
content, it said.  Television Broadcasts’ flagship channel has a 93 percent
audience share during prime time on weekdays, according to its
2012 interim report. Asia Television Ltd. is the city’s other
incumbent free-to-air broadcaster.  Hong Kong Television, founded by Ricky Wong, said it would
cut about 320 jobs after the application was rejected, spurring
workers to organize protests against the the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  