-- Thor Hammers Dark Elves; ‘Thief’ Twists Nazi Story: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/thor-hammers-dark-elves-thief-twists-nazi-story-film.html
There’s something disquieting (to put
it politely) about movies that sentimentalize Nazi  Germany ,
reassuring the audience that good people sternly disapproved of
Hitler and cared about the fate of the Jews.  “ The Book Thief ,” directed by Brian Percival from Markus
Zusak’s popular 2005 novel, tells the sad but comforting story
of little Liesel (Sophie Nelisse), whose persecuted communist
mother has to give her up.  She’s adopted by an adorably aging couple: an old softy
(Geoffrey Rush) who plays the accordion during air raids and his
mean-mouthed but big-hearted wife (Emily Watson).  They hide a Jew (Ben Schnetzer) in their basement and
generally do the kind of decent things we would all like to
think we’d have done in their situation.  The nostalgic art direction appears to be the work of
lunatics. Swastika flags wave gaily above sparkling
cobblestones; the book burnings are so golden-hued and
picturesque that you could almost wish you’d been there.  The movie, like the book, is narrated by Death, and if
Death speaks this platitudinously, then it truly is something to
fear. As if another layer of schmaltz were needed, the music is
by John Williams.  “The Book Thief,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing in
New York and Los Angeles. Rating: * (Seligman)  ‘Dark World’  Marvel Studios hammers out yet another semi-leaden bit of
comic-book bombast with “ Thor: The Dark World .”  It’s the second big-budget blast of CGI devoted to the
franchise’s goofiest superhero.  Chris Hemsworth, with a torso more impressive than all the
FX in Hollywood, returns as the golden-tressed, mallet-tossing
Norse god, this time doing battle with both his nasty adopted
brother Loki (Tom Hiddleston) and a resurrected race of evil-doers called Dark Elves.  Like Kenneth Branagh’s 2011  original , director Alan
Taylor’s sequel mixes hifalutin Tolkien density (“I am Odin,
King of Asgard, Protector of the Nine Realms!”) with gods-among-us gags (Thor rides the London tube).  After a small universe of Marvel crossover films (Thor and
Loki were last seen in 2012’s “ The Avengers ” and this film’s
best bit involves a fellow franchisee’s surprise cameo), the
series is feeling as uninspired as Natalie Portman’s dozy
performance.  Red Plasma  The “ Black Swan ” actress plays astrophysicist (uh-huh)
Jane Foster, Thor’s star-crossed human crush, who gets infected
with a long-buried, universe-destroying red plasma substance
called The Aether.  As the nine realms of the world are about to undergo a
mega-rare Convergence, ancient Borg-like Dark Elves scheme to
snatch The Aether and suck all the realms into a black hole, I
think.  Director Taylor has said he and production designer Charles
Wood desired a realistic look, but the locales of 3-D “Thor”
seem more illustrated than constructed. The Asgard skyline of
Thor’s amber-hued home planet is no more convincing than Emerald
City spotted across the poppy field.  The film’s most impressive trick is its realm-hopping
battles, with digitally created warriors of various breeds
careening, mid-fight, from Earth to Asgard and back again.  The slithery Hiddleston, his lanky black hair pulled from a
pasty face, once again steals the show, while an eye-patched
Anthony Hopkins gnaws the galactic scenery as top god Odin.  Hipster Persona  Here on Earth, the do-gooders are less interesting,
particularly Portman’s one-joke brainiac (she’s a face-slapper).
Kat Dennings invades the realm with her grating “ 2 Broke
Girls ” hipster persona.  A mid-credits coda (keep your seats, fanboys) sets up the
inevitable third “Thor,” and reveals a character (and actor)
that might freshen a franchise that could use it.  “Thor: The Dark World,” from Walt Disney Pictures, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  (Greg Evans and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 