-- Orange-Juice Futures Surge Most in Eight Months on Crop Disease
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-11-08T19:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/orange-juice-futures-surge-most-in-eight-months-on-crop-disease.html
Orange-juice futures jumped the most
in eight months after the U.S. government said that  Florida ’s
crop, the world’s second-biggest, will shrink 6.4 percent to the
smallest since 1990 after a crop disease damaged groves.  In the season that started Oct. 1, the state’s output may
drop to 125 million boxes from 133.6 million a year earlier, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said today in a  report . Freezing
weather damaged the crop in 1990, the agency said. A box weighs
90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  “The estimate is a very bullish number,” Fain Shaffer,
the president of Indianapolis-based Infinity Trading Corp., said
in an e-mail. “We thought the yields would fall, but not by 8
million boxes. We are recommending to buy orange juice for our
clients.”  Orange juice for January delivery climbed 5.3 percent to
settle at $1.315 a pound at 1:49 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the biggest gain for a most-active contract since March 8.
Earlier, the price reached $1.3195, the highest since Oct. 1.  Trading was 80 percent above the 100-day average for this
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The commodity has
advanced 12 percent this year.  Temperatures in Florida’s groves may drop as low a 41
degrees Fahrenheit (5 Celsius) on Nov. 14, or more than 10
degrees below normal lows for this time of year,  Anthony
Chipriano , a meteorologist at MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said today in a telephone interview.  ‘Weather Risk’  The USDA estimate “is a really small number, and now we
have greater weather risk,” Sterling Smith, a futures
specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in an e-mail.  Yields for frozen concentrated orange juice will average
1.6 gallons per box, up from 1.59 gallons a year earlier, the
USDA said.  “We may see this number continue to drop through the end
of the year,” Shaffer of Infinity Trading said.  In the previous harvest, drier-than-normal conditions
exacerbated the effects of  greening , a bacterial disease that
starves a tree of nutrients, causing fruit to shrink and drop
prematurely.  Brazil  is the top citrus producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  