-- Osborne Risks ‘Botched Job’ With U.K. Bank Bill: Lawmaker
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-11-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/osborne-risks-botched-job-with-u-k-bank-bill-lawmaker.html
The U.K. government risks making a
“botched job” of banking reform by trying to speed up passage
of a bill setting new standards for the industry, said  Andrew Tyrie , the chairman of Parliament’s Treasury Committee.  A government move this week to accelerate the legislation’s
passage through the upper chamber of Parliament, the House of
Lords, won’t leave lawmakers time to consider amendments that
have seen the bill swell to 160 pages from its original 35,
Tyrie said in an interview in London yesterday.  The amendments include changes made after a Banking
Commission made up of members of both chambers of Parliament
reported in June. That panel, which was also headed by Tyrie,
was established by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
last year in the wake of a series of banking scandals from the
2008 bailout of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  to the rigging
of Libor. It advocated delays of as long as a decade on bonus
payouts and making the reckless management of lenders a crime.  “This legislation is being rushed,” Tyrie, a Conservative
Party lawmaker like Osborne, said in an interview in his office
in Parliament. “It’s hugely complex: Amendments piled on
amendments piled on amendments. We must get this bill right, and
the Lords need more time to do it.”  Banking Commission members are concerned that even in areas
where the government has said it supports their recommendations,
the implementation in the bill may not be correct, according to
Tyrie.  Firewall Plan  Elements of the bill diluted by government amendments
include a proposal to allow regulators to split up banks that
try and breach a firewall between banks’ consumer and investment
operations.  The panel’s recommendation that licenses be introduced for
bankers isn’t currently mentioned in the bill.  Commission recommendations rejected by the government
include the introduction of a statutory remuneration code to
better align risk and reward, giving power to the regulator to
subject banks to special measures if failings are highlighted,
and a review of proprietary trading.  “The government will not only be betraying their promise
when they established the commission, but it will be seen and
disowned by members of the commission for indulging in cynical,
low, political-level, sharp practice,” John McFall, a Labour
member of the House of Lords who sat on the commission, said in
reaction to the proposal on Nov. 6.  “The bill would be a botched job, were we not to take the
time to get it right,” Tyrie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  