-- OSX Bonds Backed by $800 Million Ship Rally Before Bankruptcy
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-11-08T19:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/osx-bonds-backed-by-800-million-ship-rally-before-bankruptcy.html
Secured bonds sold by former
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s shipbuilder OSX Brasil SA are trading
at a two-month high before a bankruptcy filing that may come as
soon as today.  The company’s $500 million of debt due in 2015 has climbed
10 cents to 83 cents on the dollar over the past month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities are
backed by the $800 million OSX-3 floating production, storage
and offloading vessel that was intended to be leased to bankrupt
sister company OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA to pump oil
off the coast of  Brazil .  OSX’s leasing unit, through which the company owns the
OSX-3, won’t be part of the judicial recovery petition expected
to be filed today in a Rio de Janeiro court, according to two
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because decisions haven’t been made public. While OSX’s notes
are among the worst-performing secured debt in  emerging markets 
this year, they have avoided the rout that has wiped out almost
all other securities issued by Batista’s companies.  “If the entity that owns the vessel isn’t going to file,
is not going to go through the bankruptcy, it means they
probably don’t have any intent to default,” Revisson Bonfim, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “Defaulting on unsecured debt is one
thing. Defaulting on secured debt where creditors have liens,
that’s completely different.”  OSX’s shares have tumbled 95 percent this year to 54
centavos, according to data compiled Bloomberg.  Shielding Creditors  The collateral backing the bonds has also shielded the
company’s creditors from losses suffered by OGX bondholders.
OGX’s $2.56 billion of defaulted notes due 2018 have plunged 81
cents this year to 9.5 cents on the dollar.  OSX creditors have hired AlixPartners LLP to work alongside
legal adviser Bingham McCutchen LLP to advise on a possible
restructuring, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  “It’s an asset that cost close to $1 billion, and it’s
backing $500 million of bonds,” Bonfim said. “It’d be hard not
to get that value back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  