-- Pennsylvania’s Scranton Risks Default on Gap, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-11-08T19:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/pennsylvania-s-scranton-risks-default-on-gap-moody-s-says-1-.html
Scranton,  Pennsylvania ’s sixth-most
populous city, risks defaulting on its obligations if it can’t
close a $20 million budget gap for next year, Moody’s Investors
Service said.  The city of about 76,000 residents faces a Nov. 15 deadline
to introduce a spending plan for the year beginning Jan. 1.
Without closing that shortfall, Janney Montgomery Scott and
Amalgamated Bank will probably withdraw from planned financing
that would give the municipality positive operating cash flow,
Moody’s said in a report today.  Without that funding, “the resulting liquidity squeeze
would leave the city with few options to meet its financial
obligations, raising the threat of default or bankruptcy,”
Michael D’Arcy, a Moody’s analyst, wrote.  Scranton, about 120 miles (193 kilometers) northwest of  New
York , faced a similar issue in June 2012 when city council
refused to pay almost $1 million on parking-authority bonds,
causing the agency to default. The debt was guaranteed by the
city. Another crisis “could have more severe effects,” Moody’s
said.  The city, which is in Pennsylvania’s program for distressed
localities, has $195 million of long-term debt, including about
$77 million of fixed-rate general obligations and $49.5 million
of the guaranteed parking securities, according to Moody’s.  Scranton unlimited-tax general-obligation bonds maturing in
September 2028 traded Nov. 4 at an average yield of 6.14
percent, or 2.76 percentage points more than benchmark munis,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the widest spread since
Sept. 19.  Delayed Statements  The city said in a filing last month that it failed to
submit its audited financial statements for last year. It said
in September the documents would be done by the end of October.
It now projects they’ll be completed by Nov. 30.  Janney was scheduled to underwrite a Scranton bond sale
this year that was subsequently delayed, and has made its
participation contingent on a balanced 2014 budget, according to
Moody’s. Amalgamated is the only bidder for a note sale
scheduled for January, the ratings company said.  A voice-mail left with Scranton’s business administration
department wasn’t immediately returned.  Keith Pilkington, a spokesman for New York-based
Amalgamated, didn’t immediately return an e-mail requesting
comment on the report. A voice-mail left with the marketing
services department at Philadelphia-based Janney wasn’t
returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  