-- Philippine Five-Year Bonds Gain This Week on Deposits Shift
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-11-08T08:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/philippine-five-year-bonds-gain-this-week-on-deposits-shift.html
Philippine five-year bonds had their
biggest weekly gain since July on speculation funds being
withdrawn from the central bank’s special-deposit accounts are
being invested in sovereign debt.  The monetary authority said in May that individuals,
although not companies, have until the end of November to
withdraw all of their money from its SDAs. Total deposits in the
accounts stood at 1.59 trillion pesos ($37 billion) as of Oct.
11. Government borrowing costs plunged to record lows at the
monthly bill auction on Nov. 4, with the three- and six-month
securities fetching an average yield of 0.001 percent.  “For the past week, we saw good volume across the yield
curve,” said Jill Singian, a trader in  Manila  at Bank of the
Philippine Islands. “A lot of onshore players are trying to
pick up some yield because the front-end of the curve has zero
yield. Liquidity is really there.”  The yield on the government’s 5 percent notes due August
2018 dropped 29 basis points this week to 2.97 percent, the
biggest decline since the period ended July 19, according to
noon fixing prices from the Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.
The rate fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, today.  The nation’s financial markets opened today even as Super
Typhoon Haiyan slammed into the country.  T-Bill Inflows  The T-bill auction attracted bids totaling 92 billion pesos
for the 17.4 billion pesos of securities that were sold.
Overseas investors are flocking to Philippine shorter-dated
bills on the view the peso will appreciate, Treasurer Rosalia de
Leon told reporters in Manila after the auction.  Remittances typically rise in the fourth quarter when
Filipinos living abroad send more money home for the Christmas
holidays. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is watching capital flows,
Governor Amando Tetangco told Bloomberg Television on Oct. 25.  “If the BSP doesn’t start to tighten monetary policy soon
there’s a danger of the economy overheating,” said Mirza Baig,
Singapore-based head of currency and rates strategy at BNP
Paribas SA. The central bank could take measures including
tolerating peso appreciation, he said.  The peso gained 0.1 percent this week and today to 43.188
per dollar in Manila, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. The
currency touched 43 on Oct. 31, the strongest level since June.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, increased 13 basis
point to 5.62 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  