-- Pimco Loses $39 Billion to Client Withdrawals in Quarter
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-11-08T17:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/pimco-loses-39-billion-to-client-withdrawals-in-quarter.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s largest fixed-income manager, had $39 billion in net
redemptions during the third quarter as investors fled bonds in
anticipation of rising interest rates.  Allianz SE (ALV) , the Munich-based insurer that owns Pimco, said
that its other asset-management unit Allianz Global Investors
had net deposits of $1.3 billion in the quarter. Pimco’s share
of Allianz’s money-management assets fell by 2 percentage points
this year to 84 percent as of Sept. 30, while the AGI unit’s
share rose by 1.5 percentage points to 14 percent, according to
a statement today announcing  third-quarter earnings.   Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress in
May that the central bank may pull back its unprecedented
stimulus, prompting investors to flee bond offerings that buy
traditional assets such as Treasuries, corporate bonds and
mortgages, while putting money into strategies that would shield
them from rising interest rates.  “While core bond categories have experienced outflows
industrywide, we have continued to see inflows into our absolute
return and unconstrained strategies,” Mark Porterfield, a
spokesman for Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, said in an
e-mailed statement. Pimco had $1.97 trillion in assets under
management as of Sept. 30.  Pimco’s largest fund,  Bill Gross ’s  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , lost
its title as the world’s biggest mutual fund after shrinking to
$248 billion following $33.2 billion in estimated redemptions
this year through October, according to research firm
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Investors have pulled money from its U.S.
mutual funds every month since June, totaling $44 billion, based
on Morningstar estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  