-- Pimco Said to Wager $10 Billion in Default Swaps: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-11-08T16:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/pimco-said-to-wager-10-billion-in-default-swaps-credit-markets.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. is
wagering at least $10 billion in the credit-default swaps market
that U.S. corporate bonds will gain as the  Federal Reserve 
extends unprecedented stimulus into 2014, according to traders
and investors.  The manager of the world’s biggest bond fund amassed the
positions by creating swaps tied to the Markit CDX North
American Investment Grade Index, which contains 125 companies
from Ford Motor Co. to Staples Inc., according to five people at
hedge funds and banks who asked not to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to discuss the trades. Investment firms
and other non-dealers held a total of $39 billion in net wagers
in the index as of last week, industry data show.  Pimco is using derivatives that are quicker, easier and
cheaper to trade than the bonds they’re tied to after
redemptions and losses shrunk its $248 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) 
by 15 percent in six months, ending its five-year reign as the
world’s biggest mutual fund. Swaps allow investors to wager on
the health of U.S. companies even as dealer debt inventories
shrink and a potential Fed bond-buying pullback prompts
investors to withdraw cash from bonds paying record-low yields.  ‘Perfect Way’  “That’s a perfect way to play it,”  Jeffrey Sherman , a
 money manager  who helps oversee $53 billion at DoubleLine
Capital LP in  Los Angeles , said in a telephone interview.
“There’s much more liquidity in the synthetic market. It’s also
a levered play, so you don’t have to put up as much capital to
do the trade.”  In the credit-default swaps trades, Pimco receives annual
premiums in return for agreeing to pay the buyer of protection
an amount covering losses should one of the companies in the
index fail to meet its debt obligations.  “It’s just an investment in corporate bonds,”  Bill Gross ,
who runs the Total Return Fund as Pimco’s co-chief investment
officer, said today in an interview on  Bloomberg Radio .  The position accounts for about half a percentage point of
Pimco’s $2 trillion of assets, he said. “It’s very liquid, and
it’s more liquid than the corporate-bond market, which was the
point of entering the CDX complex in the first place,” he said.  Growing Share  Non-dealers had a net outstanding bet on the health of U.S.
investment-grade corporate credit of $39 billion through Nov. 1,
the most this year and up from $31.4 billion four weeks earlier,
according to data from the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  While the swaps trades give Pimco a growing share of all
outstanding wagers in the Markit CDX index, it hasn’t amassed
positions rivaling those taken in an older version of the
benchmark two years ago by JPMorgan Chase & Co. that saddled the
biggest  U.S. bank  with a $6.2 billion loss.  Those bets by trader Bruno Iksil, who became known as the
 London  Whale, accounted for 50 percent of all outstanding trades
in the less-active index series, making it easier for
counterparts and rivals to push prices against the bank when
losses started to mount and it sought to exit.  Pimco’s bet, which three of the people said may be as much
as $30 billion, is in the current index, which has a gross
$311.3 billion notional outstanding, DTCC data show, giving
Pimco room for a relatively smoother departure.  Rental Bonds  “It’s a way for them to collect premium quickly and
efficiently,” said David Schawel, a money manager at Square 1
Bank in Durham,  North Carolina , which specializes in financial
services to entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. “They’re so
big they need to make bets synthetically, and longer-than-expected easy Fed policy is where spreads would grind tighter
and they’d collect that premium.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, American Homes 4 Rent plans to
sell bonds backed by U.S. rental homes after Blackstone Group
LP’s Invitation Homes completed the first deal of the type this
week. A gauge of the health of U.S. financial conditions climbed
to a record high.  The Bloomberg U.S. Financial Conditions Index, which
combines everything from money-market rates to yields on
government and corporate bonds to volatility in equities,
increased 0.13 to 1.75, the highest level in data stretching
back to January 1994.  Credit Benchmarks  The cost of protecting corporate debt from default in the
U.S. fell. The Markit CDX index, which investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.7
basis point to a mid-price of 73.2 basis points as of 10:56 a.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings rose 1.1 to 83.4.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 3.7 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  American Homes 4 Rent intends to market the rental-home
securities within the next 90 days, it said in a statement
today. The deal would follow Blackstone’s offering, in which
monthly rent checks from 3,207 properties will be used to
service the $479.1 million of debt.  Pimco Trades  Pimco has amassed similar trades in the credit-swaps index
in recent years. The money manager sold $10.7 billion of credit
protection on the Markit CDX in the second quarter of 2011,
increasing its total positions in the index contracts to $11.8
billion, according to an August 2011 regulatory filing.  The face value of swaps the fund sold on indexes for high-yield, emerging-market and investment-grade debt rose to $21.6
billion at mid-2011 from $5.6 billion in June 2010.  Pimco had bought $11.9 billion of protection through U.S.
high-grade and high-yield swap indexes and 2.9 billion euros
($3.9 billion) in indexes in  Europe  at the end of last year,
fund disclosures show.  Iksil’s Bet  Pimco had also sold $2.5 billion of protection on emerging
market credit-swaps indexes as of Sept. 30, and $578.8 million
on the ninth series of the investment-grade swap index created
in 2007, the same one in which JPMorgan’s Iksil had built a
position so large that it distorted price relationships in the
market.  Iksil sold contracts guaranteeing more than $80 billion of
debt tied to that index, or about 50 percent of the total
outstanding contracts in the series, making it difficult to find
buyers, according to a 301-page report by the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations released in March.  Investors started pulling cash from U.S. bond funds in May
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that sustainable labor-market progress could prompt the central bank to reduce $85
billion of monthly bond purchases that have bolstered credit
markets, prompting concerns that a three-decade rally in bonds
was poised to end.  The stimulus measures helped push the average yield on
investment-grade corporate bonds in the U.S. to a record-low
2.65 percent in May, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate Index. They’ve since climbed to 3.27
percent.  Net Redemptions  U.S. bond mutual funds saw net redemptions of $117 billion
in the four months through September, while stock funds received
$35 billion, according to the  Investment Company Institute  in
 Washington .  Pimco’s Total Return Fund is on track for its worst
redemptions ever in 2013, losing $4.4 billion in October and
$33.2 billion for the year, according to Morningstar Inc. It has
shrunk by $45 billion since May.  At the same time, corporate-bond trading has thinned and
dealer inventories have plunged as market makers pull back on
risk-taking. After cutting a broad measure of  corporate and some
asset-backed debt  from a peak of $235 billion in October 2007,
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the central bank pared
investment-grade holdings to a net $11.7 billion as of Oct. 23,
Fed  data  show. That’s down from $13.5 billion at the end of May.  Jobs Revival  An average of $12.4 billion of dollar-denominated
investment-grade bonds of all coupons, ratings and maturities
 traded  every day over the past year, according to Finra’s Trace
system. That compares with $15.7 billion of default protection
that was bought and sold on the Markit CDX swaps index last
week, DTCC data show.  Concern that job-market conditions weren’t improving stayed
the Fed’s hand in September, pushing out changes to the policy
to March, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists
conducted Oct. 17-18.  The benchmark swaps index rallied, reaching as low as 70
basis points on Oct. 22, adjusted for shifts to new series,
Bloomberg prices show. That means a contract covering $1 billion
of corporate debt sold the day before the Fed’s Sept. 18
announcement would have rallied 13 basis points through that
day, translating to a profit of $1.3 million.  Pimco Total Return lost 1.02 percent this year through Nov.
6 with  dividends , Bloomberg data show. The fund is beating 51
percent of its peers.  Treasuries Recommendation  Gross has recommended investors purchase shorter-term
Treasuries as the Fed weighs tapering quantitative easing and
the market underestimates how long it will then take the central
bank to begin raising  interest rates .  “As the Fed tapers, as they perhaps leave quantitative
easing, the liquidity will shrink,” Gross said in the Bloomberg
Radio interview today. “So we want to be in the most liquid
paper possible; and those, believe it or not, are those CDX
derivatives.”  The swaps index has a five-year maturity, compared with an
effective maturity of 5.15 years in the Total Return Fund as of
Sept. 30, according to Pimco’s  website . More than a third of the
fund’s holdings mature between 5 and 20 years.  U.S. credit accounted for 9 percent of the Total Return
Fund holdings as of Sept. 30, data on Pimco’s website show. The
fund had $1.8 billion of  call options  tied to the prior series
of the swaps index.  “It’s not unusual for the fund to use swaps like this,”
 Eric Jacobson , a senior fund analyst at Morningstar, said in a
telephone interview. “They use it in both directions, on the
way up to get exposure when you’ve got so much cash to put to
work you can’t put it to work right away, and at same time as a
defensive posture when you’re concerned you could have more
redemptions, to be able to act quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  