-- Polish Government Keeps Majority in Vote on School Referendum
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-11-08T09:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/polish-government-keeps-majority-in-vote-on-school-referendum.html
Poland weathered a test of its
ruling coalition today after parliament rejected a referendum
on the government’s overhaul of the educational system.  Deputies in the lower house of parliament in Warsaw voted
against holding the referendum by a 222-232  vote , even as two
lawmakers belonging to its junior coalition partner voted for
the measure. The ruling Civic Platform party had seen its
majority shrink to two seats in recent weeks as several
lawmakers left the party in protest at plans to cancel bonds
held by privately managed pension funds.  Poland could face early elections if the ruling coalition
loses its majority, government spokesman Pawel Gras said on Oct.
30. Allegations of vote-buying at a regional election of the
ruling party last month further damaged Civic Platform, which is
trailing the opposition in the polls for the first time since
taking power in 2007.  “The result shows we don’t have problems with a
majority,” Prime Minister Donald Tusk told reporters in
parliament after today’s vote. Tusk said he will carry out
changes in his cabinet this month, declining to give a date
except to say the revamp will happen “for sure before Dec. 1.”  Civic Platform and its ally the Polish Peasants Party
imposed voting discipline to defend government plans to
implement a one-year reduction of mandatory school age to six
years, a step already approved by parliament in 2009. The
measure would align  Poland ’s school age with that prevailing in
most European Union countries and help offset forecast shrinkage
of the workforce over the next 20 years.  The motion to call a referendum was brought to parliament
by a group of parents after they collected almost 1 million
signatures in favor of the ballot. They argued that Poland’s
primary schools aren’t ready for the change, a claim Tusk told
lawmakers today is “a myth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  