-- Portfolio Hedging, London Metals, RBS Accord: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-11-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/portfolio-hedging-london-metals-rbs-accord-compliance.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
warned chief executive officers of top U.S. banks in a private
meeting last month that the final Volcker rule ban on
proprietary trading would be tougher than  Wall Street  expects,
likely putting limits on portfolio hedging.  At the meeting, details of which haven’t previously been
disclosed, Lew told industry leaders that he has been
encouraging regulators to make provisions of the Volcker rule
more stringent, according to two people familiar with the
meeting. The bank executives, members of the Financial Services
Forum, left the meeting concerned the final rule would be more
restrictive on their trading business than previously indicated,
the people said.  This week, regulators are putting the final touches on the
rule, which could be released as soon as Dec. 10, according to
two other people familiar with the process. That timeframe would
put regulators on track to meet the administration’s self-imposed deadline to complete the rule by the end of the year.  Administration officials have signaled that one provision
that will be more restrictive than the rule’s first draft is its
exemption for trades conducted as hedges against other risks.
The revised rule is expected to require hedges to be taken
against individual positions and limit broader hedges against a
bank’s entire portfolio. The change came in response to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s “London Whale” trades, which cost the bank $6.2
billion in 2012 and were described by bank officials as
portfolio hedging.  A first draft of the Volcker rule, which is part of the
Dodd-Frank Act, was released in October 2011; Lew has been
pushing regulators to complete the revised rule by the end of
the year.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Venezuela Fights Economic War With Increased Currency Regulation  Venezuela  signaled it will impose increased currency and
price regulations with the creation of an agency to manage
foreign exchange and imports as well as a broad review of
consumer websites.  The South American country will create the National Foreign
Trade Center to manage foreign currency and import policies,
President  Nicolas Maduro  said Nov. 6, attributing rising
inflation and a decline in the bolivar on the black market to an
“economic war” being waged by political opponents.  The moves seek to stabilize the economy and promote
economic growth, while “neutralizing” factors perturbing the
economy, Maduro said, without providing specific details on how
the new agency would function. Venezuela, which devalued the
bolivar by 32 percent in February to 6.3 per dollar, has been
unable to arrest the decline of the bolivar on the black market,
where companies and individuals unable to access the official
rate pay as much as 58 bolivars per dollar.  Speculation mounted last week that the South American
country would devalue the bolivar for the second time in a year
after the publication of a decree in the official gazette that
authorized the creation of a new  exchange rate  for tourists.  Maduro last month re-started dollar auctions at an
undisclosed rate in an effort to stem product shortages in time
for Christmas as annual inflation reached almost 50 percent in
September. The “fictitious” black market dollar is used to
“perturb” the economy as part of the economic war and
“psychological disturbance,” Maduro said.  The country will soon start a nationwide operation against
price speculation and hoarding, using part of the armed forces,
he said.  LME Changes Warehousing Rules to Shorten Withdrawal Times  The London Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest industrial-metals marketplace, altered its rules to speed up withdrawals
from warehoused stockpiles amid consumer complaints that
prompted scrutiny from U.S. regulators.  The changes will affect depots where waiting times exceed
50 calendar days, a notice e-mailed to LME members yesterday
showed. The exchange’s original July proposal pertained to sites
where waits were longer than 100 days. The LME also said it will
review its warehouse system every six months and is studying its
powers to regulate warehousing companies’ charges.  Consumers of metals including brewer MillerCoors LLC
complained that lengthy waits for stockpiled supplies inflated
costs, spurring U.S. regulators to subpoena documents from
warehouse operators, according to people with knowledge of the
probe. The changes are scheduled to take effect April 1, said
the LME, founded in 1877 and now a unit of  Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. (388)   Warehouses with waiting times of more than 50 days will be
required to ship out metal every day exceeding the amount they
take in by at least 1,500 metric tons under the changes.  The LME, where investors bought and sold contracts worth
$14.5 trillion last year, oversees more than 700 warehouses
around the world.  The changes are the first step in strengthening the LME’s
warehousing arrangements and making the market more transparent,
the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, which supervises the
exchange, said in a statement on its website.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  RBS to Pay More Than $150 Million in SEC Mortgage-Bond Case  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  will pay $153.7 million to
resolve U.S. regulatory claims that a brokerage unit misled
investors about the quality of a 2007 financial product backed
by subprime mortgages.  RBS told investors that the loans backing the $2.2 billion
security “generally” met the lender’s underwriting guidelines
even though almost 30 percent fell so short of the standards
that they should have been excluded, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a statement yesterday.  The company’s  Stamford , Connecticut-based RBS Securities
Inc. unit, then known as Greenwich Capital Markets Inc., was
paid about $4.4 million for underwriting the transaction yet
only quickly reviewed the investment, the SEC said. RBS knew or
should have known that many of the loans didn’t meet the
lender’s underwriting standards, according to the statement.  RBS said in a statement that it cooperated fully with the
SEC throughout the investigation and that the settlement
payments are covered by provisions the bank has already made. In
resolving the claims, RBS didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  RBS offered the security, known as Soundview Home Loan
Trust 2007-OPT1, to investors in May 2007. Investors have lost
at least $80 million to date, the SEC said. The settlement money
will be used to compensate harmed investors, the SEC said.  Courts  AT&T to Pay $3.5 Million to Resolve Claims in FCC Call Program  AT&T Inc. (T)  agreed to pay $3.5 million in addition to $18.25
million it already paid to resolve allegations it overbilled for
a system for the deaf that the company knew was used for
fraudulent calls from other countries.  The settlement announced yesterday by the U.S.  Justice
Department  involves a Federal Communications Commission program
that reimburses telecommunications companies that provide phone
service for people who are hearing or speech impaired.  AT&T paid an initial $18.25 million in a May 7 agreement
with the FCC, the government said. Yesterday, the Justice
Department said in a statement that AT&T agreed to pay another
$3.5 million to resolve civil allegations under the federal
 False Claims Act .  Marty Richter , a spokesman for AT&T, said in an e-mailed
message that although the company denies the allegations, it
decided the “most productive course” was to settle the suit.  The government, which joined a whistle-blower lawsuit in
federal court in Pittsburgh in March 2012, said that a large
share of the calls came from  Nigeria  or other countries and that
the callers used the program for credit card fraud or other
fraudulent actions.  The case is Lyttle v. AT&T Communications of  Pennsylvania ,
10-cv-01376, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  Comings and Goings  Dodd-Frank Derivatives Momentum Threatened by Vacancies on CFTC  The top U.S. derivatives regulator may dwindle to just two
voting commissioners and struggle to approve new rules unless
the White House and Senate can overcome political hurdles to
fill the vacancies by the end of the year.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, designed to have
five members, could instead have only one Democrat and one
Republican early next year. The split would probably delay votes
on contentious Dodd-Frank Act regulations.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has for more than a
year been considering nominees to succeed Chairman  Gary Gensler ,
whose term expires at the end of the year, according to people
briefed on the deliberations.  Gensler is expected to leave by the beginning of next year,
while  Bart Chilton , a Democratic commissioner, said this week
that he will also leave this year. A third spot has been vacant
since July when Jill E. Sommers, a Republican, stepped down from
the agency.  Timothy Massad, a Treasury Department official, is under
consideration to succeed Gensler, a person familiar with the
matter said in October.  Sharon Y. Bowen, a securities lawyer at  Latham & Watkins 
LLP in  New York , is being considered to replace Chilton, four
people in the financial industry said this week. Their possible
nominations and the pending nomination of J. Christopher
Giancarlo, an executive at New York-based inter-dealer broker
GFI Group Inc. to replace Sommers, could face hurdles in the
Senate, which has split along party lines.  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the CFTC openings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey 
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 