-- Pound Drops First Time in 5 Days as U.S. Jobs Data Beat Forecast
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-11-08T16:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/pound-set-for-weekly-advance-versus-euro-after-france-downgrade.html
The pound slid for the first time in
five days against the dollar after a U.S. report showed payrolls
increased last month more than economists forecast, boosting
demand for the greenback.  Sterling was set for its biggest weekly gain versus the
euro since April after the  European Central Bank  unexpectedly
cut its benchmark  interest rate  yesterday, while the Bank of
England maintained its monetary policy. U.K. government bonds
fell, with benchmark 10-year gilts headed for a second weekly
decline, after a gauge of  house prices  climbed to a record in
October. The U.S. jobs data came as Federal Reserve policy
makers weigh reducing their currency-debasing stimulus program.  “It backs up the idea that tapering delay in this type of
labor-market condition is not exactly justified,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of global-markets research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “That’s why cable, along
with every dollar cross has moved,” Halpenny said, referring to
the pound-dollar  exchange rate .  Sterling fell 0.6 percent to $1.5994 at 4:45 p.m. London
time, paring this week’s advance to 0.5 percent. The pound
slipped 0.2 percent to 83.51 pence per euro after appreciating
to 83.01 pence yesterday, the strongest level since Jan. 17. It
has gained 1.4 percent against the common currency this week,
the most since the period ended April 26.  American employers added 204,000 workers in October from a
revised 163,000 gain in September that was larger than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 120,000 advance. The jobless rate rose to 7.3
percent from an almost five-year low of 7.2 percent.  France Downgrade  The pound earlier rallied against the euro after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded  France ’s credit rating by one level to AA from
AA+ with a stable outlook saying the government’s reform of tax,
labor markets, products and services won’t raise medium-term
growth prospects.  House values  in the U.K. increased 0.6 percent from
September to an average 237,161 pounds, London-based real-estate
researcher Acadametrics and  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  said.  The total U.K. deficit widened to 9.72 billion pounds from
5.46 billion pounds in the three months through June, the  Office
for National Statistics  said. Exports fell 3.5 percent and
imports increased 1 percent to a record 135 billion pounds.
Separate data showed  construction output  fell 0.9 percent in
September after climbing a revised 0.1 percent in August.  BOE Decision  The  Bank of England ’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
yesterday left its asset-purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds,
as predicted by all 46 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.
Officials also kept the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low
0.5 percent, as forecast by a separate Bloomberg survey.  The London-based central bank has said it will keep the key
rate at a record low until  unemployment , currently at 7.7
percent, falls below 7 percent.  Sterling has rallied 5.1 percent in the past six months,
the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as improving economic
data prompted investors to increase bets the central bank would
raise borrowing costs earlier than it predicted. The euro
climbed 3.5 percent and the dollar rose 1.7 percent.  U.K. Outlook  Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  will present new
economic projections next week, with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
among those forecasting the central bank will improve its
outlook.  “The momentum of the economy has built up more rapidly
than the MPC forecast in August,” Jonathan Pryor, head of
foreign-exchange dealing at Investec Corporate Treasury, a unit
of Investec Bank Plc, wrote in a note to clients. Next week’s
forecasts “will be monitored with serious interest,” he wrote.  The 10-year gilt yield climbed 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 2.77 percent. The 2.25 percent bond due in
September 2023 fell 0.84, or 8.40 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 95.565. The rate has increased 12 basis points  this
week .  U.K. gilts lost 2.7 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped
1 percent and U.S. Treasuries declined 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  