-- Priceline CEO Seeks Growth After Boyd’s ‘Hundred Bagger’
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-11-08T22:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/priceline-ceo-seeks-growth-after-boyd-s-hundred-bagger-.html
Darren Huston has a tall task at
 Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , succeeding the guy who generated a 100-fold
stock surge over the past 11 years, racing the company past
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)   Huston, 47, was named chief executive officer yesterday of
the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company, replacing Jeffery Boyd,
who is staying on as chairman. Huston, a former Microsoft
executive, joined Priceline in 2011 as head of Booking.com, the
European unit that’s fueled the company’s expansion.  Now that Boyd has established Priceline as the top site for
booking hotels in  Europe  and built a growing presence in Asia
through the purchase of Agoda.com, Huston is left to squeeze
growth out of a more mature market. Priceline started running
Booking.com promotions early this year in the U.S. to build the
unit’s brand, and in May the company  acquired  Kayak Software
Corp. for about $1.8 billion to capture revenue in hotel search.  Boyd “had the foresight to make some of these
international acquisitions that have really driven the growth of
the company,” said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc., who has the equivalent of a buy rating on the
stock. “The Booking.com business has continued to grow at
strong rates and continued to gain significant market share.”  Boyd, 57, has been CEO of Priceline since 2002, overseeing
a surge in sales and profit and helping bolster the stock from
about $10 to more than $1,000. He moved the company from a U.S.
site for reserving flights and some other offerings to the
dominant service for booking hotels, the most profitable side of
online travel.  Unprecedented Gains  On yesterday’s conference call,  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets , congratulated Boyd on the “hundred
bagger” and said “I don’t think I’ve seen that before and may
not see that again.”  In a report today, Michael Purcell, an analyst at Stifel,
called Boyd “the architect and steward of Priceline’s turn-around ascension.” He wrote that “the  succession plan  is not a
surprise and we do not view it negatively.”  Huston will become CEO and a board member Jan. 1. He
previously spent eight years at Microsoft, serving in several
roles including head of the Japan business, and before that he
was an executive at  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   The new CEO has some challenges ahead. While the company
reported third-quarter sales that topped analysts’ estimates, it
provided a fourth-quarter earnings forecast that trailed
projections. Huston suggested on yesterday’s call that he’ll be
continuing to lean on Boyd.  Stay Focused  “In the coming months, my focus will be to work with Jeff,
the brand CEOs, and group leadership to make sure we stay the
course on the execution of our business strategy,” Huston said.
He wasn’t available for an interview.  The  stock  rose 4.9 percent today to $1,073.20, its
biggest jump since January. The shares are up 73 percent this
year, while Expedia is down 2.5 percent.  Boyd said on the call that as Priceline expands in  Asia ,
sales there won’t increase as quickly as they have been in
Europe, because there’s less Internet penetration. International
bookings, which account for 85 percent of the business,
increased 42 percent in the third quarter, slowing from 44
percent in the second quarter.  Priceline’s online advertising costs jumped 42 percent to
$533.2 million, while offline advertising more than tripled to
$40 million as the company promoted Booking.com in the U.S. The
company said on the call that these investments will lead to
“pressure on margins” in the current quarter.  Profit, excluding some items, will be $7.80 to $8.30 a
share in the fourth quarter, trailing the $8.34 average analyst
projection, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re seeing slight weakening in their economic profit,”
said Craig Sterling, an analyst at EVA Dimensions in  New York .
“When we start to see little cracks, it’s usually not a good
sign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  