-- Puma Cuts Full-Year Earnings Forecast on Impairment Charges
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-11-08T08:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/puma-cuts-full-year-earnings-forecast-on-impairment-charges-1-.html
Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, lowered its full-year profit forecast,
saying it will book one-time charges of about 130 million euros
($174 million) this quarter.  The costs relate to the closing of a product development
center in  Vietnam  and the transfer of international product
teams to Herzogenaurach,  Germany , where the company is based,
from London, Puma said in a statement today.  Earnings for the year will be positive “but significantly
below those of 2012,” said Puma, which is known for its leaping
cat logo. Previously, the crosstown rival  Adidas AG (ADS)  forecast
rising profit. Puma, which is closing stores, eliminating jobs
and cutting product ranges to combat declining footwear sales,
also reported third-quarter earnings that missed estimates.  “Puma is still in a difficult transformation process,”
said Volker Bosse, an analyst at Baader Bank. The shares are
being supported by speculation that controlling shareholder
 Kering (KER)  SA may seek a full takeover, he said.  Puma fell as much as 3.3 percent in  Frankfurt , the steepest
intraday drop since July 24. The  stock  was down 2.8 percent at
216.6 euros as of 9:09 a.m.  Third-quarter earnings before interest, tax and special
items fell to 80 million euros from 99 million euros a year
earlier, trailing estimates of about 81.5 million euros, Puma
said in a separate statement. A 1.4 percent decline in currency
adjusted sales was in line with full-year guidance, it said.  Ferrari Drift  The maker of $90 Ferrari Drift Cat 5 sneakers also
confirmed that it expects a low to-mid-single percentage drop in
currency adjusted full-year sales.  “We know that our business is currently in a difficult
position,” Puma Chief Executive Officer Bjoern Gulden said in a
separate statement. “Although it will take some time, we will
turn this business around and make the cat shine again.”  Puma’s performance in the quarter was hampered by currency
fluctuations, particularly the weakness of the Japanese yen,
Kering, which also owns the Gucci brand, said at the time.  Kering owns about 84 percent of Puma, its Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Marc Duplaix said in October. The French company
has been buying Puma shares “in an opportunistic way” when
they’re available on the market, he said at the time.  Adidas, which like Puma was started by brothers Rudiand
Adi Dassler in the Bavarian town of Herzogenaurach, yesterday
reported a bigger gain in third-quarter profitability than
analysts had estimated and said the build-up to the 2014  World
Cup  in Brazil will start boosting revenue this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  