-- RBA Sees Below-Trend Growth in 2014, Keeps Rate-Cut Scope
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-11-08T01:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/rba-sees-below-trend-growth-in-2014-as-it-keeps-rate-cut-scope.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
forecast below-trend growth and rising unemployment in 2014 as
resource investment drops and renewed currency strength drags on
the economy, leaving open the chance of lower  interest rates .  The forecast “reflects the substantial fall in mining
investment, planned fiscal restraint and the still high level of
the Australian dollar,” the RBA said in its quarterly monetary
policy statement in Sydney today. At the past three meetings the
board judged “it was appropriate to hold the cash rate steady,
but not to close off the possibility of reducing it further,
should that be needed to support economic activity,” it said.  The central bank projected gross domestic product will rise
by between 2 percent and 3 percent in the year to December 2014,
compared with 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent forecast three months
earlier. The outlook for inflation is “to remain consistent”
with the 2 percent to 3 percent target, the RBA said.  “The RBA has kept the door open to further easing,” said
Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “The
high  exchange rate , coupled with below-trend growth necessitates
an easing bias remain. Luckily, inflation is within target to
allow the possibility of further rate cuts.”  The central bank is balancing one of the Group of 10
currencies’ strongest performances and a weaker labor market
against a recovery in  home prices  that’s beginning to spur
dwelling investment. Contained inflation allowed Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board to cut the cash rate by 2.25 percentage
points in the past two years, aiming to underpin growth as a
once-in-a-century mining-investment boom wanes.  Easing Bias  The Aussie fell as low as 94.28 U.S. cents and traded at
94.62 U.S. cents as of 12:27 p.m. in Sydney. The currency has
advanced about 6 percent since the end of August, the best
performance after  New Zealand ’s kiwi dollar among major
developed markets.  The RBA highlighted the potential risks from accelerating
property prices.  “If housing market conditions strengthen more
substantially, the associated boost to wealth and sentiment
could result in lower saving and stronger-than-expected
consumption growth,” it said. “If this were accompanied by a
return to increasing household leverage, it could raise concerns
from the perspective of financial stability, although to date
growth of housing credit overall remains moderate.”  Traders priced in a 12 percent chance of a quarter-percentage point cut in the cash rate to 2.25 percent at the
central bank’s December meeting and a 25 percent chance of at
least one reduction for the March meeting, rate-swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Policy Stimulus  The central bank said it has already delivered a
“substantial degree” of policy stimulus and the effects still
have further to run. It reiterated concerns about the local
dollar, which has climbed after the  Federal Reserve ’s decision
to postpone unwinding record stimulus.  “With the terms of trade forecast to decline only modestly
over the coming years, there is some chance that the exchange
rate will remain around current levels over the forecast
horizon,” the central bank said, basing its forecasts in the
statement on the Aussie at 95 U.S. cents. “However, lower
capital inflows associated with the decline in mining investment
could act to reduce the exchange rate, as could a reduction in
stimulatory monetary settings in large economies.”  The RBA estimated in today’s statement that the share of
mining investment in GDP will decline by about 3 percentage
points over 2 1/2 years.  Subdued Investment  “Overall, non-mining investment is expected to remain
subdued in the near term,” the RBA said. “Surveys of firms’
intentions suggest that there will be little growth in non-mining business investment over the next year or so.”  Treasury in August predicted the jobless rate would rise to
an 11-year high of 6.25 percent by July next year. The RBA,
which doesn’t forecast a jobless rate in the statement, said
today unemployment “is likely to continue to drift higher for a
year or so” then drop through 2015 as non-resource activity
picks up.  Looser policy -- the  cash rate  stands at 2.5 percent -- is
spurring employment-intensive residential building. A private
index of construction in October showed growth for the first
time since 2010; building permits jumped 14.4 percent in
September and new-home sales climbed at the fastest pace since
April 2012.  “The recovery in dwelling investment is expected to
continue, and to accelerate somewhat, over the forecast
period,” the central bank said. “The environment for this form
of investment remains favorable, with low interest rates, rental
yields that are around the highest they have been for a decade
and support for first home buyers that favors construction of
new dwellings.”  China Strengthening  The RBA said  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, is
expected to “grow a little faster in 2013 than previously
anticipated,” though still close to the government’s target of
7.5 percent. It said domestic demand is likely to remain strong.  In Australia, business and  consumer confidence  have also
revived since  Tony Abbott ’s coalition restored majority
government on Sept. 7. Yet the budget deficits confronted by the
federal and state government indicate fiscal tightening will
weigh on growth.  “Growth of public demand is expected to be very low
relative to its historical average,” the RBA said. “Consistent
with budget projections, the contribution to GDP growth from
public demand over the forecast period is expected to be around
one-third of its historical rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  