-- Treasuries Trade Little Changed Before Jobs, Inflation Reports
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-11-08T13:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/treasuries-poised-for-weekly-advance-before-u-s-inflation-data.html
Treasuries were little changed as
investors awaited a report economists said will show U.S.
employers added the fewest jobs since July last month amid the
partial federal government shutdown.  Benchmark 10-year yields dropped the most in more than two
weeks yesterday after the European Central Bank cut its
benchmark interest rate to a record to combat a prolonged period
of price weakness. Investors are weighing when the U.S. central
bank will slow it stimulus plan after policy maker unexpectedly
maintained their $85 billion in monthly purchases in September,
before the 16-day shutdown.  “The payrolls report may be distorted by the shutdown but
we still have our eyes on it,” said Allan von Mehren, chief
analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “In the short term,
soft data can keep bond yields from rising.”  U.S. 10-year yields were at 2.61 percent as of 8:01 a.m.
 New York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The
price of the 2.5 percent note due in August 2023 was 99 2/32.
The rate fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point
yesterday, the most since Oct. 22.  Three-year yields were at 0.53 percent after reaching 0.51
percent yesterday, the lowest since June 19.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose by 120,000 last month after a
148,000 gain in September, a Bloomberg News survey of economists
indicated before today’s Labor Department data. That would be
the slowest pace since July.  The figures, which were delayed by the shutdown and
originally slated for Nov. 1, will be released at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington . Bloomberg survey estimates for payrolls ranged from
increases of 50,000 to 175,000.  Expenditure Slows  A Commerce Department report today will show that the price
index for personal consumption expenditures rose 1 percent from
a year earlier in September, slowing from a 1.2 percent increase
in August, according to the median estimate of economists in a
separate survey. That would be the lowest since May and compares
with the Fed’s long-run target of 2 percent.  “We are still positive” on U.S. Treasuries into next
month, said Martin Whetton, a Sydney-based interest-rate
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage.
Inflation is seen “not to be a problem at all for the U.S. at
the moment.”  Traders see a more-than-even chance that the central bank
will refrain from raising borrowing costs at least until the end
of next year, according to data on futures compiled by
Bloomberg. The target federal funds rate has been kept at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Effective Stimulus  The strategy of holding off on rate increases while
unemployment is above 6.5 percent has provided effective
stimulus, and an even lower threshold could be helpful, William English, head of the Fed’s monetary affairs division, wrote in a
paper this week.  The U.S. will sell $70 billion of debt next week, while
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen faces a Senate
hearing on her nomination for central bank chief.  “Markets had priced in a relatively early hike in interest
rates until recently,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a senior strategist
at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. in  Tokyo . “But now, people have
started to expect a Fed under Yellen will extend the low-rate
policy, and I think the declines in three-year yields are
reflecting that view.”  Even so, analysts forecast the 10-year yield will rise to
3.35 percent by the end of 2014 as U.S. growth gathers pace,
based on their median estimates.  Growth Quickens  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2.8 percent
annualized rate in the third quarter, up from 2.5 percent in the
previous three months, and faster than the 2 percent median
estimate of economists, according to a Commerce Department
report yesterday.  The Bloomberg ECO U.S. Surprise Index rose to 0.004, the
first positive reading since Oct. 11. The gauge shows the degree
to which analysts under- or over-estimate the trends in the
business cycle.  The Fed will start to reduce its $85 billion monthly bond
purchases by $15 billion in March, according to the median of 40
responses in a Bloomberg survey of economists taken on Oct.
17-18.  “Ten-year yields are likely to advance toward 3 percent
early next year,” said Mizuho’s Asaoka. “The U.S. economy
isn’t weakening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  