-- Rentokil to Focus on Cash Generation as Restructuring Nears End
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-08T09:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/rentokil-to-focus-on-cash-generation-as-restructuring-nears-end.html
Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO) , the British
provider of pest control and hygiene services, said it will
focus on improved profitability and cash generation after a
restructuring and investment program comes to an end.  “Our overheads are coming down, our businesses are
becoming more efficient and during next year our restructuring
costs and capex will also reduce,” Chief Executive Officer Andy Ransom said in a statement.  Rentokil has been selling European assets and expanding in
Asia to make up for sluggish demand in its home region. The
company bought six pest control businesses in  Brazil , French
Guyana,  Portugal ,  Canada  and the U.S. in the first half and
disposed of City Link, a loss-making parcel delivery service.  Savings from the restructuring program are estimated at
about 10 million pounds ($16 million) a year from 2014, with an
associated one-time cash cost of about 3 million pounds,
Rentokil said. The company will limit deployment of a number of
centrally developed human resources and other systems, leading
to a non-cash write off of about 7 million pounds in the fourth
quarter.  Rentokil shares  fell  as much as 1.7 percent and were down
1.2 percent to 103.50 pence at 9.53 a.m. in London, valuing the
company at 1.9 billion pounds.  Coming Detail  Rentokil revised its estimates for the cost of the
restructuring for 2013 to 60 million pounds from a figure of
about 50 million pounds, given by Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Townsend in August. The services provider will continue to seek
acquisitions, focusing on small bolt-on and greenfield purchases
in  emerging markets , including  Latin America  and the Middle
East, Ransom said on a conference call. He promised to give
further details on his plans for growth in revenue, profit and
free  cash flow  next year.  Third-quarter revenue grew 3.8 percent at constant exchange
rates to 585.1 million pounds, driven by a 46 percent increase
in sales in North America, the company said today. Trading
conditions in the quarter remained “difficult” in Europe and
the Netherlands. In the Benelux region, revenue fell 8.3 percent
at constant exchange rates to 187.7 million pounds in the first
nine months of the year. Third-quarter adjusted operating profit
rose 3 percent by that measure to 70.8 million pounds.  Ransom took over last month from  Alan Brown , who announced
his plans to step down in August. Both Ransom and Brown joined
the company from Imperial Chemical Industries Plc in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  