-- Rheinmetall Drops as Defense Unit Evaporates Group Profit
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-11-08T11:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/rheinmetall-drops-as-defense-unit-evaporates-group-profit.html
Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  fell the most in more
than three months as military-budget cuts at government
customers wiped out profit at the German automotive and defense-equipment supplier.  Nine-month  earnings  before interest and taxes fell to zero
from 170 million euros ($228 million) a year earlier as a loss
at the defense division, together with administrative expenses,
wiped out profit from the car-components unit. Revenue fell 5.6
percent to 3.09 billion euros, the Dusseldorf-based company said
in a  statement  today.  Rheinmetall dropped as much as 7.4 percent to 42.65 euros,
the biggest intraday decline since July 30, and was trading down
6.9 percent at 12:19 p.m. in  Frankfurt . Volume was more than
double the three-month daily average. The drop pared the stock’s
gain this year to 18 percent, compared to a 34 percent increase
in  Germany ’s MDAX index for medium-size companies.  “Defense remains weak, and earnings so far this year have
been the worst in a long time,”  Juergen Pieper , an analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt, said by phone. At the same time,
today’s stock drop was “exaggerated,” as “Rheinmetall is a
classic turnaround story.” Pieper  recommends  clients buy the
shares and expects the price to rise to 45 euros within a year.  Rheinmetall stuck to a group  forecast  for full-year Ebit of
180 million euros to 200 million euros, with the automotive
business contributing as much as 150 million euros to that goal.
The company also maintained a prediction of sales in a range of
4.7 billion euros to 4.8 billion euros.  Spending cuts in countries including the U.K. and the U.S.,
including troop withdrawals from operations abroad, contributed
to weakness at the defense operations, with global military
budgets this year forecast to decline slightly, Rheinmetall
said. The unit, which makes armored vehicles and weapons
systems, predicts attractive medium-term growth prospects in
 Asia  and  Middle East , the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  