-- Richemont Says Luxury-Goods Maker Rules Out Selling Brands
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-11-08T10:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/richemont-first-half-profit-misses-estimates-as-asia-decelerates.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  said its
3.86 billion-euro ($5.2 billion) cash pile will help its 20
brands grow as the luxury-goods maker ruled out selling any
labels, including ailing bagmaker Lancel.  The French maker of Brigitte Bardot purses isn’t for sale
after its parent company studied strategic options, Chief
Financial Officer Gary Saage said today on a call with
reporters. Richemont can get better returns by investing in its
current brands rather than disposing underperforming assets, the
company decided after finishing a portfolio review, he said.  Johann Rupert, the South African billionaire who began a
one-year sabbatical from his position as chairman in September,
said in May that the Geneva-based company should have been
quicker to cull bad investments. The departure of the head of
Richemont’s fashion and leather-goods businesses earlier this
year sparked speculation that parts of that business might be on
the block after underperforming jewelry and watchmaking brands
such as Cartier and Jaeger-LeCoultre.  “The decision not to sell anything in the medium term is
the best solution,” said Stephanie D’Ath, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein in  London . “They have cash on the balance sheet
and that gives them money to invest. In a few years, if the
market is more positive and there is a good buyer, they may
reconsider.”  Stock Declines  The stock traded 1.9 percent lower at 91.20 Swiss francs at
11:25 a.m. in Zurich after Yves-Andre Istel, a former Rothschild
Inc. executive who replaced Rupert as chairman, said in a
statement that the “subdued overall environment and in
particular our continued investments for the long-term call for
increased caution.”  Operating profit dropped 0.7 percent to 1.37 billion euros
in the six months through September, hurt by the weakness of
currencies such as the Japanese yen, Richemont said. Analysts
expected 1.4 billion euros, according to  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  While the comparisons for the Christmas season will be
easier this year, currency shifts will weigh on second-half
earnings, Richemont said.  Revamping Laggards  Richemont has devised turnaround plans for Montblanc and
 Alfred Dunhill , the two units that were suffering the most,
Saage said. Montblanc’s operating profit dropped 55 percent in
the first half to 24 million euros, partly due to provisions for
a shakeup that includes exiting high-end jewelry for women.  Montblanc’s new head Jerome Lambert plans to change the
maker of pens, watches and accessories into a “more
accessible” luxury brand. For the first time, Dunhill is led by
a “product guy” after Fabrizio Cardinali, a former chief
executive officer of Lancel, took over management of the unit,
Saage said. Dunhill plans to focus on its “Britishness” and on
menswear and leather.  The only brand Richemont was considering strategic options
for was Lancel, Saage said today. Bernstein estimates the unit
is worth 300 million euros to 500 million euros, while Rene
Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel, has said it might be worth
about 200 million euros.  The company said last month it won’t sell online fashion
retailer Net-a-Porter after  Il Sole 24 Ore  said Yoox SpA held
talks with Richemont about a merger with the online retailer and
discussions stalled.  Money Pile  The Swiss company’s net cash increased 27 percent as of
Sept. 30 compared with the same date a year earlier. Operating
profit of a unit that includes fashion, accessories, Net-a-Porter and watch component production almost tripled to 35
million euros as sales rose 6 percent to 712 million euros.  Total first-half sales increased 4.3 percent to 5.32
billion euros.  Revenue in the Asia-Pacific region, the source of about 40
percent of Richemont’s sales last year, is rising more slowly as
 China  cracks down on the use of watches and jewelry as bribes
and illegitimate gifts. Growth in that market was 4 percent in
the first half, excluding currency shifts. Asia-Pacific revenue
rose 5 percent on that basis in the past fiscal year and 46
percent in the prior 12 months.  “While sales may increase in the second half, profit
growth may be limited as the company spends on investment,”
said Rey Wium, an analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in
Johannesburg.  Richemont plans capital expenditure of 800 million euros to
850 million euros this fiscal year and a net increase of 50
stores, some of which may be larger, Saage said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  