-- Riverbed Shares Jump as Activist Elliott Pushes for Change
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-11-08T21:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/riverbed-shares-jump-after-elliott-pushes-for-strategic-review.html
Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD)  shares rose
the most in more than a year after activist fund manager Elliott
Associates LP said it acquired a 10.4 percent stake and will
push for strategic changes at the computer-networking company.  Elliott believes Riverbed is “significantly undervalued,”
considering its technology speeds thousands of networks and
plays a vital role for clients, the activist investor said today
in a regulatory filing. Riverbed, based in San Francisco, can
boost its valuation by reviewing its strategy and capital
structure, Elliott said.  “We have detailed these observations to the board of
directors of the issuer and look forward to a constructive
dialogue,” Elliott said in the filing.  Elliott, based in New York, has pressured technology
providers including NetApp Inc., BMC Software Inc. and Compuware
Corp. to boost shareholder value after taking stakes in the
companies. Activist funds generally buy shares in companies and
try to force corporate management and directors to make changes
that boost investor returns.  “Riverbed is focused on creating value for all of our
shareholders and maintains an open dialogue with our
shareholders, including Elliott,” it said in a statement today.  Strong Execution  The company’s recent third-quarter results, with 21 percent
year-over-year revenue growth and higher sequential operating
margins, show its commitment to “strong execution and solid
expense management in a mixed economic and weak federal spending
environment,” Riverbed said.  Riverbed  climbed  16 percent to $17.54, the biggest one-day
jump since July 2012. Before today, the stock had fallen 23
percent this year.  Riverbed competes with companies such as F5 Networks Inc.,
providing technology that helps organizations manage data
networks. Another rival, Blue Coat Systems Inc., was acquired by
private equity firm Thoma Bravo LLC for about $1.3 billion last
year. Blue Coat acquired competitor Packeteer Inc. in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  