-- Romer Says Adopting a GDP Target Would Boost Fed’s Credibility
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-11-08T19:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/romer-says-adopting-a-gdp-target-would-boost-fed-s-credibility.html
The  Federal Reserve  could enhance its
credibility by adopting a target for nominal gross domestic
product, a former head of President  Barack Obama ’s Council of
Economic Advisers said today.  Speaking on a panel at an International Monetary Fund
conference in Washington, economist  Christina Romer  said a Fed
“regime shift, like a switch to nominal GDP targeting,” would
help boost the public’s confidence in its decisions and minimize
internal squabbling. Nominal figures are those that aren’t
adjusted for inflation.  “Adopting a dramatically new framework for monetary policy
is a powerful form of communication -- and a commitment
device,” said Romer, 54, a professor at the  University of
California , Berkeley. “Because it’s new and dramatic, people
would surely notice the change,” she said, while members of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  would be “less likely to argue”
after agreeing to such a change.  Romer was at the IMF to discuss a paper on alternative
policy models for the Fed, which is grappling with how to exit
from an unconventional strategy known as quantitative easing.
Last week, Fed policy makers decided to postpone winding down
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  Looking to domestic output as a target wouldn’t necessarily
supplant the Fed’s traditional considerations of inflation and
the  unemployment rate , according to Romer. “It’s just another
rule for the funds rate,” she said.  The authors of the paper that Romer critiqued “talked as
if a nominal GDP target is less credible than other frameworks
because it’s new and not well-understood by the public,” she
said. “I think that’s exactly backwards,”  She pointed to the Great Depression, after the U.S.
scrapped the gold standard, as a case in which a drastic policy
revision led to a significant “change in expectations that
accompanied it.”  Data revisions shouldn’t disqualify nominal GDP as a target
because Fed economists “could come up with a way to specify the
path” and account for the revisions, Romer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in  Washington  at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  