-- Russia Holds Key Rate on Inflation Risks as Growth Stalls
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-11-08T15:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/russia-holds-key-rate-on-inflation-risks-as-growth-stalls.html
Russia’s central bank refrained from
cutting interest rates after a surprise acceleration in
consumer-price growth threatened efforts to hold inflation to
within this year’s target range.  The one-week auction  rate , the benchmark introduced two
months ago, was kept at 5.5 percent at a meeting today, the
central bank in Moscow said in a website  statement . That matched
the forecasts of all 24 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . For a
second month, Bank Rossii refrained from offering guidance on
whether it sees money-market rates as appropriate.  Faced with quickening inflation for the first time in five
months, policy makers led by Elvira Nabiullina chose to extend a
pause on interest rates held since an increase in September
2012. The reluctance to cut leaves Russia, ensnared in its worst
slowdown in four years, apart from European central banks moving
to keep borrowing costs low to support their economies.  “The central bank is essentially saying that nothing has
changed in its assessment of risks to growth and from
inflation,” Vladimir Kolychev, chief economist for  Russia  at
VTB Capital in Moscow, said by telephone. Policy makers “are
leaving themselves flexibility” on the monetary-policy outlook
by not offering guidance on money-market rates, he said.  Ruble, FRAs  The ruble remained weaker against the dollar after the
statement, depreciating 0.9 percent to 32.7160 as of 7:20 p.m.
in Moscow. The Micex Index of 50 stocks slid 1.3 percent to
1,489.55  The three-month MosPrime rate, which large Moscow banks say
they charge one another, may drop 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, in the next three months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. The spread is up
from a four-month low of 7 basis points on Nov. 5.  Consumer prices may rise 6.2 percent to 6.3 percent in
November from a year earlier, the  Economy Ministry  said today,
faster than previously forecast. The Federal Statistics Service
said inflation accelerated to 6.3 percent in October, exceeding
all 22 forecasts in a Bloomberg  survey .  The faster inflation was caused by “non-monetary factors,
including a rise in prices for fruits and vegetables, which was
unusual for this season,” as well as higher costs for some
animal-based goods, the central bank said in the statement. The
factors should have a “short-term” effect.  Independence, Credibility  “The statement mentioned explicitly that the Russian
central bank’s inflation forecasts will play a role in guiding
monetary policy decisions going forward and this was the first
mention of this,”  Clemens Grafe  and Andrew Matheny, analysts at
Goldman Sachs in Moscow, said in e-mailed comments. “Making
these forecasts independent is an important step toward
solidifying the market’s perception of the central bank’s
independence and credibility.”  While economic growth remains sluggish, the central bank
doesn’t forecast a “substantial widening” in the output gap, a
measure of the difference between actual and potential  gross
domestic product , according to the statement.  The economy is growing at “slightly below its potential
level,” amid weak investment and a slow recovery in external
demand, policy makers said.  GDP will probably expand 2 percent next year, 2.5 percent
in 2015 and 3 percent the following year, the central bank  said 
in updated three-year monetary-policy guidelines published on
its website today. Net  capital outflows  are seen at $55 billion
this year, according to the report.  Investment, Consumer  Fixed-capital investment  may grow 3 percent to 3.8 percent
in 2014-2016, with consumer demand remaining the primary driver
of economic growth, according to the regulator. Spending by
households on final consumption is estimated to grow 4 percent
to 4.4 percent a year during the period, the central bank
forecast.  Bank Rossii removed from its monthly commentary on rate
policy a forecast that inflation would fall into this year’s 5
percent to 6 percent range. That was one of the few significant
changes in the statement, according to ING Groep NV’s chief
Russia economist, Dmitry Polevoy, who said policy makers are
probably signaling “readiness” for the price goal to be
missed.  The central bank is still discussing the appropriate level
for the long-term inflation target after seeking to reduce
consumer-price growth to 4 percent in 2014-2016, Igor Dmitriev,
head of Bank Rossii’s monetary-policy department, said at a
conference in Moscow yesterday.  Longer Term  Rate policy will be tied to “how we see the longer-term
development” of inflation rather than current trends, he said.  While Russia’s keeping rates steady, other central banks in
the region have been easing borrowing costs to shore up their
economies. Hungary reduced borrowing costs for a 15th month in
October, while Poland pledged this week to keep its main rate at
a record low until at least July 2014.  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark  interest rate 
to a record low yesterday after a drop in inflation to the
slowest pace in four years. The Czech monetary authority
yesterday approved the first koruna sales in more than a decade
to ease policy.  The Russian central bank is trying to ensure inflation
stays on a lower trajectory in the long term even as the
government warns that the country’s share in the global economy
will be eroded during the next two decades by slower-than-average growth.  GDP will probably grow at an average pace of 2.5 percent
until 2030, Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev , a former central
banker, told reporters in Moscow yesterday. The economy grew 1.2
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, the worst
result since the last three months of 2009.  “The government should be the one stimulating the economy,
not the central bank,” Oleg Popov, who manages $1 billion in
Russian equities for Allianz Investments, said by phone in
Moscow. “The central bank’s key role right now is limiting the
scope of inflation growth, and so far they’ve been moderating it
quite well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  