-- SAC Pleads Guilty to Fraud, Ending Insider-Trading Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-08T21:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/sac-pleads-guilty-to-fraud-ending-insider-trading-case.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP pleaded
guilty today to  securities fraud , ending one battle with the
U.S. over insider trading as prosecutors prepare for trials of
two SAC managers that may yet put its founder,  Steven A. Cohen ,
in jeopardy.  SAC General Counsel Peter Nussbaum entered the guilty plea
to securities fraud and wire fraud today on behalf of the fund
before U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in federal court
in  Manhattan . Cohen didn’t attend the hearing. The plea hearing
is continuing.  SAC also agreed to pay a record $1.8 billion and shutter
its investment advisory business as part of an accord announced
Nov. 4 to end both a criminal prosecution and a federal money-laundering suit brought by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  The company, indicted in July, was “a veritable magnet for
market cheaters” in an insider-trading scheme that dated back
to 1999, Bharara said. The fund was being held responsible for
 insider trading  by at least eight current or former portfolio
managers and analysts who worked there, Bharara said.  Nussbaum today expressed “deep remorse” for SAC
individuals who broke the law.  “The fact is that even one person crossing the line into
illegal activity is too many,” Nussbaum told the judge.  Cohen, 57, who founded SAC in 1992, wasn’t charged in the
indictment of the  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm. He still
faces a pending administrative action filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for his alleged failure to
supervise the hedge fund’s activities.  The criminal case is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-cr-00541, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The civil case is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP,
1:13-cv-5182, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  