-- Same-Sex Couples Sue Idaho Over State Ban on Gay Marriage
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-08T19:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/same-sex-couples-sue-idaho-over-state-ban-on-gay-marriage.html
Idaho ’s bar to gay marriage was
challenged by four same-sex couples in a lawsuit filed in
federal court in Boise.  Two couples, married elsewhere, seek recognition of their
status in the state, while the other two want to establish their
right to wed. The plaintiffs, all women, contend the ban
violates their federal constitutional rights.  “Like many other couples with a lifelong commitment, the
unmarried plaintiffs are spouses in every sense, except that
Idaho law will not allow them to marry,” their attorneys said
in a complaint filed today. “In fact, under Idaho law,
solemnization of their commitment without a marriage license is
a crime.”  Idaho’s constitution was amended in 2006 to state that only
a marriage between a man and a woman is legally valid. The state
is one of 34 in the U.S. to have some form of gay marriage
prohibition in its constitution or state statutes.  Fourteen states plus the  District of Columbia  presently
allow same-sex couples to wed. Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  has
said he’ll sign legislation passed in that state this week in a
Nov. 20 ceremony at the  University of Illinois  at Chicago.  Not Served  Named as defendants in the Idaho lawsuit are Governor Butch Otter, a Republican, and Ada County Recorder  Christopher Rich ,
whose office in Boise, the state capital, is accused of
declining to issue marriage licenses to the unwed plaintiff
couples.  “It would be premature to comment,” Bob Cooper, a
spokesman for Idaho Attorney General Lawrence G. Wasden, said
today in a phone interview, adding the defendants hadn’t yet
been served with the federal court complaint.  Plaintiffs Susan Latta, a professional artist, and Traci
Ehlers, a small business owner, were married in  California  in
2008, according to the complaint. They have jointly raised two
children and have two grandchildren.  Their co-plaintiffs are Lori and Sharene Watsen, who say
they were wed in  New York  in 2011. While Sharene give birth to a
son earlier this year, Lori’s bid for adoptive rights was
rejected by an Idaho state court judge in September, they
allege.  Seeking permission to marry in state are Amber Beierle, a
state historic site manager and Idaho National Guard veteran
Rachael Robertson, who live in Boise. They’re joined by deaf-child teacher Sheila Robertson and Andrea Altmayer, a massage
therapist.  The U.S. Supreme Court in June struck down that part of the
federal Defense of Marriage Act limiting the U.S. goverment’s
recognition to only those unions of one man and one woman.  The Idaho case is Latta v. Otter, 13-cv-00482, U.S.
District Court, District of Idaho (Boise).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  