-- San Francisco Transit Sells Bonds After Strike Settled
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/san-francisco-transit-sells-bonds-after-strike-settled.html
San Francisco’s Bay Area Rapid
Transit District rode the best rally in top-grade municipal debt
since 2008 to earn historically low relative borrowing costs
after settling its longest strike in 16 years.  The nation’s fifth-busiest heavy-rail system sold $240
million in bonds this week for projects protecting against
earthquakes. Investors accepted yields below those on benchmark
bonds for the securities, which carry the highest credit
ratings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A year after voters agreed to boost levies on the state’s
highest earners, BART drew buyers seeking tax-free income while
also betting the commuter-rail system will benefit from strength
in the local economy. Bolstered by technology companies such as
Twitter Inc., San Francisco has earned its highest credit grade
in more than a decade.  “With BART settling their strike, labor won’t be an issue
for some time, and the economy in San Francisco is booming from
the tech industry,” said Dan Heckman, a fixed-income strategist
in Kansas City, Missouri, at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which
oversees $112 billion.  “They’re a very attractive issuer that’s able to get very
good investor demand in a high-income-tax state,” he said.  In Favor  Investors are favoring top-grade city and state debt on
bets that a growing economy will lead the Federal Reserve to
curb its monthly bond buying, causing interest rates to rise,
especially on securities with weaker ratings.  While the $3.7 trillion municipal market has lost 2.6
percent this year, AAA obligations have dropped 1.4 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. It would be the first
time in five years for AAAs to beat the market.  BART train operators and other employees struck for four
days beginning Oct. 18, following a walkout of similar length in
July amid disputes over pay and employee contributions to health
care and pensions. The stoppages were the longest since a six-day strike in 1997.  The Oakland-based system, which serves San Francisco and
the neighboring counties of Alameda and Contra Costa, has seen
average weekday trips rise about 10 percent since 2008, to
392,293, bond documents show. New York City Transit’s heavy-rail
network handles about 8.7 million riders, followed by systems in
 Washington ,  Chicago  and  Boston , according to data from the
American Public Transportation Association.  Benchmark Beater  Voters in 2004 decided to dedicate property-tax revenue to
pay for the earthquake-protection work. The general obligations
BART issued this week carry a Moody’s Investors Service rating
two steps above the system’s revenue debt.  In this week’s sale, BART sold 10-year tax-exempt bonds to
yield 2.61 percent, compared with about 2.68 percent on
benchmark munis, Bloomberg data show. That was a change from
sales in 2005 and 2007, when buyers demanded yields above those
on similar-maturity benchmarks.  Investors submitted orders for about six times the amount
of bonds offered, Alicia Trost, a BART spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  BART’s fiscal outlook was buoyed by the end of the strike,
Jennifer Hansen, a Standard & Poor’s analyst, wrote in assigning
a AAA rating to the debt.  “We view the fact that they have a four-year contract as a
strength,” she said in an interview. “They’ve had contentious
negotiations.”  Diversion Threat  Moody’s said that salary concessions could divert money
from maintaining and improving the 104-mile (167-kilometer)
network. Deterioration of tracks and cars “would weaken the
overall viability of the system,” Moody’s Andrew Nowicki wrote
in an Oct. 21 note.  After the tentative settlement, which included raises and
increased employee contributions toward health insurance and
pensions, Nowicki offered a more upbeat assessment.  “The conclusion of the BART strike is positive as
passenger fares are an important source of revenue,” he wrote
in an e-mail.  The contract will raise wages about 15 percent over four
years, costing BART $67 million, Trost said.  Of the agency’s $672 million in revenue this year, 56
percent comes from fares and 30 percent from sales taxes in the
service area, according to BART’s budget. The strike cost the
agency $4 million, bond documents show.  “Since you have an unlimited tax G.O., the strike was not
a concern unless it was prolonged,” said Michael Johnson,
managing director in Solana Beach,  California , of Gurtin Fixed
Income Management LLC, which manages $7.5 billion.  Tougher Tunnels  The borrowing will help bolster tunnels, bridges and
overhead tracks. The project will include strengthening the
steel-and-concrete Transbay Tube connecting San Francisco and
Oakland.  BART was out of service for just hours when the 1989 Loma
Prieta quake partially collapsed the Bay Bridge and a freeway in
Oakland. The epicenter of that magnitude-6.9 quake was about 70
miles south of Oakland, according to bond documents.  There is a 63 percent chance that one or more quakes of
magnitude 6.7 or higher will strike the area before 2038,
according to a study cited in the documents.  In the municipal market this week, localities nationwide
are selling about $6 billion in long-term debt, up from $4.9
billion last week. They’re borrowing with benchmark yields close
to the lowest since June.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield  2.69 percent , compared with
 2.6 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the interest rates, a gauge of relative value,
is about 103 percent. It compares with an average of 94 percent
since 2001. The higher the number, the cheaper munis are
compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  