-- Sanofi’s Lemtrada Drug May Be Too Risky, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-11-08T21:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/sanofi-s-lemtrada-drug-may-be-too-risky-fda-staff-says.html
Sanofi’s multiple sclerosis treatment
Lemtrada may not offer enough benefit to patients to outweigh
risks including cancer, U.S. regulators said. Securities linked
to the drug’s success plummeted.  Lemtrada’s “serious and potentially fatal safety issues,”
which include the risk of autoimmune and thyroid diseases, may
make the medicine too dangerous to approve unless there is
substantial clinical benefit shown, Food and Drug Administration
staff said in a report today. Agency reviewers also questioned
whether Sanofi conducted adequate trials to prove the annual
infusion works.  “That’s like a death sentence,” said Fabian Wenner, an
analyst with Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich, “It isn’t what
everyone expected, an issue with the safety. It seems to be a
more fundamental issue here.”  Lemtrada, approved in Europe earlier this year, was at the
center of Paris-based Sanofi’s $20 billion acquisition of
Genzyme Corp. in 2011. Shareholders who have contingent value
rights stand to receive cash payments if Lemtrada is approved.
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  plans to co-promote Lemtrada and will receive payments
based on sales.  Genzyme stockholders had received one right entitling the
owner to additional fees of as much as $14 per CVR by the end of
2020 if Sanofi met certain goals, most of them tied to the
approval and sale of Lemtrada.  The CVRs  plunged  62 percent to 77 cents at the close in New
York, their biggest one-day drop since April 2011. Sanofi fell
less than 1 percent to 78.02 euros in Paris.  ’Limited Evidence’  “The certainty of the risks of potentially lifelong
hypothyroidism, serious infusion reactions, melanoma and other
malignancies, Graves’s ophthalmopathy and other autoimmune
disorders, and prolonged increased susceptibility to infection
may not be balanced by the uncertainty that exists in the
limited evidence of the potential clinical benefits from
clinical trials that were not well-controlled,” FDA drug
reviewer John Marler wrote in the  report .  An advisory panel on Nov. 13 will discuss whether to
recommend the drug’s approval. The FDA is expected to decide
whether to clear the medicine for treating relapsing MS patients
by the end of the year.  Sanofi did submit trial evidence that showed Lemtrada had a
significant benefit, though the company’s decision to not keep
secret which patients were taking the medicine and the
subjective nature of determining whether the therapy was working
may have skewed results, Marler said.  Sanofi said it was unable to keep that information
confidential because of the differences in how the drugs,
Lemtrada and an older treatment, were given, including annual
dosing compared with three times a week. Follow-up data showed
findings consistent with clinical trial results, Sanofi said in
an e-mailed statement.  Sanofi Confident  “Our company is confident that Lemtrada offers an
important step forward in the way physicians and patients will
think about treating multiple sclerosis,” Sanofi said.  Lemtrada won European Union approval in September and the
active ingredient alemtuzumab was cleared by the FDA in 2001 to
treat a certain form of leukemia, though it is no longer for
sale.  The drug may generate sales of $691 million in 2017,
according to the average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Debilitating Disease  Multiple sclerosis is a debilitating disease that attacks
the central nervous system. Relapses, or flare-ups, are episodes
of worsening neurologic function, according to the National MS
Society.  Relapsing MS patients have 10 treatment options now with
varying degrees of efficacy at reducing relapses, said Robert
Fox, medical director at the Cleveland Clinic’s Mellen Center
for Multiple Sclerosis.  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tysabri is linked to
risk of serious brain infections. Fox compared Lemtrada to
Tysabri.  “This is not a first-line drug given the risks inherent in
the drug,” Fox said in an interview. “It is a reasonable
option for those who haven’t responded to other treatments.”
Other treatments for relapsing multiple sclerosis include
another Sanofi drug Aubagio, a daily pill; Biogen’s Tecfidera, a
twice-daily pill approved in March; and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone, a subcutaneous injection. Lemtrada
is administered through two courses of shots given a year apart.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  