-- Shanghai Raises Home Down-Payment Requirement as Prices Jump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-08T09:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/shanghai-raises-home-down-payment-requirement-after-prices-jump.html
Shanghai  raised the minimum down
payment required for buyers of a second home to 70 percent from
60 percent as  house prices  in  China ’s financial hub surge.  Counties and municipal departments should take measures to
ensure the city’s annual price-control target is met, according
to a statement on the local housing bureau’s website. The city
also tightened the qualifications required for non-local home
buyers and will increase residential land supplies, according to
the statement.  Home prices in China’s four major cities jumped the most in
September since January 2011, heightening concerns a bubble is
forming as the national government refrains from introducing
more property curbs that would hinder economic growth. Prices
surged 17 percent in Shanghai from a year earlier, the biggest
gain in the 70 cities the government tracks, only behind the 20
percent jump in the southern business hubs of Shenzhen and
Guangzhou.  “It’s more like they are gesturing that they are serious
about property curbs” after Beijing and Shenzhen’s tightening
measures, said Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based analyst at Zheshang
Securities Co. “The wait-and-see atmosphere may grow a little
bit and sales may slow a little as fewer people can buy now.”  New  home prices  excluding government-sponsored social
housing jumped 21 percent in Beijing in September from a year
earlier, defying the strictest property curbs among all cities,
according to the latest data from the National Bureau of
Statistics. The Chinese capital raised down payment for second
homes to 70 percent in March.  Local Measures  Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March stepped up a three-year
campaign to contain price gains, ordering cities with excessive
increases to raise down payments. Shenzhen made the move only on
Nov. 1. Guangzhou, now the only of the four so-called first-tier
cities that hasn’t raised down-payment requirements from 60
percent, is likely to follow suit, Dai said.  China’s average new home price surged 10.7 percent in
October from a year earlier, the most this year, as homebuyers
defied the government’s property curbs and developers offered
more high-priced apartments to tap demand, according to  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  “Fluctuations in home prices have been noticeable this
year, and upward pressure on housing prices increased recently
with rising transaction volumes,” Shanghai’s housing bureau
said in today’s statement.  The city government will crack down on price collusion and
violations of home-purchase restrictions and will take measures
to ensure the stability of the land market, according to the
statement.  Shanghai’s price-control target this year is to keep home
prices “basically stable,” according to a city government
 statement  on March 30.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  