-- Shell to Drill First Wells in $10 Billion Ukrainian Project
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-11-08T08:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/shell-to-drill-first-wells-in-10-billion-ukrainian-project-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which signed a
$10 billion shale gas deal with the Ukrainian government this
year, expects to start drilling in the Yuzivska field next year.  Shell will need to drill as many as 15 wells to complete
the initial exploration appraisal of the 8,000 square-kilometer
(3,100 square-mile) Yuzivska field in the eastern part of the
country, Graham Tiley, the country manager of Shell Ukraine,
said in an interview in Kiev on Nov. 6.  Separately, the company has also completed drilling its
first well in the Kharkiv region together with state company DK
Ukrhazvydobuvannya, a unit of NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, and is
preparing to drill two more next year, he said.  Ukraine , which depends on expensive Russian gas imports to
cover more than 60 percent of its consumption, is pushing to
develop its own reserves, both onshore and offshore, in the
 Black Sea . The government signed a production-sharing agreement
with Chevron Corp. yesterday for extraction of shale gas, and
plans to complete negotiations by the end of this year with an
Exxon Mobil Corp-led group, which includes Shell, to explore off
Ukraine’s western Black Sea coast.  Different Projects  “If you look across all these different projects, and if
you look at interests of not just Shell but major oil and gas
companies, you would say Ukraine has a good chance to boost its
output,” Tiley said. “The sector has been under-invested and I
assume over time the domestic production will increase.”  The country could hold as much as 42 trillion cubic feet
(1.2 trillion cubic meters) of shale gas, the third largest
reserve in  Europe , according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration estimate from 2011. The use of hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, upended the U.S. gas industry, which
overtook  Russia  as the biggest producer.  So far all of Shell’s projects remain in the exploration
phase, according to Tiley.  “Until we get out there, drill some wells and test them,
we simply won’t know how much of the area is going to be
commercially productive,” the executive said. “Right now the
testing phase will take some months before we have some results,
and that will be only from one well.”  When Shell and Ukraine signed the deal in January, Energy
Minister Eduard Stavytsky said $10 billion would be invested if
the geology met expectations, according to the Financial Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  