-- Simon & Schuster Drops Book on Benghazi
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-11-08T22:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/simon-schuster-drops-book-on-benghazi.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster  withdrew
a book about the 2012 attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,
Libya, following new information that undermined its credibility
and a report on CBS’s “60 Minutes.”  “We have withdrawn from publication and sale all formats
of this book, and are recommending that booksellers do the
same,” Jennifer Robinson, a spokeswoman for the publisher, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “We also are notifying accounts
that they may return the book to us.”  CBS News today apologized for a “60 Minutes” report on
the attack, which aired on Oct. 27 and was based on information
from a security contractor, Dylan Davies. He co-wrote the book,
“The Embassy House,” and appeared on “60 Minutes” under a
pseudonym, Morgan Jones, saying he was at the scene responding
to the Sept. 11, 2012, attack in which U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens was killed.  “We were wrong,” “60 Minutes” correspondent Lara Logan
said today on “CBS This Morning.” “We were misled and we were
wrong, and that’s the important thing. We have to set the record
straight and take responsibility.”  Davies’s account was questioned by The  New York  Times and
other outlets. The Times reported yesterday that Davies told the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  he wasn’t present at the
Benghazi attack.  Davies told  The Daily Beast  in a Nov. 2 interview that he
didn’t write the incident report sent to the FBI and he hadn’t
seen it.  Simon & Schuster has asked online booksellers including
Amazon.com Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes store to remove links to
the book. Consumers can return the book to the retailer for a
refund, said Adam Rothberg, a Simon & Schuster spokesman.  CBS’s publishing division contributed $80 million in
operating profit last year, about 2.7 percent of the company’s
$2.98 billion in profit, on $790 million in revenue.  CBS, based in New York and controlled by  Sumner Redstone ,
rose 3.2 percent to $58.74 at the close in New York. The shares
had advanced 54 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  