-- Slovenia Affirmed at BBB+ by Fitch, Outlook Negative
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W i n f r e y
-- 2013-11-08T17:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/slovenia-affirmed-at-bbb-by-fitch-outlook-negative.html
Slovenia’s credit rating was affirmed
at BBB+ with a negative outlook by Fitch Ratings Ltd., which
said the euro zone member’s economy will continue to contract
until next year.  Fitch said the Adriatic state’s economy would shrink 0.6
percent next year, following a 2.4 percent contraction in 2013.
It raised its estimate of how much Slovenia would have to pay to
recapitalize its mostly state-owned banking system to 4.6
billion euros ($6.1 billion), from 2.8 billion euros.  “Slovenia faces an uphill struggle to achieve fiscal
consolidation in the midst of a lingering recession,” Fitch
said in an e-mailed statement. “Fitch assumes that Slovenia
will only start recovering from mid-2014.”  Slovenia is struggling to rescue banks burdened by bad
loans equal to about a fifth of annual output after two
recessions in the past four years. The European Union is
pressuring Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s government to move
faster in recapitalizing banks as the  Finance Ministry  seeks
ways to roll over debt and pay for a widening budget deficit.  The affirmation could be positive news for a country whose
borrowing costs have neared the 7 percent level that caused some
euro-area states such as Greece and  Portugal  to seek an
international bailout.  “It could have been worse, it could have been
downgraded,” Tim Ash, the chief economist for  emerging markets 
at Standard Bank Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail.  Fitch said Slovenia’s medium-term growth potential would be
1.5 percent to 2 percent, limited by the burst of a corporate
credit bubble and weak medium-term prospects for external
demand.  The ratings company affirmed Slovenia’s country ceiling at
AA+ and its short-term foreign currency rating at F2. Moody’s
Investors Service rates Slovenia at Ba1 and Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services has it at A-.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Winfrey in Prague at 
 mwinfrey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  