-- Sony Replaces Strategy Officer After Sales Forecast Cuts
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u ,   G r a c e   H u a n g   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-11-08T08:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/sony-replaces-chief-strategy-officer-after-sales-forecast-cuts.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  replaced its chief
strategy officer a week after cutting forecasts and reporting a
surprise loss that triggered a plunge in share price.  Kenichiro Yoshida will replace Tadashi Saito as chief
strategy officer, according to a statement on the company’s
 website . Saito was appointed by President Kazuo Hirai in April
2012 to help lead a turnaround as the company lost $8 billion on
its television business during the past nine years. He will lead
the medical unit.  “The appointment of Yoshida aims to accelerate Sony’s
reform and to strengthen our management in the mid-term,” said
 Mami Imada , a spokeswoman for Sony. “It’s not a demotion for
Saito.”  Hirai is struggling to find the right strategy after Sony
last week lowered sales forecasts for TVs, cameras and computers
-- businesses that make up 22 percent of sales. Shares plunged
11 percent, paring $2.2 billion off the company’s market value,
and Moody’s Investors Service warned the  credit rating  may be
cut to junk.  Yoshida is currently President of So-net Corp., an  Internet
service provider  controlled by Sony.  “Sony is trying to strengthen their online service and it
seems quite natural to appoint someone who knows the network
well,” Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Research Institute in
Tokyo commented by phone.  Sony reported a 19.3 billion-yen ($196 million) loss in the
period ended Sept. 30, intensifying the spotlight on Hirai’s
plan to focus on games, mobile phones and imaging. An
accelerating shift by consumers to smartphones and tablets from
Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. crimped sales, while big-budget Hollywood disappointments drained the movie studio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  