-- South Africa’s Pirates Face Final Hurdle as Bayern Beckon
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-11-09T19:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/south-africa-s-pirates-face-final-hurdle-as-bayern-beckon.html
(Corrects date of match in third paragraph of story
published Nov. 8.)  South  Africa ’s Orlando Pirates are a
win away from a possible match up with Bayern Munich in soccer’s
biggest intercontinental club competition, yet the chairman
doubts the European champions could handle the rigors of
 Africa’s Champions League .  “European teams would complain,” Irvin Khoza, 65, said in
an interview on Nov. 5. “We carry everything. We bring our own
water when we travel around for away fixtures. Sometimes we take
our own food with us. When you go to Europe, it’s Eldorado, it’s
heaven.”  Pirates, from Soweto, a Johannesburg township with a
population of more than 1 million, face Egyptian defending
champions Al-Ahly in the second leg of the final of the pan-African soccer tournament in Cairo on Nov. 10, having drawn the
home leg 1-1 last week. The winner will receive $1.5 million in
prize money plus a berth in the Club World Cup in  Morocco  next
month, where they will face Bayern,  Brazil ’s Atletico Mineiro,
and Auckland City of New Zealand for a $5 million winner’s
check.  To earn the chance to add a second title to their only
previous Champions League victory in 1995, Pirates have played
15 matches in South Africa, Congo Brazzaville, Tunisia,
Democratic Republic of Congo, Zambia and the island nation of
Comoros. Their opponents Al-Ahly are seven-time champions and
unable to play domestic soccer because the league was canceled
amid political unrest in  Egypt .  Biggest Rivalry  Having conceded an away goal, Pirates start the match as
15-4 underdogs, according to Oddschecker, which collects odds
from Internet bookmakers. That means a successful $4 bet would
bring in $15 plus the original wager. Al-Ahly is the 3-4
favorites.  Pirates can trace their origins to migrant gold miners in
Soweto who formed what was then called the Orlando Boys Club in
1937. In 1970, Kaizer Motaung, a star Pirates striker, returned
from a stint in the U.S. and formed the Kaizer Chiefs in Soweto
after falling out with his former colleagues. This started South
African football’s biggest rivalry. Chiefs won the league title
last season, finishing five points ahead of third-placed
Pirates.  The animosity between the clubs was put aside on Nov. 2,
when Chiefs and other fans flocked to a sold-out Orlando stadium
for the Al-Ahly first leg wearing over-sized sunglasses, painted
miners helmets, and capes in their team’s colors. Cramped into
the 40,000-seater venue, they munched fried chicken, swigged
cold beer and blew vuvuzelas while cheering on the home team.  Piquing Interest  Pirates equalized in the 93rd minute when left back Thabo
Matlaba’s low 20-yard drive beat Al-Ahly’s goalkeeper, canceling
out a Mohammed Aboutrika free kick in the first half. The fans’
ecstatic celebrations suggested the team had already lifted the
trophy.  Orlando’s run to the final comes three years after South
Africa hosted the soccer World Cup, piquing interest in the
sport’s popularity on the continent. The television rights for
South Africa’s Premier League Soccer were sold for more than 2
billion rand ($194 million) in 2011 compared with 1.5 billion
rand four years earlier, according to league spokesman Luxolo
September.  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , Africa’s largest media company, is the
largest broadcaster of soccer matches on the continent through
its Supersport unit, according to its annual financial report.
Revenue from its pay TV division rose 20 percent to 30.26
billion rand in the year through March, the Cape Town-based
company said in the report.  Iron Duke  Supersport  has spent about 750 million rand running its
operations in the past six years, according to Brandon Foot,
head of acquisitions and legal affairs for the broadcaster.
They’ve also invested about 500 million rand in sub-Saharan
Africa outside its domestic market.  With one front tooth missing, Khoza, also known as the Iron
Duke, makes the perfect Pirates leader. The team traveled to
Tunisia for their semifinal against Esperance de Tunis via Dubai
because there were no direct flights, he said. Pirates will
return to north Africa to play Al-Ahly at the 60,000 capacity
Arab Contractors stadium in Cairo, although this time they are
chartering a flight.  “It’s hard, sometimes we must go via Europe,” Khoza said.
“When we went to play in Congo Brazzaville -- from the main
airport to where we play is about 400 kilometers (248 miles).
Fortunately, there was a landing strip where we could fly
directly. If not, we would have had to travel by bus.”  Tout Puissant Mazembe, based in the Congolese city of
Lubumbashi, reached the final of the Club World Cup in 2010 and
is Africa’s best performing team at the event to date.  “To win it this time will be the biggest achievement,”
said Khoza, who grew up in Alexandra, another Johannesburg
township. “To play against Bayern Munich is a measure of how
far we’ve gone. There are no more small teams and big teams now,
today is a different ball game altogether.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  