-- South Korea Lawmakers Pressure Government to Choose Fighter Jet
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-11-08T03:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/south-korea-lawmakers-pressure-government-to-choose-fighter-jet.html
South Korean lawmakers are pressing
defense officials to decide what jet-fighter capabilities offer
the best guard against a nuclear armed North Korea, a decision
likely to signal if  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  wins the government’s
multi-billion dollar tender.  South Korea is yet to settle an 8.3 trillion won ($7.8
billion) order for 60 jets after an almost two-year process.
Lockheed’s F-35, initially excluded due to price, was given new
life when the remaining bid from  Boeing Co. (BA)  for its F-15 Silent
Eagle was rejected in September by the Defense Ministry, which
said it needed a more technologically advanced fighter.  “We are asking the Defense Ministry and the Joint Chiefs
of Staff to quickly come up with a proposal before the budget
for next year can be finalized,” said Han Ki Ho, a ruling party
lawmaker and member of parliament’s defense committee. “The
Defense Ministry said it wants its budget for next year to be
left intact. If that budget is to be left, there has to be as
much ground justifying it.” The budget review is due to start
at the end of November.  The tender bogged down as the military threat posed by
North Korea prompted shifts in priorities after the North
launched long-range rockets, tested a third nuclear device and
threatened first strikes against South Korea and the U.S. The
delay has left the military at risk of having the funds stripped
out of the budget and finding itself short of the jets needed to
modernize an aging air force.  First Strikes  The growing tensions between the two Koreas contributed to
the South revising its defense strategy this year to include the
possibility of first strikes. President Park Geun Hye said Oct.
1 her government would hasten development of stepped-up
surveillance and improved offensive weapons. The government has
budgeted 1 trillion won next year for the plan.  The government has formed a task force of defense officials
to prepare the fighter jet decision and the group will report
back to lawmakers by the end of the month, Kim Kwang Jin, a
lawmaker for the opposition Democratic Party on both the budget
and the defense committees, said in an interview.  “The parliament has no right to choose a fighter, but it
would be responsible for the budget,” Kim said.  The military is struggling on whether to prioritize the
F-35’s radar-evading stealth technology to skirt the North’s air
defenses or the F-15’s bigger bomb payload to hit hardened
targets.  Preemptive Strike  Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said after the
tender was suspended on Sept. 24 that South Korea needs a so-called fifth-generation fighter -- a term Lockheed uses to
describe the F-35 -- to deal with the North’s threat. Purchasing
60 of the F-35s could require a further 2.2 trillion won, Kim
the lawmaker said.  The internal debate over the fighter “seems to have come
down to this: price versus stealth,” Daniel Darling, a military
markets analyst at  Forecast International Inc ., said by e-mail.
“If South Korea’s leadership feels that in order to prevent a
North Korean nuclear attack, it must conduct a preemptive
strike, then the F-35 is the best option.”  Boeing contends its F-15 would be more effective as the jet
could hit underground North Korean nuclear targets harder than
the F-35, James Armington, vice president for East Asia-Pacific
business development at Boeing’s defense unit, said in an Oct.
29 interview. Kim of the Defense Ministry has said choosing a
mix of jets is a possibility.  ‘Greater Payload’  “It’s hard to argue with Boeing’s claim that the F-15
carries a much greater payload, something that makes it a much
greater threat in the ground attack role,” James Hardy, Asia-Pacific editor for  IHS Jane’s Defence Weekly , said by e-mail.
“The main issue for the F-35 is the risk associated with buying
a platform that has yet to enter service with any air force.”  The F-35 is undergoing testing, and the U.S.,  Australia ,
 Japan  and  Israel  are among countries that have placed orders.
The F-15 features radar-absorbing materials and designs aimed at
evading detection while the single-engine F-35 has been built as
an all-angle stealth fighter, giving it broader radar-dodging
capabilities.  South Korea risks being left behind with “legacy
equipment” without the F-35, George Standridge, a Lockheed vice
president for aeronautics strategy and business development,
said in an Oct. 31 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  