-- LSR Group, Inter RAO, TMK Tumble on MSCI Deletion: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-11-08T09:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/lsr-group-inter-rao-tmk-tumble-on-msci-deletion-moscow-mover.html
LSR Group (LSRG) , a Russian property
developer, OAO Inter RAO UES, a state-run power company, and OAO
TMK fell as they were cut from an index at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , whose
gauges are tracked by investors managing about $7.5 trillion.  LSR headed for the biggest drop in more than four months,
losing 4.5 percent to 560.50 rubles by 12:43 p.m. in Moscow. The
amount of shares traded was about 1.5 times the three-month
average. Inter RAO slumped 4 percent to 0.85 kopeks, the lowest
level since March 2009. Volume was almost double the three-month
average. TMK, the world’s largest maker of pipes for the oil and
gas industry by volume, slid 2 percent to 86.56 rubles.  The three stocks were removed by MSCI in its  Russia index 
rebalancing announced late yesterday. Combined passive fund
outflows may exceed $35 million, while active funds may lose as
much as $100 million as a result of the cuts, Sberbank CIB
analysts said in an e-mailed note today. The rebalancing changes
take effect after the close on Nov. 26.  “The move we’re seeing now is purely technical since
passive and active fund managers need to adjust their
positions,” Joseph Dayan, head of markets at BCS Financial
Group in  London , said in e-mailed comments. “There are,
however, longer-term implications since these stocks fall out of
the investable universe. Falling out of the index dramatically
reduces the potential bid for the stock.”  OAO Moscow Exchange, which was added by MSCI with a 0.52
percent weighting, jumped as much as 1.7 percent before trading
up 0.1 percent at 61.08 rubles. The stock has risen 11 percent
since its February initial public offering. Inflows into Moscow
Exchange shares after the addition may reach as much as $25
million for passive funds, and as much as $75 million for active
funds, according to Sberbank CIB.  Inter RAO is the  worst performer  on the Micex this year
after losing 66 percent, while TMK has declined 5.4 percent in
the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  