-- Standard Bank Considers Sale of London Global Markets Unit
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-11-08T15:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/standard-bank-in-talks-to-sell-majority-of-london-global-markets.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , Africa’s
largest lender, said it’s in talks to sell a controlling stake
in its global markets business outside the continent.  “The principal legal entity that would form part of a
transaction is Standard Bank Plc, the group’s  London  banking
operation,” the Johannesburg-based lender said in a statement
today. The bank said it would retain a minority stake to ensure
access to the business for its African network and clients.  Standard Bank said in July it was exploring closer
cooperation with its biggest shareholder  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China  on its global markets and commodities businesses.
Standard Bank’s renewed focus on Africa and withdrawal from
other  emerging markets  weakens the case for keeping some of the
investment banking operations it runs from London, where it has
been cutting jobs to reduce costs.  Standard Bank needs to “finally wrap up the process of
exiting non-core regions and repatriating the capital,” Neville Chester, who helps oversee the equivalent of $44 billion at
 Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in Cape Town, said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Nov. 6.  Standard Bank sold the bulk of its operations in Argentina
to ICBC last year. ICBC was buying part of Standard Bank’s
London operations for $500 million, Reuters reported in July,
citing two people familiar with the matter.  Global Markets  Standard Bank’s  global markets unit  forms part of the
lender’s corporate and investment banking division. The global
markets team, with some staff in London, offers the bank’s
clients trading and other services involving foreign exchange,
interest rates, credit, equities and commodities.  The transaction only involves the global markets business
and not the lender’s wider investment and corporate banking
operations outside  Africa , Standard Bank said in a separate
statement.  Standard Bank was little changed at 124.51 rand by the
close in Johannesburg, bringing this year’s gain to 4.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  