-- Sulzer’s Stahlmann Forms Larger Service Unit in Division Shakeup
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-11-08T06:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/sulzer-s-stahlmann-forms-larger-service-unit-in-division-shakeup.html
Sulzer Chief Executive Officer Klaus Stahlmann formed new divisions for the pumpmaker as he moulds
ambitions around a sleeker company ahead of the anticipated sale
of a unit making coatings for  aircraft engines .  The Swiss company will create a new unit called Services
from the maintenance arms of a pump unit and a separate division
overhauling turbines and compressors, it said today. Sulzer will
also set up a separate water business unit within the reduced-size pumps division, which will be renamed Pumps Equipment.  The new setup, designed to make Sulzer more streamlined and
focused on its core markets, will be implemented as of January,
the Winterthur-based company said in a statement today.  Sulzer shares have declined since July as investors reacted
to reduced profit guidance and the announcement of plans to sell
Metco, which contributed 18 percent of group sales last year.
Stahlmann outlined a plan last month to cut 300 jobs to reverse
losses from under-used wastewater pump factories in  Europe .
Plans also included eliminating 100 positions at Sulzer’s
headquarters in Winterthur.  Sulzer intends to complete the sale of Metco, the world’s
largest maker of thermal spray coatings, by the first quarter of
next year, using the proceeds to fund acquisitions and organic
growth in the remaining units. Russian Billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  is Sulzer’s largest shareholder through his Renova
Group investment vehicle.  Sulzer appointed former MAN SE manager Stahlmann as chief
executive officer in February 2012 replacing Ton Buechner, who
left to become CEO of Dutch paintmaker  Akzo Nobel NV. (AKZA)   In addition to Metco, Sulzer may carve out its Chemtech
unit, which makes equipment for oil refineries, and list it on
the stock exchange, Handelszeitung reported Oct. 31, without
saying where it got the information. Sulzer has no plans to
further change its portfolio, company spokeswoman Verena Goelkel
said at the time.  Sulzer entered the wastewater pumps business by acquiring
Cardo Flow Solutions in 2011. It paid $935 million to  Assa Abloy
AB (ASSAB)  for the business in a deal brokered by Buechner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  