-- Suntech Tops Slump on Restructuring Woes: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-11-08T21:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/suntech-tops-weekly-slump-on-restructuring-woes-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks retreated in  New York 
this week as  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  plunged to a six-month
low on concern the solar company will fail to pay back overseas
bondholders.  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. added 1.1 percent to 100.88 yesterday, paring
a loss this week to 2.1 percent. Suntech extended its weekly
slump to 60 percent, the biggest on record. Xinyuan Real Estate
Co. retreated 6.6 percent to trim its gain for the year to 79
percent, while real-estate information website  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN)  jumped as T.H. Capital LLC recommended buying the shares.  Suntech, the solar-panel maker whose  China  unit entered
bankruptcy in March, filed for a provisional liquidation in
Cayman Islands this week and asked for protection in the U.S.
The company said its restructuring involves a debt-for-equity
swap and the entry of a strategic investor. Changzhou-based
Shunfeng Photovoltaic International Ltd. said in a Nov. 1 filing
it agreed to buy Suntech’s main unit for $492 million. The
company said it had about $1.8 billion in debt on Aug. 14.  “It seems more and more likely that the proceeds of the
sale of Suntech’s Chinese assets will go to Chinese debt
holders, while the assets are not worth the debt owed,” Jenny
Chase, head of solar analysis at researcher Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said by e-mail. “The bankruptcy of the  Cayman Islands 
unit reduces the chances that overseas investors will be able to
make a meaningful claim on the company’s Chinese assets.”  Solar Default  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 2.6 percent this week to
$36.84 in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5
percent to 1,770.61 in a fifth week of gains, as a better-than-forecast jobs report added to signs growth is strong enough for
the economy to withstand a stimulus reduction.  Suntech’s American depositary receipts plunged 39 percent
yesterday to 53 cents, extending its drop into the fifth
consecutive week. The slump has taken its loss this year to 65
percent, after dropping 31 percent in 2012.  Suntech was the world’s biggest solar panel maker when it
defaulted on a $541 million equity-linked bond in March. That
forced the Wuxi Suntech unit into bankruptcy proceedings in
China. Holders of those bonds asked the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
the Southern District of New York to push Suntech into Chapter 7
proceedings, and the company said in papers filed Nov. 6 the
bankruptcy petition against it in the U.S. could derail its
restructuring efforts.  Buy Recommendation  SouFun, which owns the biggest real-estate information
website in China, surged 11 percent to $57.19, the biggest jump
in two months.  T.H. Capital lifted its recommendation on SouFun’s ADRs to
buy from hold in a note yesterday after the company reported
better-than-estimated profit for the third quarter. Citigroup
Inc. raised its price estimate for Soufun by 12 percent to $80.3
in a note yesterday, reiterating a buy recommendation.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong , dropped
2.7 percent this week to 10,390.73, while the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 2 percent to a two-month low of 2,106.13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  