-- Super Typhoon Haiyan Strikes Philippines, Thousands Evacuated
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p ,   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-11-08T05:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/super-typhoon-haiyan-strikes-philippines-thousands-evacuated.html
Philippine authorities evacuated
thousands of people, canceled flights and shut schools and
businesses as Super Typhoon Haiyan slammed into the Southeast
Asian nation.  About 125,600 people in 22 provinces were evacuated, the
disaster agency said today. Haiyan had maximum sustained winds
of 235 kilometers (146 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 275
kilometers an hour when it struck the eastern province of Samar
this morning, according to the nation’s weather bureau.  Haiyan is “the strongest tropical cyclone  on record  to
make landfall,” said   Jeff Masters , founder of  Weather
Underground  in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . Using average estimates of
the Philippine weather bureau and the Joint Typhoon Weather
Center, Masters said the storm had winds of between 190 and 195
miles per hour at landfall.  More than 20 areas, mostly on the island group of Visayas,
which suffered a  7.2-magnitude  earthquake last month, were on
the highest storm alert. President  Benigno Aquino , in a
televised address last night, warned of serious danger and said
Haiyan may cause worse damage than storm Bopha, which killed
more than 1,000 people in Mindanao in December.  Schools suspended all classes in 44 cities, the government
said on its website. The nation’s financial markets are open
today even as Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla said “there’s a need to closely monitor” the
situation.  Haiyan may inundate rivers, create mudflows and cause storm
surges as high as 6 meters (20 feet), Aquino said. Three air
force cargo planes, two navy ships, as well as helicopters and
relief boats are on standby, the president said.  Canceled Flights  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB) , the nation’s largest budget carrier,
canceled 125 domestic flights and four international flights
from today to Nov. 9, it said yesterday. Philippine Airlines
Inc.  canceled  26 local flights and three international flights
today, it said on its Facebook account. About 2,000 passengers,
50 vessels and 557 rolling cargoes are now stranded in various
seaports, the disaster agency said today.  China Banking Corp. (CHIB)  suspended operations at 47 branches to
ensure the safety of employees and clients, it said. The Bureau
of Customs will suspend work from 3 p.m, while courts in the
Philippine capital will be shut by noon.  The Philippines, battered by about 20 cyclones a year, was
the nation most affected by natural disasters last year, with
more than 2,000 people killed, according to the Brussels-based
 Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters .  Economic Impact  Typhoon Haiyan’s total economic impact may reach $14
billion, with the insured portion probably almost $2 billion,
according to a report by Jonathan Adams, a senior analyst at
Bloomberg Industries, citing Kinetic Analysis Corp.  Monsoon rains swamped more than half of the  Manila  region
in  August , causing at least 27 deaths and shutting offices and
financial markets for two days.  Heavy rains from storms usually cause the highest death
tolls on the Philippines, Masters said. Flooding may not be the
worst threat with Haiyan because of the speed at which it’s
moving, he said. Still, high winds and storm surges have the
potential to cause catastrophic damage, he said.  “We’re swamped with calls for help,” Southern Leyte
Governor Roger Mercado said in an interview over DZMM radio.
Strong winds uprooted trees in the province, he said.  Power Losses  Visayan Electric Co. Inc., the second-largest electric
utility in the country servicing Cebu province, said it stopped
operations in its its franchise area for safety purposes. Bohol
province, which relies on neighboring Leyte for electricity, is
without power today, Herminigildo Gargar, a police officer, said
by phone.  The  Philippines  government has provided 195 million pesos
($4.5 million) of relief supplies to be used for Samar and Leyte
islands in the Visayas, Communications Secretary Sonny Coloma
said in Manila yesterday.  The strongest tropical cyclone on record was Super Typhoon
Nancy in 1961 with top winds of 215 miles per hour, Masters
said. The strongest storm to hit land was Camille, which went
ashore in  Mississippi  with winds near 195 mph, according to
Masters.  Haiyan will head out to Philippine waters tonight after
crossing land, with “heavy to intense” rainfall expected
within its 400-kilometer radius, weather forecaster Aldczar
Aurelio said in a televised briefing.  After crossing the Philippines, Haiyan is expected to
approach  Vietnam , according to the Japanese Meteorological
Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Baizhen at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net  