-- Swaps-Secrets Demands Said to Put Brakes on EU’s Antitrust Probe
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-11-08T15:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/swaps-secrets-demands-said-to-put-brakes-on-eu-s-antitrust-probe.html
The European Union’s antitrust probe
into credit derivatives trading by 13 of the world’s biggest
banks stalled after the lenders’ lawyers won the right to see
confidential information compiled by investigators.  The banks asked to see business secrets about their rivals
in EU files to help them fight a formal antitrust complaint sent
in  July , according to five people familiar with the probe who
asked not to be identified because the process isn’t public.
Meeting the requests may add about four months to the
investigation, after the EU extended its deadline for responses
to the so-called statement of objections, two people said.  “A decision before the end of Competition Commissioner
Joaquin Almunia’s term would be possible, but in reality pretty
difficult,” said Jacquelyn MacLennan, a lawyer at White & Case
LLP in Brussels, who’s not involved in the case. “This is not a
settlement case but a full procedure,” so wrapping it up before
Oct. 31 next year “is a challenge.”  The credit-default swaps probe, which includes  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. (RBS) , is one of two  priority  EU investigations into
financial institutions. Almunia is poised to fine many of the
same banks for rigging benchmarks including the London interbank
offered rate in a scandal that’s tarnished the reputation of
lenders seeking to recover from the biggest financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  Antoine Colombani, Almunia’s spokesman at the European
Commission in Brussels, declined to comment.  Compromise Solution  The commission was required to grant access to potentially
confidential data after lawyers in the CDS probe argued the
information was vital given the complexity of the case, the
people said. Such data would be evidence in the commission’s
file, such as e-mails and other messages for which business
secrecy was claimed, one person said.  After lengthy discussions, the EU agreed to distribute DVDs
to lawyers with the sensitive data in exchange for pledges to
protect the information. This process, known as a virtual data-room, is used only in exceptional circumstances, according to EU
guidelines  Once lawyers have finished reviewing the information they
would go back to the commission and seek further permission for
parts of it to be shared with their clients, said the person.
It’s then up to the commission to allow this or not.  Substantial Delay  “If the commission has agreed to provide additional access
to file to one party, it will need to provide the same access to
all the other parties,” MacLennan said. “That could delay the
case substantially, since the commission needs to identify what
it plans to provide. All the addressees will need sufficient
time to receive and review the new information and respond.”  The delays are the second time the investigation has been
thrown off track by confidential-data issues.  Earlier in the case, business secrets were disclosed when
the EU regulator shared information on the antitrust file with
the banks in the probe, plus data provider Markit Group Ltd. and
the International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  Company lawyers failed to redact the private information,
the commission said. After the unintended data leak was
discovered, recipients were told by the EU to destroy the
information without reading it.  In the underlying probe, the EU accused the 13 banks as
well as Markit and ISDA of working together to prevent  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange from entering the
credit-derivatives business from 2006 to 2009.  Index Benchmarks  The EU authority said it suspected that “the banks
controlling” ISDA and Markit instructed them to prevent the two
exchanges from obtaining licenses for data and index benchmarks
in order to keep derivatives business in the over-the-counter
market.  The entry of exchanges would have reduced banks’ revenues
from acting as intermediaries in the over-the-counter market,
the regulator said.  The EU announced the CDS probe on April 29, 2011, -- the
same day that U.K. staff at British banks Barclays, HSBC and RBS
had a public holiday to celebrate the wedding of Prince William
and Catherine Middleton.  European lenders  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are also under investigation, along
with U.S. banks  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and Bear Stearns Cos., which JPMorgan acquired in 2008.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Markit in selling information to the financial-services
industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  