-- U.K. Regulator Rejects Thames Water 8% Rate Hike Request
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2013-11-08T17:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/u-k-regulator-rejects-thames-water-8-rate-hike-request.html
Thames Water Utilities Ltd.’s request
to tack 8 percent onto the bills of its 14 million  London  area
customers to pay for clients’ bad debt and a sewage project has
been formally rejected by the U.K. water regulator.  Ofwat said today that the company’s bid to raise bills an
extra 29 pounds ($46) next year was excessive to cover unpaid
debt and a 25-kilometer (16-mile) tunnel Thames Water says is
crucial to modernize a Victorian-era sewage system that
sometimes sends raw effluent into London’s famed waterway.  The U.K. has been pressing water suppliers to rein in price
increases as the battle over inflation-beating energy bills has
spread to water providers. With the rejection, Thames Water can
still raise bills 1.4 percent above the retail price index
inflation, now 3.2 percent, so customers face a potential 4.6
percent increase from April.  “We said we would challenge Thames’s application, in the
interests of customers,” Ofwat Chief Regulation Officer Sonia
Brown said in a statement. “We did just that and on the
evidence provided, we are not convinced that an extra bill
increase is justified.”  While the decision is final, Ofwat said Thames Water has
the right to appeal to the U.K.’s Competition Commission. The
company will “review the decision carefully before deciding on
our next steps,” Craig Rance, a spokesman, said today.  Tunnel Project  The rejection has the potential to put plans by the U.K.’s
largest water supplier at risk to build the 4.1 billion-pound
Thames Tideway Tunnel.  Political pressure meanwhile has risen on U.K. water
companies to review price increases after Ofwat asked whether
suppliers need to apply for the full rises allowed.  That shows the challenges water companies face amid “the
difficult environment in which the sector now operates, with
affordability of utility bills high on the political agenda,”
Moody’s Investors Service said today in a statement.  Opposition Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said his party would
introduce new tariffs in the water industry to lessen strains on
the poor as he sought to address cost of living concerns,
including his plans to freeze energy prices until 2017.  Britain’s attempt to limit water bills is taking place as
four of the six largest energy suppliers boosted gas and power
prices last month at three to four times the inflation rate.
Water is the latest battleground for the government over the
cost of living after Labour pledged a 20-month price freeze on
energy bills should it win the next general election in 2015.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives are behind
Miliband’s party by about 7 percentage points in opinion polls.  Average water and sewage household bills will rise 3.5
percent from 354 pounds this year, according to Ofwat. Unlike
energy suppliers where customers can switch companies, consumers
can’t choose their water provider.  Average increases since 2009 have been in line with
inflation and in water and sewer bills now cost just over 1
pound a day. Ofwat is undertaking a review that controls prices
companies can charge for the 2015-2020 period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  