-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed as U.S. Payrolls Jump
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-11-08T16:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/u-k-stocks-decline-before-u-s-employment-report.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed,
erasing earlier losses, after a report showed U.S. payrolls
increased in October more than forecast.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  jumped 8
percent after raising its full-year profit forecast.  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RR/)  added 3.4 percent after lifting the profit outlook
for its aerospace defense unit.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) 
and  Schroders Plc (SDR)  dropped at least 2 percent each, following
European financial-services peers lower.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  rose 11.2 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,708.42
at the close of trading in London, after earlier losing as much
as 0.7 percent. The index trimmed its weekly decline to 0.4
percent. It climbed 4.2 percent in October as U.S. lawmakers
agreed to extend the country’s borrowing authority and the Fed
maintained stimulus measures. The FTSE All-Share Index gained
0.1 percent today, and Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.2 percent.  “We seem to have returned to some form of market normality
where a very positive piece of macro data, in this case a better
than expected non-farm payrolls number, has led to the markets
being better bid,” Alex Young, sales trader at CMC Markets U.K.
in London, said in e-mailed comments.  U.S. payrolls increased in October more than forecast,
Labor Department figures showed today. The addition of 204,000
workers last month followed a revised 163,000 gain in September.
The median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 120,000 advance. The  unemployment rate  rose to 7.3
percent from an almost five-year low.  ‘Sense Prevailed’  “The initial reaction was typically volatile as the market
took the good news as a signal to aggressively sell with
expectations that this may be the indicator that forces the
Fed’s hand into switching the liquidity tap off,” Young said.
“The sell-off was short lived, however, as sense prevailed with
the realization that good news may very well be just that, as
the market now genuinely believes that even without the Fed’s
help we may very well be out of the woods.”  Data yesterday showed the world’s biggest economy expanded
at a faster-than-estimated pace in the third quarter. The Fed
last week said it needs to see more evidence of sustained
economic improvement before slowing the pace of its $85 billion
monthly bond purchases.  A Bloomberg News survey last month showed economists
expected quantitative easing to continue for several months. The
Fed won’t begin tapering bond buying until March and will
continue its purchases until October, according to the median
estimate of 40 analysts in that poll.  France Downgraded  Standard & Poor’s  lowered  France ’s long-term foreign and
local-currency credit rating one step to AA from AA+ today, with
a stable outlook. The ratings company said slower growth will
constrain the government’s ability to improve public finances.  The  yield  on France’s 10-year government bond expiring in
2023 increased 6.9 basis points to 2.22 percent. Since S&P’s
first downgrade on Jan. 13, 2012, French  government bonds 
returned more than 10 percent, according to the Bloomberg France
Sovereign Bond Index.  IAG jumped 8 percent to 376.9 pence, its highest price in
six years, after saying it expects full-year operating profit of
about 740 million euros ($993 million), compared with a previous
forecast that it would at least equal 2011’s 485 million euros.
The British Airways parent said third-quarter operating profit
before one-time items rose to 690 million euros from 270 million
euros a year earlier.  Rolls-Royce advanced 3.4 percent to 1,210 pence after the
world’s second-biggest maker of commercial  jet engines  said its
defense aerospace subsidiary will see “modest growth” this
year rather than “broadly flat” profit.  Merlin Jumps  Merlin Entertainments Plc (MERL)  surged 10 percent to 347 pence on
its first day of trading. The owner of Madame Tussauds, backed
by Blackstone Group LP, CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Kirkbi
A/S, said it raised about 957 million pounds in the initial
public offering. The amount could rise to 1.05 billion pounds
including an over-allotment option, Merlin said.  Aberdeen Asset Management,  Scotland ’s biggest fund manager,
slid 4.6 percent to 422.2 pence and Schroders, the U.K.’s
largest publicly-traded money manager, declined 2.1 percent to
2,438 pence. A gauge of financial-services companies posted the
 worst performance  of 19 groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  