-- U.S. Loses Unesco Vote for Halting Dues Over Palestinians
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-11-08T20:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/u-s-loses-unesco-vote-for-halting-dues-over-palestinians.html
The U.S. lost its voting rights at a
United Nations organization it co-founded in 1945, after missing
today’s deadline to repay dues it halted after Unesco accepted
 Palestine  as a full member.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration stopped providing
$80 million a year to the Paris-based United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in October
2011 because of U.S. laws that bar funding for any UN agency
that gives Palestinians the same status as a nation.  The U.S. had until this morning to keep its vote on matters
before Unesco’s general membership by paying back dues or
explaining itself, according to the agency’s constitution.  Suspension of U.S. funding, which accounted for about 22
percent of Unesco’s operating budget, pushed the UN cultural
body into a  financial crisis , forcing it to cut or scale back
programs. Unesco’s budget fell to $507 million for 2014-2015
from $653 million for 2012-2013.  Without changes in U.S. laws, Palestinian membership in
other UN organizations could hinder the international body’s
education, clean water and literacy programs.  “The U.S. lost the vote because of our own policy
choice,” said Esther Brimmer, a former U.S. assistant secretary
of state for international organizations. “The U.S. will be
pushed out of other organizations if the Palestinians or their
allies, more likely their allies, choose to put their issue on
the agenda.”  “The U.S. is putting itself into a corner and we need to
get out of that corner,” said Brimmer, now a professor at
George Washington University’s Elliot School of International
Affairs. “If Palestinians were to improve their status in
another UN organization, the U.S. will be forced to withhold its
funds.”  National Interest  A 1990  law  prohibits funding “the UN or any specialized
agency thereof which accords the  Palestine Liberation
Organization  the same standing as  member states .”  A second  law  passed four years later, bars “voluntary or
assessed contribution to any affiliated organization of the UN
which grants full membership as a state to any organization or
group that does not have the internationally recognized
attributes of statehood.”  Unesco is the only UN organization in which Palestinians
have the  voting rights  accorded to member states. Last year, the
Palestinians were upgraded to status as an “observer state” of
the UN, allowing them to join other UN agencies and sign
treaties without the right to vote on resolutions.  The lost vote “is not a loss of U.S. membership” in
Unesco, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in an e-mailed statement. “The U.S. intends to continue its engagement
with Unesco in every possible way.”  The U.S. can attend meetings, participate in debates and
will continue to have a vote on the agency’s executive board,
where it will remain a member until 2015, Psaki said.  Obama has requested congressional approval to continue dues
payments to UN agencies that admit the Palestinians when it’s in
the U.S. national interest and “remains committed to that
goal,” Psaki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  