-- Mental Health Coverage Expanded to Most Insurance Plans
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-08T18:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/u-s-said-to-announce-new-rule-for-mental-health-coverage.html
Insurers will be required to cover
mental illness to the same degree as physical ailments as the
Obama administration moves forward with the largest U.S.
expansion of behavioral health care in a generation.  Five years after the Mental Health Parity act was passed,
and almost a year after the Sandy Hook shooting,  regulations  to
fully implement the law were released today. The new rules mean
insurers won’t be able to charge higher co-payments or
deductibles for mental illness or limit the duration of care.  Failures in treating mental illness have swelled the
workload of police and pushed more emotionally disturbed people
into emergency rooms, where they are less likely to get proper
care. The new rules expand or protect behavioral health benefits
for more than 60 million people,  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S.
health secretary, said at an event today in Atlanta.  “The parity law, which also applies to policies sold
through the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act, is a
milestone that recognizes how integral mental health is to
overall health and ends discrimination,” said David Shern,
interim president and chief executive officer of Mental Health
America, a lobbying group based in Alexandria, Virginia.  The Obama administration also considers the rules to be a
chief component of an effort to  reduce gun violence . The White
House included improving mental  health services  as one of 23
executive actions to combat gun violence after 26 children and
adults were killed in a December shooting at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut .  Personal Toll  “The personal toll for families and individuals is beyond
their experience,” Sebelius said today. “This is a personal
toll that we take on as a country to help people achieve the
promise of recovery.”  A common theme in many of the nation’s worst mass shootings
is the gunman’s history of mental illness, including in Newtown,
as well as massacres at the Washington Navy Yard this year; at
an Aurora, Colorado, movie theater in 2012;and at the Virginia
Tech campus in 2007.  “People with mental illness, they’re far more likely to be
victims of a crime than they are to be perpetrators, but we
believe the incident highlighted how much untreated mental
illness there is in this country,” Sarah Bianchi, the director
of economic and domestic policy for Vice President  Joe Biden ,
said on a conference call with reporters.  Newtown Promise  Bianchi said the Obama administration has “finished or
made significant progress” on all 23 of its post-Newtown
promises by issuing the regulation.  The rules issued today will provide the most definitive
regulatory standard to date for implementing the Mental Health
Parity Act of 2008, which then-President  George W. Bush  signed
into law. Bush left office in 2009 without his administration
ever writing rules to implement the core part of that law.
President  Barack Obama ’s administration issued interim rules in
2010 that still left many aspects of the law open to
interpretation.  In January, largely in response to the Newtown shooting,
Obama said he would issue final rules this year.  The complexity of the issue, coupled with passage of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2010 that included
a new set of “essential health benefits” for insurance plans,
delayed the final rule on mental illness, one government
official said. The person wasn’t authorized to discuss the
postponement and asked not to be identified.  Health Law  “Countless Americans will be safer and healthier because
these rules will enable victims of painful and debilitating
mental health conditions to seek treatment before they actually
commit harm to others,” Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a
Connecticut Democrat, said on a conference call with reporters.
He held a hearing by a subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary
Committee yesterday that questioned the delay.  Patrick Kennedy , the former Democratic congressman from
 Rhode Island  who was a sponsor of the mental health law, today
said the rules could be meaningless unless insurers are forced
to obey them.  “The rule really is only as good as the monitoring and
enforcement that goes along with it,” he said on the Blumenthal
conference call.  The rules apply to almost all health plans in the nation
including new ones sold under the health-care overall known as
Obamacare.  Sebelius and Obama face criticism from Republicans and some
in their own party for the faltering debut of the Obamacare
insurance exchanges. The federal website to sell insurance,
healthcare.gov, remains plagued by errors and stalls that
prevent many people from signing up.  Obama apologized yesterday in an interview with NBC News to
people who have seen their current health plans canceled, as
insurers replace them with plans that comply with the new law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  