-- U.S. Stocks Rise for Week as Economy Trumps Fed Concern
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-11-08T23:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/u-s-stocks-rise-for-week-as-economy-trumps-fed-concern.html
U.S.  stocks  rose for the week, giving
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index the longest winning streak since
February, as signs of a stronger economy overshadowed concern
the Federal Reserve will scale back stimulus.  Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  rallied 60 percent since its initial public
offering on Nov. 7. Gap Inc. jumped 13 percent after reporting
preliminary profit higher than analyst estimates. U.S. Steel
Corp. advanced 7 percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said demand
for the metal is recovering.  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  slumped 7.5
percent after cutting its 2014 profit forecast. Tesla Motors
Inc. lost 15 percent after sales missed some estimates and a
vehicle fire raised safety concerns.  The S&P 500 increased 0.5 percent to 1,770.61 over the five
days, extending the benchmark index’s rally to a fifth straight
week, the longest advance since Feb. 15. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average added 146.23 points, or 0.9 percent, to close
the week at a record 15,761.78.  “On a near-term basis tapering is a concern for stocks,
but on a longer-term basis it’s actually a positive because it
reflects the underlying strength of the U.S. economy,” Phil Orlando, New York-based chief equity strategist at Federated
Investors, said by phone. His firm manages about $380 billion in
assets. “The equity market appears to be correctly focused on
the fact that underlying economic strength is starting to
accelerate, which means that corporate earnings could pick up
next year versus this year.”  Equities fluctuated this week as investors weighed evidence
the U.S. economic recovery is accelerating against the
possibility the Fed may reduce stimulus in coming months.  Economic Strength  Stocks rose Nov. 6 after Fed officials said in two separate
papers the central bank should maintain a loose monetary policy
to support economic growth. The S&P 500 fell 1.3 percent the
following day, its biggest decline since August, as data showed
gross domestic product rose faster in the third quarter than
economists forecast. The index erased that loss on the final day
of the week as a Labor Department report showed payrolls
increased more than forecast in October.  Central bank stimulus has helped the  S&P 500 surge  more
than 160 percent from its bear-market low in 2009. The benchmark
gauge is up 24 percent this year, poised for the best annual
gain since 2003. The rally pushed the S&P 500’s valuation to 16
times estimated earnings, the highest multiple in almost four
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Fed said last month it needs to see more evidence of
sustained economic improvement before slowing its $85 billion of
monthly asset purchases. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
project that tapering will begin in March, based on the median
estimate.  ‘Getting Closer’  “We’re getting closer to that point where the markets are
not going to be completely dependent upon Fed stimulus,” Erik Davidson, the San Francisco-based deputy chief investment
officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank, which oversees $170
billion, said by phone. “You have these all-time highs, combine
that with a correction-less rally -- people are a little bit on
edge.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , the
gauge of S&P 500 options prices known as the VIX, slid 2.9
percent to 12.90, after two weeks of gains. The measure is down
28 percent this year.  Seven out of the 10 main industries in the S&P 500 advanced
for the week. Raw-materials producers, financial and energy
companies climbed more than 1 percent to pace gains. Phone
companies lost 2.1 percent for the steepest decline.  Earnings Season  Whole Foods and Ralph Lauren Corp. were among 80 companies
that announced results for the week. Of the 449 companies that
have reported this season, 75 percent exceeded analysts’
predictions for profit, while 54 percent  beat  sales estimates,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Profits for members of the
gauge probably increased 4.7 percent in the third quarter as
sales climbed 3.2 percent, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The third quarter just knocked it out of the park,”
Jerry Braakman, chief investment officer of First American Trust
in Santa Ana,  California , said by phone. “There’s no reason for
us to believe that the fourth-quarter earnings aren’t going to
meet or exceed expectations as well.”  Twitter soared 60 percent to $41.65 over two days, surging
73 percent in its market debut and retreating 7.2 percent the
following day. The short-messaging service, while unprofitable,
is benefiting from investors’ thirst for companies that will
grow quickly in expanding markets like mobile advertising.
Twitter draws 70 percent of revenue from mobile advertising,
compared with about half for Facebook Inc.  Facebook slipped 4.5 percent to $47.53 for the week.  Potential Changes  Microsoft Corp. gained 6.3 percent to $37.78. Rick
Sherlund, a Nomura analyst, increased his share-price forecast
to $45 from $40, citing potential changes under a new chief
executive officer, including a disposal of Microsoft’s business
in consumer products such as the Bing search engine and Xbox
game console.  Gap rallied 13 percent to $41.43. The biggest U.S.
specialty-apparel retailer anticipates quarterly profit that
surpassed analysts’ estimates, helped by gains in sales.  U.S. Steel climbed 7 percent to $27.59 and AK Steel Holding
Corp. increased 17 percent to $5.38. Both stocks were raised to
buy from sell by Goldman Sachs analyst Sal Tharani. Demand for
American steel is heading to a “sustainable recovery” over
coming years, he wrote in a note, boosting the rating on the
industry to neutral from cautious.  Organic Competition  Whole Foods, the largest natural-foods grocer in the U.S.,
lost 7.5 percent to $58.55. Sales at stores open at least a year
rose 5.9 percent in the fiscal fourth quarter, the slowest
growth in 15 quarters. The company is facing increased
competition from expanding organic and natural-food sellers
including Fairway Group Holdings Corp. and Sprouts Farmers
Market Inc.  Ralph Lauren (RL)  rose 2.7 percent to $173.42. The company said
it now expects full-year revenue to grow more than 5 percent, up
from an earlier projection of an increase of at least 4 percent.
Ralph Lauren raised its quarterly dividend to 45 cents a share
from 40 cents.  Tesla, the electric-car maker led by Elon Musk, plunged 15
percent to $137.95 after reporting vehicle sales that missed
some analysts’ estimates. One of the company’s Model S sedans
also caught fire after an accident in  Tennessee , the third such
incident in five weeks, prompting a safety advocate to call on
U.S. regulators to examine the luxury electric car.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  fell 6.9 percent to $34.37. The
retailer’s third-quarter sales trailed analysts’ estimates as
teens restrained spending on clothing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in  New York  at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  