-- U.S. Employment Situation Report for October (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-11-08T13:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/u-s-employment-situation-report-for-october-text-.html
Following is the text of the October
employment report from the Labor Department.  THE EMPLOYMENT SITUATION -- OCTOBER 2013  Total nonfarm payroll employment rose by 204,000 in October, and
the unemployment rate was little changed at 7.3 percent, the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today. Employment
increased in leisure and hospitality, retail trade, professional
and technical services, manufacturing, and health care.  Household Survey Data  Both the number of unemployed persons, at 11.3 million, and the
unemployment rate, at 7.3 percent, changed little in October.
Among the unemployed, however, the number who reported being on
temporary layoff increased by 448,000. This figure includes
furloughed federal employees who were classified as unemployed
on temporary layoff under the definitions used in the household
survey. (Estimates of the unemployed by reason, such as
temporary layoff and job leavers, do not sum to the official
seasonally adjusted measure of total unemployed because they are
independently seasonally adjusted.) For more information on the
classification of workers affected by the federal government
shutdown, see the box note.  Among the major worker groups, the unemployment rates for adult
men (7.0 percent), adult women (6.4 percent), teenagers (22.2
percent), whites (6.3 percent), blacks (13.1 percent), and
Hispanics (9.1 percent) showed little or no change in October.
The jobless rate for Asians was 5.2 percent (not seasonally
adjusted), little changed from a year earlier.  The number of long-term unemployed (those jobless for 27 weeks
or more) was little changed at 4.1 million in October. These
individuals accounted for 36.1 percent of the unemployed. The
number of long-term unemployed has declined by 954,000 over the
year.  The civilian labor force was down by 720,000 in October. The
labor force participation rate fell by 0.4 percentage point to
62.8 percent over the month. Total employment as measured by the
household survey fell by 735,000 over the month and the
employment-population ratio declined by 0.3 percentage point to
58.3 percent. This employment decline partly reflected a decline
in federal government employment.  The number of persons employed part time for economic reasons
(sometimes referred to as involuntary part-time workers) was
little changed at 8.1 million in October. These individuals were
working part time because their hours had been cut back or
because they were unable to find a full-time job.  In October, 2.3 million persons were marginally attached to the
labor force, little changed from 2.4 million a year earlier.
(The data are not seasonally adjusted.) These individuals were
not in the labor force, wanted and were available for work, and
had looked for a job sometime in the prior 12 months. They were
not counted as unemployed because they had not searched for work
in the 4 weeks preceding the survey.  Among the marginally attached, there were 815,000 discouraged
workers in October, essentially unchanged from a year earlier.
(The data are not seasonally adjusted.) Discouraged workers are
persons not currently looking for work because they believe no
jobs are available for them. The remaining 1.5 million persons
marginally attached to the labor force in October had not
searched for work for reasons such as school attendance or
family responsibilities.  Establishment Survey Data  Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 204,000 in
October. Job growth averaged 190,000 per month over the prior 12
months. In October, job gains occurred in leisure and
hospitality, retail trade, professional and technical services,
manufacturing, and health care. Federal government employment
continued to trend down. There were no discernible impacts of
the partial federal government shutdown on the estimates of
employment, hours, and earnings from the establishment survey.  Leisure and hospitality employment rose by 53,000 in October.
Within the industry, employment in food services and drinking
places increased by 29,000, the same as its average monthly gain
over the prior 12 months.  Employment in retail trade increased by 44,000 in October,
compared with an average monthly gain of 31,000 over the prior
12 months. Job growth was widespread within the industry in
October, with gains in food and beverage stores (+12,000),
electronics and appliance stores (+10,000), sporting goods and
hobby stores (+8,000), general merchandise stores (+8,000), and
building material and garden supply stores (+7,000). Clothing
and clothing accessories stores lost 13,000 jobs.  Professional and technical services employment rose in October
(+21,000) and has grown by 213,000 over the past 12 months.
Within the industry, employment in management and technical
consulting services rose by 8,000 in October.  Manufacturing added 19,000 jobs in October, with job growth
occurring in motor vehicles and parts (+6,000), wood products
(+3,000), and furniture and related products (+3,000). On net,
manufacturing employment has changed little since February 2013.  Health care employment increased over the month (+15,000). Job
growth in health care has averaged 17,000 per month thus far
this year, compared with an average monthly gain of 27,000 in
2012.  In October, employment showed little or no change elsewhere in
the private sector, including mining and logging, construction,
wholesale trade, transportation and warehousing, information,
and financial activities.  Federal government employment declined by 12,000 in October.
Over the past 12 months, federal government employment has
decreased by 94,000. Federal employees on furlough during the
partial government shutdown were still considered employed in
the payroll survey because they worked or received pay for the
pay period that included the 12th of the month. For more
information on the classification of workers affected by the
partial federal government shutdown, see the box note.  The average workweek for all employees on private nonfarm
payrolls was unchanged in October at 34.4 hours. The
manufacturing workweek was 40.9 hours, the same as in September,
and factory overtime was unchanged at 3.4 hours. The average
workweek for production and nonsupervisory employees on private
nonfarm payrolls edged down by 0.1 hour to 33.6 hours.  In October, average hourly earnings for all employees on private
nonfarm payrolls edged up by 2 cents to $24.10. Over the year,
average hourly earnings have risen by 52 cents, or 2.2 percent.
In October, average hourly earnings of production and
nonsupervisory employees edged up by 2 cents to $20.26.  The change in total nonfarm payroll employment for August was
revised from +193,000 to +238,000, and the change for September
was revised from +148,000 to +163,000. With these revisions,
employment gains in August and September combined were 60,000
higher than previously reported.  ____________
The Employment Situation for November is scheduled to be
released on Friday, December 6, 2013, at 8:30 a.m. (EST).  Partial Federal Government Shutdown  Some agencies of the federal government were shut down or
were operating at reduced staffing levels from October 1, 2013,
through October 16, 2013. All household and establishment survey
operations, including data collection, were suspended during
that time period. Shortly after the shutdown ended, October data
for both surveys began. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)
delayed the publication of this release by 1 week to allow
enough time to collect data. The reference periods for the
surveys were not changed. The response rate for the household
survey was within its normal range, and the response rate for
the establishment survey was above average.  In the household survey, individuals are classified as
employed, unemployed, or not in the labor force based on their
answers to a series of questions about their activities during
the survey reference week. Workers who indicate that they were
not working during the entire survey reference week and expected
to be recalled to their jobs should be classified in the
household survey as unemployed on temporary layoff. In October
2013, there was an increase in the number of federal workers who
were classified as unemployed on temporary layoff. However,
there also was an increase in the number of federal workers who
were classified as employed but absent from work. BLS analysis
of the data indicates that this group included federal workers
affected by the shutdown who also should have been classified as
unemployed on temporary layoff. Such a misclassification is an
example of nonsampling error and can occur when respondents
misunderstand questions or interviewers record answers
incorrectly. According to usual practice, the data from the
household survey are accepted as recorded. To maintain data
integrity, no ad hoc actions taken to reassign survey responses.  It should be noted that household survey data for federal
workers are available only on a not seasonally adjusted basis.
As a result, over-the-month changes in federal worker data
cannot be compared with seasonally adjusted over-the-month changes in total employed and unemployed.  In the establishment survey, businesses report the number of
people who work or receive pay for any part of the pay period
that includes the 12th of the month. Persons who work or receive
pay for any part of the pay period are defined as employed. This
method of classifying workers is the same in all industries,
including the federal government. Federal employees on furlough
during the partial federal government shutdown were still
considered employed in the payroll survey because they worked or
received pay for the pay period that included the 12th of the
month.  Additional information is available online at  www.bls.gov/bls/shutdown_2013_empsit_qa.pdf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  