-- Ukraine Debt Rating Cut by Fitch as Foreign Funding Squeezed
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-11-08T18:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/ukraine-credit-rating-cut-by-fitch-as-foreign-funding-squeezed.html
Ukraine’s credit grade was cut to the
same level as Greece and Cyprus by  Fitch Ratings , which cited
the eastern European nation’s strained external finances.  Fitch lowered its assessment of Ukraine’s long-term foreign
and local-currency sovereign debt rating one step to B-, six
levels below investment grade, according to a statement today
from  London . It assigned a negative outlook, indicating the
rating may be cut further into junk territory.  The decision “reflects an increasingly fragile external
financing position and constraints on the sovereign’s ability to
borrow in foreign currency to refinance heavy external debt
repayments through 2014-2015,” Fitch said in the statement.  Ukraine is in the midst of its third recession since 2008
amid falling global demand for products such as steel, a
widening current-account gap, shrinking foreign reserves and
trade restrictions from Russia. Fitch’s move is Ukraine’s second
downgrade this month after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its credit
grade to B- on Nov. 1. Moody’s Investor Service lowered its
rating to Caa1 in September.  The cost of credit-default swaps to insure Ukrainian debt
against non-payment for five years jumped 15 basis points to
1,009 as of 7:26 p.m. in the capital, Kiev, after surging to
1,089 points on Sept. 27, the highest since January 2010. The
yield on Ukraine’s benchmark dollar bond due 2023 climbed 18
basis points to 9.83 percent.  Locked Out  With yields approaching 10 percent, Ukraine “effectively”
has no access to international bond markets, according to Fitch.
That puts the government’s plan to raise $4 billion in
international bond markets in 2014 at risk, it said.  Ukraine has failed to agree on International Monetary Fund
financing of about $15 billion in more than a year of talks,
with officials rejecting demands by the lender to cut household
heating subsidies as President  Viktor Yanukovych  prepares for
elections in 2015.  Ukraine’s economy shrank for a second quarter between July
and September as industrial production plummeted amid weaker
demand for exports such as steel. Gross domestic product fell
0.4 percent from the previous three months after contracting 0.5
percent between April and June. The economy will stagnate this
year and will grow 1.5 percent next year, Fitch forecasts.  Foreign reserves fell to $20.63 billion in October, the
lowest since 2006, from $21.94 billion the previous month, data
released yesterday showed.  Losing Confidence  With net external capital flows unlikely to be sufficient
to finance the current-account gap, reserves will decline
further, “increasing the risk of a loss of domestic confidence
and sharp exchange-rate depreciation,” Fitch said.  Ukraine is seeking to sign an association agreement with
the European Union at a Nov. 28-29 summit, a step that’s angered
 Russia  and triggered threats of trade blockages. The deal is not
certain, with the 28-member bloc seeking the release of jailed
ex-Premier Yuliya Tymoshenko, whose conviction it’s described as
selective justice.  “If Ukraine fails to sign the” agreement with the EU,
“they face a real risk of a full-blown economic and financial
crisis,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-market economist at Standard
Bank Group Ltd. in London, said by e-mail. “It’s struggling to
finance twin deficits in an increasingly challenging global
financing environment. Signing the agreement is the only way out
for Yanukovych.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  