-- Tullett Falls as Revenue Drops Amid ‘Challenging’ Conditions
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-08T17:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/tullett-tumbles-as-revenue-drops-amid-challenging-conditions.html
Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  tumbled the most
in four months in  London  trading after the inter-dealer broker
reported a drop in sales, citing a “challenging” market.  Revenue fell 9 percent to 252 million pounds ($406 million)
in the four months to October and 5 percent this year as
activity in the financial markets “remained subdued,” the
company said in a statement today.  The shares  fell as much as
7.8 percent.  “It is difficult to see any good news for Tullett” in the
short term,  James Hamilton , a London-based analyst at Numis
Corp., said in a note to clients today. “We believe the banks
will continue to reduce trading activities and restrict the
growth of their balance sheets. The direction of travel for
regulation is also unhelpful.”  Inter-dealer brokers such as Tullett and ICAP Plc act as a
go-between for banks that trade bonds, stocks, currencies,
energy and derivatives and typically handle more trades during
periods of greater market volatility. Profits have been squeezed
as regulators push more trading onto exchanges and financial
markets struggle to shake off the euro area’s debt crisis.  The stock fell 3.3 percent to 307.4 pence at the close in
London, trimming its gain this year to 22 percent. Competitor
 ICAP (IAP)  has also gained 22 percent.  Tullett, which said its financial position “remains
strong,” has also been hurt by mounting costs from legal action
against competitor BGC Partners Inc. and former employees. The
company disclosed a further 3.5 million pounds in legal fees
since the end of June, taking the total cost so far this year to
13.8 million pounds, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sarah Jones} in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  