-- Nadal Keeps Perfect Start as Wawrinka Makes ATP Tennis Semifinal
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-09T00:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/wawrinka-stakes-claim-for-atp-tennis-semis-with-win-over-ferrer.html
Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  beat  Tomas Berdych  yesterday to maintain his perfect start at the season
finale of men’s tennis as  Switzerland ’s Stanislas Wawrinka won
to join the Spaniard in the semifinals.  Nadal defeated the Czech player 6-4, 1-6, 6-3 in his final
Group A match in the ATP World Tour Finals at London’s O2 arena,
ending Berdych’s tournament. Earlier in the day, seventh seed
Wawrinka gave  Spain ’s  David Ferrer  his third loss with a 6-7
(3-7), 6-4, 6-1 victory. Wawrinka had to wait for Nadal’s win to
guarantee his spot in the semifinals.  Only one semifinal position remains undecided in the
season-ending tournament that brings together the world’s top
eight men. In Group B, defending champion and No. 2 ranked Novak Djokovic qualified two days ago. Six-time winner Roger Federer
and Juan Martin del Potro will play today for the last berth.
 Richard Gasquet  is already out.  “Any opponent will be very difficult,” Nadal said. “We
are playing against the best players of the world. So if it’s
del Potro, if it is Federer, both players know very well how to
beat me, in this surface especially.”  Nadal, a 13-time Grand Slam singles champion, secured his
place in the knockout portion of the tournament with straight-set wins against Ferrer and Wawrinka. He clinched his third
victory even though he struggled against fifth-seeded Berdych.  The Spaniard took the opening set with a single break of
serve before Berdych tied it with a second set in which he won
88 percent of points on his first serve.  The final set stayed on serve until Berdych, 28, serving at
3-4, gave Nadal three break points. He saved the first but lost
the game on the second break point, allowing Nadal to serve out
his victory.  Never Won  Nadal, 27, has never won the season-ending tournament. A
title in  London  would be his 11th of the year, matching his
career-best tally. He clinched the top ranking through the end
of the year after his first two matches at the O2. He rejoined
the tour in February following seven months out injured.  Wawrinka, of Switzerland, is having his best season.
Yesterday’s victory was his 51st of 2013, a personal record, and
he’s guaranteed to finish the year as a top-10 player for the
first time.  Making his first appearance in the season finale, the 28-year-old had to come from behind to get past third seed Ferrer,
who was playing at his fifth ATP finals. Serving at 5-3, he
squandered a chance to win the first set and went on to lose it
in a tiebreaker.  Doubles Results  An early service break in the second set allowed him to
even the match, before three breaks of serve and a 90 percent
points-won record on his first serve enabled him to complete the
comeback. Wawrinka beat Berdych and lost to Nadal in his other
round-robin matches.  In the doubles, second seeds Alexander Peya and Bruno
Soares defeated David Marrero and Fernando Verdasco 6-3, 7-5 in
Group B. Both pairs qualified for the semifinals. Earlier,
defending champions Marcel Granollers and Marc Lopez beat
Leander Paes and  Radek Stepanek  in three sets, but the win
wasn’t enough to keep them in the tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  