-- Wells Fargo Broker Head Shifts Advisers From Stock Picks
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-11-08T19:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/wells-fargo-broker-head-shifts-advisers-from-stock-picks.html
Mary Mack,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s new
brokerage chief, plans to put more retail clients into managed
accounts as the largest U.S. firms nudge advisers away from
picking individual stocks.  Customers at Wells Fargo Advisors now rely more on
investment choices made by the bank than by their brokers, a
trend that probably will continue, said Mack, who takes control
of the unit when Danny Ludeman, 56, retires from the San
Francisco-based bank on Jan. 1.  “Many clients will benefit from an advisory relationship,
so we have continued to see that mix shift,” Mack, 51, said in
an Oct. 30 interview in New York. “The managed side has
definitely grown.”  Brokers are losing some influence on investment choices as
the  largest U.S. banks  seek to tighten their grip on clients and
make it harder for advisers to take along customers and assets
if they defect. Centrally managed accounts with broader holdings
also make it less likely that brokers can violate rules against
putting customers into single securities that may be unsuitable.  Client funds that go into managed accounts are typically
entrusted to money managers at investment firms or in the bank’s
corporate office who oversee diversified portfolios. Brokers
participate by selecting managers, rather than  individual stocks 
or bonds. Wells Fargo works with managers including BlackRock
Inc., Franklin Templeton Investments and  MFS Investment
Management , Raschelle Burton, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail.  Managed Accounts  Assets in managed accounts at Wells Fargo rose 18 percent
to $331 billion last year, an amount still dwarfed by those at
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Bank of America Corp. , owners of the world’s
two largest brokerages. Morgan Stanley had $627 billion in
managed accounts as of June 30 and Bank of America had $469
billion, according to Boston-based Cerulli Associates.  Wells Fargo, run by Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf ,
60, is the biggest U.S. home lender and the nation’s most
valuable bank by market value. Expansion of managed-account
assets outpaced the increase in total client assets, which rose
8 percent to $1.3 trillion. The wealth, brokerage and retirement
unit contributed about 15 percent of Wells Fargo’s revenue
through the first nine months and about 7 percent of its profit.  Wells Fargo  rose 1.9 percent  to $42.51 at 1:51 p.m. in New
York. The shares climbed 22 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing the 24 percent advance of the 24-company KBW Bank
Index.  Client Loyalty  Managed accounts bolster customer loyalty and foster a
willingness to pay for advice, Mack said. Clients typically are
charged an annual percentage fee based on client assets, she
said.  Clients looking to get full advice and delegate the
decisions “are those who are most willing to hire the financial
adviser for whatever the fee arrangement is,” Mack said.  Firms want more control after customer complaints about bad
investments surged in the wake of the financial crisis. That’s
turning brokers into salespeople who promote the firm’s
offerings, rather than provide clients expertise on which stocks
and bonds to buy, said Brian Rezny, president of Rezny Wealth
Management Inc. in Naples,  Florida .  “They want their brokers selling,” said Rezny, who
manages $100 million. “They don’t want them spending any time
on the  management  side of things.”  Customers filed 1,769 disputes last year about
misrepresentation and 1,354 for suitability, according to
industrywide data from the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That compares with 3,408 and 2,473 in 2009. Some
disputes can be counted in both categories.  Wells Fargo doesn’t discourage  stock-picking  as a strategy
as long as it’s best for clients, Mack said.  “It’s a role that has shifted,” she said. “The
conversations are less about individual stock positions and more
about the clients’ goals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  