-- Twitter IPO Likely Sign of Risk Tolerance, Oaktree Chairman Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-11-08T03:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/twitter-ipo-likely-sign-of-risk-tolerance-oaktree-chairman-says.html
Twitter Inc.’s (TWTR)  initial public
offering may have signaled the return of risk tolerance that
should prompt professional investors to pause,  Oaktree Capital
Group LLC (OAK)  Chairman Howard Marks said.  Rising risk appetite in financial markets has reinforced
the cautious approach that Oaktree, the world’s largest
distressed-debt investor, has taken in the last two years, Marks
said in an interview in Hong Kong. Still, the economic outlook
and asset prices do not yet justify mass selling of assets, he
added.  Twitter  raised  $1.82 billion in pricing its IPO at a higher
valuation than Facebook Inc., as investors paid a premium for
its promises of fast growth. The San Francisco-based company,
which is unprofitable and has one-fifth as many users as
Facebook, surged 73 percent on the first day of trading in New
York, the biggest one-day gain for an IPO that raised more than
$1 billion since Alibaba.com Ltd.’s debut in 2007.  “When the punters who were chastened in the crash crawl
out of their caves and begin to punt again, then you have to
wonder about the extent of risk tolerance in the environment,”
Marks said. “When risk tolerance becomes widespread, then
prudent professionals like us tend to become more
conservative.”  Twitter closed at $44.90 in New York from the IPO price of
$26. The stock touched a  high  of $50 earlier in the day.  ‘Emotional Buying’  The current price  valued  Twitter at 22 times estimated 2014
sales, compared to Facebook’s 11.2 times, according to analyst
 projections  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company received orders for about 30 times as many
shares as it offered at the IPO price, a person with knowledge
of the matter said.  Twitter’s IPO fever “feels like emotional buying,” Marks
said during a separate interview with Bloomberg Television
today.  “The Twitter IPO will be one piece of evidence that the
race to the bottom has resumed,” said Marks, referencing a memo
to investors he wrote in February 2007, called The Race to the
Bottom, about how people engage in aggressive behavior when they
are unafraid and moving up the risk curve.  Twitter may have priced the IPO a bit cheap to ensure IPO
success, attract public attention and set a momentum for the
stock, Marks said, adding that he questions if the company would
have priced the IPO at half of its true worth.  Describing the U.S. economic recovery as “gradual” and
“unsteady,” Marks said investors are still waiting to see
momentum in economic growth.  “My mantra for Oaktree for the last two years has been
move forward but with caution,” Marks said. “This rising level
of risk tolerance in the environment amplifies that feeling on
our part.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  