-- WTI Crude Trades Near Five-Month Low in New York
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-11-08T13:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/wti-trims-fifth-weekly-loss-as-investors-weigh-u-s-economy-data.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
near a five-month low on signs markets are oversupplied despite
an economic recovery in the U.S., the world’s largest oil user.  Futures were little changed today and for the week in  New
York , after a run of four weekly losses. U.S. crude inventories
are at their highest in almost five months and 2.5 percent above
year-ago levels, data from the Energy Department shows. Payrolls
in the U.S. increased more than forecast in October, a sign that
employers were optimistic the world’s biggest economy would
weather the effects of the federal government shutdown,
according to the Labor Department.  “For several weeks now we’ve seen higher supply and that
weighs on the WTI price,” said Hans van Cleef, an energy
economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam, who sees WTI
weakening to average $90 a barrel next year. “That’s despite
the pick-up in demand from the U.S. economic recovery. The
economic picture is turning in the right direction in the U.S.,
but prices will decline even further because of oversupply.”  WTI for December delivery traded for $94.34 a barrel, up 14
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:37 p.m. London time. It settled at $93.37 on Nov. 5, the
lowest close since June 4. The volume of all WTI futures traded
was 27 percent lower than the 100-day average.  Brent for December settlement traded 40 cents higher at
$103.86 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $9.58 to WTI. The
spread was $9.26 yesterday, the narrowest closing level since
Oct. 25.  Price Survey  The addition of 204,000 workers followed a revised 163,000
gain in September that was larger than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
120,000 advance. The jobless rate rose to 7.3 percent from an
almost five-year low.  Prices may decline next week as crude inventories increase
amid rising production, according to a Bloomberg survey. Sixteen
of 25 analysts and traders, or 64 percent, predicted WTI will
drop through Nov. 15. Five respondents projected a gain and four
said prices will be unchanged.  WTI slid 0.6 percent yesterday amid concern the  Federal
Reserve  may scale back stimulus, reducing demand for
commodities. The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 2.8 percent
annualized rate last quarter, Commerce Department data showed.
That exceeded the median economist forecast for 2 percent growth
and is more than a 2.5 percent gain in the second quarter.  Daily U.S.  crude output  climbed to 7.9 million barrels as
of Oct. 18, the fastest rate since March 1989, according to the
Energy Information Administration. It has since slipped to 7.86
million barrels a day. Stockpiles of crude increased to 385.4
million last week, the highest level since June 21.  Negative Picture  “The clear trend in recent weeks has been a reasonably
negative picture, with oil production building up and a
reasonably disappointing start to the beginning of winter,”
said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “We’ll have to see what happens in the next couple of
weeks.”  Oil will trade between $100 and $110 a barrel for the rest
of the year, a “comfortable” level for producers and
consumers, the head of OPEC said yesterday.  The oil market is unlikely to become oversupplied, OPEC’s
secretary-general, Abdalla El-Badri, said in Vienna yesterday.  Global demand for crude from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will fall by 1.1 million barrels a day to
29.2 million through 2018, the group said in its annual World
Oil Outlook, citing a surge in North American shale production.
OPEC’s 12 members pump about 40 percent of the world’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  