-- Brent Crude Rises as Kerry Tempers Expectations on Iran
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-11-08T20:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-08/wti-crude-advances-as-u-s-payrolls-increase-more-than-expected.html
Brent crude rose for the first time
in four days as U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry tempered
expectations of a possible deal over  Iran ’s nuclear work.  The European benchmark gained 1.6 percent after Kerry said
that there are “some important gaps” in reaching an accord
that would ease sanctions against Iran’s oil exports in exchange
for concessions on its nuclear work. He spoke in Geneva during
an unscheduled stop for the talks. West Texas Intermediate
advanced less than Brent as better-than-expected jobs data
fueled worry that the Federal Reserve will scale back stimulus.  “It’s not clear if the Iranians can deliver enough for the
West to reduce sanctions,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in St. Louis,
which oversees $1.4 billion. “Kerry added a dose of reality to
expectations that probably have gotten ahead of themselves. The
market is reacting to that reality.”  Brent for December settlement gained $1.66 to end the
session at $105.12 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The volume of all futures was 44 percent above the
100-day average at 2:52 p.m. in New York. Prices dropped 0.8
percent this week.  WTI for December delivery rose 40 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
settle at $94.60 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The volume was 39 percent lower than the 100-day average. Prices
slipped 1 cent this week, a fifth consecutive decline. They
reached at $93.37 on Nov. 5, the lowest close since June 4.  WTI-Brent  Brent was at a premium of $10.52 to WTI. The spread was
$9.26 yesterday, the narrowest closing level since Oct. 25.  There is “not an agreement at this point in time,” Kerry
said. “We hope to try to narrow those differences but I don’t
think anybody should mistake that there are some important gaps
that have to be closed.”  Kerry joined counterparts from  France ,  Germany  and the
U.K., who also arrived today in Geneva. During two days of talks
the Swiss city, the world powers have edged closer to an accord
over Iran’s disputed nuclear program. While all the details have
yet to be worked out, a framework has been agreed upon, Iranian
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said yesterday in an
interview.  International sanctions have hindered Iran’s ability to
export oil. The Islamic republic, the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’ second-biggest producer in June 2012, was
in sixth place last month, according to a Bloomberg survey of
companies.  Geneva Talks  The embargo has cost the country about  $100 billion  in
foreign investment and oil revenue, a report by the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace estimated in April.  “If they sign something in Geneva, that would be pretty
bearish for oil,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.  The possible easing of tension came as OPEC predicted a
decline in need for its own crude amid rising production from in
North America.  Demand from the group, which produces about 40 percent of
the world’s oil, will fall by 1.1 million barrels a day to 29.2
million barrels a day between 2013 and 2018, OPEC said yesterday
in its annual World Oil Outlook.  U.S.  supplies  of crude oil increased 1.58 million barrels
to 385.4 million in the week ended Nov. 1, the most since June
21, the Energy Information Administration reported on Nov. 6.
Output rose to 7.896 million barrels a day in the week ended
Oct. 18, the most since March 1989, according to the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  U.S. Payrolls  Employers added 204,000 workers in October, the Labor
Department reported, higher than the 120,000 gain forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The data came as the Fed
considers when to dial back $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases.  The Fed said last month that it needs more evidence of
better economic growth before it can reduce bond purchases. The
central bank left unchanged its statement that it probably will
hold its target interest rate near zero “at least as long as”
unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent.  The dollar strengthened as much as 0.8 percent to $1.3318
per euro on speculation the Fed will reduce stimulus. A stronger
dollar diminishes crude’s investment appeal.  Economic Sign  “The jobs report is a good economic sign,” said Chris Barber, a senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “Most signals are pointing to the
economy improving and it’s good for oil demand. But it’s also
making the Fed more likely to cut back.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
January was 17.7 percent, down from 19.2 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 398,491
contracts as of 2:36 p.m. It totaled 553,399 contracts
yesterday, 4.6 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.73 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  