-- 
Afghan Gold, Ivory Dazzle in British Museum Exhibition: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-03-07T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/afghan-gold-ivory-treasures-dazzle-in-british-museum-show-martin-gayford.html
Senior political figures appeared at
the opening reception for the  British Museum ’s new exhibition
  Afghanistan : Crossroads of the Ancient World.” Speeches were
made by the U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  and Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai , the latter dressed in his trademark
robes. Other leading politicians were in the audience.  This confirmed -- if confirmation were needed -- that
Afghanistan is a hot political topic. The exhibition
demonstrates that this territory has been important, and
intermittently wealthy, for millennia. Some of the items on show
are eye-poppingly spectacular and also beautiful: quantities of
golden jewelry from the 1st century A.D., sensuous ivory
carvings from India, glassware made in ancient  Egypt .  The recent history of these objects has been turbulent.
They are treasures from the National Museum in Kabul, all of
which have escaped two decades of looting and bombing plus
deliberate iconoclastic destruction by the Taliban.  An estimated 70 percent of the museum’s collection
disappeared during 20 years of war and Taliban rule.
Miraculously, many of the finest items survived. Some, including
the astonishing hoard of precious artifacts found at Tillya Tepe
(“the Hill of Gold”) were hidden in a vault beneath the
presidential palace, re-emerging only in 2004. Others, looted
from the museum, were recovered on the art market.  Cultural Friction  Looking further back, these works tell a story of cultural
fusion and friction. Globalization is nothing new, yet you
seldom see such compelling evidence as the so-called Bagram
Treasure.  Now the site of a huge U.S. base, Bagram was a city in
ancient times. In the 1930s, French archaeologists found an
astonishing cache of items there. It was either a royal
treasury, hidden away in times of trouble or -- more likely --
an art dealer’s stock from the early centuries A.D. Among the
objects was a Roman toy aquarium made of bronze, in which metal
fish would float, waggling their fins, when it was filled with
water.  Glass beakers from Bagram are painted with figures
resembling Pompeian frescoes. Most remarkable -- indeed the most
beautiful exhibits in the show -- were a series of ivory
carvings resembling the styles of southern  India . It is easy to
imagine what would have happened to these full-breasted, hip-
swaying female figures if they’d been discovered by the Taliban.  Alexander’s Legacy  The Bagram treasures make the point that Afghanistan is a
point of cultural interchange, where currents from India,  Europe ,  China ,  Iran , Central Asia and the Middle East all met.
Even more startling, historically, are the finds from Ai Khanum,
a Greek colony founded around 300 B.C. by one of the successors
of Alexander the Great. Following his conquests, for over a
century a Greek empire covered much of the territory of modern
Afghanistan. On show are pieces of classical architecture and
sculpture that you might expect to see in  Greece  itself or  Italy .  Finally, there are items found at Tillya Tepe by a Russian-
Afghan archaeological expedition in 1978, just before the Soviet
invasion. They are the personal adornments of nomads from the
Asian Steppe, buried in northern Afghanistan 2,000 years ago.
This is bling of the highest quality: a delicate, fold-away
golden crown, bracelets, clasps and pendants borrowing motifs
and mythological figures from Greece and Iran.  Everything in the exhibition speaks of cultural
interchange, and often also of conflict. Where cultures meet,
they may collide. That’s the history of Afghanistan.  “Afghanistan: Crossroads of the Ancient World” is at the  British Museum , London, through July 3. The exhibition is
supported by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Information:
 http://www.britishmuseum.org .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 