-- 
Talking Chimp Falls for Human Trainer in Forbidden Sex Comedy

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-03-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/talking-chimp-falls-for-human-trainer-in-forbidden-sex-comedy.html
“ The Evolution of Bruno
Littlemore ” tells the story of a chimpanzee who falls in love
with the scientist training him, has an affair with her and, in
the process, learns to speak. I don’t think it would be going
out on a limb to call the subject matter daring.  Nor do I think many readers could get far into this first-
time novel and disagree that its author,  Benjamin Hale , is a
terrific talent. He’s devised a voice for Bruno, his simian
narrator, that owes something to Nabokov and something to the
comic pomposity that John Kennedy Toole brought to Ignatius J.
Reilly in “ A Confederacy of Dunces .”  Bruno, too, is a bilious observer of the world around him.
And not just the human world: He shudders at other chimps, with
their “declasse habit of knuckle-walking.” He looks down his
(nonexistent) nose at his family in a Chicago zoo, where, as he
remembers it, “my poor dull downtrodden mother” would “comb
the bits of filth out of my back fur” while only a few feet
away his father copulated with his aunt. “You’d think I grew up
in Appalachia.”  He’s no kinder to the human society that scorns him, even
though he wants to belong to it so desperately that he submits
to a nose job. More than once he quotes  Shakespeare ’s monster
Caliban: “You taught me language, and my profit on it is, I
know how to curse.”  That language is a grandiloquent wonder. (Describing a
janitor’s gait: “The sound of his footsteps consisted of: one,
the clomping boots; two, the whapping chain; and three, the
tintinnabulation of the keys.”) Bruno can be hilarious and he
can be deadly.  Great Describer  What he can’t be is brief. “There’s simply too much to
say,” he laments, but that doesn’t keep him from trying.
Nothing goes undescribed. I started to worry around page 100,
when I arrived at an 11-page description of an apartment that
Bruno (or his creator) sticks in just to show how good a
describer he is.  By page 200 I was losing patience. By page 500 my eyes were
glazed. The author must have gotten such a charge out of what he
was writing that he lost sight of why he was writing. The story
moves from satire to sex comedy to idyll to sex tragedy to
thriller and back to comedy. By the end the only firm attribute
I could put my finger on was its punishing length.  The characters, except for Bruno, range from cliches to
cartoons. Satire demands a keen edge, but when all the world is
mean to Bruno the book goes soft, tugging at our pity.  Limits of Tolerance  And anyway, I wasn’t convinced by the cruelty. A talking
ape is a wonder that, I’m fairly confident, human beings would
greet with delight, not boredom, irritation and sadism.  As for what Bruno calls “my sexual perversion” -- “I
love women, and I am a chimp” -- well, it’s certainly a bizarre
idea, and it opens the way to some valid (I guess) commentary on
prejudice and the limits of tolerance. But I doubt that many
readers are going to find it sexy. Not to mention fun.  “The Evolution of Bruno Littlemore” is published by
Twelve (578 pages, $25.99). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .    Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 