-- 
U.S. Beware, P.J. Harvey Plans Invasion With British War Songs

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-03-07T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/america-beware-p-j-harvey-plans-invasion-with-british-war-songs-review.html
P.J. Harvey is going for the Pre-
Raphaelite Valkyrie look. Her all-white dress is all folds and
creases. A corset hugs her tightly, the bottom few of its many
arms hanging loose like spare, protruding, broken ribs.  The creation is topped with a headdress of black feathers
entangled in her flowing hair. The British singer is all dressed
up and ready to conquer America, armed with an acclaimed concept
album, “Let England Shake,” a meditation on war that says all
isn’t well with the old country on the other side of the pond.  P.J., 41, is a sensation at home though hasn’t really made
it in  New York , even after her 2000 album inspired by the Big
Apple, “Stories from the City, Stories from the Sea.”  That may change in 2011. Impressive recent performances in
the U.K. -- Harvey dressed in the Gothic bride creation -- will
be followed by dates in  San Francisco , the Coachella festival
and New York in April, then more European dates.  In concert, the new album is reproduced faithfully,
enhanced even. Its 12 songs are interspersed with selected older
numbers, “The Devil,” “The Sky Lit Up,” “Meet Ze Monsta”,
which share Harvey’s current obsessions.  The woman born Polly Jean Harvey gives her songs a visceral
presence onstage, playing guitars and an autoharp as her voice
gains vulnerability.  On disc, this hard urgency would have been too much. Live,
it is compulsive, with Jean-Marc Butty on drums, Mick Harvey and
John Parish multitasking on a range of guitars and keyboards.
They wear the overcoats of a generation that would have fought
in trenches, apt for the songs about wartime.  The plaintive cadences of “England” or the compulsive
chant of “The Words That Maketh Murder” lead to the dark
battlefields detailed in the lyrics.  P.J. Harvey doesn’t make the easiest music. Her sound is to
abrasive, her lyrics too intense to enter the mainstream. Her
gigs are not for a simple fun night out. Still, there is a power
in the music that, for all the manifest differences, matches
that of prime  Bob Dylan . Those who see her current show will be
rewarded with an experience to keep.  Rating: ***½.  Download fees vary across services. Harvey’s CD is on
Island Records, priced from $12.98 in the U.S. and 8.99 pounds
in the U.K.  Information:  http://www.pjharvey.net/   Harvey plays San Francisco on April 14, Coachella on April
17 and Terminal 5, New York, on April 20. Her European tour
continues in May starting in Lisbon and Amsterdam. She also has
summer shows in Arras,  France ; Ferrara,  Italy ; and  London .    Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 