-- 
American Airlines Plans $1 Billion Debt Offering as Jet Fuel Costs Surge

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-03-07T18:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/american-airlines-plans-1-billion-debt-offering-as-jef-fuel-costs-surge.html
  American Airlines  Inc., the third-
largest U.S. carrier, plans to sell $1 billion of senior notes
as the cost to protect the debt of parent company  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
increases amid surging fuel costs.  The private offering will be secured by routes, takeoff and
landing slots and rights to use space in airport terminals,  Fort
Worth , Texas-based AMR said today in a statement distributed by
PR Newswire. Proceeds will be used for general corporate
purposes and AMR expects to guarantee the notes.  The airline is seeking to take advantage of plunging
borrowing costs for U.S. corporations even as jet-fuel prices
have jumped almost 30 percent since the start of the year, to
$3.30 a gallon. The carrier is also in contract negotiations
with its pilots, flight attendants, baggage handlers and ramp
workers, who are seeking pay increases. Fuel and labor are
airlines’ largest costs.  “There’s plenty of appetite out there,” for corporate
debt said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  The cost to protect AMR debt using credit-default swaps
rose 0.6 percentage point to 15.5 percent upfront today,
according to data provider CMA, as the cost of oil surged amid
fighting in  Libya . That’s in addition to 5 percent a year,
meaning it would cost $1.55 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of the company’s debt.  Crude oil for April delivery rose $1.32 to $105.74 a barrel
at 12:58 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
touched $106.95, the highest intraday prices since Sept. 26,
2008. The contract is up 29 percent from a year ago.  Bond Collateral  The sale of the American Airlines notes due in 2016 will be
managed by Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., according to a person familiar with the offering,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  The carrier posted as collateral routes, takeoff and
landing slots and gates at airports including  London Heathrow ,
Tokyo’s Narita and Haneda, Beijing and  Shanghai  that had a
combined appraised value of at least $2.37 billion, said the
person.  AMR rose 5 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $6.19 at 12:43 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen about 21 percent this year.  The carrier is graded Caa1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
seven levels below investment grade and one step higher at B- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Funding Maturities  The company has to make about $2.5 billion of principal
payments on long-term debt and capital leases this year, and may
spend an additional $1.6 billion on  capital expenditures ,
including aircraft commitments, according to a regulatory
filing.  “American Airlines has a lot of debt coming due this year,
so a lot of this is likely to fund those maturities,” LeBas
said.  The company last sold bonds in January, when it issued $657
million of securities backed by jets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Companies from  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  to DirectTV are
also planning debt offerings as relative borrowing costs in the
U.S. decline.  Borrowing Costs  Relative yields on U.S. corporate bonds have shrunk 28
basis points this year to 223 basis points, or 2.23 percentage
points, as of March 4, after declining 33 basis points in all of
2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads
reached 218 basis points on Feb. 21, the narrowest since Oct.
31, 2007.  Yields on speculative-grade debt fell to a record low of
7.29 percent on Feb. 22, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  Hertz, the largest publicly traded U.S. rental-car service,
said it plans to offer $300 million of 6.75 percent senior notes
due in 2019. Proceeds will be used to redeem some of its 8.875
percent senior notes due in 2014.  DirectTV, the largest U.S. satellite-television provider,
may sell 5-, 10- and 30-year unsecured bonds today, according to
a person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds may be used to
repurchase shares, the company said in a regulatory filing that
didn’t specify the maturity or size of the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  