-- 
Chelsea Wins 3-1 at Blackpool to Maintain Premier League Soccer Revival

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-08T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/lampard-scores-twice-as-chelsea-wins-3-1-at-blackpool-in-premier-league.html
  Frank Lampard  said Chelsea still has
an outside chance of defending its Premier League soccer title
after his two goals lifted the Blues to a 3-1 win at Blackpool.  Lampard scored twice in the second half to put Chelsea 3-0
up at Bloomfield Road last night after captain John Terry had
given his team the lead with a 20th-minute header.  The win lifts Chelsea to 51 points, nine behind league
leader Manchester United having played one game fewer. United
has lost its past two games, while second-place Arsenal has 57
points after a 0-0 draw at home with Sunderland three days ago.  “It is a long shot and we have a lot to do but if we go
and win every game we will have a great chance to do it, but it
will be very difficult,” Lampard told  Sky Sports . “Arsenal and
Manchester United are good sides and they have a good lead.”  Chelsea hosts third-place  Manchester City  in its next
Premier League game on March 20 and still has to play United at
Old Trafford. The Blues have won their past three games in all
competitions after a run of three matches without a victory.  Manager  Carlo Ancelotti  said his players weren’t looking
beyond the next match against City.  “It is better for us, and easier for us, to think game by
game,” Ancelotti said in post-match comments on Chelsea’s
website. ‘Our aim at this moment is to stay in the first four.
We are closer to  Manchester United  but we don’t have to think
because it is too far, we have to prepare for the next game.”  Chelsea led on Terry’s header last night before Salomon Kalou helped seal the win after coming on as a substitute for
the injured  Didier Drogba .  Impact Substitute  Kalou, making his club-record 93rd appearance off the
bench, won the penalty kick that gave Lampard the chance to make
it 2-0 in the 62nd minute and set up the England midfielder for
the third goal four minutes later.  Jason Puncheon scored for Blackpool in the 86th minute to
keep his team ahead of West Bromwich Albion on goal difference
in 15th place, two points above the three-team relegation zone.  “In games of this magnitude, when David’s swinging his
sling at Goliath, you need him to hit him straight in the
forehead and unfortunately we missed with that one, but we
didn’t stop swinging did we?” said Blackpool manager Ian Holloway. “We’ll put our sling back in the bag, buy another bag
of rocks and get ready for our next challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  