-- 
Apollo Group Rejected by U.S. High Court on $300 Million Award

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-07T15:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/apollo-group-rejected-by-u-s-high-court-on-300-million-award.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
question a jury verdict that may force  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the
owner of the University of Phoenix, to pay more than $300
million for deceiving shareholders.  The justices today rejected an appeal from Apollo, accused
of withholding an Education Department report that said the
company was illegally paying recruiters on the basis of
enrollment numbers. Apollo, the largest U.S. for-profit college
operator, said the suing shareholders didn’t show that the
eventual release of the report’s details caused the company’s
prices to fall.  Exactly how much Apollo must pay will depend on how many
shareholders file claims. An expert witness for the suing
shareholders testified at trial that the verdict might affect as
many as 50 million shares, meaning Apollo would owe $277.5
million, plus interest.  Phoenix-based Apollo has set aside $177 million to cover
damages and other litigation costs. The company said in a
regulatory filing in January that it estimates damages will be
between $127 million to $228 million.  In a court filing in August, the company said the jury
verdict “could result in a total payment of an amount between
$200 and $300 million.” That range represents a “worst-case
scenario,” said  Manny Rivera , a company spokesman.  The dispute stems from an Education Department report
delivered to the company privately in February 2004. The report
said the company needed to make “substantial and comprehensive
changes to the salary compensation system for its recruiters and
their direct supervisors.”  Falling Shares  Apollo agreed to revamp its compensation system and on
Sept. 7, 2004, the company announced it was paying $9.8 million
to resolve the Education Department’s investigation. The company
revealed the existence of the report, without providing details.  The following day, the company’s shares fell from $82.72 to
$82.07, a drop the suing shareholders said would have been
greater had the company been upfront about the report. By Sept.
21, after a series of newspaper articles provided more details
and a securities analyst had downgraded the stock, shares had
fallen to $72.00.  Apollo officials said during the case that they didn’t
disclose the report because their lawyers told them it was
preliminary and flawed.  Jurors concluded that Apollo, former Chief Executive
Officer Todd Nelson and former Chief Financial Officer Kenda Gonzales had tried to hide the report’s contents from investors.
The jury awarded $5.55 per share as compensation.  Appeals Court  Apollo at one point was poised to escape the jury’s
conclusions. A federal trial judge in 2008 overturned the
verdict, saying shareholders hadn’t proven they lost money as a
result of the company’s deceptions.  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed that ruling in June, saying the jury could have
reasonably held the company responsible for the decline in share
prices.  The Education Department’s probe was triggered by a
California lawsuit by two University of Phoenix counselors who
said they were paid based on the number of students they
enrolled. Federal law bars schools whose students receive
federally guaranteed tuition loans from paying staffers a
commission, bonus or other incentive payment based on the number
of students they enroll.  The case is Apollo Group v. Policeman’s Annuity and Benefit
Fund of  Chicago , 10-649.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 