-- 
Apple IPads in Cockpits May Mean End of Paper Charts

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-03-17T21:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/apple-ipads-in-cockpits-may-hasten-end-of-era-for-paper-navigation-charts.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad won approval from
U.S. regulators to display navigational charts for some charter
pilots, a step that may speed the end of the decades-old
tradition of paper maps in the cockpit.  With the  Federal Aviation Administration  approving iPads in
test projects at carriers including Executive Jet Management, a
unit of Warren Buffett’s NetJets, and Lake in the Woods,
Illinois-based N-Jet, the way is open for pilots at airlines and
other commercial carriers to seek authorization for the devices,
said Les Dorr, an agency spokesman.  IPad use by professional pilots would support Apple’s goal
of winning more business buyers. The company’s total corporate
sales may rise 51 percent to $11.3 billion in 2011, said  Brian Marshall , a Gleacher & Co. analyst in  San Francisco . Revenue was
$76.3 billion last year.  “This is mission-critical computing,” said Marshall, who
has a “buy” rating on Cupertino, California-based Apple. “For
them to win this type of approval speaks volumes about the level
of sophistication of what can be accomplished with the iPad.”  Charts showing data such as airports and radio frequencies
for a state or region have been staples of U.S. flying since the
1930s, when they replaced the road maps used by early aviators.
With private pilots already able to use electronic navigation
devices, the practice of following a pencil-on-paper route has
been fading in recent years.  18-Pound Bag  So-called electronic flight bags, computers configured for
aviation use, began winning FAA approval for use at airlines in
the last decade, supplanting paper charts. A unit from
Milwaukee-based  Astronautics Corporation of America  weighs 18
pounds (8.2 kilograms), 12 times as much as the iPad.  Apple’s tablet was first cleared as a navigation device in
a professional cockpit with FAA’s approval of N-Jets in
December. On Feb. 1, the agency certified the Cincinnati-based
Executive Jet, whose parent, NetJets, is owned by Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Executive Jet said it made 250 flights
as part of the certification process.  Commercial carriers now have a template for winning
permission for iPad use, according to Jeppesen, the  Boeing Co. (BA) 
map and accessory business that designed the application in the
Executive Jet test.  Pilots at  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ’s Alaska Airlines, which
uses only paper charts in its 116 aircraft, are testing iPads
for some functions, said Marianne Lindsey, a spokeswoman.  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  and American Eagle rely on paper
charts in its 900-plane fleet, said Ed Martelle, a spokesman.  ‘Paper Driven’    Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s second-largest carrier,
is “still vastly paper driven,” according to Gina Laughlin, a
spokeswoman. Delta is pursuing approval to test iPads and other
tablet devices next quarter, Laughlin said in an e-mail.  “Many air carriers have been using electronic flight bags
for years, but they’ve been carrying the paper with them as
well,” said Alison Duquette, an FAA spokeswoman. Executive Jet
has “been able to demonstrate the reliability of the EFB, in
this case the iPad.”  Executive Jet declined to comment beyond President Robert
Garrymore’s statement that he was “pleased to collaborate with
Jeppesen and the FAA.”  About 145,000 pilots were certified to fly for airlines as
of 2009, along with roughly 126,000 others classified as
commercial pilots, the FAA estimates. About 212,000 people held
active private-pilot licenses.  The iPad’s touch-screen and illumination display could be
an advantage over folded paper in finding information such as an
emergency-landing site, said John Cox, a former  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  pilot who is now chief executive officer of consultant
 Safety Operating Systems LLC  in  Washington . “It’s easier to
sort through the charts that you need.”  Personal Use  Part of Jeppesen’s impetus for developing the iPad
navigation software was requests from pilots who already use the
devices outside of work, said Tim Huegel, the company’s director
of  portfolio management .  “If you look at the demographic of a pilot, you’re talking
well-educated, six-figure income,” Huegel said in an interview.
“This was a hardware platform that was adopted in their
personal life.”  Jeppesen, the publisher of the industry’s first flight
charts, plans to release similar software for iPad competitors
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system this year, said
Jeff Buhl, a senior manager in Jeppesen’s Enterprise Solutions
division and product manager for the electronic flight bag app,
Jeppesen Mobile TC.  Even pilot training may end up paperless, at least for
students preparing for airline jobs.  Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University  in  Daytona Beach ,  Florida , is now looking for an
electronic device for its students, said Tim Brady, dean of
aviation.  When Brady flies, he has his charts in a Samsung
Electronics Co. tablet computer roughly the size of an iPad. His
paper charts also are at hand.  “For the guys my age, they’ll use an iPad for sure, but
there will be that little niggling fear in the background that
something is going to happen,” said Brady, 71. “That’s just
being old-fashioned I guess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  