-- 
Asia Confronts Oil-Price Shock as Central Banks Pressured to Raise Rates

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-03-08T09:39:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/asia-confronts-oil-risk-shock-as-central-banks-to-meet-on-rates.html
A jump in crude oil costs in excess
of 20 percent in the past two weeks is escalating the danger of
inflation in  Asia , where central banks are already grappling
with consumer price pressures fueled by job and spending gains.  The Bank of  Thailand  and Bank of Korea will each raise key  interest rates  this week by a quarter percentage point, median
estimates in Bloomberg News surveys of economists show. Malaysia
may also be approaching the end of its pause in boosting
borrowing costs, as four of 17 analysts polled see a March 11
move, the highest such share since the last increase, in July.  With the Federal Reserve refraining from any signal it’s
ready to lift its benchmark from almost zero, currencies from
South Korea’s won to Malaysia’s ringgit are set to gain versus
the dollar this year, forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show. The
region’s economies are strong enough to withstand the impact of
faster inflation, the  Asian Development Bank  said last week.  “The region is particularly prone to food and oil price
shocks as a greater percentage of household income is spent on
food and transportation,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist in
Singapore at  Capital Economics  (Asia) Pte. At the same time,
“we’re very bullish on Asian currencies. They’ll continue to
rise against the dollar this year, supported by rising interest
rates,” he said.  Stronger Currencies  Singapore, which uses its  exchange rate  as the main
monetary-policy tool, has let its currency climb 10.4 percent
versus the dollar the past 12 months. Malaysia, the first Asian
nation to raise rates in 2010, has seen the ringgit gain 10.1
percent. The won has by contrast risen less than 2 percent, as
South  Korea  sought to counter speculative capital inflows.  Crude oil reached a 29-month high yesterday as violence in  Libya  renewed concern Middle East supply disruptions will worsen.
Crude for April delivery was $104.30 at 9:42 a.m. London time.
Yesterday, the contract settled at $105.44.  Diminished resistance to currency gains in  China  may have a
knock-on effect throughout Asia as the continent’s biggest
economy also seeks to contain price pressures. People’s Bank of
China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said last month in Paris that his
nation may use means “including rates and currency” to curb
increases in food and home prices.  McDonald’s Corp., the world’s largest restaurant company,
may raise prices at its China outlets in the second half of the
year, Tim Fenton, president for Asia, the Middle East and  Africa ,
said last month. The company raised prices for its burgers,
drinks and snacks in November.  Call on Ringgit  Standard Chartered Plc analysts yesterday raised their
short-term rating for the ringgit to “overweight” from
“neutral,” citing expectations of Bank Negara  Malaysia  rate
increases and gains in China’s yuan that will make exchange-rate
appreciation more “tolerable” to Malaysian authorities.  Bank Negara may still hold its fire this week and keep its
benchmark at 2.75 percent, according to 13 of 17 economists in
the Bloomberg survey. Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz started raising
rates in March last year, helping contain price pressures even
as growth accelerated to the fastest pace in a decade in 2010.  “We have seen this kind of levels of energy and commodity
prices before and we have the capability to deal with it,” Zeti
said March 3. “We have to look and make the assessment whether
it is temporary arising to these disruptions in supply or
whether it’s something more permanent. All these issues will be
carefully evaluated to see how we need to respond.”    Indonesia , Philippines  Indonesia started increasing borrowing costs only in
February this year while the Philippines has refrained from
moving its benchmark.  Standard & Poor’s today said capital inflows and rising
inflationary pressures in Asia present credit risks to the
region even as strong growth allows governments to reduce fiscal
deficits.  “Food and energy price increases, the familiar bugbears,
are providing a strong inflationary impetus across the board,
and present low-income sovereigns in particular with difficult
political and fiscal choices,” S&P said in a statement, citing
countries including  India , Indonesia, Vietnam and Sri Lanka.  Sri Lanka’s central bank left its repurchase rate unchanged
at 7 percent and the reverse repurchase rate at 8.5 percent
today even as inflation climbed to a 25-month high. Policy
makers are “comfortable” with the current level of rates and
inflation is being spurred mainly by supply constraints,
Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said March 1.  Vietnam Raises  Meantime, Vietnam today boosted borrowing costs after Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government last month shifted its
policy focus toward containing inflation. The central bank
lifted the refinancing rate, one of its two main tools
identified last week, by 1 percentage point to 12 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  will likely cut its
official cash rate by at least 0.25 percentage point on March 10
to boost an economy that contracted in the third quarter and has
been further hurt by the country’s deadliest earthquake in 80
years in February, according to 10 of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The  Bank of Korea  will increase its benchmark rate to 3
percent on March 10, according to all 15 economists in the
Bloomberg survey. Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said
yesterday the government is currently putting more focus on
price stability than growth.  Price Controls  South Korea and Thailand have price controls on some goods
and services including electricity and gas. The Bank of Thailand
lifted the policy rate at its last meeting on Jan. 12 and
signaled further increases. Seventeen of 20 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg expect an increase to 2.5 percent in the benchmark
rate on March 9, from 2.25 percent.  The Southeast Asian nation’s core inflation rate, which
excludes fresh food and fuel prices, climbed to almost a two-
year high in February.  “The central bank will continue to advocate its intention
of front-loading rate hikes to anchor inflation expectations
amid rising commodity prices and strong growth,” said  Rahul Bajoria , an economist in  Singapore  at Barclays Plc. He forecasts
the Thai rate will rise to 3 percent by the middle of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  