-- 
Pan-Asian Swaps Clearinghouse May Fragment Into Nation-by-Nation Approach

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-03-07T15:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/asian-swaps-clearinghouse-faces-threat-by-single-country-rivals-isda-says.html
Efforts to encourage clearing of
private derivatives through a pan-Asian platform are being
thwarted by countries setting up a less efficient patchwork of
systems, said Keith Noyes, Asia-Pacific director for the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association .  “The reaction to the G20 commitments has been
unfortunately very much jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction, rather
than trying to build a pan-Asian” clearinghouse, Noyes said in
an interview in Hong Kong. That means Korean won swaps would
have to clear in  South Korea , with similar restrictions imposed
in India and  China , he said. “From a bank’s perspective, this
is expensive because it ties up pools of capital in several
jurisdictions.”  A nation-by-nation approach would differ from how clearing
interest-rate and credit-default swaps is handled in the U.S.
and  Europe , where multi-national trades are made through  London 
and New York. London’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  is the world’s largest
interest-rate swap clearinghouse, while New York-based  ICE
Trust , a unit of Intercontinental Exchange Inc., is the top
backer of credit swaps.  The Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of
clearinghouses to cut some of the risks of trading in the $583
trillion private  derivatives market . Credit-default swaps
contributed to the financial crisis and unregulated swaps trades
made it difficult to know how interconnected banks had become by
trading the contracts.    Hong Kong  Clearinghouse  The Hong Kong exchange is spending HK$180 million ($23.1
million) to develop a new clearinghouse for OTC derivatives by
2012. Clearinghouses worldwide may earn about $1 billion in
annual revenue from clearing swaps starting next year, according
to a Feb. 16 joint report by Morgan Stanley and the financial
services consulting firm  Oliver Wyman .  Clearinghouses  operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by members. Those members post
margin and contribute to funds that reduce the effect of default
by any single participant. Over-the-counter contracts are
privately negotiated between two parties rather than traded on
an exchange.  ISDA, based in New York, is the industry and lobbying group
for the world’s largest banks and money managers that use swaps.  Interest-rate swaps account for the largest OTC derivatives
market, with $348 trillion in notional value outstanding as of
June 2010, according to the  Bank for International Settlements .
The Hong Kong clearing effort will begin with rate swaps and
non-deliverable forwards, the  Hong Kong Monetary Authority  said
in December.  LCH.Clearnet, CME Group Needed  About half of Hong Kong dollar swaps are already cleared
through  LCH.Clearnet .  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, has also begun backing rate swaps with its
clearinghouse.  Asia  would benefit from LCH.Clearnet or Chicago-
based CME Group taking leadership roles in the region, though
Noyes said he doesn’t expect that to happen any time soon.  “Their priority is just not Asia,” he said. “In the
short term, they can pick up immeasurably more volume through
client clearing in the U.S. than offering clearing in Asia.”  LCH.Clearnet had over $32 trillion of Japanese yen-
denominated interest-rate swaps guaranteed by its SwapsClear
service at the end of last year, said Andrea Schlaepfer, a
spokeswoman. That’s the third-largest currency for the
clearinghouse, and beats British pound-demoninated contracts,
she said.  CME Group didn’t immediately respond to a message seeking
comment.  MF Global Expands  Other firms see opportunity in the region.    MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , the futures and options broker run
by  Jon Corzine , is adding a fixed-income desk and trading desk
in Asia, Jeremy Skule, a spokesman at the New York-based firm,
said at a Hong Kong meeting with reporters last month. Asia
accounts for 15 percent of the firm’s revenue.  As part of its expansion, MF Global appointed Mike Blomfield as managing director for Asia Pacific in November.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission are writing U.S. rules to govern processing
swaps through clearinghouses. They have until July to finish
developing regulations, with implementation to follow. Asian
investors are concerned about how far the authority will extend,
Noyes said.  “If U.S. end-clients trade directly with a bank in  France  or an offshore entity, how involved is the U.S.
in regulating that?” he said. “There is a real potential
for a U.S. regulator to claim regulatory authority and look-
through to a foreign jurisdiction that could easily make foreign
regulators uncomfortable.”  Asian banks and investors are “looking at their footprint
in the U.S. and trying to figure out what this could mean,”
Noyes said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  