-- 
Airbus Raises Asia-Pacific Demand Forecast on Growth, Travel

-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g   a n d   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 
2011-03-07T05:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/asia-pacific-to-become-world-s-biggest-plane-market-airbus-says.html
Airbus SAS raised its demand
forecast for the Asia-Pacific region, set to be the biggest
market for  air travel , by 3.3 percent as economic growth stokes
business and leisure flights.  Carriers in the region will receive 8,560 new planes in
2009-2029, according to a statement distributed in  Hong Kong 
today. The Toulouse, France-based planemaker had previously
 forecast  8,290.  Airlines including IndiGo, Air  China  Ltd. and AirAsia Bhd
plan to add new aircraft as rising wages in China,  India  and
other Asian nations spur travel. Airbus, the world’s biggest
planemaker, expects air travel in the Asia-Pacific region to
grow 5.8 percent a year through 2029, compared with a 4.8
percent increase globally.  “In  Asia , more people are able and wanting to fly every
day,” Christopher Emerson, the planemaker’s head of market
forecasts, told reporters. It’s too early to say what impact
higher  oil prices  will have on demand for planes, he said.  The Asia-Pacific region will surpass  North America  and  Europe  as the largest market for air travel within the 20-year
period, Emerson said. Asia-Pacific’s cargo traffic will grow 7
percent a year, outpacing a 5.9 percent global rate, he said.  China plans to invest more than $228 billion in its
domestic aviation industry during the next five years as
airlines buy planes and more airports are built in the world’s
most-populous nation.  On-Board Karaoke  Air China, the world’s largest carrier by market value,
plans to boost its group fleet to more than 700 planes by 2015
from about 400 now, Chairman Kong Dong said last week.  Airbus also expects to sell at least five jets for VIP or
corporate travel in China this year and “hopefully” more next
year, said Francois Chazelle, its vice president for executive
and private aviation. The country is the fastest-growing market
for VIP jets, and Airbus has added features, including on-board
karaoke bars, to help lure customers, he said.  IndiGo, the New Delhi-based low-cost carrier, reached a
preliminary agreement in January to buy 180 A320s from Airbus in
the industry’s largest order of new planes. AirAsia,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest discount carrier, is negotiating to buy about 175
of Airbus’s revamped A320 single-aisle planes, it said last
month.  Net income at Asia Pacific airlines will probably total
$3.7 billion this year, with operating margins projected at 4.6
percent, according to the latest estimates by the  International
Air Transport Association.  Both figures are the highest for any
region worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Leung in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Sue Ling in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  