-- 
Atheros Delays Shareholder Vote on $3 Billion Qualcomm Sale

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-03-07T18:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/atheros-shareholder-vote-on-sale-to-qualcomm-blocked-by-judge.html
Atheros Communications Inc.
postponed a shareholder vote on a planned $3.2 billion takeover
of the company by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  after a judge ordered that more
information be released about the deal.  The vote was scheduled for today and will be delayed until
March 18,  San Jose , California-based Atheros said in a
statement.  “The proxy statement currently fails to provide the
required disclosures” about advisory fees and “all material
facts” about deal-negotiations by Craig Barratt, chief
executive officer of Atheros, and what he would be paid if the
sale goes through, Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble said
in a 38-page opinion made public today in Wilmington.  Atheros was sued in January by shareholders contending the
$45 per-share offer is inadequate. Atheros provides expertise in
wireless technology and home-computer networking. Qualcomm,
based in  San Diego , is the world’s largest maker of
semiconductor chips for mobile-phones.  “The proposed transaction arose out of a nearly non-
existent sales process that was orchestrated” by Barratt, who
stands to gain benefits including $24 million in stock options,
plaintiffs’ lawyer P. Bradford deLeeuw said in court papers.  Molly Mulloy, an Atheros spokeswoman, said in a phone
interview the company doesn’t think delaying the vote “will
impact the completion of our original timetable and we expect to
close in the first half of this year.”  Atheros rose 2 cents to $44.75 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading in  New York  at 1:12 p.m. Qualcomm fell $1.20, or 2
percent, to $56.95 on the Nasdaq.  The consolidated case is In re:  Atheros Communications Inc. (ATHR) 
Shareholder Litigation, CA6124, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  