-- 
Australia to Probe Woolworths, Wesfarmers on Cuts to Milk Prices

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-08T03:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/australia-to-probe-woolworths-wesfarmers-on-cuts-to-milk-prices.html
Executives from Australia’s largest
food retailers are scheduled to appear before parliament this
week to address concerns their decision to cut the price of milk
may be hurting the nation’s 7,500 dairy farms.    Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s Coles supermarkets discounted milk to A$1
($1.01) a liter from as high as A$1.49 on Jan. 26 to gain
customers.  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Aldi Group and  Pick n Pay Stores
Ltd. (PIK)  followed the next day.  The discounts are the latest salvo in supermarket efforts
to keep customers as Essen, Germany-based discount grocery chain
Aldi expands in the country. Australian food prices last year had
their slowest annual growth in 16 years.  “Australian consumers don’t know how good they have it,”
said Charlie McElhone, manager of economics and trade at the
National Farmers Federation, a group that represents Australia’s
farmers. “When you look at the breakout in global food
inflation, this is the place to be at the moment.”  Aldi, which opened its first Australian store in 2001, says
its products are 25 percent to 40 percent cheaper than
competitors and plans to add 25 outlets this year to its
existing 250. Coles said it has reduced prices on 5,000 products
-- about 20 percent of its inventory -- in the past six weeks.  Australian discounts are in contrast to rising global food
prices, which fueled the unrest that toppled regimes in Egypt
and  Tunisia  and pushed  Libya  toward civil war. The  World Bank 
said last month that 44 million people have been pushed into
extreme poverty since June as food shortages lifted a United
Nations gauge of world prices to a record.  Chain Reaction  While Australian supermarkets promised to absorb the price
cuts on their self-labeled milk, the reductions hurt processors
like Fonterra Co-operative Group Ltd. and Kirin Holdings Co. who
lose sales of more-expensive branded products. In turn, they’re
expected to pass on cuts to farmers in negotiations for annual
supply contracts starting in July, said  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  “The price pressure flows through the supply chain and
will ultimately impact the farm,” said Mathews.  Farmer Brian Tessmann said he currently earns about 56
cents a liter on branded milk and about 40 cents on unbranded
milk and needs average prices above 50 cents to break even. Some
farms get as little as 20 cents a liter, he said.  “We will be the collateral damage as supermarkets try to
get more people through the door to buy milk cheaper than
water,” said Tessmann, 53, as he walked through dairy sheds at
his property in Coolabunia, where the family has milked cows for
100 years. “We might have to give dairying away.”  Parliamentary Inquiry  Parliament called supermarket executives to an inquiry that
started today to explain how the price cuts will affect the
industry, the Senate economics committee said in a statement. A
Coles representative is due to appear on March 22.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s minority Labor government
relies on support from four non-party lawmakers, two of whom
represent areas that list dairying as a main industry.  Australian dairy farmers are struggling with high feed
costs after droughts, then record floods, destroyed crops.  The cut in the price of unbranded milk has boosted milk
sales by as much as 20 percent, Wesfarmers Chief Executive
Richard Goyder has said.  “It is a well-trodden path to pick out a particular
product and reduce its price to get foot traffic,” said Will Seddon, who holds Wesfarmers and Woolworths in the $350 million
he manages at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney. “They will
make up the losses through higher prices on other products.”  Shares in Woolworths,  Australia ’s biggest retailer, have
risen 0.1 percent this year. Wesfarmers, whose businesses range
from retail to mining, has gained 3 percent.  ‘No Option’  Woolworths had no option but to match Coles and has also
vowed to absorb the cost, company spokesman Simon Berger said.  “Woolworths would not have started this price war with
milk and shares some of the concerns of the  dairy industry ,”
Berger said in an e-mailed statement. “A price reduction on one
brand puts pressure on all brands, which over time can devalue
the whole milk category.”  Australia’s dairy industry produces 9.1 billion liters of
milk each year, according to industry group Dairy Australia.
Even at the equivalent of $1.01 a liter, Australian milk is more
expensive than in the U.S., where it costs about 87 cents, or
the U.K. where it sells for around 41 cents.  Coles said it has no plans to end the cheap-milk  campaign .  ‘Incredibly Positive’  “The reaction we are getting from our customers is
incredibly positive,” Wesfarmers’s Goyder told reporters on a
Feb. 17 conference call. “Our milk sales are up 15 to 20
percent since we put this in place.”  One winner is the shopper, who saw Australian consumer
prices rise last quarter at the slowest pace in almost two years
as a stronger currency lowered the cost of imported goods.  Consumer spending  makes up half the $1.3 trillion economy.  “I spare a thought for farmers, but I have three children
under four and we go through about 8 liters of milk a week,”
said Eloise Parry, a stay-at-home mother, as she shopped at
Coles in the Canberra suburb of Curtin. “The cheaper prices are
too attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  