-- 
Australian Job Advertisements Rise 1.2% as Queensland Begins Cleaning Up

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-07T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/australian-job-advertisements-may-signal-rising-demand-for-labor-anz-says.html
Australian job advertisements rose
in February for a 10th straight month, as Queensland state
cleaned up from flooding in January.  Jobs advertised in newspapers and on the Internet advanced
1.2 percent from January, when they increased a revised 3
percent, according to an  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. report released in Melbourne today. Queensland recorded a
30.5 percent surge in newspaper job advertisements, it said.  “The rise is significant enough to raise the possibility
that there has been an increase in labor demand over and above
the pre-existing trend due to activities associated with clean
up and repairs after the recent floods,” Ivan Colhoun, head of
Australian economics and property research at ANZ, said in a
statement today.  Torrential rains in Queensland in December and January
affected about 30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail
lines and damaged crops. Australia’s  unemployment rate  probably
held at 5 percent in February, a report will show on March 10,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia “will interpret an unchanged
unemployment rate as reflecting an economy growing at around a
trend rate of growth,” Colhoun said. “This will leave the bank
comfortably on hold in the near term.”  Surging shipments of iron ore and coal to  China  are fueling
a jobs boom, prompting the RBA to raise borrowing costs seven
times from October 2009 to November last year. It left rates
unchanged last week at 4.75 percent for a third straight
meeting.  National vacancies advertised in newspapers rose 4.4
percent in February, and Internet notices advanced 1 percent,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  