-- 
Autopsy Reports Released of 6 People Who U.S. Accuses Loughner of Killing

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-07T23:43:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/autopsy-reports-released-of-6-people-who-u-s-accuses-loughner-of-killing.html
Autopsy reports of the six people
killed in a Jan. 8 shooting in  Arizona  were released today by
the Pima County Medical Examiner’s Office. The U.S. has charged
Jared Lee Loughner with the killings.  Loughner, 22, was charged March 4 in a 49-count grand jury
indictment with the murder of U.S. District Judge John M. Roll
and Gabriel M. Zimmerman, an aide to U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , as well as the slaying of four other Arizona
residents who attended Giffords’s community meeting outside a
Tucson supermarket.  The U.S. Justice Department had asked U.S. District Judge
Larry Burns to bar the release of the autopsy reports based on
claims that news stories about them may jeopardize Loughner’s
chance for a fair trial.  Deputy Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Eric Peters said the
policy of the Pima County Medical Examiner’s Office is to
“release things in a timely fashion.” He referred legal
questions to the  Justice Department .  “It’s not an assessment that we made or think of making,”
Peters said, referring to the concerns about a fair trial. The
autopsy reports don’t contain anything unexpected and “are
typical for this type of trauma,” he said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Mary Sue Feldmeier said in a Feb.
28 motion in U.S. District Court in Tucson that detailed
information on the autopsies “could taint the jury pool.”  ‘Prejudicial Depictions’  “This case has received extensive media coverage” and
reports describing the victims’ physical trauma “may spawn
prejudicial depictions of the decedents’ manner of death in the
press,” Feldmeier wrote. Prosecutors also sought an order to
prevent Peters and his staff from talking about the results.  Feldmeier didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The March 4 indictment of Loughner follows an earlier one
in which he was charged with attempting to assassinate Giffords,
who survived a gunshot through the head, and the attempted
murder of two of her aides at the community meeting. Loughner
pleaded not guilty to those charges on Jan. 24.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  