-- 
Barbie Packs Her Bags as Mattel Closes Shanghai Dream House

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-07T10:06:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/barbie-packs-her-bags-as-mattel-closes-shanghai-dream-house.html
Barbie moved out of her Shanghai
dream house today after  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s biggest
toymaker, closed the only store in China dedicated to its
bestselling doll.  Mattel didn’t cite a reason for shutting the six-story
Barbie Shanghai, though it had lowered the outlet’s sales
targets by at least 30 percent since the March 2009 opening. The
company will have a new “brand strategy” for Barbie and expand
operations across China this year, it said in an e-mailed
statement.  The toymaker, based in El Segundo,  California , joins Best
Buy Co. in shutting stores in China, even after retail sales in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy surged last year.
Mattel lowered the sales targets of the 3,500-square-meter
(37,700-square-foot) store in central Shanghai at least three
times since opening it.  “One thing that Mattel’s been able to leverage in the U.S.
is everyone knows the brand,” Ben Cavender, a Shanghai-based
analyst at China Market Research Group, said in a telephone
interview. “In China, no one knows who the brand is.”  The store opened in  Shanghai  on Barbie’s 50th anniversary
with a restaurant and spa, and a flood of pink lights at night.
Customers could buy dolls, outfits by “Sex and the City”
costume designer Patricia Field, beauty treatments and
“Bitini” cocktails.  ‘Too Sexy’  Children could pretend to model clothes on a fashion runway
and design customized Barbie dolls.  “They tried to do too many things with the brand,”
Cavender said. “Their products were perceived as being too sexy
rather than being cute.”  Mattel, which also makes figures from the “Toy Story”
movies featuring Barbie and her longtime beau Ken, modeled the
store’s concept on American Girl, its online doll catalog that
has retail outlets in the U.S.  “Mattel continues to be committed to developing the Barbie
brand in  China ,” the company said in the statement. “In 2011,
the company will take all of the great experiences previously
only available at the Barbie concept store in Shanghai to many
more consumers in broader areas across China.”  The store’s  website  now advertises Barbie’s “Pink Bus
Tour” to shops and malls in Shanghai.  “It would’ve made more sense for them to have set up in
malls” instead of occupying a building on Huaihai Road in
central Shanghai, Cavender said. Shops in malls also would have
increased awareness of the brand, he said.  About $3 billion worth of Barbie-branded products are sold
every year. Barbie dolls are made in China and  Indonesia ,
according to Mattel.  Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer,
on Feb. 22 announced the shutting of all nine of its own-branded
stores in China to focus on expanding the more profitable,
domestic Five Star chain it acquired five years ago. Retail
sales in the world’s most-populous nation grew at a monthly
average of 18 percent in 2010, according to official data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Huiwen Yang in Shanghai at 
 hyang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  