-- 
Bayer’s Cipro Accord Won’t Be Questioned by U.S. High Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-07T17:15:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/bayer-s-cipro-settlement-won-t-be-questioned-by-u-s-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, rebuffing
calls to scrutinize “pay for delay” drug settlements, refused
to revive a suit accusing  Bayer AG (BAYN)  of paying almost $400 million
to forestall competition to its Cipro antibiotic.  The court, without comment, today rejected an appeal from
drugstore chains that sought to press an antitrust suit over a
1997 settlement between Bayer and Barr Laboratories Inc., now
part of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  Under the accord,
Bayer paid Barr $398 million, while Barr dropped its challenge
to a Bayer patent and agreed not to sell a generic version of
Cipro until June 2003.  Opponents say such settlements are rampant in the drug
industry, costing consumers $3.5 billion a year, according to
the Federal Trade Commission, which has led the criticism.
Consumer advocates and 32 states joined the pharmacies and a
drug wholesaler in urging Supreme Court review.  “This case involves one of the most controversial business
practices in the United States in one of the most important
segments of the economy,” the chains argued in their appeal.
The group includes two of the three largest U.S. drugstore
companies,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite-Aid Corp. (RAD)   The drugstores faced an especially high hurdle in seeking a
Supreme Court hearing because two justices,  Elena Kagan  and  Sonia Sotomayor , didn’t take part in the court’s consideration
of the case. The court accepts an appeal only when four justices
vote to hear a case.  Patient Disputes  Drugmakers say the settlements are a legitimate way of
resolving patent disputes between brand-name manufacturers and
would-be generic rivals. In the Cipro case, Bayer said the
accord benefited consumers by letting Barr sell its version six
months before the drug was scheduled to lose patent protection
in December 2003.  “Because the settlement was within the scope of Bayer’s
patent, it excluded no more competition than the patent itself
lawfully excluded,” Bayer argued. The company is based in
Leverkusen,  Germany .  Cipro treats conditions caused by bacteria including
anthrax, conjunctivitis and pneumonia.  The high court has now turned away challenges to a “pay
for delay” settlement on six occasions, including an appeal in
a second case involving the Cipro settlement in 2009.  Harder Line  Since then, the government has taken a harder line toward
the accords, with the  Justice Department ’s antitrust division
arguing that courts have been too lenient in assessing them. The
Justice Department filed a brief backing the plaintiffs in the
Cipro case at a federal appeals court in  New York .  A three-judge panel of the appeals court threw out the
lawsuit, pointing to an earlier decision that gave drugmakers
broad leeway to craft settlements over legitimate patents. All
three judges questioned that earlier ruling while saying they
were bound by it.  CVS and Rite Aid said the payments made by Bayer suggest
that its patent was of questionable validity. Barr had won a
preliminary round in the litigation and the case was heading
toward trial before the companies settled it.  Bayer countered that it won every other challenge to its
Cipro patent, including a Mylan Inc. lawsuit that led to a
federal appeals court ruling upholding the patent in 2002.  The case is Louisiana Wholesale Drug v. Bayer, 10-762.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 