-- 
Bayern Munich Enters Race to Sign Villa’s Ashley Young: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-07T10:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/bayern-munich-enters-race-to-sign-villa-s-ashley-young-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Young for Bayern?    Bayern Munich  has joined clubs interested in signing Aston
Villa’s England winger  Ashley Young  and may move for him in the
offseason, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The German champion sent its “top spy” to watch Young
against Bolton last weekend and was impressed, even though he
failed with a penalty kick, the Mirror said. Manchester United
coach Alex Ferguson and Liverpool’s  Kenny Dalglish  were also at
the game.  Villa may be ready to sell Young in June for about 12
million pounds ($19.6 million) if he doesn’t agree to a new
contract, the newspaper said. Club owner Randy Lerner is trying
to keep salary costs under control, the paper added.  Villa coach  Gerard Houllier  blamed the zonal marking system
he inherited from Martin O’Neill for the 3-2 loss at Bolton,
according to  the Mirror .  “The players have had certain habits for four years and
I’m not going to change them in the middle of the season,”
Houllier was cited as saying.  Fabregas May Play  Cesc Fabregas expects to be fit for Arsenal’s Champions
League round-of-16 match at Barcelona tomorrow,  the Sun 
reported.  He had tests on his hamstring yesterday as the rest of the
team were given a light training session after the 0-0 league
draw with Sunderland.  Fellow midfielder Alex Song has a knee injury and is likely
to miss the Barcelona game, where Arsenal will defend a 2-1 lead
from the first match.  Kean Deadline    Steve Kean , whose future as Blackburn coach is in doubt, is
likely to get at least one more game to halt the team’s slide,
 the Sun  reported.  The team is only two points over the relegation zone after
taking one point from the past 15.  Owner Venky’s Ltd. held talks with Kean after the 3-2
weekend loss at Fulham, the newspaper said. The Indian poultry
company said Kean was “unsackable” when he got a two-year
contract six weeks ago, the Sun added.  Drogba Recall?    Didier Drogba  may get the chance to revive his Chelsea
career by making the starting line-up at Blackpool tonight, the 
Daily Mail  reported.  The Ivory Coast striker has been a substitute in three of
the Blues’ past four matches. Coach  Carlo Ancelotti  is poised to
recall the 32-year-old to start alongside Fernando Torres, the
Mail added.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 