-- 
Berjaya Food, Hutchison, San Miguel, Wuhan: Asia Ex-Japan Equity Preview

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-03-07T20:52:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/berjaya-food-hutchison-san-miguel-wuhan-asia-ex-japan-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes today in Asian trading, excluding Japan.
Stock symbols are in parentheses and share prices are from the
previous close, unless noted otherwise.  Berjaya Food Bhd. (BFD MK): The operator of the Kenny
Rogers Roasters restaurant chain in  Malaysia  will make its
listing debut on the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange. The company
sold shares at 51 sen each, according to its prospectus dated
Feb. 18.    DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  : The Malaysian automotive assembler
said it won a 7.55 billion-ringgit ($2.5 billion) contract to
supply the Southeast Asian nation’s government with armored
vehicles. The contract to supply 257 vehicles is for a period of
seven years, the company said in a statement. DRB-Hicom gained
2.2 percent to 1.85 ringgit.    Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  (13 HK): Hutchison’s planned $5.83
billion sale of Chinese port assets in what may be  Singapore ’s
biggest initial public offering has met with “overwhelming”
investor interest, the chairman of the trustee of Hutchison Port
Holdings Trust, Canning Fok, told reporters in Singapore.
Hutchison fell 0.8 percent to HK$90.6.    San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  : The largest Philippine food and
drinks company will join in all bidding to privatize government
assets, including the state’s interest into television stations,
a stock-exchange filing showed. The stock declined 0.9 percent
to 170 pesos.  Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. (600005 CH):  China ’s fourth-largest
steelmaker is seeking to buy foreign steel companies or build
new plants overseas as overcapacity at home pushed its profit
margin to the lowest among the nation’s top mills. The company
is in talks with several foreign companies and is also
considering coal investments in various countries, including
Canada, Deng Qilin, general manager, told reporters. The shares
gained 1.9 percent to 4.77 yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  