-- 
Berkowitz Says St. Joe to Cut Costs, Consider Ending Lawsuits

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-07T14:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/berkowitz-says-st-joe-to-reduce-costs-consider-ending-oil-spill-lawsuits.html
  Bruce Berkowitz , the new chairman
and largest shareholder of St. Joe Co., said his first goal is
reducing costs at the money-losing landowner, including possibly
dropping lawsuits over last year’s  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill.  “Everything is on the table -- all litigation, all other
professional services,” Berkowitz said in a telephone interview
from Miami on March 5, a day after he was named chairman of
North Florida’s largest private landowner. “The problem with
Joe has been that corporate overhead expenses have sometimes
forced the company to sell valuable assets at too low a price.
So we’re going to cut the overhead.”  Berkowitz, whose Fairholme Capital Management LLC owns
about 29 percent of Watersound, Florida-based St. Joe, last week
succeeded in ousting the company’s chief executive officer and
overhauling the board. He’s now seeking to reverse 11 straight
quarters of losses after a plunge in Florida real estate values.  St. Joe owns 574,000 acres of land, about 70 percent of
which is within 15 miles of the Gulf of Mexico. It sued
companies including  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ,
claiming last year’s Deepwater Horizon oil spill caused “a
substantial decline in its enterprise value,” according to a
company statement. Litigation and cleanup expenses related to
the spill cost St. Joe $4.2 million, the developer said in its
annual report filed last week.  CEO Resignation  Berkowitz forced out Chief Executive Officer Britt Greene
and three board members, whom he criticized for their spending
and corporate governance. The previous chairman, Hugh Durden,
was named acting CEO while the company searches for Greene’s
replacement.  St. Joe’s losses totaled about $234 million for the past 11
quarters. Berkowitz declined to put a target on his cost cuts.  The new board ended an anti-takeover measure enacted in
February that prevented owners of more than 5 percent of its
shares, such as Berkowitz, from buying more stock without paying
a premium. Berkowitz, who has said he would like to own St. Joe,
said terminating the measure known as a “poison pill” gives
shareholders greater rights. He declined to say if he intends to
buy more shares.  “I don’t want to go there,” he said. “As chairman of the
company, the best thing I can do is be honest and fair and try
and help people get to the reasonably correct range of intrinsic
value of the company.”  St. Joe faces an informal inquiry by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission over its impairments of property values,
which critics, such as hedge fund manager  David Einhorn , said
should be marked down. Berkowitz said he doesn’t expect any
changes to financial statements in the annual report released
March 2 by Greene and the previous board.  “It’s clean,” he said. “Do you think the auditors would
allow any sort of liberal policies given the stink about
valuations?”  St. Joe shares slipped 2.9 percent to $26.62 at 9:35 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They gained 1.2
percent in the 12 months through March 4, compared with a 19
percent advance for the Russell 1000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 