-- 
Norex Sues Blavatnik, Access in New York Over Yugraneft

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-08T16:44:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/blavatnik-sued-by-norex-in-new-york-court-over-yugraneft-1-.html
Norex Petroleum Ltd. sued
billionaire Leonard Blavatnik and his  Access Industries  Inc.
over allegations they schemed to strip its controlling interest
in a Russian  oil company  valued at an estimated $500 million.  The suit by Norex, filed yesterday in New York state
Supreme Court in  Manhattan , follows dismissal of a federal
racketeering suit based on the same transaction. Thirteen other
defendants, including TNK-BP Ltd., a joint venture with BP Plc,
were named in yesterday’s suit.  Norex, a Cypriot company with an office in Calgary, claimed
that New York-based Access and other defendants illegally took
control of ZAO Yugraneft Corp. through illegal means, including
corrupting Russian court proceedings and sending militiamen
armed with AK-47s to storm Yugraneft’s offices and production
field. Norex is seeking damages of at least $500 million.  “As a result of defendants’ acts, Norex lost the value of
its controlling shareholding in Yugraneft, estimated at $500
million, and has not been paid tens of millions of dollars in
dividends,” according to the suit.  A U.S. appeals court in September upheld a lower court’s
dismissal of the federal racketeering case, citing a ruling by
the  Supreme Court  that limits the reach of civil claims for acts
occurring outside the country.  Michael Sitrick, a spokesman for Access Industries, said
the company hadn’t been served with a copy of the complaint.  ‘Dismissed Twice’  “In 2002, Access was named by Norex as a defendant, along
with a dozen other putative defendants from around the world, in
a federal court lawsuit that was dismissed twice by the federal
court in New York,” he said in e-mailed statement. “Access has
always maintained that Norex’s claims were meritless. It does
not expect that Norex will have any better success in the state
court than it did in its unsuccessful eight-year battle in the
federal court.”  Other defendants include billionaire Victor Vekselberg, a
former university classmate of Blavatnik’s, according to the
suit, his company, Renova Inc. and BP Plc.  E-mails sent to AAR -- the group Alfa, Access, Renova that
represents the four billionaires who own 50 percent of TNK-BP --
and Renova spokesman Andrei Shtorkh weren’t immediately
returned. A call to Shtorkh’s cell phone was answered by a woman
who said he was unavailable because today is a holiday.  David Nicholas, a spokesman for London-based BP, and Thomas
Kiehn, a spokesman for TNK-BP, declined to comment.  Access is a closely held company controlled by Blavatnik,
who was ranked No. 93 on Forbes magazine’s 2010 list of the the
world’s billionaires. Vekselberg was ranked No. 113.  The case is Norex Petroleum Ltd. v. Access Industries Inc.,
650591/2011,  New York  state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  