-- 
Moynihan Said to Outline BofA's Recovery at First Investor Day Since 2007

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-03-07T16:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/bofa-chief-moynihan-said-to-look-ahead-to-normal-performance.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  will tell investors tomorrow
what profits to expect as the  U.S. economy  stabilizes and detail
progress on his vow to increase shareholder equity, said two
people with knowledge of his plans.  The bank’s guidance to investors will include credit losses
and estimates for return on tangible equity, a measure of
shareholder returns that excludes goodwill, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans aren’t public. The
biggest U.S. lender by assets is scheduled to hold its first
investor conference since 2007 tomorrow in New York.  “The last two or three years have been anything but normal
for Bank of America, and with indications we’re entering into a
better environment, the company wants to give a sense of how its
businesses ought to perform,” said David Havens, a managing
director at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The disappointment that could
occur is that the presentation will reflect the new reality” of
lowered returns after U.S. bank regulations.  Bank of America has lagged behind competitors including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in putting the financial
crisis to rest, with the stock dropping 16 percent in the past
year of New York trading. Moynihan, 51, has called 2010 a
“repair and rebuilding year” for the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based firm after $12.4 billion in writedowns of credit-
card and mortgage units wiped out profit.  Beyond the Fires  Managers want to signal that the bank is “beyond the
‘putting out fires’ phase of its turnaround, and beginning to
focus more solidly on adjusting its business strategies” to the
current economic environment, John McDonald, a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst, said in a March 4 research note. He has
an “outperform” rating on Bank of America.  The company slipped 8 cents to $14.04 at 11:43 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Buyers and insurers of mortgage bonds have demanded that
the firm repurchase loans that may have been created with faulty
information. The bank said it mostly resolved requests from
U.S.-owned mortgage buyers  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  after
spending about $3 billion late last year. Other claims could
cost as much as $7 billion to $10 billion over several years.  “We’ll continue to drive towards delivering shareholder
returns by continuing to grow our tangible value per share as we
materialize our recovery,” Moynihan said in a January
conference call.  Borrowers Repay  Bank of America may benefit after the U.S. jobless rate
fell to 8.9 percent last month, the lowest in almost two years,
as employers added 192,000 jobs. That’s likely to help borrowers
keep up with payments and in turn curtail defaults at Bank of
America, which said in its quarterly performance update that
more than 1 million home-loan customers have been in distress.
with 4.1 percent of balances at least a month past due in
January, compared with 5.97 percent a year earlier, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  Moynihan, who took over from predecessor Kenneth D. Lewis
at the start of last year, has called the bank a mirror to the
U.S. economy. Lewis spent about $130 billion in acquisitions to
create a company with leading positions in deposits, credit
cards, home loans and  wealth management .  In 2007, during Bank of America’s last investor day
conference, Lewis said he didn’t need takeover deals to spur
growth. The credit crisis months later gave him opportunities to
buy Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co.  List of Speakers  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said Lewis overpaid for Merrill,
and Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  sold its remaining 5
million shares in Bank of America in the fourth quarter.
Meanwhile,  Bruce Berkowitz  of Fairholme Capital Management LLC,
who was named Morningstar Inc.’s domestic stock-fund manager of
the decade last year, added to his stake and had more than 92
million shares at yearend.  Moynihan probably will lead the presentation tomorrow,
followed by deputies including  Joe Price , who runs consumer
banking and credit-card operations; David Darnell, in charge of
commercial lending; and  Thomas Montag , president of the
investment bank and trading operations, said one of the people.
Terry Laughlin, who was promoted last month to head a new unit
managing foreclosures and defaulted loans, also will speak, the
person said.  Bank of America still faces pressure from bond investors
and regulators, mostly stemming from the 2008 acquisition of
Countrywide. The lender said last month that it may face
“material fines” from government probes into possible
irregularities in foreclosure processes. Legal costs may be as
much as $1.5 billion higher than what the bank had set aside.  The firm has also said that new regulations limiting debit-
card and overdraft fees would reduce revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 