-- 
Bond Market Shows Why Boehner Saying We’re Broke Is Only Figure of Speech

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-03-07T03:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/bonds-show-why-boehner-saying-we-re-broke-is-figure-of-speech.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  routinely
offers this diagnosis of the U.S.’s fiscal condition: “We’re
broke; Broke going on bankrupt,” he said in a Feb. 28 speech in
Nashville.  Boehner’s assessment dominates a debate over the federal
budget that could lead to a government shutdown. It is a widely
shared view with just one flaw: It’s wrong.  “The U.S. government is not broke,” said  Marc Chandler ,
global head of currency strategy for Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “There’s no evidence that the market is
treating the U.S. government like it’s broke.”  The U.S. today is able to borrow at historically low
interest rates, paying 0.68 percent on a two-year note that it
had to offer at 5.1 percent before the financial crisis began in
2007. Financial products that pay off if Uncle Sam defaults
aren’t attracting unusual investor demand. And  tax revenue  as a
percentage of the economy is at a 60-year low, meaning if the
government needs to raise cash and can summon the political will,
it could do so.  To be sure, the U.S. confronts long-term fiscal dangers.
Over the past two years, federal debt measured against total
economic output has increased by more than 50 percent and the
White House projects annual budget deficits continuing
indefinitely.  “If an American family is spending more money than they’re
making year after year after year, they’re broke,” said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner.  $1.6 Trillion Deficit  A person, company or nation would be defined as “broke”
if it couldn’t pay its bills, and that is not the case with the
U.S. Despite an annual budget deficit expected to reach $1.6
trillion this year, the government continues to meet its
financial obligations, and investors say there is little concern
that will change.  Still, a rhetorical drumbeat has spread that the U.S. is
tapped out. Republicans, including Representative Ron Paul of
Texas, chairman of the House domestic monetary policy
subcommittee, and Fox News commentator Bill O’Reilly, have
labeled the U.S. “broke” in recent days.    Chris Christie , the Republican governor of New Jersey, said
in a speech last month that the Medicare program is “going to
bankrupt us.” Julian Robertson, chairman of Tiger Management
LLC in New York, told The Australian newspaper March 2: “we’re
broke, broker than all get out.”  A similar claim was even made Feb. 28 by comedian  Jon Stewart , the host of “The  Daily Show ” on  Comedy Central .  Cost of Insuring Debt  Financial markets dispute the political world’s conclusion.
The cost of insuring for five years a notional $10 million in
U.S. government debt is $45,830, less than half the cost in
February 2009, at the height of the financial crisis, according
to data provider CMA data. That makes U.S. government debt the
fifth safest of 156 countries rated and less likely to suffer
default than any major economy, including every member of the
G20.  Creditors regard Venezuela, Greece and Argentina as the
three riskiest countries. Buying credit default insurance on a
notional $10 million of those nations’ debt costs $1.2 million,
$950,000 and $665,000 respectively.  “I think it’s very misleading to call a country ‘broke,’”
said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist for IHS Global Insight
in Lexington, Massachusetts. “We’re certainly not bankrupt like
Greece.”  Less Likely to Default  CMA prices for credit insurance show that global investors
consider it more likely that France, Japan, China, the United
Kingdom, Australia or  Germany  will default than the U.S.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which operates the
largest bond fund, the $239 billion Total Return Fund, sees so
little risk of a U.S. default it may sell other investors
insurance against the prospect. Andrew Balls, Pimco managing
director, told reporters Feb. 28 in  London  that the chances the
U.S. would not meet its obligations were “vanishingly small.”  George Magnus, senior economic adviser for  UBS Investment
Bank  in London, says the U.S. dollar’s status as the global
economy’s unit of account means the U.S. can’t go broke.  “You have the reserve currency,” Magnus said. “You can
print as much as you need. So there’s no question all debts will
be repaid.”  The current concerns over debt contrast with the views of
founding father Alexander Hamilton, the nation’s first Treasury
secretary. At Hamilton’s urging, the federal government in 1790
absorbed the Revolutionary War debts of the states and issued
new government securities in about the same total amount.  Alexander Hamilton  Unlike today’s debt critics, Hamilton “had no intention of
paying off the outstanding principal of the debt,” historian
Gordon S. Wood wrote in “Empire of Liberty: A History of the
Early Republic 1789-1815.”  Instead, by making regular interest payments on the debt,
Hamilton established the U.S. government as “the best credit
risk in the world” and drew investors’ loyalties to the federal
government and away from the states, wrote Wood, who won a
Pulitzer Prize for a separate history of the colonial period.  From Oct. 1, 2008, the beginning of the 2009 fiscal year,
through the current year, which ends Sept. 30, 2011, the U.S.
will have added more than $4.3 trillion of debt. Despite White
House forecasts of an additional $2.4 trillion of debt over the
next three fiscal years, investors’ appetite for Treasury
securities shows little sign of abating.  Longer-Term Debt  In addition to accepting low yields on two-year notes,
creditors are willing to lend the U.S. money for longer periods
at  interest rates  that are below long-term averages. Ten-year
U.S. bonds carry a rate of 3.5 percent, compared with an average
5.4 percent since 1990. And U.S. debt is more attractive than
comparable securities from the U.K., which has moved
aggressively to rein in  government spending . U.K. 10-year bonds
offer a 3.6 percent yield.  “You are never broke as long as there are those who will
buy your debt and lend money to you,” said Edward Altman, a
finance professor at New York University’s Stern School of
Business who created the Z-score formula that calculates a
company’s likelihood of bankruptcy.  Any doubts traders had about the solvency of the U.S. would
immediately be reflected in the markets, a fact noted by James Carville, a former adviser to President  Bill Clinton , after he
saw how bond investors could determine the success or failure of
economic policy.  “I used to think if there was reincarnation, I wanted to
come back as the president or the Pope or a .400 baseball
hitter,” Carville said. “But now I want to come back as the  bond market . You can intimidate everyone.”  Republican Dissenters  Republican assertions that the U.S. is “broke” are
shorthand for a complex fiscal situation, and some in the party
acknowledge the claim isn’t accurate.  “To say your debts exceed your income is not ‘broke,’”
said Tony Fratto, former White House and Treasury Department
spokesman in the George W. Bush administration.  The U.S. government nonetheless faces a daunting gap
between its expected financial resources and promised future
outlays. Fratto said the Obama administration’s continued
accumulation of debt risked a future crisis, as most major
economies also face growing debt burdens.  In the nightmare scenario, a crush of countries competing
to simultaneously sell IOUs to global investors could bid up the
yield on government debt and compel overleveraged countries such
as the U.S. to abruptly slash public spending. Fratto dismissed
the markets’ current calm, noting that until the European debt
crisis erupted early last year, investors had priced German and
Greek debt as near equivalents.  “Markets can make mistakes,” Fratto said.  $9.4 Trillion Outstanding  If recent budgetary trends continue unchanged, the U.S.
risks a fiscal day of reckoning, slower growth or both. Altman
notes that the U.S. debt outstanding is “enormous.” As of the
end of 2010, debt held by the public was $9.4 trillion or 63
percent of gross domestic product -- roughly half of the
corresponding figures for Greece (126.7 percent) and Japan (121
percent) and well below countries such as Italy (116 percent),
Belgium (96.2 percent) and France (78.1 percent).  Once a country’s debt-to-GDP ratio exceeds 90 percent,
median annual economic growth rates fall by 1 percent, according
to economists Kenneth Rogoff and  Carmen Reinhart . The  Congressional Budget Office  warns that debt held by the public
will reach 97 percent of GDP in 10 years if certain tax breaks
are extended rather than allowed to expire next year and if
Medicare payments to physicians are held at existing levels
rather than reduced as the administration has proposed.  AAA Rating  For now,  Standard & Poor’s  maintains a stable outlook on
its top AAA rating on U.S. debt, assuming the government will
“soon reveal a credible plan to tighten fiscal policy.” Debate
over closing the budget gap thus far has centered on potential
spending reductions. S&P says a deficit-closing plan “will
require both expenditure and revenue measures.”  Measured against the size of the economy, U.S. federal tax
revenue is at its lowest level since 1950. Tax receipts in the
2011 fiscal year are expected to equal 14.4 percent of GDP,
according to the White House. That compares with the 40-year
average of 18 percent, according to the Congressional Budget
Office. So if tax receipts return to their long-term average
amid an economic recovery, about one-third of the annual  budget
deficit  would disappear.  Likewise, individual  federal income tax rates  have declined
sharply since the top marginal rate peaked at 94 percent in 1945.
The  marginal rate  -- which applies to income above a numerical
threshold that has changed over time -- was 91 percent as late
as 1963 and 50 percent in 1986. For 2011, the top marginal rate
is 35 percent on income over $373,650 for individuals and
couples filing jointly.  Not Overtaxed  Americans also aren’t overtaxed compared with residents of
other advanced nations. In a 28-nation survey, only Chile and
Mexico reported a lower total tax burden than the U.S.,
according to the Organization for Economic Development and
Cooperation.  In 2009, taxes of all kinds claimed 24 percent of U.S. GDP,
compared with 34.3 percent in the U.K., 37 percent in Germany
and 48.2 percent in Denmark, the most heavily taxed OECD member.  “By the standard of U.S. history, by the standard of other
countries -- by the standard of where else are we going to get
the money -- increased tax revenues have to be a part of the
solution,” said Jeffrey Frankel, an economist at  Harvard
University  who advises the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  