-- 
Australia to Probe Woolworths, Wesfarmers on Decision to Cut Milk Prices

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-08T05:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/bond-scarcity-means-woolworths-beats-ge-rates-australia-credit.html
Bond sales by companies outside the
financial industry are so scarce in Australia that the nation’s
largest retailer,  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , is paying less to borrow than
banks and  General Electric Co. (GE)   Woolworths, based in Sydney and rated A- by  Standard &
Poor’s , sold A$500 million ($506 million) of five-year notes
priced to yield 105 basis points more than the swap rate
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender, paid the same
spread on 4 1/2-year notes in January, while GE’s local finance
unit, rated AA+, paid a spread of 110 basis points on a sale of
three-year bonds last month, the data show.  Relative yields on Australian company bonds are the lowest
in three years, reflecting the paucity of non-financial
corporate debt in the nation’s credit market, at less than three
percent of the A$32 billion of notes sold in 2011, Bloomberg
data and Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Australian Industrial
Index show. Mirvac Group and Commonwealth Property Office Fund
joined Woolworths in selling Australian dollar debt this year,
while Brisbane Airport Corp. met with local bond investors last
week to discuss a possible sale.  “Australian credit investors are getting some much-needed
corporate issuance from a high quality name,” said Mark Reade,
a Sydney-based credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. “The lack of
diversity in the Australian market helped Woolworths get funding
at a reasonable price.”  Debt Outstanding  Australian companies have A$9 billion of bonds maturing
this year, compared to A$112 billion for the nation’s banks,
Deutsche Bank AG analysts Gus Medeiros and Colin Tan wrote in a
research paper last month.  Led by  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
Commonwealth Bank, Westpac Banking Corp. and National Australia
Bank Ltd., lenders need to refinance A$412 billion of debt by
2015, compared to A$40 billion of corporate securities coming
due, they said.  In the U.S., more than 45 percent of bond sales this year
have been by non-financial corporate issuers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold bonds sold by
Australian issuers including Wesfarmers Ltd. and Telstra Corp.
instead of government debt has dropped 20 basis points this year
to 193, Merrill Lynch’s industrial index shows.  The index has returned 2.2 percent this year, compared with
2.1 percent for financial debt sold in Australia and 0.03
percent for industrial bonds globally, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  ‘Rarity’ Factor  “The Australian market has a very high weight to
financials, so to get a high quality corporate like Woolworths
to issue locally is excellent diversification for investors,”
said Mat McCrum, investment director of Melbourne-based Omega
Global Investors Pty Ltd., which invested in the bonds. “Even
though Woolworths is rated lower than the banks, I’m happy to
buy their debt because of the company’s excellent financial
position and the rarity of corporate paper of this caliber.”  Woolworths, which started marketing the bonds at a 110
basis-point spread, stopped taking orders after three hours and
received about four times as many bids for the notes as it sold,
sale managers ANZ and Westpac said in e-mailed statements
yesterday. The spread on the notes narrowed to 86 basis points
today, according to ANZ prices.  The retailer reported Feb. 25 that first-half earnings rose
6 percent to A$1.162 billion on supermarket growth and said
annual net income will rise 5 percent to 8 percent. Australian
retail sales rose more than economists predicted in January, led
by supermarkets and grocery stores as floods in the nation’s
northeast drove up food prices.  Economic Expansion  Surging shipments of  iron ore  and coal to  China  are fueling
economic expansion in Australia, where the central bank is
forecasting 4.25 percent growth in 2011.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia raised borrowing costs seven
times from October 2009 to November last year and left rates
unchanged last week at 4.75 percent for a third straight
meeting. The Australian dollar climbed 10 percent in the past
six months against the greenback, a performance beaten only by
the currencies of Sweden and  Norway . It traded at $1.0123 as of
3:58 p.m. in Sydney today after touching a record $1.0256 on
Dec. 31.  Australian 10-year government bond yields have risen 67
basis points in the past six months to 5.56 percent today. The
spread to similar-dated Treasuries has narrowed 20.6 basis
points in the same period to 203.6 basis points.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes show investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.97 percent for the next five years, the
fastest among eight developed nations tracked by Bloomberg. The
so-called breakeven rate on inflation-linked debt jumped from
2.22 percent on Sept. 1, the lowest in at least five years.  Woolworths Debt  Woolworths last sold Australian-dollar bonds in 2006, when
it issued A$600 million of perpetual notes callable in September
this year, and A$350 million of senior unsecured debt at a
spread of 30 basis points more than swap rates, Bloomberg data
show.  The retailer, which isn’t related to London-based
Woolworths Group Plc or Woolworths Holdings Ltd. of  Cape Town ,  South Africa , sold $1.25 billion of U.S. dollar-denominated
notes in September including $500 million of five-year bonds at
a spread of 115 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. Relative yields on those notes
have fallen to 92, ANZ prices show.  The extra yield investors demand to own Commonwealth Bank’s
A$1 billion of 6.5 percent bonds due in July 2015 instead of
similar-maturity government debt has fallen 9 basis points to
138 basis points since they were sold Jan. 13, according to
prices from the Sydney-based lender.  National Australia Bank, based in  Melbourne  and rated AA by
S&P, sold A$800 million of floating-rate notes priced to yield
120 basis points more than the three-month bank bill swap rate
in October, Bloomberg data show.  Commonwealth Property  Commonwealth Property Office Fund, rated A- by S&P, sold
A$200 million of five-year, 7.25 percent bonds priced to yield
165 basis points more than the swap rate, according to an e-
mailed statement from Commonwealth Bank on March 3.    Stockland (SGP) , Australia’s biggest diversified property group
which is also rated A-, paid a 195 basis-point spread on 5 1/2-
year notes sold in December.  Brisbane Airport, owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, met with local bond investors last week to discuss a
possible debt sale, three people familiar with the matter said
at the time.  The Woolworths sale will help change issuer perspectives as
to what volume and pricing is achievable for companies in the
Australian market, said Brad Scott, director of debt capital
markets at ANZ in Sydney. “The overwhelming response, and the
pricing, shows the imbalance between supply and demand in the
corporate sector,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 