-- 
Britain’s CO2 From Power Plants May Feed Shrimp, Make Paper

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-07T17:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/britain-s-co2-power-emissions-may-help-feed-shrimp-make-paper.html
Skyonic Corp ., an Austin, Texas-
based technology company, is discussing a plan to use carbon-
dioxide emissions from a British power generator to make shrimp
feed, windows and paper.  Skyonic is testing a carbon-scrubbing system that traps
gases from fuel combustion before they are emitted through the
chimney, according to Chief Executive Officer Joe Jones, 53. The
trappings can be used to make sodium bicarbonates or calcium
carbonates, minerals used to grow algae for feeding shrimp or
produce glass and paper. Proceeds from selling these byproducts
can offset the cost of sequestering carbon, he said.  “Let capitalism work,” Jones, a chemical engineer who
founded closely held Skyonic in 2005 and raised $48 million in
private equity funding, said in a London interview. “We can
recycle the carbon-dioxide and displace mining of minerals.”  Britain, which pledged to cut emissions 80 percent by 2050,
has set aside 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to fund the
country’s first commercial project to demonstrate capturing and
permanently storing CO2 from a power station. The country has
promised subsidies for three additional projects that test
trapping and storing CO2, further encouraging utilities to try
carbon capturing kits such as the one made by Skyonic.    Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power unit is the only company in
the running for U.K. funding to trap emissions. Its 2,300-
megawatt coal-fed power station in Longannet,  Scotland , would
pipe CO2 for storage in a depleted gas field in the North Sea.  ‘Crucial Element’  More than half of Britain’s electricity will still come
from carbon-emitting fossil fuels at the end of the decade,  Charles Hendry , U.K. energy minister, said in a Feb. 17
 statement . “That’s why carbon capture and storage is such a
crucial element of this government’s energy and climate change
agenda. It is the only technology that can significantly reduce
CO2 emissions from fossil fuel power stations.”  Skyonic’s kit, which removes sulfur dioxides and nitrogen
oxides and turns CO2 into minerals, costs about $600 million to
install on a 1,325-megawatt plant, Jones estimated. The system
also requires energy, meaning a power station with installed
capacity of 2,000 would be capable of producing 1,600 megawatts
of power, Jones said. That compares with an energy drain of
about 40 percent or more with carbon-capture systems that
involve pumping and storing gases underground, he said.  Skyonic’s method could capture for about $23 a metric ton,
Jones estimated. That figure, which doesn’t account for possible
revenue from selling carbon byproducts, compares with more than
100 euros ($135) a ton to capture emissions and pump them into
the  North Sea , Meg Brown, a London-based analyst for Citigroup,
said in a December research note.  High Costs  “Capturing CO2 and pumping it into the ground is clearly
not gaining traction because of the high costs,” Jones said.
Skyonic tested its technology at Luminant Generation Co LLC’s
Big Brown Steam Electric Station, in  Texas  from 2007 to 2009.
Skyonic will start constructing its first commercial  project  at
Capitol Aggregates Ltd’s cement factory in  San Antonio  that will
be operational in 2012, he said.  U.K. power stations operate under the European Union’s
emissions trading system, which gives utilities an incentive to
reduce CO2 and cut expenditure on pollution permits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  