-- 
Brown Says Republican Votes Still Lacking for California Budget Approval

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-07T22:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/brown-says-republican-votes-absent-for-california-budget-tax-extension.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  said
he lacks enough Republican votes to pass his budget, which calls
for extending $9.3 billion in tax increases, and may miss his
self-imposed deadline for approval.  Brown said it may take more time to cajole at least four
Republicans to support his tax plan, beyond the March 10
deadline he’s set for calling a special election in June. The
Senate has scheduled a session March 10 to take up the plan.  “It might take a few more days than that, at the rate we
are going,” Brown told reporters after he addressed the
California Community Colleges Board of Governors today in
Sacramento.  Brown has vowed to fix the financial strains that have left  California  with the biggest deficit of all U.S. states, and the
lowest  credit rating . He wants voters to choose whether to
extend higher vehicle fees and sales and income taxes for five
more years to avoid deeper cuts on top of the $12.5 billion he’s
already proposed.  Five Republican senators who met with Brown last week to
discuss a possible compromise said today the talks are at an
impasse. In a  letter  to Brown, the senators said the proposals
they presented were “either rejected or so watered down as to
have no real effect on future spending or the economy.  ‘‘We have therefore concluded that your are unable to
compel other stakeholders to accept real reform,’’ the senators
wrote.  Special Election  Brown wants the budget and the companion special election
measure approved by March 10 to give election officials time
needed to prepare the ballot. He said he wants to know the
outcome of that vote before the constitutional deadline of  June
15  for the Legislature to send him a budget. Last year’s budget
was passed a record 100 days into the fiscal year, which begins
July 1.  The ballot measure would ask voters to extend fee and tax
increases that were approved in 2009 when the state faced a $42
billion deficit. Republican lawmakers, whose support will be
needed to obtain a two-thirds vote required to put the measure
on the ballot, oppose the plan.  Republicans have given Brown a list of demands such as
additional spending cuts, slashing pensions for public workers,
easing of environmental regulations and a constitutional cap on
spending. Brown said he’s meeting with Republicans to find a
compromise.  ‘‘I’m perfectly willing to talk about those issues but I
would like to get a budget first,” he said.  Taxes, Rates  Brown is asking to retain a 0.25 percentage-point increase
in personal income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-point boost in the
retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25 percent; an increase in the rate
for auto-registration fees of 0.5 percentage point, to 1.15
percent of a vehicle’s value; and reduction of the state’s child
tax credit to $99 from $309.  The governor would use sales-tax and vehicle-license fee
revenue to fund a $5.9 billion shift of public-safety and
welfare programs such as parole and foster care to local
governments. The amount would increase to $7.3 billion by 2015.
The income-tax revenue would finance $3.3 billion for education,
increasing to $5.2 billion by 2015.  Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento , said his chamber will probably take up the plan
March 10, though he’ll take his direction from the governor.  “Things are not off track,” Steinberg said in an
interview. “We are ready to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  