-- 
Buffett Says Wesco Deal May Be Disadvantageous to Berkshire

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-07T21:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/buffett-says-wesco-deal-may-be-disadvantageous-to-berkshire.html
  Warren Buffett  said shareholders of
his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  may have their financial interests
harmed by the company’s planned stock-and-cash deal to take a
100 percent stake in  Wesco Financial Corp. (WSC)   Using Berkshire stock would dilute investors’ holdings in
exchange for more ownership in a firm that may have less growth
potential, Buffett told Wesco Director Carolyn Carlburg in a
Jan. 21 letter published today in a Berkshire regulatory filing.
Berkshire, the top investor in Kraft Foods Inc., last year
opposed the foodmaker’s plan to issue shares for an acquisition,
saying the stock was “very expensive currency.”  Buffett rebuffed a request by Carlburg for a higher offer,
according to correspondence between the two included in the
filing. Wesco, which is led by Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger and is 80.1 percent owned by Buffett’s firm, said last
month it accepted a deal of about $550 million for the remaining
stake and would seek shareholder approval. Wesco investors would
have the option of taking cash or Berkshire stock in exchange
for their shares.  “We regard the transaction as disadvantageous to Berkshire
if a substantial number of Wesco shareholders elect to take
Berkshire stock,” Buffett said in the letter. “That’s because
I believe the prospects for Berkshire shares over the next 10
years to be considerably better than the prospects for Wesco
shares.”  Buffett funded more than a third of last year’s $26.5
billion purchase of railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  by
issuing Berkshire shares. “I hate it,” Buffett said in an
interview last year when asked about diluting Berkshire shares.  Book Value  Berkshire has gained about 2.1 percent on the New York
Stock Exchange in the past 12 months, compared with a decline of
about 1.8 percent in Wesco. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
trades at about 1.34 times its book value, a measure of assets
minus liabilities, according to Bloomberg data. Wesco trades at
its book value, the price which Buffett set as his target for
the bid. Pasadena, California-based Wesco rose 2 cents to $389
at 4:15 p.m.  “I may be wrong in my assessment of the prospects for
Berkshire, Wesco or both,” Buffett said in the letter. “But
since I feel that the shareholders of Berkshire will be
economically disadvantaged by the shareholders of Wesco who take
Berkshire shares, I’m unable to change the terms of our offer.”  Munger’s View  Buffett, 80, is seeking to simplify Berkshire’s holdings
for an eventual change in leadership. The billionaire has led
the company for four decades with the help of Munger, Buffett’s
87-year old business partner. Munger supported the buyout and
said on Jan. 18 that he doubted Berkshire would raise the bid,
according to the filing.  Carlburg, a director since 1991, was seeking an increased
offer because Wesco’s reported book value understated the firm’s
worth, she told Buffett in a Jan. 20 letter, disclosed in the
filing. Carlburg, Robert Flaherty and Elizabeth Caspers Peters
were appointed by Wesco’s board in September to a “special
committee of independent directors” to evaluate the bid.  A review of Wesco’s deferred-tax liabilities could add as
much as $17 a share because payments aren’t immediately due,
Carlburg said in her letter. She identified an additional $3 a
share tied to Wesco’s real estate and a further $7 a share
related to discounting reserves and receivables in the firm’s
insurance business, according to the letter.  Buffett’s Response  “If our offer is unacceptable, I would suggest that all
work in respect to our proposal should be terminated immediately
so as to avoid incurring any further expenses,” Buffett said in
his reply the next day.  Berkshire took  majority control  of Wesco in 1983 and
transformed the company from a California lender into a unit
that stores steel, rents furniture and sells insurance to banks
and airlines. Greenhill & Co., the New York-based investment
bank advising Wesco on the buyout, was told by Munger in a Jan.
18 meeting that the outlook for the company’s businesses made a
deal with Berkshire attractive for investors.  Munger “expressed skepticism about the future prospects of
the company’s insurance business and the future performance and
value of CORT,” Wesco’s furniture-rental unit, according to an
account in the filing of discussions with Greenhill.
“Mr. Munger also expressed his view that for a long-term
investor, exchanging Wesco shares for Berkshire shares on the
merger terms offered would be a very sound idea.”  Greenhill Rebuffed  Greenhill requested five-year projections from the
management of Wesco units including CORT, Wesco Financial
Insurance Co. and Precision Steel Warehouse Inc. The request was
rejected by the insurance unit.  “Wes-FIC does not prepare financial projections in the
ordinary course and would not do so solely for the purpose of
the contemplated transaction,” according to the filing, which
summarized remarks made by Robert Denham, a Wesco director, on
Nov. 17. “Any such projections would be highly speculative and
unreliable,” given the 2012 expiration of a contract with Swiss
Reinsurance Co. that provides most of the unit’s premiums.  Denham, the former Salomon Inc. chairman and CEO, is also a
partner at Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP, the law firm that
represented Berkshire in its Wesco bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  