-- 
Bulgaria Mulls Installing Reactor Meant for Belene at Kozloduy

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-07T17:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/bulgaria-mulls-installing-reactor-meant-for-belene-at-kozloduy.html
  Bulgaria  is considering installing a
reactor intended for the delayed Belene project at the Kozloduy
plant, Energy and Economy Minister Traicho Traikov said.  Kozloduy, Bulgaria’s only atomic power plant, has two
Russian-made 1,000-megawatt reactors, which supply 38 percent of
the nation’s needs. The government is considering building one
or two new reactors at Kozloduy, on the Danube. The country is
negotiating with  Russia ’s Rosatom Corp. on the cost of a stalled
project to build a second 2,000-megawatt plant at Belene, also
on the Danube.  “It’s worth considering an option where the equipment
produced for the Belene project is installed on the site of the
Kozloduy nuclear power plant,” Traikov said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Thus we’ll have one new reactor at Kozloduy
and the whole plant will be Russian-built. Then we can seek a
different solution for Belene.”  Atomstroyexport ZAO, a unit of Rosatom, won a contract to
build the two-reactor Belene plant for 4 billion euros ($5.6
billion) in 2005 with  Areva SA (CEI)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  as subcontractors.
It has since increased the price to 6.4 billion euros because of
delayed construction. Bulgaria estimates the cost at about 5
billion euros.  Bulgaria has already paid some 215 million euros toward the
cost of one of the Belene reactors, which has been built in
Russia. Bulgaria is in talks with several international
investors to raise funds for the completion of the Belene plant,
though disagreement over the price may lead the government to
modify its plans, Traikov said.  Construction of the Danube plant has stalled since Prime
Minister Boiko Borissov’s government came to power 20 months ago
and refused to provide state funding, which prompted  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest utility, to withdraw in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  