-- 
LVMH Plans to Buy Bulgari for $5.2 Billion After Acquiring Majority Stake

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-03-07T16:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/bulgari-family-agrees-to-sell-a-controlling-stake-to-lvmh-in-share-swap.html
  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
plans to acquire  Bulgari SpA (BUL)  for about 3.7 billion euros ($5.2
billion) to double the size of its watches and jewelry unit in
what would be its biggest acquisition in at least a decade.  The largest luxury-goods company agreed to purchase the
Bulgari family’s 50.4 percent stake for 1.87 billion euros in
stock and will then make a tender offer for the rest, according
to a joint statement distributed by the Italian Exchange today.
The acquisition represents a 61 percent premium to Bulgari’s
March 4 closing share price in Milan.  Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault , who last year
bought a stake in  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA without the consent
of its founding family, has built up LVMH via a series of
acquisitions. He’s buying the world’s third-largest jeweler as
the Rome-based company’s sales growth trails larger rivals such
as Cie. Financiere Richemont SA. Bulgari is adding cheaper items
and high-end watches as demand rebounds after the recession.  “We see this as a great deal for Bulgari shareholders,”
Alessandro Migliorini, an analyst at Helvea, wrote today in a
note. “In contrast, it remains to be seen whether LVMH’s
financial muscle and organizational strength will suffice to
extract sufficient value to justify the acquisition price.”  Ebitda Multiples  LVMH is paying 28.2 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization based on the stock part of the
deal and 25.8 times based on the cash part, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company paid 15.49 times Ebitda for a 17.1
percent stake in Hermes. The median multiple paid for jewelry
retailers in the past decade is 8.5 times, according to
Bloomberg data.  “Our entrance into LVMH will allow Bulgari to reinforce
its worldwide growth and to realize significant synergies,”
Bulgari CEO Francesco Trapani said in the statement. He will
join LVMH’s executive committee and replace Philippe Pascal as
head of watches and jewelry, the French company said.  The purchase will dilute LVMH’s earnings per share by about
1 percent before so-called synergies are realized, the company
said in a presentation today. Bulgari’s sales gained 25 percent
in January and February at constant rates of exchange. The
company’s order book more than doubled at the end of February.  Including  stock options  and the purchase of a convertible
bond, the company is paying a total price of 4.3 billion euros,
LVMH said on a conference call today.  $3 Billion Cash  Today’s announcement doesn’t affect LVMH’s stake in Hermes,
which is a long-term investment, said Olivier Labesse, a
spokesman for Paris-based LVMH. Hermes’s founding family wants
LVMH to reduce its stake by more than half. LVMH has said it
doesn’t plan to sell its stake and is a peaceful investor.  LVMH rose 3 euros, or 2.7 percent, to 114.15 euros at 4:28
p.m. in Paris, valuing the company at 56.1 billion euros.
Bulgari shares rose 59 percent to 12.05 euros. The news drove
gains in shares of other companies, including  Burberry Group
Plc. (BRBY)  Burberry advanced as much as 6.7 percent in London.  LVMH’s watch and jewelry business, which includes Tag Heuer
timepieces and De Beers diamond necklaces, combined with Bulgari
would have had sales in 2010 of 2.05 billion euros on a so-
called pro forma basis.  The agreement to acquire the family stake is binding in the
event of any higher offer being made, LVMH Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Jacques Guiony said on a conference call. The CFO
said he doesn’t see any antitrust obstacles.  New Shares  LVMH, with about $3 billion in cash at the end of 2010, has
announced at least eight acquisitions including the Hermes stake
purchase in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Paolo and Nicola Bulgari will remain chairman and
vice chairman of Bulgari’s board, the company said.  “We will see what comes on the market. We will not bid too
high,” Pascal said in an interview this year. “We are very
picky.” Pascal will remain on the company’s executive committee
and be given new responsibilities in the group, LVMH said today.  LVMH will issue 16.5 million new shares valued at 113 euros
each in exchange for the Bulgari family’s 152.5 million shares.
The companies are valuing Bulgari at 12.25 a share compared to
the 7.59-euro March 4 closing price.  Financially, “the deal looks uninspiring for LVMH, but
strategically it is an excellent move, bulking LVMH up in
watches and jewelry, one of the fastest-growing areas of
luxury,” Andrew Holland, an analyst at Evolution Securities in  London , said in a note to clients.  Chinese Partnership  The sales increase in the last three months of 2010 trailed
rival Richemont’s 33 percent gain. Bulgari said in November that
Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. will distribute its watches in  China 
under a five-year partnership. Swatch Group AG owns 9.05 percent
of Hengdeli, which is listed in  Hong Kong , while LVMH owns more
than 6 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Bulgari was founded in 1884 by Sotirio Bulgari. Trapani,
who has run the company since 1984, is a family member. The
company has been listed on the Milan stock exchange since 1995.  LVMH was advised by  Credit Agricole  while Bulgari was
advised by Credit Suisse.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche at   mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 