-- 
CFTC Is `Out of Step' With Global Derivative Rulemaking, Commissioner Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-03-07T22:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/cftc-is-out-of-step-with-global-derivative-rulemaking-commissioner-says.html
The  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  is “out of step” with U.S. and international
efforts to write rules for the  derivatives market , Commissioner
Jill Sommers told bankers at a conference in  Washington .  CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  proposals for
governing new swap-execution facilities may lead to inconsistent
regulation, Sommers said today in a speech at the  Institute of
International Bankers  annual conference in the U.S. capital.  In December, the CFTC proposed allowing participants in the
swap-execution facilities to request price quotes from a minimum
of five possible sellers. The SEC on Feb. 2 proposed a rule that
would allow buyers to request a quote from a single seller. The
CFTC measure is “overly restrictive” and doesn’t provide the
same flexibility as the SEC proposal, said Sommers, one of two
Republicans among the CFTC’s five commissioners.  “One of my primary concerns has been that the CFTC is
moving out of step in time and substance or both with the SEC
and the rest of the world in implementing trade execution
requirements for standardized swaps,” she said. Sommers was the
only commissioner to oppose the CFTC proposal in a 4-1 vote to
seek comment.  The CFTC and the SEC are leading U.S. efforts to write
derivatives regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Act, which
aims to reduce risk and boost transparency in the swaps market
after unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , the top Democrat on the
House Financial Services Committee, has urged the two agencies
to reconcile differences in derivatives regulations.  “Differences in the rules that are not required by
differences between various financial products will only serve
to drive up the cost of implementation, without improving the
regulatory structure,” Frank wrote in a Feb. 18 letter to CFTC
chairman Gary Gensler and SEC chairman  Mary Schapiro .  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to stocks, bonds,  interest rates  or events, such as a potential
company default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  