-- 
Chevron Wins Bid to Extend Order Blocking Ecuador Judgment

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,
-- 
2011-03-08T02:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/chevron-wins-bid-to-extend-order-blocking-18-billion-ecuadorean-judgment.html
  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  won a bid to extend a
court order barring Ecuadorean residents from enforcing an $18
billion judgment against the  oil company  until its racketeering
case against the villagers and their lawyers is decided.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in  Manhattan  said in a
ruling today that Chevron faced “imminent” and “irreparable”
harm to its business relationships and reputation.  “There is a significant risk that assets would be seized
or attached, thus disrupting Chevron’s supply chain, causing it
to miss critical deliveries to business partners,” Kaplan said.  Kaplan granted a temporary restraining order Feb. 8 barring
residents of the Amazon River basin who have sued Chevron in
Ecuador and their U.S. lawyers from enforcing the judgment
awarded by a court there. The company made the request in a U.S.
racketeering lawsuit in which it accused the Ecuadoreans’
lawyers of conspiring to fabricate evidence. The attorneys said
the lawsuit is unjustified and the claims an attempt to derail
the pollution lawsuit damages.  Lawyers for the Ecuadoreans have argued that Kaplan can’t
prevent the plaintiffs from enforcing the judgment outside the
U.S. said Karen Hinton, a spokeswoman for the plaintiffs.  “This decision is a slap in the face to the democratic
nation of  Ecuador  and the thousands of Ecuadorian citizens who
have courageously fought for 18 years to hold Chevron
accountable for committing the world’s worst environmental
disaster,” Hinton said. “The trampling of due process in the
court’s refusal to consider key evidence or hold a hearing to
determine the facts is an inappropriate exercise of judicial
power.”  Pollution Claims  Chevron says it cleaned up its portion of the  oil fields 
and was released from pollution claims against Texaco Inc. in an
agreement with the government of Ecuador. Chevron acquired
Texaco in 2001.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, was ordered
Feb. 14 to pay as much as $18 billion in compensatory and
punitive damages for Texaco’s alleged dumping of toxic drilling
wastes in the Ecuadorean jungle from 1964 to about 1992. The
ruling came in an 18-year-old lawsuit decided by a judge in Lago
Agrio, a provincial capital near the Colombian border.  Chevron and the plaintiffs have said they will appeal the
decision.  Bond, Deposit  Kaplan ordered Chevron to post a $21.8 million bond or
deposit that sum with the court to ensure payment of any damages
caused by the delay in enforcement of the judgment, if his
injunction turns out to be inappropriate, according to the
filing.  Chevron had $17.1 billion in cash and near-cash equivalents
at the end of December, the  San Ramon , California-based company
said in a Jan. 28 statement.  “Chevron welcomes the order of the Southern District of
New York,” Kent Robertson, a Chevron spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “The Lago Agrio plaintiffs’ lawyers should not be
allowed to benefit from an Ecuadorean judicial system that does
not provide due process and from a judgment that they have
procured through fraud and corruption.”  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York (Manhattan). The case
in Ecuador is Maria Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court
of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   pickering@bloomberg.net  