-- 
Chile Peso, Swaps Rise as Economic Growth Spurs Interest-Rate Speculation

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-07T18:12:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/chile-peso-fluctuates-as-economic-data-offsets-higher-oil-price.html
Chile’s peso strengthened and
interest-rate swap yields reached the highest in more than two
years as better-than-forecast economic growth bolstered
speculation of increased borrowing costs.  The peso climbed to 473.85 per  U.S. dollar  from 474.05 on
March 4. The one-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects
expectations for the average of future rates, rose 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 5.13 percent.  January economic activity that exceeded estimates and the
possibility of a 0.3 percent inflation reading for February
increased the chance that the central bank may raise its
benchmark rate by 0.5 percentage point this month, economists at
Banco de Credito & Inversiones and Banco Falabella said.  “A higher interest rate generates an increase in external
capital income, which should increase the supply of dollars,
creating appreciation,” said Flavio Magnasco at Banco
Falabella.  Chile’s economy grew 6.8 percent in January from a year
earlier, the central bank said today, faster than the 5.9
percent median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The “good news” may lead to an increase in annual growth
forecasts, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters today.  “Everyone is projecting 6 percent growth and higher,”
Larrain said. With today’s data “I’m sure some projections are
going to improve,” he said.  The Chilean peso gained even as the oil-importing country’s
trade prospects deteriorated after crude reached a 29-month
high. West Texas Crude for April delivery, which drives prices
in  Chile , reached $106.95 a barrel today, the highest since
September 2008. Oil and gasoline are Chile’s biggest imports.  Foreign Investor Bets  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their bet against the currency last week to $1.4
billion on March 3, according to data from the central bank.  Chile’s central bank bought $50 million today at an average
of 472.7 pesos per dollar, according to a statement on its
website. The bank is buying $50 million of U.S. currency a day
as part of a $12 billion plan to stem the peso’s gains.  The six-month swap rate in pesos climbed six basis points
to 4.54 percent today. The one-year inflation-linked swap rate
increased five basis points to 0.5 percent, leading to a nine-
basis-point increase in one-year breakeven inflation to 4.61
percent.  “We’ve seen paying in the short end,” said Sebastian Ide,
a trader at Banco Santander SA in Santiago. “The more relevant
data will be the  consumer price index  tomorrow, especially
underlying inflation, which may confirm inflationary
pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net  or
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  