-- 
Chile Economy Expanded Faster-Than-Forecast 6.8% in January From Year Ago

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-07T17:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/chile-economy-expanded-faster-than-forecast-6-8-in-january-from-year-ago.html
Chile’s economy expanded in January
at the fastest pace since August as retail sales surged,
supporting estimates that the central bank will raise  interest
rates  next week for the ninth time in 10 months.  The central bank’s monthly Imacec index, a proxy for gross
domestic product, rose 6.8 percent from a year ago, the bank
said today on its website. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast 5.9 percent growth, according to the median of 12
estimates. Chile’s peso paced Latin American currency gains
while interest-rate swap yields reached the highest in more than
two years.    South America ’s fifth-biggest economy expanded faster than
forecast even as the central bank continues to lift lending
costs, Flavio Magnasco, economist at Banco Falabella in
Santiago, said. Today’s data supports the idea that policy
makers can raise borrowing cost without running the risk of
halting economic expansion.  “While we still estimate a quarter-point increase, the
probability the central bank would raise rates by 50 basis
points increased today,” Magnasco said by telephone.  Policy makers will raise the overnight rate from 3.50
percent to 3.75 percent on March 17 and to 5 percent by
September, according to the median estimate of 42 traders and
investors in a Feb. 23 central bank survey. Policy makers
increased rates by a quarter-point last month after pausing in
January for the first time since May.  The $164 billion economy grew 5.2 percent last year, based
on preliminary central bank data, as industrial production
expanded 0.6 percent. Economic growth may reach 6.5 percent in
2011, which would be the fastest annual expansion in more than a
decade, according to central bank estimates.  ‘Good Position’  “The country as a whole is in an extremely good
position,” central bank President Jose De Gregorio said in a
March 4 interview with Bloomberg TV in Paris. “From the point
of view of the central bank, what we have to do is to control
inflation.”    Chile ’s peso climbed to 473.85 per dollar from 474.05 on
March 4. It has strengthened 1.1 percent in the past month.  The one-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects
traders’ expectations for the average of future rates, increased
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 5.12 percent, the
highest in more than two years.  Chile had a trade balance of $1.17 billion in February as
exports grew 25 percent from a year earlier to $5.92 billion and
imports expanded 33 percent to $4.75 billion, the central bank
said today.  Textiles, Electronics Rise  Industrial output grew 4 percent in January, the fastest
pace since August as an increase in the textile and electronics
industries offset a decline in paper and plastic production, the
National Statistics Institute said Feb. 28.      Retail sales
expanded 16 percent in January from the previous year and
supermarket revenue increased 6.4 percent, the institute said.  Consumer prices rose 2.7 percent in January from the
previous year after growing 3 percent in December, the Institute
said Feb. 8.  Annual inflation could reach 3.5 percent in two years,
according to the median estimate of traders and investors in a
Feb. 23 central bank survey. The bank targets annual inflation
of 3 percent, plus or minus 1 percentage point over a two-year
horizon.  While the government is always concerned about inflation,
Chile has the tools to confront fuel price swings and the
economy is strong enough to absorb high  oil prices , Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in Santiago today.  West Texas Crude for April delivery, which drives prices in
Chile, reached $106.95 a barrel today, the highest since
September 2008. Oil and gasoline are Chile’s biggest imports.  Today’s data is “good news” and may lead to an increase
in annual growth forecasts, Larrain said today, predicting rates
to “gradually increase this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  