-- 
China’s Lion Fund Approved to Raise More for Overseas Gold ETF

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-07T04:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/china-s-lion-fund-approved-to-raise-more-for-overseas-gold-etf.html
Lion Fund Management Co. , the first
in China to invest in overseas gold-backed exchange-traded
products, has been approved to as much as double the size of its
fund raising, said a company executive today.  The  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  approved
another $500 million quota for overseas securities investment,
and the fund will use part of that to increase the size of the
gold fund, said Yang Zi, the company’s media affairs manager
said by phone from Beijing.  Lion raised more than 3.2 billion yuan ($483 million) for
the fund, using up the entire $500 million initial quota granted
by the SAFE, according to a company statement on Jan. 11. Before
the launch of the fund,  China , the world’s largest gold
producer, didn’t have a gold-backed ETF. Investors normally buy
physical gold, or invest through gold contracts traded on the
Shanghai Gold Exchange, the Shanghai Futures Exchange or through
banks.  “We haven’t decided whether to use all or part of the new
quota in this particular fund,” Yang said. “The enthusiasm for
subscription continues, and the previous quota obviously can’t
meet demand.”  Gold investment in China, the second-largest consumer, may
gain 40 percent to 50 percent this year as investors increase
purchases of the precious metal as a store of value, the World
Gold Council forecast on Feb. 17.  Bullion for immediate delivery reached a record $1,440.32
per ounce on March 2, and traded at $1,437.95 at 11:25 a.m.
Shanghai time. It climbed 30 percent last year, marking the 10th
consecutive annual gain.  -  Helen Sun . Editors:  Richard Dobson , Jarrett Banks  To contact the Bloomberg News staffs on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  