-- 
China Adding to $1 Trillion of U.S. Debt Caps Rise in Rates

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-07T16:04:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/china-adding-to-1-trillion-of-treasuries-limits-yields-amid-u-s-selling.html
Investors outside the U.S. have
boosted their holdings of longer-maturity Treasuries to the
highest level since the credit markets froze in 2008, helping
curb rising yields amid concern inflation is accelerating.  International buyers held 90 percent of their $4.44
trillion of  U.S. government debt  in notes and bonds as of
December, the same as in September 2008 when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed,  Treasury data  released last week show.
The ratio fell to 83 percent in October 2009 as investors sought
the safety of Treasury bills with the U.S. economic recovery
still in question.  The shift toward long-term debt shows bond buyers outside
the U.S. agree with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
assessment that inflation will be contained even as global food
and energy prices soar.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest
bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., warned last week
that yields on Treasuries are too low with inflation
accelerating and the central bank planning to complete $600
billion in asset purchases in June.  “Inflation in the U.S. isn’t a big problem,” said Zeal Yin, who buys Treasuries for Shin Kong Life Insurance Co. in
Taipei,  Taiwan ’s second-largest life insurer with the equivalent
of $50.6 billion in assets. Yin said he purchased U.S.
government debt last week. “I’m bullish.”  Stocks Beat Bonds  The yield on the benchmark 3.625 percent note due February
2021 rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.49
percent last week, and climbed two basis points to 3.51 percent
at 11 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data.  Ten-year yields increased in each of the past six months,
the longest stretch since the period ended June 2006, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. government securities have
lost 0.4 percent this year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Treasury Master index. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has climbed 5.1 percent during the same period as
confidence in the economic recovery grows.  “We increased the portion of foreign-currency-denominated
bonds, mainly Treasuries, because of the higher interest
rates,” said  Satoshi Okumoto , a general manager in Tokyo at
Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has the equivalent of
$67.1 billion in assets. “When we need to increase our foreign-
currency bonds significantly, the U.S. is the only place to put
the money because of the liquidity.”    China ’s Shift  The amount of marketable  U.S. debt  outstanding surpassed $9
trillion last month. Retaining demand from international buyers,
who own half of the Treasury debt outstanding, is key to keeping
borrowing costs from surging as the Obama administration seeks
to finance cumulative budget deficits that the White House
estimates will exceed $4 trillion through 2015.  Interest expense will rise to 3.1 percent of gross domestic
product by 2016, from 1.3 percent in 2010, according to
administration estimates. While yields on the benchmark 10-year
note are up, they remain below the average of 4.13 percent over
the past decade.  The Treasury will sell $66 billion of three-, 10-and 30-
year securities over three days beginning tomorrow. Last month,
indirect bidders, the class of buyers that includes foreign
central banks, bought a record 71 percent, or $17 billion of the
$24 billion in 10-year notes offered at the auction.  China, the largest investor in U.S. government debt after
the Fed, increased longer-term notes and bonds by 39 percent to
$1.145 trillion in December from a year earlier, while its stake
in bills declined 78 percent to $15.4 billion, the most recent
Treasury data show.  ‘Extremely Supportive’  The nation bought more U.S. bonds even as its leaders
criticized Bernanke’s plan for the Fed to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries by June. Jesse Wang, executive vice president of
China Investment Corp., the country’s $300 billion sovereign
wealth fund, said Jan. 15 that devoting too much of its reserves
to U.S. assets such as Treasuries was too risky.  “They remain extremely supportive for the Treasury
market,” said  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  New York , one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed.  Japan, the second largest holder of Treasury debt,
increased its investment to a revised $882.3 billion, the
highest ever, from $765.7 billion a year earlier.  Longer-term U.S. bonds offer the highest yields relative to
short-maturity debt of any Group of Seven nation, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Yield Curve  The yield curve showing the difference between rates on
two- and 10-year notes was 2.81 percentage points, after
reaching a near record 2.93 percentage points at the start of
February. The gap in  Germany  is 1.51 percentage points, 2.23 in
the U.K. and 1.06 in Japan.  The curve will narrow to 2.63 percentage points by year-end
and to 2.26 points by mid-2012, based on the median estimate of
more than 40 economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Strategists say the expectations show investors see little
chance of inflation accelerating anytime soon. Returns on 30-
year Treasuries, the most vulnerable to rising consumer prices
because they have the longest maturity, gained last month for
the first time since August, returning 1.51 percent, compared
with an average loss of 0.09 percent for all Treasuries, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “The yield curve dynamics will change dramatically” in
the U.S. as the gap narrows, John Richards, head of North
American Strategy at RBS Securities Inc., said at a forum in
Tokyo on March 3. “I call this the beginning of the great
compression of short-term and long-term rates.”  Inflation Experience  Oil costing more than $100 a barrel and record high food
prices probably won’t cause a permanent increase in inflation
and borrowing costs are likely to stay low, Bernanke said March
1 in his semi-annual monetary policy testimony before Congress.  Experience with such price gains in recent decades, along
with currently stable labor costs, suggest a “temporary and
relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer price inflation,”
Bernanke said in  Washington .  While the consumer-price index jumped 0.4 percent in
January, the core measure, which excludes food and energy, rose
0.2 percent in January, in line with the average monthly gain of
0.16 percent over the past 10 years, figures from the Labor
Department showed Feb. 17.  “Bernanke tends to think this doesn’t matter --at least in
terms of headline versus the core -- we do,” Gross said in a
March 4 interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Cutting Treasuries  Gross cut holdings of U.S. government and related debt in
Pimco’s $237 billion Total Return Fund to 12 percent in January,
the least in two years. He recommends higher-returning assets
such as emerging-market debt and corporate bonds.  The difference in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, was 2.50 percentage
points on March 4, the highest since July 2008. The spread,
which reflects the outlook among traders for consumer prices
over the life of the bonds, averaged 2.43 points in the five
years before the credit crisis.  “We would not be a buyer of Treasuries at these levels,”
said  Andy Richman , who oversees $10 billion as a director of
fixed-income at SunTrust Bank’s Wealth and  Investment Management 
in  Palm Beach ,  Florida . “Inflation is becoming more of a
problem than it has been. The truck of inflation moving down the
road is getting closer and closer.”  Treasury yields have also risen on confidence that
President Barack Obama’s $858 billion tax compromise in December
and the Fed’s monetary policies have put the economy on a more
stable path to recovery.  Job Gains  The U.S. added 192,000 jobs in February, a report from the
Labor Department showed March 4, up from a revised 63,000 in
January. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had forecast the
economy would add 196,000 jobs. The  unemployment rate  dropped to
8.9 percent, the lowest level since April 2009.  While Bernanke said inflation remains subdued in the U.S.,
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said March 3
the ECB may raise  interest rates  next month for the first time
in almost three years to fight mounting inflation pressures.  The European Union’s central bank boosted its inflation and
growth forecasts, saying consumer price gains will average 2.3
percent this year, up from a December forecast of 1.8 percent
and exceeding the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  