-- 
China, Russia Lead UN Initiative to Stabilize Somalia, Fight Piracy Threat

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-07T18:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/china-russia-lead-un-initiative-to-stabilize-somalia-fight-piracy-threat.html
  China  and  Russia  are leading a new
effort at the  United Nations  to curb the threat of piracy off
the coast of Somalia and defeat al-Qaeda-linked terrorists
fighting to seize control of the Horn of Africa nation.  Russia has circulated a draft resolution that would commit
the UN  Security Council  to “urgently” begin talks on creation
of three courts for piracy cases. The measure also would urge
construction of two prisons for convicted pirates, and demand
that all nations enact laws to criminalize piracy.  “We are trying to take the lead on tightening up the legal
mechanisms for fighting piracy,” Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said. “Some very serious thinking needs to be done.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told a Senate
committee on March 3 that the Obama administration was “fed
up” with the piracy, and that “we need to make it clear that
the entire world had better get behind whatever we do and get
this scourge resolved.” The U.S. is in the midst of a policy
review on Somalia, and Clinton promised a “much more
comprehensive approach.”  Clinton’s remarks followed the killing on Feb. 22 of four
American hostages by pirates who seized their yacht.  China, as president of the Security Council this month,
plans to lead a meeting on March 10 to call for a more
comprehensive international strategy for dealing with political
instability, piracy and the threat posed by the Islamic al-
Shabaab militia. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is scheduled to
brief the council on the latest developments.  Al-Qaeda Links  Al-Shabaab, which the U.S. accuses of having links to al-
Qaeda, controls most of southern and central  Somalia , and the
transitional government led by Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed holds
only parts of the capital, Mogadishu. Somalia has been without a
functioning central administration since 1991, when ruler
Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted.  China has circulated a draft statement that “recognizes
the ongoing instability in Somalia contributes to the problem of
piracy and armed robbery and stresses the need for a
comprehensive approach to tackle piracy and its underlying
causes.” The statement would be considered at the March 10
meeting of the Security Council.  The statement “strongly urges” Somalia’s transitional
government to operate in a more “constructive, open and
transparent manner that promotes broader political dialogue and
participation.” It also asks UN member governments for greater
support for the 8,000 African Union troops trying to defeat the
insurgents.  African Union Peacekeepers  African Union peacekeepers supporting government troops
have driven out Islamic insurgents from several key positions in
Mogadishu since Feb. 19, the mission’s force commander said on
March 5. The two-week offensive “helped to stabilize a large
part of the city,” Major General Nathan Mugisha, who heads the
mission, known as Amisom, told reporters.  The Russian draft resolution acts on the recommendations
made to the  Security Council  on Jan. 25 by Jack Lang, the
special adviser on piracy to the secretary-general. Lang, who
said nine out of 10 captured pirates are released because there
isn’t sufficient capacity to prosecute or incarcerate them,
recommended establishment of specialized courts in semi-
autonomous Somaliland and Puntland, and a third with Somali
jurisdiction in  Tanzania .  Piracy in the region costs as much as $7 billion a year in
lost shipping revenue, higher insurance premiums and the expense
of deploying naval warships to the  Gulf of Aden  and  Indian
Ocean , Lang said. He also warned of growing links between
pirates and terrorists in Somalia who have been tied to al-
Qaeda.  Pirates hijacked a record 53 ships and 1,181 crew members
in 2010, most of them off Somalia, according to the London-based
International Maritime Bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  