-- 
China’s 10% Growth Faces Risk of 10% Inflation: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-07T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/china-s-10-ecnonomic-growth-facing-risk-of-10-inflation-william-pesek.html
If any generalization can be made
about China-watchers, it’s that they are an optimistic bunch.
They scour government data, energy-use tables and factory
output, finding loads to smile about.  China  can grow 10 percent
a year forever.  Events on the streets of Beijing offer a timely reality
check. There, economists can find ample evidence that China may
be approaching the limits of its ability to grow sustainably.
Inflation is among the forces unnerving the masses, a phenomenon
not unlike the one inspiring uprisings in the Middle East.  China is plenty spooked by a smattering of domestic
protests. Clampdowns on the Internet and the foreign media have
been relentless. Yet it’s the increasing focus of Premier  Wen Jiabao  on inflation that serves as a warning to those used to
nothing but good news from China. Overheating risks are rising
before our eyes.  The economy may be at a dangerous turning point, one where
jumps in asset and consumer prices derail an impressive run. It
doesn’t mean China is about to crash. It does mean that the time
for taking its boom for granted is over.  China is run by some talented policy makers. The question
is whether the side effects of years of explosive growth are
mounting too fast to count. Among the challenges China must
juggle: slowing growth, surging oil and food costs, hot money
zooming its way from the West, a widening gap between rich and
poor and demands for greater openness.  Inflation Surge  Inflation is the most immediate concern. Wen pledges to
tackle it as surging food and housing prices spark public anger.
China’s 4 percent inflation target for this year was probably
exceeded by almost a percentage point in February, and a growing
number of China’s 1.3 billion people aren’t happy about it.  For a Communist Party obsessed with social stability,
inflation is a clear and present danger. And it’s not obvious
that Chinese officials get that point. If they did, they would
be telegraphing big increases in China’s currency at least to
get a handle on inflation expectations.  Such a move isn’t afoot, at least not yet. Neither did Wen,
in a speech last week, set any lending target for banks. That
leaves officials rummaging through their administrative toolbox
for options, of which there are few. More interest-rate
increases are a given, yet China lacks a functional  bond market 
to bring about the multiplier effect that makes monetary policy
so potent at containing inflation.  China is in a tough and unprecedented place. It must
balance the need to slow overheating risks, keep growth as close
to 8 percent as possible to create jobs and rein in pollution.  Chinese Slums  For all the talk of five-year plans, China is making things
up as it goes along. Its rise differs from  Europe ’s and the
U.S.’s. Aside from scale, the internationalization of finance
creates control problems with which western powers don’t have to
contend. Easy-money policies from  Washington  to  Frankfurt  to
Tokyo are boosting Chinese real-estate values. As they climb,
slums are emerging in cities including Beijing and  Shanghai .
Migrant workers and cash-strapped urban youth are hard-pressed
to find affordable places to live.  An undervalued yuan doesn’t help. China’s $2.8 trillion of
currency reserves is the most striking side effect of its state-
capitalism model. It amasses ever-growing piles of  U.S. debt  to
maintain a competitive  exchange rate . While successful for now,
the policy has three negatives: it inflates the  money supply ,
creates trade tensions and prolongs an addiction to exports.  Bad-Loan Crisis?  Rebalancing the domestic economy would be easier if the
world economy were sound. A financial crisis prompted China to
open the fiscal floodgates, starting in 2008 with a 4 trillion
yuan ($609 billion) stimulus plan. In 2010, new loans exceeded a
7.5 trillion yuan ceiling.  What worries China skeptics is how things will play out
when the proverbial music stops. The quality of growth matters
as much as the pace. Massive investment is needed to sustain
economic expansion, yet all too much of it is going to national
champions whose returns might never materialize. Is China
setting itself up for a bad-loan crisis?  No one can say for sure. Yet China’s growing inflation
challenge complicates things. It means the gradualist approach
favored in Beijing won’t work this time. The danger, say
economists such as  Glenn Maguire  of Societe Generale SA in  Hong
Kong , is that inflation may rise as high as 10 percent by, say,
the third quarter. That would cause households tremendous pain
and fuel social discontent.  China has made it clear that it won’t tolerate the smallest
of protests. It also is warning foreign journalists about
covering these gatherings and blames reporters for causing
trouble, not unlike leaders from  Egypt  to  Libya . The latest
chapter of the so-called Jasmine Revolution involves people
showing their frustration by taking strolls in major Chinese
cities on Sundays.  Blaming the media is rarely a promising sign. It suggests a
government more concerned with spin than substance. China should
redouble efforts to treat the underlying cause of the turmoil,
not the symptoms.  China’s people want less inflation, more government
accountability and greater egalitarianism. Its leaders want to
blame the messengers. Not a good omen, as economic indicators
go.  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  