-- 
Christie as Popular as Obama, Less So Among Women, Quinnipiac Poll Finds

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-03-07T20:20:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/christie-is-as-popular-as-obama-less-so-among-women-poll-finds.html
  Chris Christie , New Jersey’s first-
term governor, is essentially tied with President Barack Obama
as the “hottest” sitting U.S. politician in a Quinnipiac
University Poll’s “national thermometer” reading.  The survey, released today, said the two get different
rankings from men and women. Compared with males, females said
they felt warmer about the Democratic president than the
Republican governor. The reverse was true among the men.  Christie, whose provocative arguments with teachers and
other union members over their pay and benefits have been
captured in  YouTube  videos, received an overall rating of 57
degrees, while Obama scored 56.5, the poll showed. In a March 2
National Review  interview , Christie, 48, said he thought he
could beat Obama in 2012 if he were to run. The governor has
repeatedly said he won’t seek his party’s nomination next year.  Christie “has clearly made a positive impression on the
American people, at least the half who are familiar with him,”
said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the  Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute . Among those surveyed, 55 percent
said they didn’t know enough about him to form an opinion.  “This measure is not any kind of presidential trial heat,
but it does reflect how voters feel about national figures,
including politicians,” Brown said in a statement with the
results. The telephone poll of 1,887 voters from Feb. 21-28 had
a margin of error of plus or minus 2.3 percentage points.    Kevin Roberts , a Christie spokesman, declined to comment
today in response to an e-mail about the survey.  ‘Feeling’ Rating  The poll asked voters to rate their sentiments toward 23
public figures, including politicians. Respondents rated leaders
0 to 100 degrees on a “feeling thermometer.” The higher the
number, the warmer or more favorable a person said they felt
toward the subject. Lower figures meant colder, or less
favorable, feelings, according to Quinnipiac.  Christie’s highest marks came from Republicans, who gave
him a temperature of 70.2 degrees, while 64 percent of women, 60
percent of Democrats and 55 percent of independents said they
didn’t know enough about him, according to the poll.  No one failed to rate Obama, 49, because of a lack of
information, the results show. Among women respondents, 60.4 had
warm feelings about Obama, while among men, that reading dropped
to 51.9, the poll showed.  Women’s Issues  Female voters have gravitated toward the  Democratic Party 
since 1980, said Debbie Walsh, director of the Center for
American Women and Politics at  Rutgers University  in  New
Brunswick , New Jersey. More than even the hot-button issue of
abortion, women tend to view protecting social safety-net
programs as the prime reason for their support, said Walsh, who
has studied so-call gender-gap issues among voters.  “What you find in the head-to-head, horse-race kinds of
polls, when you ask people who they prefer, women are a little
more likely to support the Democratic candidate,” Walsh said
today in a telephone interview. “Even if they don’t think
government is working all that well, men want to smash it and
women want to tweak it.”  In Christie’s case, his calls for spending cuts may have
done more to drive off women than anything else, Walsh said. As
a group, women tend to feel more economically vulnerable and
support politicians who back safety-net programs, she said.  Women may be put off by Christie’s cuts in spending on
education, which many women see as pivotal for their support,
Walsh said. If the governor’s budget moves also may put off
female voters if they are perceived as harmful to safety-net
programs, she said.  Unready, So Far  While 35 percent of women in the poll gave Obama a
temperature rating between 81 degrees and 100 degrees, the
warmest, only 7 percent felt that way about the governor.  Christie’s approval rating in his home state also is lower
among women. In a Feb. 9 Quinnipiac  poll  of  New Jersey  voters,
52 percent approved of Christie, including 58 percent of men and
46 percent of women.  Since taking office in January 2010, Christie has closed a
$10.7 billion  budget deficit  without raising taxes, killed a
proposed commuter-rail tunnel to  Manhattan  and clashed with
unions representing teachers and government workers.  Christie has campaigned for Republicans in other states and
has been asked repeatedly about presidential ambitions. He has
said he isn’t ready for the job.  Christie beat several other possible Republican challengers
in today’s poll, including  Newt Gingrich , the former speaker of
the U.S. House of Representatives, and former Governors  Mitt Romney  of  Massachusetts  and Tim Pawlenty of  Minnesota .  Lowest and Highest  Sarah Palin, the 2010 Republican vice presidential nominee
turned Fox News commentator, was 21st on the list at 38.2
degrees. Former House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, was last at 32.9, while First Lady  Michelle Obama  was
on top, at 60.1 degrees, followed by former President  Bill Clinton , at 59.2 degrees, the results show.    Patrick Murray , who teaches politics at  Monmouth University 
and directs its polling center in West Long Branch, said the so-
called likability factor becomes more critical to politicians as
they move up the ladder of elective office. Democrats  Al Gore 
and  John Kerry , who both lost close-call presidential elections
to Republican  George W. Bush , are examples of politicians who
failed to win over voters, he said. Republicans Bob Dole and  John McCain  also showed the importance of a connection with the
electorate, Murray said today in an interview.  “For a presidential candidate, there really has to be some
likability quotient there,” Murray said. “They don’t need to
be able to sit down in a bar and have a beer with them, but
voters have to feel like they are able to talk to them.”  Researchers at surveyed 1,887 registered voters from Feb.
21-28 for the poll.  Following are the mean scores on Hamden, Connecticut-based
Quinnipiac’s “feeling thermometer” and the percent who said
they didn’t know enough to rate each subject:  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  