-- 
Chrysler May Build Second Fiat Model in Mexican Plant, CEO Marchionne Says

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-03-07T18:48:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/chrysler-s-marchionne-says-fiat-may-assemble-second-model-in-mexico-plant.html
Chrysler Group LLC Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said the automaker is looking at
building a second  Fiat SpA (F)  model at the U.S. company’s factory
in  Mexico .  Marchionne, speaking to reporters today in Mexico City as
part of a celebration of the start of Fiat 500 production at
Chrysler’s Toluca plant, didn’t say what the second model would
be or whether it will be made at that factory. Toluca will also
make the electric version of the 500, and some of the small cars
assembled there will be exported to  China , Marchionne said.  “We need to decide what we’re going to do with that
plant,” he said. “The likelihood is that we will bring in an
architecture that is more versatile and will give us an
opportunity to produce more than one top hat” or body style.
Nothing has been decided, he said.  Executives with the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker
also discussed selling a second Fiat model in North America,
investing in Mexico to make commercial trucks, and the
introduction of the  Alfa Romeo  brand to Mexico with three or
four models.  Chrysler is exploring using its Saltillo, Mexico, plant to
build commercial vehicles, Marchionne said. Chrysler is talking
to local government officials about it, he said. While it’s too
early to say what kind of investment would be needed to bring
commercial vehicles to Mexico, Marchionne said it would be at
least as much as was spent on the 500.  Alfa Romeo  Three Alfa Romeo models will be sold in Mexico, said Joseph ChamaSrour, the president of Chrysler de Mexico SA. He didn’t
say where they would be made.  Alfa Romeo vehicles will go on sale in Mexico in June or
July, ChamaSrour said, starting with the Mito, Giulietta and 159
“right out of the chute.” Marchionne added that the 4C coupe,
shown as a concept car at the Geneva auto show last week, would
also be sold in Mexico at some point.  Chrysler’s sales in Mexico rose 11 percent in February,
trailing the company’s 12 percent global growth and 13 percent
increase in the U.S., the automaker said in an e-mail last week.  Fiat is planning to introduce a four-door model in  North
America  in 2013, said Laura Soave, head of the brand for
Chrysler Group.  Chrysler won’t increase incentives in the U.S., Marchionne
said. The automaker reduced marketing promotions in February by
14 percent to $3,052 per vehicle, according to researcher
Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . The industry
average last month in the U.S. was $2,578, Autodata said.  Chrysler will probably show a hybrid version of its
namesake brand’s 300 sedan at next January’s  Detroit auto show ,
Marchionne said. The company revealed the new 300 body design at
this year’s show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Mexico City at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  