-- 
Chrysler Is Speaking With Banks About Refinancing Debt, Marchionne Says

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-03-07T17:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/chrysler-is-speaking-with-banks-about-refinancing-debt-marchionne-says.html
Chrysler Group LLC, preparing for an
initial public offering this year, is talking with as many as
nine banks about refinancing its debt, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said today.  The automaker, which is operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , is speaking
with more than one bank and fewer than 10 and has a team at the
company’s headquarters in  Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , working on the
refinancing, Marchionne told reporters today in Mexico City.  “We’re working our butts off,” Marchionne said while in
Mexico to celebrate production of the Fiat 500 subcompact at
Chrysler’s Toluca plant.  The face value of Chrysler’s debt to the U.S. and Canadian
governments is $7.53 billion, according to a Feb. 25 filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and the automaker
has the ability to draw an additional $2.3 billion in loans.
Marchionne is aiming to sell shares to the public in the second
half of the year.  When asked which banks the company is working with,
Marchionne said, “It would be unfathomable to think that it
would not be North American skewed.”  He declined to give more details on the refinancing
efforts.  Chrysler has said it will make a net profit of as much as
$500 million this year, its first since emerging from bankruptcy
in June 2009. Marchionne has said the interest on the loans,
which is as high as 20 percent, has kept the company from
turning a profit.  Fiat owns 25 percent of Chrysler and has the ability to
increase the stake to 35 percent as Chrysler meets two more
performance goals. Fiat holds an option to purchase an
additional 16 percent to raise the company’s ownership to 51
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in  Mexico  City at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  