-- 
Connecticut Hedge Fund Manager Illarramendi Pleads Guilty to Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-07T23:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/connecticut-hedge-fund-manager-illarramendi-pleads-guilty-to-ponzi-fraud.html
Francisco Illarramendi, a hedge fund
manager in  Connecticut , pleaded guilty to fraud and two other
men were charged with conspiracy in a U.S. probe of an alleged  Ponzi scheme  with potential investor and creditor losses of
hundreds of millions of dollars, prosecutors said.  Illarramendi, 42, pleaded guilty today in federal court in
Bridgeport to two counts of  wire fraud  and one count each of
securities fraud, investment-adviser fraud and conspiracy to
obstruct justice, said U.S. Attorney  David Fein  in Connecticut
in an e-mailed statement.  The plea couldn’t be confirmed immediately in electronic
court records. John Gleason, an attorney for Illarramendi,
declined to comment.  From 2006 to February, Illarramendi used money from new
investors to pay returns he promised to earlier ones using
fraudulent documents that purported to show the  hedge funds  had
hundreds of millions of dollars in credits, Fein said.
Illarramendi, Juan Carlos Guillen Zerpa, 43, and Juan Carlos
Horna Napolitano, 40, allegedly conspired to obstruct a
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of the hedge
funds, according to the statement.  Robert Targ, an attorney for Zerpa, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment. Dan Forman, an attorney for Napolitano,
didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  The SEC sued Illarramendi in January, alleging he diverted
at least $53 million from clients for himself and other
businesses he controlled. Today, the agency added additional
claims to the lawsuit, alleging he engaged in a multiyear Ponzi
scheme. Illarramendi, of  New Canaan , Connecticut, is the
majority owner of Michael Kenwood Group LLC, a holding company
for an  investment adviser  through which he managed several hedge
funds, according to the SEC complaint.  The SEC case is SEC v. Illarramendi, 11-78, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 