-- 
Consumer Credit in U.S. Increased by $5.01 Billion in Fourth Monthly Gain

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-03-07T20:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increased-by-5-01-billion-in-fourth-monthly-gain.html
U.S. consumer borrowing increased
for a fourth straight month in January, led by a gain in non-
revolving loans such as those for automobiles and education, the  Federal Reserve  reported today.  The $5.01 billion rise in credit followed a revised $4.09
billion gain in December that was less than the previous
estimate, the Fed said in Washington. Economists projected a
$3.5 billion increase in the measure of credit card debt and
non-revolving loans, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The pickup in non-revolving credit signals Americans may be
growing more confident about their financial situations to
purchase big-ticket goods such as  General Motors Co. (GM) 
automobiles. The expansion may get a bigger lift from  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, as
the unemployment rate keeps falling.  “Auto sales have been doing well and today’s report is a
reflection of that,” said Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  New York . “Credit standards remain
tight -- we’re seeing that with credit cards -- but at the
margin we’re seeing some loosening, such as auto finance.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 35 economists ranged
from a $2 billion decrease to a $7.5 billion gain after an
initially reported $6.1 billion increase in December.  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, decreased
$4.25 billion in January, according to the Fed’s statistics.
Non-revolving debt, including loans for cars and mobile homes,
rose $9.26 billion for the month. The report doesn’t track debt
secured by real estate, such as home equity lines of credit.  Fewer Delinquencies  “Credit card loans have declined along with credit card
delinquency rates, which shows people are more fiscally
prudent,” Sherry Cooper, chief economist at BMO Capital Markets
in Toronto, said in an e-mail.  January’s advance in non-revolving debt reflected, in part,
an unadjusted $24.9 billion increase in federal government
lending for education, according to the statistics.  Borrowing, which rose to $2.41 trillion in January, is
showing signs of recovery since reaching an almost four-year low
of $2.39 trillion in September. The economy, which grew in 2010
by the most in five years, is creating more jobs. Payrolls
increased 192,000 in February, the most since last May, and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.9 percent, Labor Department figures
showed last week.  Auto Sales  In the  auto industry , General Motors and Toyota Motor Corp.
increased incentives for U.S. customers in January, contributing
to the biggest sales gains in the industry. GM increased
spending on marketing promotions by $498, or 16 percent, to an
estimated $3,663 per sold vehicle, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  “Growing consumer confidence combined with pent-up demand
will continue to have a positive influence on industry sales
going forward,” Donald R. Johnson, vice president for North
American sales at Detroit-based General Motors, said in a March
1 teleconference. “We continue to believe that we’re going to
see this slow-but-steady growth throughout the year.”  Americans also filed into dealer showrooms in February to
take advantage of incentives. Auto sales rose to a 13.38 million
annual rate, the highest level since August 2009 when the
government’s cash-for-clunkers program boosted purchases,
according to industry data.  February Sales  Borrowing may have picked up last month. Sales at stores
open at least a year at the more than 30 chains tracked by
Retail Metrics climbed 4.3 percent in February from a year
earlier, an 18th straight gain, surpassing analysts’ estimates
for a 3.8 percent increase. Purchases at stores open at least a
year climbed 6.4 percent at Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney Co.,
and 5.8 percent at New York-based Macy’s Inc., company data
showed last week.  Household balance sheets are improving. Charge-offs on
credit cards declined to 7.45 percent in January, according to
the Moody’s Credit Card Index. It was the fifth consecutive
monthly decline, Moody’s said Feb. 23. Credit-card rules that
took effect last year curbed interest rate increases and late
fees, according to the new U.S. Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau.  Lenders are also benefiting. Banks reported net income of
$21.7 billion in the fourth quarter of last year, boosting
earnings for the full year to $87.5 billion -- the highest since
2007, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  