-- 
Credit Agricole Said to Be in Talks to Sell Stakes in LBO Funds

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-07T14:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/credit-agricole-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-stakes-in-lbo-funds.html
  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-
largest bank, is in talks to sell about 500 million euros ($700
million) of stakes in leveraged buyout funds to Coller Capital
Ltd., three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Credit Agricole acquired the assets in an effort to boost
lending to leveraged buyout firms, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the talks are private.  Regulators are weighing plans to force banks to set aside
more capital against their holdings in private equity funds.
European banks may have to hold 50 percent more capital in
reserve against investments in private equity and hedge funds
under draft plans being considered by the European Union to curb
risk, according to a draft document obtained by Bloomberg News
last week.  Credit Agricole follows  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  in
disposing of holdings in private equity funds. Barclays, the
British bank run by Robert Diamond, plans to sell more than 500
million pounds ($813 million) of stakes in private equity funds,
five people with knowledge of the talks said last week.  Martine Sessin Caracci, a spokeswoman for Credit Agricole’s
private equity division, declined to comment. Officials at
Coller Capital declined to comment.  Investors committed $32 billion over the past two years to
funds that buy stakes in private equity funds, according to
London-based research firm Preqin Ltd.  Coller Capital, which is based in London, is raising a $5
billion so-called secondaries fund. In July, the firm bought 332
million pounds ($542 million) of assets from Lloyds, the 41
percent British government-owned lender. Lexington Partners Inc.
and Axa SA’s private equity unit are also among firms raising
pools to take advantage of banks selling private equity assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  