-- 
Daimler, Rolls-Royce in Talks on Possible Joint Takeover Offer for Tognum

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-03-07T16:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/daimler-rolls-royce-in-talks-to-buy-majority-stake-in-engine-maker-tognum.html
     March 7 (Bloomberg) --  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) 
said they are considering a joint bid for  Tognum AG (TGM) , a German
maker of heavy-duty engines used in tanks and ships, as they
invest cash from booming sales.  Tognum surged as much as 29 percent, the most in 3 1/2
years, valuing the Friedrichshafen, Germany-based company at 3
billion euros ($4.2 billion). Daimler and Rolls-Royce are
weighing the purchase of equal shares in the company and are in
“constructive” talks with Tognum, they said in a statement.  Gaining control of Tognum, which Daimler used to own, would
give the two companies the world’s second-largest maker of high-
speed diesel engines for the marine, energy and defense
industries after Caterpillar Inc. Daimler, the world’s second-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , has been piling up cash as
demand for Mercedes-Benz cars soars.  “They’ve got a lot of cash and so most acquisitions will
be earnings enhancing,” said Adam Hull, a London-based analyst
with WestLB, who has an “add” rating on Daimler stock. “There
is potential value at Tognum, but it could take years to realize
synergies.”  Stock Surges  Tognum rose as much as 5.30 euros to 23.80 euros, the most
since July 3, 2007, and closed at 22.78 euros in Frankfurt
trading. Daimler gained 0.75 percent to 48.59 euros, while
Rolls-Royce shares slipped 0.7 percent to 600 pence in  London .  Companies buying diversified machinery targets have paid a
median multiple of 9.24 times earnings before interest,
taxation, depreciation and amortization during the last five
years, according to Bloomberg data. Based on Tognum’s 306
million-euro EBITDA for the fiscal year 2009, Rolls-Royce and
Daimler may pay 2.83 billion euros for the company.  Daimler, which supplies Tognum with motors, is already the
company’s largest shareholder. The auto manufacturer owns 28
percent of Tognum, which was formerly a wholly owned subsidiary.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler is looking for
acquisitions as cash from industrial units grew in 2010 by 4.7
billion euros to 11.9 billion euros. No final decisions have
been made, Daimler and Rolls-Royce said. Tognum will “evaluate
any proposal that may be received,” it said today.  Tanks, Oil Platforms  Tognum supplies heavy-duty  diesel engines  to power coast
guard ships, tanks and generate electricity for offshore oil
platforms. The company, which employs more than 8,700 people and
has yet to report 2010 earnings, forecast revenue for last year
of 2.55 billion euros.  As part of the deal, Rolls-Royce would integrate its Bergen
diesel and gas engines line with Tognum, a person familiar with
the negotiations said. Spokespeople for the companies declined
to comment beyond the statement.  Rolls-Royce sells Bergen engines through its marine unit to
power ships and via its energy division to generate electricity.
Rolls-Royce’s marine unit had 2010 sales of 2.59 billion pounds
($4.21 billion), or 25 percent of the company’s total. The unit
earned 332 million pounds in operating profit last year. Rolls-
Royce acquired Bergen when it bought Vickers Plc in 1999 for 576
million pounds.  Change of Guard  The deal would probably be Rolls-Royce’s largest, according
to  Sandy Morris , an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland . The
company has made only 15 purchases since 1998, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The largest in that time was its Vickers
purchase, which made Rolls-Royce the world’s biggest maker of
marine propulsion equipment. It bought U.S. turboprop engine
company Allison Engine Co. in 1995 for $525 million.  “Rolls isn’t a company that has a history of acquisitive
growth,” said Jason Adams, an analyst at Nomura International
in London.  Buying parts of Tognum would come as Rolls-Royce Chief
Executive Officer John Rose, who turned the company into the
world’s second-biggest aircraft engine maker, retires at the end
of the month. He will be succeeded by Royal Ahold NV CEO John Rishton. Rose has led the company for 14 years. Rishton is a
former British Airways Plc chief financial officer.  Daimler, also the world’s biggest truckmaker, sold Tognum,
then called MTU Friedrichshafen, for 1.6 billion euros to
Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT Partners in March 2006
to help pay for job cuts. After an initial public offering in
July 2007, Daimler bought a 22 percent stake for 585 million
euros in April 2008, increasing the holding to more than 25
percent three months later.  Daimler has made a series of investments since exiting
Chrysler in May 2007. The company bought stakes in Russian
truckmaker OAO Kamaz and electric-car maker  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  It
also swapped shares with  Renault SA (RNO)  and Nissan Motor Co.,
expanded its holding in fuel cell venture Automotive Fuel Cell
Corp. and bought a Formula One racing team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net 
Howard Mustoe at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net .
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  