-- 
Daley Says U.S. to Consider Using Oil Reserves as Prices Rise With Turmoil

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/daley-says-u-s-will-consider-using-oil-reserve-as-prices-rise.html
The Obama administration will
consider using the Strategic Petroleum Reserve if rising oil
prices caused by turmoil in the Middle East and North  Africa 
threaten the  U.S. economy , White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  said.  “The issue of the reserve is one we’re considering,”
Daley said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “It is
something that only is done, has been done, in very rare
occasions. There’s a bunch of factors that have to be looked
at” besides price.  Concern that the unrest will spread to major oil-producing
countries has created “uncertainty” in markets, Daley said.
With the recovery gaining momentum, the administration is
looking at steps to mitigate the impact if crude oil, now at its
highest price since 2008, keeps surging, he said.  The wave of unrest has toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and hit countries including Yemen, Bahrain, Jordan, Oman,
Iraq and  Iran . Crude oil has risen about 18 percent since
opponents of Muammar Qaddafi’s regime began an uprising a little
more than two weeks ago in Libya, which holds Africa’s largest
oil reserves. Oil for April delivery increased $2.51 to $104.42
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  March 4, the
highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  That’s had a direct impact on U.S. consumers, whose
purchases account for about 70 percent of the economy. The
average retail price of regular gasoline was at $3.50 a gallon
at the pump yesterday, compared with $2.73 a year ago, AAA said
on its  website .  ‘Serious Impact’  “There’s a sense that this recovery is real and is strong
and is growing, but there are factors like the price of energy
that can have a serious impact on it,” Daley said.  Employers added 192,000 jobs in February, the most since
last May, and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.9 percent, the
lowest since April 2009, Labor Department figures showed last
week. In addition, retail sales probably climbed in February by
the most in four months, spurred by job growth and more
seasonable temperatures, according to the median forecast of 63
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a March 11 Commerce
Department report.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is facing increased
pressure from some congressional Democrats to draw on the
domestic reserve program as gasoline and heating oil prices
increase.  ‘We must be prepared to tap that emergency supply,” Jon
Summers, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , said
on March 4. “The main purpose of the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve is to protect against significant disruptions of our
nation’s oil supply.”  All Options  Daley said Obama “is very concerned; we’re trying to look
at all the possible options.” He repeated the administration’s
stance that there is enough output capacity in the world to deal
with any disruptions from  Libya , which accounts for about 1.8
percent of global supply, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Energy Secretary Steven Chu said March 1 the loss of supply
from Libya “appears manageable.” Saudi Arabian Oil Minister
Ali al-Naimi said on Feb. 22 that his country and other OPEC
members would make up for any production losses.  The U.S. reserve holds 727 million barrels of crude oil in
caverns along the Gulf of Mexico coast, according to the U.S.
Department of Energy. It was established to counter supply
disruptions following the Arab oil embargo of 1973-1974. The
government has  released some of the oil  17 times since 1985,
most recently in 2008 after hurricanes Gustav and Ike struck the  Gulf Coast , according to the DOE.  In August 2008, as a candidate for president, Obama called
for the government to swap light crude in the reserve for
heavier oil at a time when oil was at more than $120 a barrel
and the average retail price of gasoline was about $3.90 a
gallon. He previously opposed tapping the reserve as a brake on
prices. When oil peaked at $147.26 a barrel in July of that
year, President  George W. Bush  resisted calls to release some
reserves to drive down prices.  The Obama administration’s 2012 budget proposes selling 7
million barrels of oil from the reserve, which would generate
about $500 million. Chu previously said that one of the caverns
storing government oil needs repair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  