-- 
Deka Favors Europe Stocks With Global Revenue, Schallmayer Says

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-07T21:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/deka-favors-europe-stocks-with-global-revenue-schallmayer-says.html
Joachim Schallmayer, who oversees 9
billion euros ($12.6 billion) in European stocks for Deka
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt , comments in an interview in
Santiago, Chile, on European equity markets.  On the European equity market:  “People have shied away from the European market because
they see the sovereign crisis, the discussions on the euro and
subpar growth, and on the other hand they don’t realize that
European corporates are in very good shape in terms of their
balance sheet and in terms of their revenue stream from outside
Europe.  “We could expect 13 to 15 percent earnings growth for
Europeran companies this year and a similar percentage for 2012.
You could expect the same return for the indices.”  On favorite stocks:  “The stocks that don’t have a lot to do with their home
markets are actually the ones we prefer. We have a large
overweight on car companies.  Daimler AG (DAI)  would be an example,
also  Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  and MAN SE in trucks. Volkswagen’s largest
market now is  China , actually.  “Another attractive sector would be luxury-goods producers
out of Italy and  France . The European luxury names, such as  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (LVMH) , are the exclusive ones that are
being consumed in emerging markets.  “We are heavily invested as well in engineering and
infrastructure companies such as  Siemens AG (SIE)  and ABB Ltd,
industrial stocks that have great leading market positions.”  On less-favored stocks:  “We are less favorable towards stocks that have a large
exposure to the European economy such as utilities. We believe
that they have to invest heavily in the future, so that will
reduce earnings at least within  Europe , and as they are so
local, I’m afraid that they may be taxed higher because
governments have to get money from somewhere to deal with the
sovereign crisis.”  “Bank stocks won’t be the ones driving things farther
among European stocks, as there are still some issues that have
to be solved. First, there are regulatory issues such as Basel
3, and also as governments won’t allow them to be as profitable
as in the past, as it was connected to leverage on their balance
sheets and that is what led to the financial crisis.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 