-- 
Del Monte Foods Shareholders Approve $5.3 Billion Buyout by KKR-Led Group

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-03-07T20:08:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/del-monte-foods-shareholders-approve-5-3-billion-buyout-by-kkr-led-group.html
Shareholders of  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM) ,
the maker of pet foods Meow Mix and Milk Bone, approved a $5.3
billion takeover by private-equity firms after the vote was
delayed to solicit more offers.  The purchase by buyout firms led by New York-based KKR &
Co. will pay stockholders $19 a share, the San Francisco-based
company said today in a statement. The transaction is expected
to close this week, the statement said.  Delaware Chancery Judge J. Travis Lester last month delayed
the vote and said  Del Monte  adviser Barclays Plc had a conflict
of interest in handling the deal because it also helped finance
the buyout group’s offer. The private-equity consortium includes
Vestar Capital Partners and  Centerview Partners .  Del Monte rose less than 1 cent to $19 at 2:25 p.m. today
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Holders of about
149.8 million shares of Del Monte voted in favor of the deal,
while 1.6 million shares voted against, according to the
statement.  Private-equity firms are ramping up acquisitions as credit
for deals becomes available from banks and investors snap up
high-yield bonds used to finance the transactions. KKR co-
founder  Henry Kravis  said last week that low  interest rates  are
pushing financial institutions and pension funds to buy riskier
assets because they are looking for better returns.  Buyout managers have announced $27.7 billion in deals so
far this year, more than double last year’s total during the
same period, Bloomberg data show. Private-equity firms pool
investors’ money to take over companies, financing the purchase
with mostly debt, with the intention of selling them later for a
profit.  Kravis and  George Roberts  created KKR in 1976 and have
expanded the firm to oversee about $61 billion in assets. In
addition to private equity, the firm manages debt investments
and offers underwriting services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  