-- 
Demand Offsets Impact of Oil’s Surge on Nikkei, UBS Says

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-03-07T07:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/demand-offsets-impact-of-oil-s-surge-on-nikkei-ubs-says-1-.html
The impact from high  oil prices 
spurred by uncertainties in  Libya  and the Middle East is likely
to have a “limited” negative impact on Japan’s Nikkei 225
Stock Average as demand growth offsets higher energy costs,
according to UBS AG.  For every 10 percent increase in crude oil prices,
operating profit for Japanese companies is cut by 0.65 percent,
strategists led by Shoji Hirakawa wrote in a UBS report dated
March 4. As long as Japan’s currency remains weaker than 80 yen
to the  U.S. dollar , operating profit could continue to rise,
even if oil reaches $140 a barrel, the analysts wrote.  “The possibility remains that such uncertainties in the
Middle East could spread and deepen, and energy prices could
rise, leading to further adjustments in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) ,”
Hirakawa wrote. “Still, there are no issues on the supply side
and if economic expansion continues, we think any negative
impact should be limited.”  The Nikkei 225 dropped 1.8 percent to 10,505.02 in Tokyo
today, extending this month’s declines to 1.1 percent, as oil
rose to a 29-month high as fighting intensified between Libyan
rebels and troops loyal to Muammar Qaddafi. Violence in Libya
has cut oil output in the North African country by as much as 1
million barrels a day, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  The sectors whose earnings are the most negatively affected
by higher oil prices are chemical products, iron and steel, non-
ferrous metals, electric power and gas, and transportation
sectors, according to the report. The least affected are
electrical machinery, precision instruments and general
machinery sectors, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 