-- 
DNA Evidence Access Is Backed by U.S. High Court in Texas Death-Row Case

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-07T16:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/dna-evidence-bid-backed-in-u-s-supreme-court-ruling.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  buttressed
the ability of some convicted murderers to get access to DNA
evidence, ruling in favor of a Texas death row inmate who says
new testing of crime-scene material might exonerate him.  The justices, voting 6-3, today said Henry W. Skinner,
convicted of the 1993 murders of his girlfriend and her two
adult sons, can press ahead with a lawsuit that seeks access to
genetic evidence in his case. The justices had halted Skinner’s
execution while they considered his appeal.  The decision opens a new legal avenue for some convicted
murderers seeking access to DNA evidence. The court  said  inmates
can sue under a federal civil rights law if they claim they were
unconstitutionally denied DNA testing in state courts.  Forty-seven states, including  Texas , give convicted
criminals the right in at least some circumstances to conduct
post-trial DNA testing. More than 260 people have been
exonerated after conviction through DNA evidence, according to
the Innocence Project, which investigates cases and represents
inmates.  The ruling doesn’t necessarily mean Skinner will get access
to the evidence he is seeking. Writing for the majority, Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said a lower court should consider other
arguments by Texas officials in the case.  Justices  Clarence Thomas ,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Samuel Alito 
dissented.  Holiday Murder  Twila Busby was choked and bludgeoned with an axe handle
and Randolph Busby and Elwin Caler were stabbed to death in the
home they shared with Skinner on New Year’s Eve 1993. Skinner,
48, says he had consumed so much alcohol and codeine that he
couldn’t possibly have committed the crime.  Skinner is seeking DNA testing of seven sets of items,
including vaginal swabs taken from Twila Busby, her fingernail
clippings and two knives that were found at the house. His
lawyers say his inability to get testing of those items shows
the inadequacy of a 2001 Texas law that allowed post-conviction
DNA testing in some circumstances.  Skinner is invoking a provision in federal law known as
Section 1983, which lets individuals sue over violations of
their constitutional rights by state or federal officials. A New
Orleans-based federal court barred his lawsuit.  In 2009, the high court ruled that inmates don’t have a
“freestanding right” to demand access to DNA evidence for
testing. That ruling left open the possibility that inmates
could use Section 1983 to seek DNA access when their rights
haven’t been adequately protected by state procedures.  Nothing ‘Inevitable’  The latest case turned on whether the court viewed
Skinner’s request as an attack on his long-since finalized
conviction. The justices have previously said Section 1983
doesn’t authorize lawsuits that, if successful, would undermine
a state-court conviction.  Ginsburg said DNA testing wouldn’t “necessarily imply”
that his conviction was invalid.  “While test results might prove exculpatory, that outcome
is hardly inevitable,” she wrote. “Results might prove
inconclusive or they might further incriminate Skinner.”  Writing for the three dissenters, Thomas said the ruling
“undercuts the restrictions Congress and this court have placed
on federal review of state convictions.”  The Supreme Court halted Skinner’s execution March 24,
issuing an order less than an hour before he was scheduled to
die.  The case is Skinner v. Switzer, 09-9000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 