-- 
Dubai Shares Retreat, Leading Decline in Gulf, on Widening Political Risk

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-07T11:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/dubai-s-shares-retreat-leading-drop-in-gulf-on-widening-political-risk.html
Dubai’s shares retreated for a third
day in four as escalating conflict in Libya and concern regional
political unrest may spread to Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s
largest economy, sparked demand for safer assets. Tunisia’s
benchmark index rallied as trading resumed.    Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, fell 1.2 percent and  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  dropped
the most since March 2. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  declined 1
percent, the most since March 3, to 1,375.13 at the 2 p.m. close
in Dubai. The gauge has lost 15 percent since Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted in January. Qatar’s QE Index gained
2.6 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  dropped 0.3
percent at 1:53 p.m. in Riyadh.  Investors are shunning assets in the region as the
political turmoil, which started in Tunisia more than two months
ago, expanded to Oman, Bahrain, Yemen, Libya and  Iran . Websites
have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11
and March 20, Human Rights Watch said in a statement posted on
its website Feb. 28.  “Declines are linked to concerns over political risk
spreading further as uprisings escalate,” said Waleed Al
Khateeb, senior finance manager at Dubai-based Daman Securities
LLC. “Our market is not supported by government funds like  Saudi Arabia ’s is and there’s a lack of trust from both regional
and international investors.”  Saudi Arabia’s benchmark plunged the most in more than two
years on March 1 on concern disturbances may extend to the
kingdom, the biggest supplier in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf on March
5 told Al Arabiya TV that stock prices are attractive and the
Saudi Public Pension Agency bought shares last week.  Clashes in Libya  Prince Talal Bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, a member of Saudi
Arabia’s royal family, said Feb. 17 the kingdom may see protests
unless King Abdullah introduces reforms, according to BBC Arabic
TV. The king has announced plans to spend about 110 billion
riyals ($29 billion) on programs aimed at boosting housing,
education and social welfare.  In North Africa, Libyan troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
used artillery and helicopter gunships in their effort to block
the rebels’ advance west from the oil hub of Ras Lanuf toward
the leader’s hometown of Sirte. Clashes during the past two days
have become more deadly as the rebels moved along the Libyan
coast toward Tripoli and government troops escalated their use
of force while attempting to retake the rebel-held cities of
Misurata, about 90 miles east of the capital, and Zawiyah to the
west.  Tunisia’s Rally  Tunisian shares rose from a 16-month low as the exchange
opened today after the country’s newly appointed Prime Minister
called for the election of a national council to write a new
constitution following a week-long closure.  The benchmark Tunindex gained 3.6 percent, the first
increase in six trading days, to 4,205.13 in the capital Tunis.  Banque de Tunisie (BT) , the country’s biggest lender by market value,
climbed 4.4 percent, the most since Feb. 18, to 10.18 Tunisian
dinars.  “People are more optimistic now that things have calmed
down,” said Moez Dalloua, institutional sales manager at Tunis-
based Amen Invest. “We know where we’re heading to. There’s a
political schedule and we have more clarity on the impact of the
recent events on listed companies.”  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks dropped
0.3 percent, bringing this year’s loss to 12 percent. Emaar
retreated to 2.44 dirhams, the lowest level since March 3. Dubai
Islamic, the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest lender complying with
Islamic banking rules, dropped 2.4 percent, the most since March
2, to 2.05 dirhams.  ‘Catching Up’  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose the most since Dec. 5. The Persian
Gulf country’s stock market was closed yesterday for a holiday.  “Qatari shares are catching up with gains in Dubai and
Saudi Arabia,” said Daman’s Al Khateeb. Saudi Arabia’s measure
surged 8.3 percent in the two days through March 6, after
Finance Ministar al-Assaf’s comments. Dubai’s index followed
with a 2.7 percent gain yesterday.  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index rose 0.1 percent. Kuwait’s SE
Price Index retreated 0.9 percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  slipped 0.4 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  lost 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  