-- 
The Best-Paid Investment Banks: How We Crunched Data on Underwriting Fees

-- B y   L a u r i e   M e i s l e r
-- 
2011-03-07T05:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/the-best-paid-investment-banks-how-we-crunched-data-on-underwriting-fees.html
To identify the Bloomberg 20, we
examined fees that investment banks collected for underwriting
securities and advising on mergers and acquisitions worldwide.
Not all of those commissions have been disclosed, so we
extrapolated total fees from those made public in regulatory
filings.  The data that appear will include the fee for each issue,
if available. To calculate the dollar fee, multiply the
disclosed percentage by the value of the issue.  For deals where fees were not disclosed, the average
disclosed fee was applied. That is the sum of the disclosed fees
for a firm divided by the total value of the issues.  For firms that disclosed less than 30 percent of their fees
in either equities or debt, we applied a weighted average of
issues underwritten by all firms for which fees were disclosed.  Preferred stocks are included with bond issues. Because
fees for preferreds tend to be higher -- the average fee in 2010
was 1.532 percent versus 0.350 percent for all other bonds -- we
calculated these fees separately.  Municipals Excluded  Municipal and asset-backed bonds were excluded from the
bond ranking, as were bonds with call periods and maturity
lengths of less than 18 months.  In equities, we calculated the fees for initial public
offerings and secondary offerings separately because they tend
to have different structures. In both equities and bonds, we
excluded self-led deals, which are the sale or issuance of a
financial institution’s bonds or equity by its own investment
bank.  M&A fees are rarely disclosed and typically vary according
to the size of a deal and whether a bank is advising the target,
acquirer or seller. We based our ranking on the fees disclosed
in about 500 M&A transactions going back to 2008. We took an
average of the fees for advisers to targets, acquirers and
sellers for deals in five different size categories and applied
those percentages to transactions for which fees weren’t
disclosed.  Methodology Change  This year, we changed our methodology for calculating M&A
fees, applying these averages to individual deals rather than
each firm’s aggregate deals in each size category. As a result,
M&A fees are about 15 percent lower than they would have been
using the older method.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Laurie Meisler in  New York  at 
 lmeisler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill in New York at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 