-- 
Teacher Security Blanket May Shred as Governors Hit 'Ignorance Factories'

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-03-07T05:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/teacher-security-may-fall-as-governors-hit-ignorance-factories-.html
U.S. public-school teachers are
facing the biggest challenge to their  job security  in more than
half a century as politicians target seniority rules that make
the last hired the first fired when jobs are cut.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, Los
Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, a Democrat, and New York
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , an independent, are among officials
pushing for changes in laws in coming months to let them fire
underperforming teachers. As budget cuts threaten the jobs of
thousands of school employees, officials are demanding the right
to keep the most talented, even if they’re the least
experienced.  The proposed changes may undercut the power of teachers’
unions. They intensify the debate on how to judge instructor’s
effectiveness as U.S. students lag behind international peers.
As officials cut education budgets, they should focus on what is
best for children, U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan said.  “Layoffs based only on seniority don’t help kids,” Duncan
said in a conference call with reporters March 3. “We have to
minimize the negative impact on students.”  In 14 states, including  New York ,  California  and New
Jersey, districts can consider only seniority when dismissing
teachers, and they are home to 40 percent of public-school
instructors, according to a  report  published last month by The
New Teacher Project, a New York organization founded in 1997 by  Michelle Rhee , Washington’s former schools chancellor.  Cutting the Future  Even as states cut billions from their budgets, federal
officials and executives from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman  Bill Gates  to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are lamenting
the damage caused by education reductions.  “No economy can succeed without a high-quality workforce,
particularly in an age of globalization and technical change,”
Bernanke said in a speech March 2. “Cost-effective K-12 and
postsecondary schooling are crucial.”  In New York, Bloomberg is pushing the Legislature to pass a
law eliminating the “last-in, first-out” policy, saying as
many as 4,666, or 6 percent, of the city’s teachers may be
fired. In  New Jersey , Christie proposed eliminating seniority
rules for teachers at a town hall meeting Sept. 28. And in
California, a Senate bill was introduced Feb. 15 that would
replace seniority with a system based on several factors
including student performance.  Superintendents argue seniority rules force them to retain
incompetent teachers instead of young talent.  ‘Ignorance Factories’  Changing the system would be a “pretty substantial boost”
to student performance,  said Chester Finn Jr., who was
assistant secretary of education under President  Ronald Reagan 
from 1985 to 1988. He is president of the Washington-based
Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a nonprofit research group focused
on improving K-12 education.  “Just as some schools are dropout factories, there are
teachers that are ignorance factories,” Finn said in a
telephone interview. “You’re going to have to let some people
go, so why not get rid of the people who aren’t getting the job
done?”  While seniority isn’t the “end-all and be-all,” mayors
and superintendents don’t want any system at all, said  Randi Weingarten , president of the Washington-based American
Federation of Teachers, which has 1.5 million members.  “They just want individual principals to make decisions
based on who their favorites are,” Weingarten said in a
telephone interview March 4. “Instead of trying to figure out
who to work with and how to deal with a terrible budget, they’re
trying to attack teachers and attack people who made an
investment and commitment to this profession before it was
cool.”  Recession’s Effects  The recession that began in 2008 and the resulting budget
crises devastated teacher employment. About 172,000 U.S. public-
education jobs, including those of teachers and clerical
workers, have been eliminated since September 2008, according to
John See, an American Federation of Teachers spokesman. In the
past 12 months, 99,800 have disappeared, he said, citing federal
 labor statistics .  Preserving seniority prevents cronyism, said Steve Wollmer,
a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Association, which
represents 200,000 current and retired teachers.  “Administrators who are pressed to save money may become
tempted to target their veteran teachers” who earn more, he
said.  Abolishing seniority is a “major threat” to teachers
unions, said Grover Whitehurst, a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington . “Since they acquired the rights to
bargain, surely this is the biggest challenge they’ve faced.”  Married Teachers  While teachers’ professional organizations have existed
since the National Education Association’s founding in 1857,
seniority rules were adopted gradually, following their
development in industrial unions, said Marjorie Murphy, a
history professor at Swarthmore College in Swarthmore,  Pennsylvania . In 1909, New Jersey adopted the first statewide
employment protections, in part to keep women from being
dismissed after marrying, said Rebecca Givan, an assistant
professor of collective bargaining at  Cornell University , in
Ithaca, New York.  The last time teachers unions were under a similar threat
was in the late 1940s, when “red scare” laws banned strikes
from public service workers, Murphy said.  No Silver Bullet  Eliminating last-in, first-out rules won’t mean dramatic
improvements, said David Abbott, executive director of the
Cleveland-based  George Gund Foundation , which supports education
initiatives. Education needs innovation, he said.  “There’s too much emphasis placed on that issue as a
silver bullet,” Abbott said. “We say, ‘If we can just get rid
of this work rule, of this industrial workforce mentality, that
will solve our problem.’ No, it won’t.”  In New Jersey, which had 112,933 teachers in the 2009-10
school year, Christie is seeking to make it easier to fire the
ineffective and to overhaul tenure laws. Under his plan, student
performance would become the prime factor in tenure, promotions
and firing in the event of budget cuts.  Districts trimmed payrolls for the current school year
after Christie cut state aid by $820 million. New Jersey relies
on the nation’s highest property taxes, an average $7,281, to
fund education. Christie enacted a 2 percent cap on growth of
the tax as of Jan. 1, leaving the teachers union and some
educators to warn a second round of staff cuts may be coming.  Bloomberg’s Efforts  In New York, Bloomberg said he needed to cut teaching jobs
to close a $2.4 billion deficit in a $65.6 billion budget he
proposed Feb. 17. Bloomberg called upon the Legislature and
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  to empower him to determine whom to fire.  A bill Bloomberg supports passed the Republican-dominated
Senate March 1. Cuomo intends to push his own that doesn’t
eliminate seniority.  “The bottom line is, we need an alternative,” said Josh
Vlasto, a Cuomo spokesman. Once New York has an objective
evaluation system, last-in, first-out can be replaced, he said.  Bloomberg’s threat to fire 4,666 teachers is a “political
ploy,” said Michael Mulgrew, president of the New York United
Federation of Teachers, in an interview. “Even the governor
says they’re unnecessary,” he said.  “Experience matters,” said Mulgrew, who taught high
school English and film studies for 13 years. “Mike Bloomberg
ran for a third term saying ‘experience counts.’ Well, we have
class sizes exploding, and we need all the experience we can
keep.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  In  Los Angeles , Villariagosa, a former union organizer,
favors performance-based criteria, according to Sarah Hamilton,
his spokeswoman.  No Luxury  California state Senator Bob Huff, a Republican from the
Los Angeles suburb of Diamond Bar, introduced a bill Feb. 15
that would replace seniority with a system that weighs factors
including student performance. Huff’s bill is not scheduled for
a vote, nor has it been assigned to a committee.  “You won’t find the luxury of seniority protection in the
private sector and we shouldn’t apply such an ineffective policy
to an important profession like teaching,” Huff, 57, said in a
written statement.  Eliminating seniority will hurt teachers and children, said
Jennifer Schenk, 38, a sixth-grade counselor in  Green Bay ,  Wisconsin , where collective bargaining by public employees is
under attack by Governor Scott Walker.  “Without seniority protections we’d all be on an even
playing field, allowing schools to fire higher-paid teachers
with more experience,” said Schenk as she stood in Madison on
March 4 to protest the proposed changes. “That would cause the
quality of instruction to go down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  