-- 
Heating Oil Reaches 29-Month High as Libya Conflict Escalates

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-07T16:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/heating-oil-reaches-29-month-high-as-libya-conflict-escalates.html
Heating oil surged to a 29-month
high as political strife in  Libya  escalated and anti-government
protests spread in the Middle East, threatening oil shipments.  Futures rose as Libyan troops loyal to Muammar Qaddafi used
artillery and helicopter gunships to block the rebels’ advance
west from the oil hub of Ras Lanuf. Heating oil, traded as a
hedge for diesel fuel, has surged 14 percent since anti-
government protests began in Libya Feb. 15.  “All eyes are focused on escalating violence in Libya and
what it portends for the greater Middle East in general,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “This is like a runaway freight train.”  Heating oil for April delivery gained 1.42 cents, or 0.5
percent to $3.1035 a gallon at 10:47 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices touched $3.1372, the highest level
since Sept. 8, 2008. Futures rose 5.4 percent last week.  Libyan crude oil production could be disrupted for several
months, according to  Societe Generale .  “The oil markets are pricing in an extended Libyan
shutdown of crude exports,”  Mike Wittner , New York-based global
head of oil market research at Societe Generale, said today in
an e-mailed report.  Fighting in Libya has reduced oil output in North Africa’s
third-largest crude producer by two-thirds, or as much as 1
million barrels a day, according to the International Energy
Agency, a Paris-based adviser to 28 oil-consuming nations.  European Refiners  Libya sells most of its crude to  Europe . Less Libyan oil
going to European refiners may reduce the region’s available
gasoline exports and increase demand for distillate fuel from
the U.S.  “As European refiners lose crude oil supply and cut runs,
they need to find alternate supply for diesel and some of that
can come from increased imports from the U.S,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  The U.S. is considering military options to support the
anti-Qaddafi forces, though any such operation “has to be an
international effort,” President Barack Obama’s chief of staff,
William Daley, said yesterday.  The revolt in Libya is the bloodiest in a wave of popular
uprisings in the Middle East in the past two months that have
toppled  Tunisia ’s former leader, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, and
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Anti-government demonstrations
have also erupted in Yemen, Bahrain, Oman, Jordan, Algeria,
Morocco, Iran and Iraq.  Gasoline Fluctuates  Gasoline fluctuated from a 30-month high as the average
price at the pump topped $3.50 a gallon, increasing speculation
that demand for the motor fuel will fall as prices rise.  Gasoline for April delivery gained 0.07 cent to $3.0471 a
gallon, after touching $3.0936, the highest level for the front-
month contract since Aug. 28, 2008. Gasoline advanced 11 percent
last week, the most since the week ended Oct. 16, 2009.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
0.6 cent to $3.509 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website ,
the highest level since Oct. 5, 2008. Pump prices have risen
every day since Feb. 14.  “The rapid rise in prices is going to start impacting
demand,” Lipow said. The market sees $3.50 a gallon gasoline and
knows the consumers are changing their buying habits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  