-- 
Ecuador Trade Accord Expiration Hurts Business Confidence, Deloitte Says

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-03-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/ecuador-trade-accord-expiration-hurts-confidence-deloitte-says.html
  Ecuador  business confidence held
near a three-month low in February on concern the expiration of
a trade accord with the U.S. will hurt the Andean nation’s
economy,  Deloitte & Touche LLP  said.  An index measuring business confidence in Ecuador was
little changed at 92.6 last month from 92.3 in January, the
consulting firm’s  Quito office  said today in a report. The
survey shows that 38 percent of executives have a “negative”
economic outlook for the first half of the year, compared with
26 percent who are “positive.” Foreign investment is unlikely
to increase this year, according to 97 percent of respondents.  The  U.S. Congress  let a 20-year accord, known as ATPDEA,
expire last month, raising tariffs on about 70 percent of
Ecuador’s exports to its biggest trade partner, according to a
Feb. 15 e-mailed statement from the American Embassy in  Quito .
Ecuador last year shipped about $4.2 billion worth of goods to
the U.S. under the ATPDEA, which sought to combat cocaine
production in the Andes through incentives for farmers to stop
producing coca.  Ecuador is seeking a “development” accord with the U.S.,
Deputy Trade Minister Francisco Rivadeneira said March 2 at the
Bloomberg Ecuador Summit in Quito.  A new industrial code approved in December also hurt
business confidence, according to Deloitte’s survey. While it
reduces corporate taxes and creates incentives to invest outside
of cities, it fails to give businesses more legal protections
and is unlikely to lure foreign companies to the country, 77
percent of respondents said.  Deloitte didn’t publish the number of survey participants
or a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  