-- 
Egypt Swears In Cabinet Following Demonstrators' Demands

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-07T18:19:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/egypt-swears-in-cabinet-following-demonstrators-demands.html
Egypt swore in a new Cabinet
following protesters’ demands that the government be purged of
officials appointed under former President  Hosni Mubarak .  The foreign, justice, interior and oil ministers were
changed. State television aired footage of the ceremony showing
the prime minister and his Cabinet taking the oath before Field
Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, who heads the ruling military
council.  Nabil El-Arabi, a 75-year-old former judge at the  International Court of Justice , was named foreign minister.
Mohammed Abdullah Ghorab will head the Oil Ministry. Mohamed Abdel Aziz El-Gendy was appointed justice minister and Mansour El-Essawy became interior minister. Finance Minister Samir Radwan and the minister for military production, Sayed Mashaal,
are among those who retained their positions in the new Cabinet.  The changes are the latest efforts by the country’s ruling
military council to placate protesters clamoring for political
changes after the ouster of Mubarak following 18 days of mass
protests. Mubarak ceded interim authority to the Supreme Council
of the Armed Forces on Feb. 11 after three decades in power.  Tantawi met the new Cabinet after the ceremony and
discussed the importance of restoring security and of having
police forces back on the streets “as soon as possible,”
according to the state-run Nile News channel. Reports of police
abuse fueled the uprising against the regime that started on
Jan. 25. Police forces melted away in the early days of the
unrest and have yet to full redeploy.  Economic Revival  The Cabinet also talked about reviving the economy,
attracting investments to create jobs as well as fighting
corruption and improving services, Nile News said.  Restoring security and productivity will be a priority for
the government, Prime Minister Essam Sharaf told reporters
today. He called on Egyptians abroad to participate in
rebuilding the economy and said many countries have offered to
help  Egypt .  “Don’t worry -- the economy will come back stronger than
it was because there is very, very, very strong support for us
from abroad,” he said. “We stress that our economy is liberal,
in the right direction, within a framework of social justice.”  Sharaf said his government was committed to honoring all
international treaties.  Tahrir Square  The military council on March 3 asked Sharaf to form a new
Cabinet after Ahmed Shafik resigned the premiership, pressured
out by demonstrators. Sharaf addressed protesters in Cairo’s
Tahrir Square the day after he was named for the job. He vowed
to do his best to meet their demands and told them he derived
his legitimacy from them.  Activists are calling for freeing political prisoners,
putting on trial officials accused of corruption and dismantling
the state security agency, widely accused of stifling dissent
and committing human-rights violations.  “This is the first Cabinet that reflects the choice of the
people. It includes ministers who participated in the revolution
and who supported it,” said Ziad Elelaimy, a member of the
Alliance of the Youths’ Revolution, a coalition of protesting
groups. “They can implement the demands of the revolution,” he
said in a phone interview before the swearing-in ceremony.  Popular Support  Sharaf and Arabi were among those who joined protesters
during the uprising in Tahrir Square, the hub of mass
demonstrations, Elelaimy said, which endeared them to many
activists. Arabi’s name was among those suggested by the
coalition to Sharaf for inclusion in the Cabinet, he said.  The new government and the ruling council now face the
challenge of responding to demands for change while jumpstarting
an economy hard hit by the unrest and restoring security.  Egypt may post economic growth of 1.5 percent “at best”
this year following the unrest, Kai Stukenbrock, regional
director for the sovereign ratings group at  Standard & Poor’s ,
said today on a conference call. Growth may fall to zero,
Stukenbrock said.  In the last few days protesters have gathered outside state
security buildings and stormed a number of them after reports
agents were burning and shredding incriminating documents.  Egyptian prosecutors have ordered the arrest of 47
policemen accused of burning documents belonging to the state
security agency, Nile News reported today.  Protesters and security forces clashed over the weekend.
Tanks were sent to guard the state security building in the
southern city of Assiut after demonstrators tried to storm it
March 5, saying its main purpose is to spy on dissidents, Al
Arabiya television reported.  Security forces also fought demonstrators near a state
security building in Alexandria on March 4, killing one person
and injuring four,  Al Arabiya  said, citing a witness.  Egypt’s stock market will open after a new Cabinet is
formed, Khaled Seyam, head of the bourse, told Al Jazeera
television two days ago. The bourse has been closed since Jan.
27 after the benchmark EGX 30 Index fell 16 percent amid the
uprising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 