-- 
Lehman Mortgage Bond Investors Lose Case to Have Notes Declared in Default

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-03-07T14:45:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/lehman-mortgage-bond-investors-lose-case-to-have-notes-declared-in-default.html
Investors in mortgage-backed bonds
sold by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  lost a case to have the
notes declared in default, which they’d brought to increase
their chances of getting paid earlier.  The Court of Appeal in London upheld a lower court  ruling 
against holders of bonds that were part of the Eurosail-UK 2007-
3BL Plc transaction sold in 2007. Lehman, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September 2008, raised 650 million
pounds ($1.1 billion) from the deal, which packaged U.K. home
loans into bonds.  BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd., the financing’s
trustee, brought the original case after holders of $405 million
of so-called class A3 notes asked it to call an event of default
because of the issuer’s insolvency. If they’d won, these
investors would no longer have had to wait for their money until
the more senior class A1 and A2 noteholders were repaid in full,  Fitch Ratings  said after the original judgment in September.  Today’s appeal court judgment “is generally positive” for
the U.K. mortgage-backed securities market, said  Conor Downey,  a
London-based partner at law firm Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker
LLP. “Most deals even if they have seen drops in asset values,
can apply the decision and form decisions that they are solvent
and able to continue to trade,” he said.  Interest-Rate Hedge  Eurosail’s risk was hedged with interest-rate and currency
swaps with  Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc ., which were in
turn guaranteed by Lehman Brothers. The financing unit filed for
bankruptcy a month after its parent, and the swap agreements
were terminated in November 2009. Eurosail has filed claims
against Lehman Brothers seeking more than $221 million to cover
losses.  The lower court ruled in July that Eurosail was able to pay
its debts, because not all of its future and projected
liabilities should be taken into account on its current balance
sheet.  The appeal “recognizes that companies can, on paper, have
liabilities exceeding assets but still be perfectly capable of
continuing to trade,” said Kristy Zander, a lawyer at Mayer
Brown International LLP in  London . “A company will only be
regarded as balance-sheet insolvent if it has reached the point
of no return, where it’s clear that the company will not be able
to meet its future or contingent liabilities even though it’s
currently able to pay its debts as they fall due,” she said.  The case is BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd. v Eurosail-
UK 2007-3BL Plc & ors, case no. A2/2010/2046, Court of Appeal
(London).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  