-- 
Lehman Unit Followed Investment Agreement With Australia Town, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-03-07T03:32:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/lehman-unit-followed-investment-agreement-with-australia-town-lawyer-says.html
  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
Australian unit followed an investment agreement in buying
collateralized debt obligations for a rural township, a lawyer
for the unit Grange Securities Ltd. said today.  Grange “had very wide powers” under the agreement signed
by Wingecarribee’s shire council, its lawyer John Sheahan said
while questioning the town’s financial services manager Douglas
Neville in a Sydney federal court trial.  Wingecarribee , about 140 kilometers (90 miles) southwest of
Sydney, is suing to recover A$21.4 million ($21.7 million) in
losses from the Lehman unit and says Grange ignored explicit
instructions to avoid the CDOs, some of which were tied to sub-
prime U.S. mortgages and collapsed in value. Two other towns,
the West Australian city of Swan and Parkes Shire Council,
northwest of Sydney, lost A$15.9 million and are also suing.  Neville had testified that he received assurances the
council’s money would only be invested in floating rate notes
and felt “betrayed,” when he found out in July 2007 much of it
was put into CDOs.  “Why wouldn’t you take a pen and cross out everything
except the floating rate notes?” in the investment agreement
that also listed CDOs and mortgage-backed securities as approved
investments, Sheahan asked Neville today.  The investment agreement was a “generic document” given
to all councils and there was no need to alter it, Neville said.  “It would’ve made things perfectly clear,” Sheahan said.  “In hindsight,” Neville replied.  Lehman Brothers Holdings was the fourth-largest investment
bank before filing for the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history on
Sept. 15, 2008. Grange Securities became Lehman Brothers  Australia , which appointed a voluntary administrator under the
country’s bankruptcy laws on Sept. 26, 2008.  IMF (Australia), the country’s largest litigation funder,
is paying the costs of the lawsuit, the first such case to go to
trial, according to John Walker, IMF’s executive director  The case is Between Wingecarribee Shire Council and Lehman
Brothers Australia Ltd. NSD 2492/2007. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  