-- 
Emerging Stocks Drop for First Time in Seven Days on Oil Rally

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-03-07T08:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/emerging-stocks-drop-for-first-time-in-seven-days-on-oil-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped,
snapping the longest-winning streak in eight weeks, on concern
surging  oil prices  amid escalating conflict in Libya will hamper
a global economic recovery.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,130.96 as of 4:32 p.m. in Singapore, halting a six-day, 4.7
percent advance.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index
retreated 1.8 percent after crude oil rallied as Libya’s leader
Muammar Qaddafi used artillery and helicopter gunships to block
advancing rebels. South Korea’s  Kospi index (KOSPI)  lost 1.2 percent.    State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest, sank 3.1 percent
amid concern higher fuel costs will fan inflation and prompt the
central bank to raise  interest rates  further. Samsung
Electronics Co.,  Asia ’s biggest maker of chips, flat screens and
mobile phones, fell the most in 15 months in Seoul on
speculation first-quarter earnings will miss estimates,
according to Shinhan Investment Corp. analyst Kim Young Chan.  “Emerging markets are quite dependent on oil and oil
inflation is the crux of the issue caused by the Middle East
crisis, so I expect more volatility,” said Mark Tan, who helps
oversee $12 billion at UOB Asset Management Ltd.  AirAsia Bhd., Southeast Asia’s biggest budget carrier, and
Malaysian Airline System Bhd., fell at least 1.6 percent in
Kuala Lumpur on concern fuel costs will increase as crude oil
prices climbed.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s third-biggest oil producer,
climbed 1.9 percent in  Hong Kong  on speculation higher crude
prices will boost earnings.  Libyan Fighting  Fighting between Libyan rebels and troops loyal to Muammar Qaddafi intensified yesterday in violence that has cut crude-oil
production in the nation by as much as 1 million barrels a day,
according to the International Energy Agency. Crude for April
delivery increased as much as 1.9 percent to $106.45 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008.  “It’s just an issue whether this will spill over to the
other parts of the Middle East,” said Tan by telephone in  Singapore . “If Libya sees some kind of resolution, it will
probably signal an end to these sustained high oil prices. That
will be good news to Asia and other emerging markets.”  In India, stocks also fell as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam,
an ally of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, said March 5 it would
end support for Singh’s  Indian National Congress -led government
over a disagreement on seats to be contested in a regional
election.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd., the country’s biggest engineering
company, dropped 3.4 percent.  Shanghai Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 1.8 percent after the
government said domestic consumption will drive economic growth
over the next five years.  Gree Electric Appliances Inc. (000651)  and
Qingdao Haier Co., the country’s biggest maker of air
conditioners and refrigerators, gained as least 4.4 percent in
Shanghai after Premier Wen Jiabao said incentives for rural
purchases of home appliances may boost spending. GD Midea
Holding Co., China’s second-biggest publicly traded appliance
maker, rose 1 percent. Hisense Electric Co., the biggest
manufacturer of flat-panel televisions, jumped 5.7 percent.  The Chinese government will target 8 percent economic
growth this year and “decisively” curb increases in prices
that may threaten social stability, Wen said in his state-of-
the-nation report on the opening session of the National
People’s Congress over the weekend. The premier had already
disclosed an annual growth target of 7 percent for the five-year
plan, running from 2011 to 2015, down from the previous 7.5
percent. The goals are routinely surpassed, with  China ’s economy
expanding an average 11 percent over the past five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  