-- 
English Football Association Said to Support Challenger to FIFA's Blatter

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-07T17:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/england-soccer-body-said-to-seek-alternative-to-fifa-president-blatter.html
English soccer’s governing body
plans to back a candidate to challenge  FIFA  President  Sepp Blatter  during his re-election campaign, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The Football Association  may contact the head of Asian
soccer, Mohamed Bin Hammam, who has expressed interest in
running for the top job of world soccer’s ruling body, the
people said. England will support another credible candidate
should Bin Hammam decide not to run, said the pair, who declined
to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak
publicly on the elections.  “The matter has not been discussed but will be considered
by the F.A. board when nominations have been closed,” said
Julian Eccles, director of communications of the English body.
Its backing of a rival candidate in 2002 failed to unseat
Blatter, who’s seeking a fourth four-year term. Blatter declined
to comment.  Blatter, 74, is so far the only official candidate in the
June 1 election. Candidates must be nominated by the end of this
month, and need the backing of at least one of FIFA’s 208
national associations to be eligible.  England’s opposition to the current FIFA head comes three
months after the nation finished last of four bidders for the
2018  World Cup , which is going to be staged in  Russia . U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron , who along with  Prince William  and
soccer player  David Beckham , lobbied officials including Blatter
in the days leading up to the vote, described the way soccer’s
governing body operates as “murky.”  Trust Issue  Acting F.A. chairman Roger Burden quit after vote, saying
he couldn’t face working with FIFA officials. “I’m not prepared
to deal with people whom I cannot trust,” Burden said in his
resignation letter.  Before the vote, two members of FIFA’s 24-man decision-
making body were suspended along with lower ranking officials
following an internal enquiry after the Sunday Times newspaper
recorded the officials saying votes for the tournament could be
bought.  The Zurich-based organization last week announced sales of
more than $4 billion between 2007 and 2010.  “Competition is the best way to make the organization
vibrant and alive,” Bin Hamman, 61, said on his Facebook page.
“Competition is good for the organization, whether president or
any other posts.”  In January,  Bin Hammam  said FIFA “needs a lot of
improvement” and “there is something I can present and do for
international football.”  Bin Hammam, whose home country, Qatar, will host the 2022
World Cup, last year failed to convince members of FIFA’s
executive committee to agree to the introduction of a two-term
limit for future presidents. The F.A. supports that change, one
of the people said.  13 Years  Blatter, a Swiss native, has been with FIFA since the
1970s. He was elected to the post of president in 1998. Two days
ago he acknowledged the organization needed to address a
perception that it tolerated corruption.  “We could communicate a bit better what we are doing and
then the perception would be different,” he said at a press
conference in Newport,  Wales .  The investigation into and action taken against the
officials named by the Sunday Times proved FIFA is serious about
tackling malpractice, he added.  The 2010 World Cup in  South Africa  may have strengthened
Blatter’s position. He fought against opponents, including
members of FIFA’s executive committee, to take the tournament to  Africa  for the first time. The competition generated $3.7
billion and ran without problems.  Blatter said “many, many” national associations backed
his re-election bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tariq Panja  at the London newsroom
on   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 