-- 
Terumo of Japan Agrees to Acquire Caridian From Gambro for $2.63 Billion

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-07T15:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/terumo-of-japan-agrees-to-acquire-caridian-from-gambro-for-2-63-billion.html
  Terumo Corp. (4543) , Japan’s largest
medical device maker, agreed to buy Gambro AB’s CaridianBCT unit
for $2.63 billion, including debt, to become the world’s biggest
maker of blood-transfusion equipment.  The purchase price is about 15 times CaridianBCT’s 2010
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
the companies said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange
today. Terumo will fund the acquisition with cash and bank
loans, the Tokyo-based company said.  CaridianBCT, based in Lakewood,  Colorado , makes machines
that collect blood components and filter pathogens, and are used
by blood banks and hospitals. Buying the unit will boost annual
sales by about 70 billion yen ($851 million) and add customers
in  North America , Terumo said.  “The increasing number of cancer patients in the aging
populations of the developed world will increase the demand for
platelet transfusion,” the company said in a  statement  on its
website. Terumo is aiming for at least 10 percent annual growth
in sales from its blood business, Koji Nakao, an executive vice
president, told reporters in Tokyo today.  The announcement was made after markets in Japan closed.
Terumo fell 1.8 percent to 4,495 yen on the Tokyo exchange at
the 3 p.m. close. The benchmark Topix index slid 1.5 percent.  Gambro, jointly controlled by  Investor AB (INVEA)  and EQT IV, will
have net debt of 7.6 billion Swedish kronor ($1.2 billion) once
the deal is completed, based on Dec. 31 levels, the company
said. Shares of Stockholm-based Investor, the Wallenberg
family’s publicly traded holding company, rose 2.7 percent to
147.1 kronor at 11:17 a.m. in Swedish trading.  Stronger Yen  The yen, up almost 10 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months, is bolstering the buying power of Japanese
companies scouting for U.S. and European targets. Daiichi Sankyo
Co. said last week it’s buying Berkley, California-based
Plexxikon Inc. for as much as $935 million. Kyowa Hakko Kirin
Co. announced plans to buy ProStrakan Group Plc for 292 million
pounds ($475 million) the previous week.  Terumo, which had group revenue of 316 billion yen in the
ended March 2010, expects to complete the acquisition by early
May, and said it will add to earnings by the end of March 2012.  Top Maker  The acquisition will make Terumo the world’s biggest maker
of blood transfusion equipment, overtaking  Haemonetics Corp. (HAE)  of
Braintree,  Massachusetts , Terumo said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News.  Sales from the blood transfusion business will rise to 18
percent of total revenue from about 8 percent now as a result of
the purchase, Terumo said. That will help it reach a goal of
generating 1 trillion yen of sales within 10 years, it said.  Terumo’s transfusion division sells mainly low-tech
products such as blood bags, blood filters and aphaeresis
systems that are used to separate blood components, said Stephen Barker, a health-care analyst with MF Global FXA Securities Ltd.
in Tokyo, in a January report.  CaridianBCT’s annual sales have expanded an average of 12
percent since 2000, and reached $524 million last year, with
Ebitda of $182 million, Terumo said. Today’s transaction price
compares with the median of 15.8 times Ebitda of 26 acquisitions
of health-care product companies worldwide during the past year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Terumo had 66.7 billion yen in cash and deposits as of Dec.
31, it said in January.  The company was established in 1921 by a group of doctors
seeking to make Japan’s first locally produced thermometers, and
derives more than half its revenue from the domestic market,
Barker said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Shearman & Sterling LLP are
advising Gambro owners Investor and EQT IV. Evercore Partners
Inc., Mizuho Financial Group Inc., and  Morrison & Foerster LLP 
are advising Terumo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  