-- 
Estonian Inflation Accelerated More Than Expected on Food

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-03-07T10:33:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/estonian-inflation-accelerated-more-than-expected-in-february.html
Estonian consumer-price growth
accelerated to the fastest pace since the end of 2008, as food
prices advanced.  The inflation rate rose to 5.7 percent, from 5.3 percent
the previous month, the highest since December 2008, the
Tallinn-based statistics office said on its website today. The
median forecast of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
rate of 5.2 percent. In the month, prices rose 0.6 percent.  Global food-price increases may raise  Estonia ’s average
annual inflation this year to 4 percent from 2.7 percent in
2010, before declining to 3 percent in 2012, the  International
Monetary Fund  forecast on March 3. Estonia’s low income per
capita and northern location make it more sensitive to food and
energy-price shocks than its EU peers on average, it said.  “Food inflation was mainly driven by a steep appreciation
of vegetables and potatoes due to limited domestic supply as
exports to  Russia  have grown fast,” Nils Vaikla, an analyst
with Tallinn-based LHV Pank, said in an e-mail. “While we
expected a slowdown in inflation in the spring, the jump in  oil
prices  due to unrest in northern  Africa  and Middle East reached
Estonian fuel stations at the beginning of March which means
inflation won’t slow much in the near term.”  ‘Somewhat’ Faster  Annual inflation will remain “around” five percent in the
coming months as food and fuel costs keep rising, the  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. Inflation will probably
be “somewhat” faster than forecast, the central bank said in a
separate statement, without giving a timeline.  Food prices rose a monthly 1.8 percent for an annual
increase of 13.2 percent, the statistics office said. Vegetable
prices rose an annual 34.5 percent, and dairy prices increased
18 percent.  Estonian retail sales declined in January from a year
earlier for the first time in six months as the Baltic nation
adopted the euro.  The Baltic country returned to price growth in March 2010
following ten months of deflation due to the second-worst
recession in the 27-member European Union behind  Latvia  in 2008
and 2009.  Accelerating inflation may cap household’s purchasing power
and hamper spending, the central bank and Finance Ministry have
said in past months. Some price increases may be due to weak
competition, the IMF said in its report last week, citing
Estonian authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  