-- 
EU’s Rehn Rejects ‘Moral’ Case to Force Bondholder Writedowns

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-07T22:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/eu-s-rehn-rejects-moral-case-to-force-bondholder-writedowns.html
European Union Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the euro area’s pledge to leave open
the role of bondholders in the planned permanent debt-crisis
mechanism is necessary to guard against market “contagion” and
overrides the “moral” case to force writedowns.  EU government heads in December agreed to amend the bloc’s
treaty to establish a European Stability Mechanism in 2013 for
countries that share the euro. The leaders endorsed their
finance ministers’ decision in November that writedowns for
private holders of sovereign bonds may take place on a “case-
by-case” basis in accord with International Monetary Fund
practices, scaling back German demands to require such investors
to share bailout costs.  “There is no doubt about the moral case, but at the same
time in the current context we are still facing potential
contagion effects,” Rehn told a European Parliament committee
today in Strasbourg,  France . “We have to now do everything we
can to preserve financial stability and ensure that the credit
channels will remain open.”  The planned ESM will replace the EU rescue system set up
with the IMF for three years last May after a 110 billion-euro
($154 billion) loan package for Greece failed to prevent
increases in the borrowing costs of other high-deficit euro
nations. The main pillar of the current 750 billion-euro system
is the  European Financial Stability Facility , which can sell
bonds backed by 440 billion euros in national guarantees and use
the money for rescue loans.  First Country  Ireland in November became the first country to tap the
rescue money with an 85 billion-euro aid package. The rescues of  Greece  and Ireland have failed to stem concerns by investors and
academics about a possible sovereign-debt restructuring in the
euro area and have led to predictions that  Portugal  will be next
in seeking a bailout.  “We are facing possible chain reactions through the
financial system of  Europe ,” Rehn said. “We are certainly not
out of the woods.”  European finance ministers decided last month that the ESM
will be able to lend 500 billion euros. That’s twice the amount
of the EFSF, whose need for buffers to secure a AAA credit
rating limits the facility’s total lending capacity to around
250 billion euros.  The 27-nation EU intends to approve a “comprehensive”
package of measures at a March 24-25 summit in a bid to calm
bond markets. More details about the ESM beyond its size and the
case-by-case role for bondholders are due then.  Lending Capacity  Other aspects of the planned March package being discussed
include increasing the lending capacity of the EFSF, expanding
its role to cover bond purchases, allowing the fund to finance
debt buybacks and cutting  interest rates  on rescue loans.
Resistance in  Germany  to offering more help to high-deficit
countries is an obstacle to a broad accord.  Earlier today, Rehn said “no options should be off the
table” in the talks about bolstering the EFSF. He also said EU
policy makers should look into extending the maturities of the
rescue loans for Greece and Ireland as well as reducing the
interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  