-- 
EU Carbon Rises to Five-Month High on Natural-Gas, Coming Rules

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-07T19:24:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/european-carbon-permits-rise-to-five-month-high-as-natural-gas-prices-gain.html
European Union carbon permits rose
to the highest price in almost five months as natural gas
extended gains and regulators laid out future rules.  EU allowances for December 2011 delivery rose 0.3 percent
to close at 15.86 euros ($22.16) a metric ton on London’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange, the highest since Oct. 13. They rose as
high as 16.02 euros earlier today.  The jump came earlier than some analysts expected, said
Louis Redshaw, head of environmental markets at  Barclays Capital 
in London. “The timing is a bit of a surprise,” he said today
by e-mail. The increase is “driven by gas, which is in turn
driven by Gulf issues and a cold snap.”  The European Commission, the EU regulator in Brussels, will
present a policy paper tomorrow mapping emissions reductions
through 2050. The commission will water down a proposal to set
aside permits starting in 2013, according to three people
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified, citing
EU policy.  “The priority remains to achieve all the targets already
set for 2020,” according to a draft seen by Bloomberg News. If
the bloc delivers on its commitments, it would enable the EU to
outperform the current 20 percent-reduction target and achieve a
25 percent cut, it said.  Airlines will be the second-largest sector in the EU
system, after power generators, when the aviation industry joins
next year with a carbon-dioxide limit of 213 million metric
tons. The industry-wide cap on airlines aimed at fighting global
warming will fall to 208.5 million tons of CO2 a year in 2013
under a decision today by the commission. The inclusion of
aviation in the cap-and-trade system may push up fares.  Tighter Target  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc, Dong Energy A/S, Eneco
Holding NV and Statkraft AS were among power companies that
called on the EU to tighten its emissions-cutting target to 25
percent below 1990 levels by 2020 from 20 percent. More
ambitious targets will bring more investments in cleaner
technologies, they said.  Natural gas for delivery over the summer, the six months
from April, rose 4 percent to 59.35 pence a therm, its highest
price since November 2008, according to ICE Futures  Europe . The
price is the equivalent of $9.61 per million British thermal
units. There are 100,000 Btus in a therm.  Global natural-gas supplies could be reduced by about 3
percent if production cuts in  Libya  spread to other producing
nations in the Middle East, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
report dated yesterday.  Higher natural-gas prices may trigger some utilities to
switch to coal to generate electricity. Coal emits twice as much
carbon dioxide and requires more permits.  The premium of EU permits over United Nations offsets for
December, traded as a separate contract on ICE, widened by 1.8
percent to 3.97 euros a ton. It earlier today was at 3.99 euros,
its biggest gap since the contract began trading in January
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  