-- 
Euro Rally Masking Political Discord as Europe Battles Debt

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-03-07T16:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/euro-rally-masks-growing-political-discord-as-eu-leaders-battle-over-debt.html
The euro’s two-month rally against
the dollar is running into renewed rifts over Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis just as optimism about the U.S. economy increases.  Bolstered by the prospect of higher European Central Bank
interest rates as soon as next month, the euro has appreciated
almost 9 percent against the dollar from this year’s low. Bets
by futures traders on more strength are at levels that indicated
reversals in the past. The euro has gained about half as much
versus a group of nine developed-nation peers including the
pound, franc and Swedish krona, Bloomberg Correlated-Weighted
Currency Indexes show.  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy have said nothing will allow the single European
currency to crumble, investor concerns are rising as European
Union leaders meet this month to debate fixes to the region’s
fiscal crisis. Portuguese bond yields have risen to levels that
preceded last year’s bailouts of Ireland and Greece, both of
which are trying to renegotiate terms of their rescues.  “The European crisis isn’t over,” said  Andrew Balls , the
London-based head of European portfolio management at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the $237 billion Total
Return Fund, the world’s biggest bond fund. “The euro-dollar  exchange rate  has been driven more by relative interest-rate
outlooks, but the public statements ahead of the forthcoming
meetings suggest that hopes for a grand bargain may be
overdone.”  Trichet’s Rally  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.4007 as of 4:05 p.m. in
London. It appreciated 1.7 percent last week and is up from this
year’s low of $1.2867 on Jan. 10. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  stoked the gains on March 3 after he said the central
bank may boost its benchmark rate from a record low 1 percent
when policy makers meet in April because of quicker inflation.
The  Federal Reserve ’s target rate for overnight loans between
banks is in a range from zero to 0.25 percent.  Strength in the euro has focused on the dollar as Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  shows no signs of raising borrowing
costs even though the economy is strengthening.  Growth in the U.S. will total 3.2 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 66 contributors in a
Bloomberg survey. The European Commission raised its growth
forecast to 1.7 percent last week and said higher oil and
commodity prices may keep inflation above the ECB’s 2 percent
limit for most of the year.  Correlation Performance  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show the
euro has appreciated 4.6 percent from its low this year against
a basket of its most-widely traded counterparts. The euro has
risen 4.2 percent versus the pound since the Jan. 10 low, and
has climbed 4.3 percent against the franc since the Jan. 3 low.  “I’m a big buyer of the  U.S. dollar ” because of  Europe ’s
debt crisis, Laurence Fink, chief executive officer of New York-
based BlackRock Inc., said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Erik Schatzker on March 3. BlackRock is the world’s
largest asset manager, overseeing $3.56 trillion.  Bank of America Corp. strategists led by David Woo in  New
York  said March 2 that the euro would likely weaken more than 14
percent to $1.20 by the end of the second quarter as Europe’s
fiscal situation worsens, even as the bank raised its longer-
term forecasts for the 17-nation currency.  ‘Like Arthritis’  A day later, Commerzbank AG strategist Ulrich Leuchtmann in  Frankfurt  said the currency’s gains may end amid investor
pessimism that the EU’s leaders will solve the region’s debt
crisis. Last week’s rally isn’t the beginning of an “uptrend,”  Bilal Hafeez , London-based head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an investor note March 4.  The median estimate of 44 strategists and economists
surveyed by Bloomberg is for the euro to weaken to $1.34 by
year-end.  Europe’s debt “problem is like arthritis,” said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York. “It doesn’t always hurt you, but it
can flare up.”  Moody’s Investors Service today cut  Greece ’s government
bond ratings by three steps to B1 from Ba1, and assigned them a
negative outlook, meaning they are more likely to be downgraded
further than be raised them or kept unchanged.  Austerity Measures  The nation had to seek a bailout after its debt reached 127
percent of gross domestic product in 2009. Ireland was next as
the economy was devastated by the collapse of a decade-long
real-estate boom and the demise of its financial system, which
prompted the government to take over some of the nation’s
biggest banks. The EU created the 440 billion-euro ($615
billion) European Financial Stability Facility last year,
committing part of the money to finance the Irish program.  Now, austerity measures imposed by the bailout programs are
clashing with demands by the citizens of Greece and Ireland to
avoid cutting public services. Enda Kenny, Ireland’s next prime
minister, has asked for an extension on the rescue loans, while
repeating a call for lower  interest rates  on aid that was
granted in November.  Speculators have become so bullish on the euro that past
trading trends suggest they may start reversing those bets. The
number of contracts that  hedge funds  and other large speculators
hold at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange anticipating a gain in
the single currency jumped to 51,308 as of March 4, according to
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  ‘Whatever is Needed’  The last time so-called net longs exceeded 45,000 contracts
was in October. The following month the euro weakened 6.9
percent against the dollar. They also topped the 45,000 mark a
year earlier, just before the currency began about a six-month,
21 percent decline.  Two-year German notes yield 108 basis points more than
equivalent U.S. debt, the most since December 2008. The ASE
Index of Greek stocks has risen 12 percent in 2011. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index advanced 5.1 percent.  “I would rather buy euro assets,” said Adrian Lee, who
oversees $8.5 billion as chief investment officer at Lee Overlay
Partners in Dublin.  Merkel has said she will do “whatever is needed to support
the euro,” and promised that meetings scheduled for March 11
and on March 24 and 25 will produce a “comprehensive” solution
to the crisis. Sarkozy said the monetary union is so important
“that we will be there whenever it needs to be defended.”  Position Hardened  Merkel’s task may have been complicated after Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Feb. 28 that  Germany  won’t
budge on the conditions for euro-area bailouts, rebuffing calls
by Ireland and Greece for easier terms.  The cost of insuring Greek, Portuguese and Spanish bonds
against losses using credit-default swaps rose last month,
pushing the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of 15
governments to 188 basis points on Feb. 24, the highest in five
weeks. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting
$10 million of debt.  Merkel’s position has hardened as her Christian Democratic
Union party woos voters wary of supporting the monetary union.
Seven German state elections are scheduled this year, including
one before and one just after this month’s summit. Her party
lost power in Hamburg for the first time in a decade in a Feb.
20 vote she described as a “stinging defeat.”  Resolving the crisis was also complicated when the Irish
Fianna Fail government that negotiated the nation’s bailout was
ousted in favor of the Fine Gael party on Feb. 25. The new
leaders vowed to lower the 5.8 percent rate on the rescue loans.  Rising Yields  “Our overall requirement is that there be a reduction in
the cost of the package,” Kenny said on March 4 in Helsinki.  Investors have been driving up Portugal’s borrowing costs.
The nation’s 10-year bond yield has closed above 7 percent since
Feb. 4. Greece needed a rescue within 17 days of its 10-year
yield breaching 7 percent on April 6, while Ireland sought aid
about a month after it climbed above that level in October.  The gap, or spread, between yields on Portuguese 10-year
debt and similar-maturity German bunds was 420 basis points, or
4.20 percentage points, last week, compared with a mean of 53
basis points since the euro started.  The spread illustrates the widening fissures in the euro-
region economy. German gross domestic product will expand 2.6
percent this year, trailed by 1.7 percent in  France , 0.6 percent
in  Spain  and a contraction of almost 1 percent in Portugal,
Bloomberg surveys show.  Any increase in interest rates may widen Europe’s
disparities and investor concern about the euro, rather than
highlight the region’s strengths, according to Daragh Maher,
deputy head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London .  “Normally, when interest rates go up the currency starts
to strengthen,” he said in an interview March 4. “If policy
makers don’t come up with a solid solution, the periphery may
not be insulated from rate rises and then hikes by the ECB may
start to be viewed as a euro negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 