-- 
Mexico to Cut 50% of Tariffs on U.S. Goods as Truck Border Dispute Ends

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-03-07T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/mexico-to-cut-50-of-u-s-tariffs-as-truck-border-dispute-ends.html
  Mexico  will cut tariffs on
$2.4 billion worth of U.S. products after the  United States 
agreed to end a ban on Mexican trucks crossing the border,
Economy Minister Bruno Ferrari said.  The countries will likely sign a formal trucking agreement
in June and some tariffs will immediately fall, Ferrari and
Dionisio Perez-Jacome, the minister of communications and
transportation, said yesterday at a news conference in Mexico
City.  “We’ll lower 50 percent of tariffs to all the products
once the agreement is signed,” Ferrari said. “The 50 percent
remaining will be lifted once the U.S. grants the first
authorization for a Mexican truck to operate” across the
border, he said.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon and U.S. President  Barack Obama  announced an end to the truck ban after a meeting in  Washington  last week. The dispute between the nations, which
have a $393 billion trading relationship annually, dates to the  North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1995. U.S. officials have
promised on multiple occasions to resolve the standoff. The
nation never allowed Mexican trucks full access to the U.S.  Mexico responded to the 2009 cancellation of a pilot
program that allowed some Mexican trucks into the U.S. by
imposing tariffs of 10 percent to 45 percent on U.S. goods
including vegetables, wine, juices, sunglasses and toothpaste.  Tariffs  In August, Mexico applied a second round of tariffs of 5
percent on some cuts of pork and as much as 25 percent on fresh
white cheese, according to a statement in the nation’s  official
gazette . Onions, apples, pears, oranges, cherries, soy sauce and
mineral water are also on the list.  As part of the new trucking agreement, Mexico and the U.S.
will initiate an 18-month program to allow trucks to bring goods
across the border, Perez-Jacome said.  During that period, truck owners will receive a provisional
permit to cross the border. Owners must register vehicles with
the U.S. and agree to inspections each time a vehicle crosses
during the first three months of the program.  Companies will then receive an “irrevocable” permit for
U.S. access that can only be canceled if a truck fails to meet
transportation regulations, according to Perez-Jacome. The new
program will not limit the number of Mexican companies that can
apply for authorization to cross the border, he said.  Mexico and the U.S. will create a monitoring group to
ensure the agreement’s goals are met, Ferrari said.  Resolving Dispute  “We finally have found a clear path to resolve the dispute
over trucking between our two countries,” Obama said March 3 at
a White House news conference with Calderon.  Independent truckers said that allowing Mexican haulers
into the U.S. may drive small trucking companies out of
business.  “For all the president’s talk of helping small businesses
survive, his administration is sure doing their best to destroy
small trucking companies and the drivers they employ,” Todd Spencer, executive vice president of Owner-Operator Independent
Drivers Association, said in a statement.  The American Trucking Association said it welcomed the
agreement.  “We hope this agreement will be a first step to increasing
trade between our two countries, more than 70 percent of which
crosses the border by truck,” Bill Graves, the Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group’s president, said in a statement.
Government rules should “ensure that carriers from both
countries are treated equitably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 