-- 
MF Global's Abelow, Steenkamp Promoted Amid Shift Into Investment Banking

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-03-07T17:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/mf-global-s-abelow-steenkamp-promoted-amid-shift-into-investment-banking.html
  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , the futures
and options broker run by  Jon Corzine , is promoting Bradley Abelow to president and Henri Steenkamp to chief financial
officer as the firm tries to become an investment bank.  Abelow, 52, who will assume the newly created role while
remaining chief operating officer of the New York-based company,
was Corzine’s chief of staff during his governorship of  New
Jersey . Steenkamp, 34, has been chief accounting officer since
2006 and replaces Randy MacDonald, 55, who was appointed global
head of retail services, which includes sales and will unify the
firm’s focus on customers under a single brand, MF Global said.  Corzine, co-chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  from 1994
to 1999, is working to transform the derivatives broker into a
mid-size investment bank by 2015. Last month it was designated
as a  primary dealer  by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , and
Corzine has outlined plans to enter into asset management and
debt underwriting within three to five years.  “I’m confident that Brad, Henri and Randy’s extensive
professional experience and proven management skills will
continue to be instrumental in our firm’s transition to an
investment banking model,” Corzine said in the statement.  Before becoming chief of staff to Corzine in New Jersey,
Abelow was a partner at Goldman Sachs, where he managed the
firm’s operations division, according to the statement.
Steenkamp worked for eight years at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
before joining MF Global. Steenkamp will begin his new role
April 1, MF Global said.  MF Global fell 15 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $8.53 as of
11:34 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 