-- 
Failure at Iran's Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant Raises Concerns About Safety

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-03-08T01:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/failure-at-iran-s-bushehr-nuclear-power-plant-raises-concerns-about-safety.html
A shattered cooling pump at  Iran ’s
only civilian nuclear-power reactor, forcing a shutdown during
its initial start-up phase, has renewed safety concerns about
the hybrid Russian-German power plant on the Persian Gulf coast.  The 1000-megawatt power plant at Bushehr combines a German-
designed plant begun under the rule of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi in the 1970’s and Russian technology installed over the
last decade. Safety questions have raised concern among some
nuclear-power experts and in neighboring countries such as
Kuwait, which is vulnerable in the event of a radiation leak
since it is downwind about 170 miles (275 kilometers).  “The rest of the world is depending on the Russian
Federation for policing the nuclear safety of this reactor,”
said  Mark Hibbs , an expert on Iranian nuclear issues at the
Carnegie Endowment for World Peace. The pump failure “raises
questions about the decisions the Russians made to move forward
with emergency coolant system that’s 30 years old,” he said.  Russian officials said in a statement Feb. 28 they were
removing the nuclear fuel to thoroughly clean the reactor core
and the primary cooling system to remove metal shards left by
the pump’s failure. Shards as small as 3 millimeters can damage
instrumentation and the zirconium cladding that protects the
core and prevents radiation leaks.    Russia ’s Ambassador to Iran, Alexander Sadovnikov, was
quoted yesterday by Iran’s state-run Mehr news agency as saying
that the delay was necessary since it’s better “to prevent
unwanted consequences rather than to regret it later and spend
more time trying to make up for it.”  Safety Issues  Nuclear experts cite potential safety issues due to the
hybrid design, Iranian nuclear inexperience, the Islamic state’s
reluctance to join international safety monitoring programs, and
the unknown reliability of some of the original components.  Iran’s decision to withdraw the fuel from the reactor was
in “no way” linked to the malicious software known as Stuxnet,
Iran’s ambassador to Russia, Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi, said in a
report published by the state-run Fars news agency on Feb 27.
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  acknowledged Nov. 29 that
high-speed centrifuges used in Iran’s uranium-enrichment program
were damaged by the malicious computer software.  Under United Nations sanctions for trying to amass enriched
uranium that could be used in a nuclear bomb, Iran has requested
only one safety consultation on Bushehr from the Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency .  No Monitoring  After that visit last year, the IAEA warned Iran’s nuclear
regulatory agency had “a shortage of staff” and the existing
workers who were under-trained and under-funded. The UN group’s
mission was “neither an inspection, nor an audit,” the agency
said in a March 2  statement . The IAEA does monitor installation
and removal of the reactor’s nuclear fuel.  UN sanctions allow Iran to buy equipment for Bushehr, a
light-water reactor that does not produce weapons-grade nuclear
material. Russian engineers will remain at the plant as Iranians
learn the ropes, said Sergei Novikov, a spokesman for Russia’s
state-owned nuclear builder, Rosatom Corp., the plant’s
constructor.  “This is a program largely developed in secret and their
first ever of this size and you don’t develop a safety culture
overnight,” said Jim Walsh, a research associate at the  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology’s Security Studies Program
in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Cost Cutting  The cooling-system pumps were “supplied to Bushehr in the
1970’s and, under the current contract, Russia was obliged to
integrate them into the project,” Rosatom said in the Feb. 28
statement.  “To cut costs the Russians had to agree to use certain
parts supplied by the Germans,” said Bill Horak, chairman of
the nuclear science and technology department at Brookhaven
National Laboratory in New York, who studies Soviet and Russian-
built reactors.  Bushehr also sits at the junction of three tectonic plates,
raising concerns that an earthquake could damage the plant and
crack its containment dome, or disrupt the electrical supply
needed to keep it safe, said Dr. Jassem al-Awadi, a geologist at
the University of  Kuwait . Bushehr was hit with a 4.6 magnitude
temblor in 2002.  Kuwait Downwind  Winds in the Persian Gulf blow from East to West and
coastal currents circle counter-clockwise, meaning Kuwait and
the  Saudi Arabia  would feel the effects of a radiation leak at
Bushehr within hours, notes Sami Alfaraj, director of the Kuwait
Center for Strategic Studies. And with the Gulf Arab states
reliant for their freshwater on desalination plants that line
the coast, long-term contamination of the Gulf could prove
fatal.  “What are our concerns -- water and air, and these are the
essence of life for everybody,” Alfaraj said in an interview.
“The Iranians have said so far ‘trust us,’ and it’s quite
difficult to trust them and the next thing is to trust Russian
certification and it’s very difficult to trust that.”  Iran “has always given priority to the plant being in line
with highest international standards,” Ali Asghar Soltanieh,
Iran’s envoy to the IAEA,  told  the state-run Iranian Students
News Agency Feb. 26.  Risks Low  Technology has improved since the accidents at Chernobyl in
Ukraine and Three Mile Island in  Pennsylvania  making the risk
from a modern reactor “extremely low,” said James Acton, a
physicist who works with the Carnegie Endowment in  Washington .
Horak also rates the chances of a catastrophic accident as low,
noting the German-built containment dome was built to resist a
direct hit by a jet fighter.  Russia, which built the reactor, has perhaps the greatest
incentive to ensure it operates safely, which is commercial
self-interest, said Hibbs.  Atomstroyexport JSC , the export arm of Rosatom, has nuclear
power plants planned or under construction in 14 countries, from  Armenia  to Jordan. Plants are under construction in India and  Bulgaria , according to its website. A serious accident at
Bushehr would bring a swift end to the entire industry, noted
Hibbs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  