-- 
Farina’s Hustler, Sushi Chef Featured at Tribeca Festival

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-07T20:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/farina-s-hustler-master-sushi-chef-will-be-featured-at-tribeca-festival.html
The  Tribeca Film Festival  today
announced the first half of its lineup for the 10th annual
event, including a drama starring Dennis Farina as a Chicago
hustler and a documentary about a man wrongly convicted of
killing two sisters in the Philippines.  “The Last Rites of Joe May,” written and directed by Joe
Maggio, stars Farina as an aging petty criminal who gets a final
shot at redemption.  The slate also includes Dennis Lee’s “Jesus Henry
Christ,” a comedy about a 10-year-old boy genius searching for
his biological father. Michael Sheen and Toni Collette play the
parents.  Tribeca, co-founded by  Robert De Niro , announced 44 of the
88 feature-length films that will be shown at the festival from
April 20 to May 1. The second half of the lineup will be
revealed on March 14.  This year’s festival will include features from 32
countries and 43 world premieres. The lineup was chosen from a
record 5,624 submissions.  Last week Tribeca announced that Elton John will help kick
off the festival with a free performance following a screening
of “The Union,” a documentary about his musical collaboration
with Leon Russell.  Sushi Chef  The films announced today make up three categories: World
Narrative, World Documentary and Viewpoints, a new section
spotlighting independent movies with “distinctive
perspectives.”  The documentary subjects include an innocent man sentenced
to death for murder in the  Philippines  (“Give Up Tomorrow”); a
tale of forbidden love between an Israeli and a Palestinian
(“Love During Wartime”); an Indian marathon prodigy
(“Marathon Boy”); and an 85-year-old master sushi chef (“Jiro
Dreams of Sushi”).  Bloomberg LP, which owns Bloomberg News, is a sponsor of
the Tribeca festival.  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 