-- 
Fed Officials Signal Little Need Now for Further Bond Purchases

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-03-07T18:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/fed-presidents-signal-little-need-for-added-bond-buys-to-bolster-economy.html
Three Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents voiced diverging views on whether to end a plan to
buy $600 billion in bonds early or be open to doing more, while
signaling little pressing need for additional purchases.  Dallas Fed President Richard W. Fisher said today he might
vote to cut short the bond buying before the scheduled end in
June if he deems it to be “counterproductive.” Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he is “very cautious” about
further asset purchases, while not ruling out the possibility.  Charles Evans , president of the Chicago Fed, told CNBC he
believes the hurdle for altering the plan is “pretty high.”  Policy makers are set to meet in Washington on March 15 as
economic data over the past month indicate their policies are
helping to revive growth and reduce unemployment. Fed officials
including  Charles Plosser , president of the Philadelphia
regional bank, have favored an abrupt end to the purchases of
Treasuries, rather than a gradual pullback beyond June.  Treasury markets are “so deep and liquid that there
doesn’t seem to be a need” to taper the purchases, said Evans,
53, who votes on the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year.
“I wouldn’t be surprised that if we decide to end it, we just
end it.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained more than 9
percent since Nov. 3, when the Fed announced its second large-
scale round of asset purchases. Central bankers are about half
way through their bond buying program, known as QE2 for the
second round of so-called quantitative easing. The Fed ended a
$1.7 trillion program in March 2010.  Expanded Payrolls  Joblessness in the U.S. unexpectedly fell to 8.9 percent in
February, according to a March 4 report from the Labor
Department. The rate fell for a third straight month to the
lowest level in almost two years as employers boosted payrolls
by 192,000 amid growing confidence in the expansion.  The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, up from 2.6 percent in the previous three months,
according to figures from the Commerce Department. The economy,
excluding inventories, expanded at a 6.7 percent pace, the most
since 1998.  “The liquidity tanks are full, if not brimming over,”
Fisher, an FOMC voter this year, said at the Institute of
International Bankers Annual  Washington  Conference. “The Fed
has done its job. What is needed now is for business to be
incentivized to commit that liquidity to creating American
jobs.”  The regional bank chief reiterated that he would vote
against extending or enlarging the $600 billion program
“barring some frightful development.” If the plan proves to be
“counterproductive,” Fisher said he will “vote to curtail or
perhaps discontinue it.”  Middle East Turmoil  Lockhart said in a speech in Arlington, Virginia, that the
central bank shouldn’t rule out additional purchases because
turmoil in the Middle East risks causing a slowdown in the U.S.  “With the information I have today, my first inclination
is to be very cautious about extending asset purchases after
June,” he said. “Given the emergence of new risks, however, I
prefer a posture of flexibility as regards policy options.”  Lockhart’s comments echoed Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
who told Congress last week that economic conditions continue to
justify holding the central bank’s benchmark interest rate near
zero. The chairman also didn’t rule out expanding purchases to
keep stimulating the economy.  A survey of economists released today by the National
Association for Business Economics found 71 percent expect the
Fed to raise its target interest rate over the next year.  Third Round  Lockhart told reporters after his speech that a third round
of large-scale asset purchases might be needed in the event of
another downturn. “I want to remain open to whatever has to be
done or needs to be done at a given time,” Lockhart said.  The Fed has bought $397.6 billion in  Treasury securities 
since Nov. 12 under plans to purchase $600 billion of government
debt through June and reinvest proceeds from maturing mortgage
debt.  The hurdle for altering the Fed’s current plan is “pretty
high,” and a tapering of the purchases is unlikely, Evans said
in a CNBC interview.  “It looks more and more to me like $600 billion is a good
number,” the Chicago Fed president said. “We’re going to
continue to need short-term  interest rates  to be low for an
extended period of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  