-- 
Fisher Says He Might Vote to Cut Short or Reduce Asset Purchase Program

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-07T14:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/fed-s-fisher-says-he-may-vote-to-end-600-billion-asset-purchase-program.html
  Federal Reserve  Bank of Dallas
President Richard W. Fisher said he might vote to cut short the
central bank’s program of large-scale asset purchases if he
believed it to be “counterproductive.”  “I remain doubtful enough as to its efficacy that if at
any time between now and June, it should prove demonstrably
counterproductive, I will vote to curtail or perhaps discontinue
it,” Fisher said in the text of a speech today in Washington.
Fisher repeated that he would vote against extending or
enlarging the purchases “barring some frightful development.”  Central bankers, who next meet March 15, are about half way
through their program to buy $600 billion in  Treasury securities 
through June. Though Fisher has criticized the purchases as
unlikely to help the economy, he supported its continuation at
the Fed’s Jan. 25-26 meeting.  “The liquidity tanks are full, if not brimming over,”
Fisher said at the Institute of International Bankers Annual  Washington  Conference. “The Fed has done its job. What is
needed now is for business to be incentivized to commit that
liquidity to creating American jobs. This is the task of the
fiscal authorities, not the Federal Reserve.”  Joblessness in the U.S. unexpectedly fell to 8.9 percent in
February, according to a March 4 report from the Labor
Department. The rate fell for a third straight month to the
lowest level in almost two years as employers boosted payrolls
by 192,000 amid growing confidence in the economy.  Gaining Strength  “Though the recovery is gaining strength, we still have a
long and arduous path ahead of us,” Fisher said. “The news is
better;  job creation  is gathering momentum; the economy is
moving in the right direction. But it is worrisomely clear that
the task of putting millions of unemployed and underemployed
Americans back to work will take an anguishing amount of time.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week told Congress that
there are “grounds for optimism” on the labor market. Even so,
14.5 million Americans remain unemployed, and 44 percent of the
jobless have been without work for more than half a year.  “I do not, however, feel that further monetary
accommodation will speed the process,” Fisher said.  The Fed has bought $397.6 billion in Treasury securities
since Nov. 12 under plans to purchase $600 billion of government
debt through June and reinvest proceeds from maturing mortgage
debt.  The program “might well retard job creation,” Fisher
said, if it leads to rising inflation expectations or a
perception that the Fed was enabling the “fiscal
irresponsibility” of Congress.  Deficit Projections  This fiscal year’s budget deficit is projected to reach
$1.5 trillion, according to a Congressional Budget Office
estimate released Jan. 26. The deficit was $1.29 trillion last
year after a record $1.42 trillion in 2009.  “The  U.S. economy  is afflicted with the pathology of
structural deficits,” Fisher said. “This leaves the nation
poorly positioned to weather the next recession or shock to come
our way. I devoutly hope our next downturn won’t come for quite
some time, but it surely will come eventually.”  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Fisher, 61, voting this year. When Fisher last sat on the
committee in 2008, he dissented five times in favor of tighter
policy. He has led the Dallas Fed since 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  