-- 
Finance Minister Gordhan Says `Strongish' Rand Helps Inflation Environment

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-07T11:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/finance-minister-gordhan-says-strongish-rand-helps-inflation-environment.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said the “strongish” rand is helping to curb
inflation as rising oil and food prices become a concern for
governments around the world.  While the government wants a more stable and competitive
rand, the currency’s gain is benefiting the inflation outlook,
Gordhan told reporters and economists in Johannesburg today.  The rand has climbed 6.4 percent against the dollar since
Feb. 15, paring its losses at the beginning of the year. The
currency strengthened 11 percent in 2010, the best performer
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies against the dollar
after  Malaysia ’s ringgit. That’s helped to keep inflation inside
the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range, enabling
the bank to lower its benchmark interest rate to a 30-year low
of 5.5 percent.  “We want stability, we want less volatility and we want
something with competitiveness,” Gordhan said. “But the
strongish rand, the less weak rand, however you want to put it,
is helping our inflation environment for the moment.”  The rand appreciated as much as 0.2 percent to 6.8653 per
dollar today and was at 6.8741 as of 12:48 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Crude oil has surged 23 percent since the beginning of
January, reaching as high as $117.40 a barrel in  London  today.
The government raised gasoline prices by 4.8 percent on March 2,
following a 3 percent increase in February.  Global Concern  “Globally there’s a sharing of concerns around food-price
inflation and the rise in  oil prices ,” Gordhan said. The
government must assist the  Reserve Bank  by moderating the
increase in state-regulated prices, he said.  The Reserve Bank left its key rate unchanged in January,
after lowering it three times last year, as price pressures
picked up and the economic recovery strengthened. The inflation
rate climbed to a six-month high of 3.7 percent in January, the
statistics office said on Feb. 16.  Gordhan said that the government’s policy of fiscal
stability and “consolidation” remained in place, even though
it will post bigger budget deficits over the next three years
than earlier projected.  “Let’s be categorical: the trajectory of fiscal
consolidation remains in place,” Gordhan said. “We are taking
a slightly slower approach to fiscal consolidation.”  In his budget speech on Feb. 23, Gordhan unveiled deficit
targets for the next three years that were higher than estimated
in his mid-term budget in October because corporate tax has been
slow to recover from a 2009 recession. The shortfall is expected
to be 5.3 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year
through March 2012, unchanged from this year, and higher than
the previous forecast of 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  