-- 
Attorneys General Push for Loan Reductions, Seek Bank Accord

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/foreclosure-settlement-said-to-be-sought-by-states-u-s-within-two-months.html
State  attorneys general  are pushing
lenders to reduce loan balances and said they hope to reach a
final settlement with banks over their mortgage-servicing and
foreclosure practices within two months.  The states along with federal agencies submitted a 27-page
settlement proposal last week to the country’s five largest
mortgage servicers and aim to reach an agreement that leads to
more loan modifications for homeowners having trouble making
their payments, attorneys general said yesterday.  “The result we come to can have an impact on the housing
market and the economy,” North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper told reporters at a meeting of attorneys general in
Washington. “We don’t want uncertainty to linger very long.”  State attorneys general and federal agencies, including the  Justice Department , the Treasury Department and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, submitted the proposal as a
starting point for negotiating a settlement with the servicing
industry, said Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who is helping
to lead the talks with the banks.  Miller declined to comment about the role of banking
regulators in the negotiations. Officials are talking with
investors in mortgage-backed securities, Miller said.  “The investors are particularly important in the
modification process,” Miller said. “They own the loans
they’re going to be modifying in certain ways including, for
some of them, principal reduction.”  Home Loan Share  The companies that received the settlement terms from
officials are  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Ally Financial Inc. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  They service
59 percent of U.S. home loans, Miller said.  Jumana Bauwens, a Bank of America spokeswoman, declined to
comment, as did  Mark Rodgers , a Citigroup spokesman, and  Gina Proia , an Ally spokeswoman.  Vickee Adams, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, and JPMorgan
spokeswoman  Jennifer Zuccarelli  didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment yesterday.  Miller said that investors agreed to principal reductions
during the 1980s farm crisis, knowing that a partial payment
from distressed landowners often would yield more than a
foreclosure.  ‘Enlightened Self-Interest’  “It’s a question of will enlightened self-interest
prevail,” Miller said. “The compromise to modify loans in the
right situation is economically very much in the interests of
investors and owners.”  The settlement terms from officials don’t include a dollar
figure for civil penalties nor do they mandate loan
modifications, Miller said. The goal is to reach a final
agreement in a couple months, he said. He declined to comment
about possible monetary penalties against the banks.  “I think we’re all aware of what’s going on behind the
scenes here, where the government is trying to force banks to
assume obligations which they legally are not responsible for,”
Representative  Spencer Bachus , chairman of the House Financial
Services Committee, said yesterday at the Institute of
International Bankers annual conference in  Washington . “We have
rule of law in our country, and some of these negotiations, I
believe, violate that law.”  The settlement sheet seeks to force procedural changes on
servicers, including banning companies from initiating
foreclosure proceedings while a loan modification is pending,
providing borrowers with a single point of contact, and
informing borrowers of denied modifications in writing.
Homeowners trying to avoid foreclosure sometimes complain of a
move to foreclose on their properties while they are negotiating
a modification.  Three Loan Payments  Borrowers who are enrolled in a trial period for a loan
modification under a federal program and make three loan
payments on time would have to receive a permanent loan
modification, according to the proposal. The document would give
attorneys general and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
responsibility to police servicers’ compliance with any
settlement.  The 50 state attorneys generals received an update at
yesterday’s meeting on the investigation into the mortgage-
servicing practices of banks and the efforts to reach a
settlement that could overhaul their procedures. The states
began the probe last year after complaints that financial
institutions submitted faulty paperwork in foreclosure cases.  Homeowner activists protested yesterday outside the meeting
of the attorneys general, criticizing banks and demanding state
and federal officials reach a tough settlement with the
companies. They also called for criminal prosecutions.  Tam Ormiston, a deputy attorney general in  Iowa , declined
to comment yesterday about the settlement discussions. He didn’t
rule out criminal prosecutions.  “The question’s been raised for all regulators and all
enforcement officials,” he said. “I don’t know how that’s
going to play out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in Washington at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at
   lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 