-- 
Former Coal India Chief Says Approvals a Concern in Production

-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 
2011-03-07T04:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/former-coal-india-chief-says-approvals-a-concern-in-production.html
Partha Bhattacharyya, who retired as
chairman of  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  last week, comments on production
and acquisitions in the industry. State-owned Coal  India  is the
world’s largest producer of the resource.  Bhattacharya spoke in an interview in Kolkata on March 4.  On increasing coal production:  “To increase coal production, the major concerns are
clearances and evacuation. Locations which have large coal
deposits do not have proper railway lines to connect to main
lines. These areas are ideal for coal-based power generation.  “Other measures to facilitate coal production would
include adding tracks, more mechanized rail loading, lessen
turnaround time, adding rolling stocks and strengthen tracks so
that more coal can move around.”  On mergers and acquisitions:  “Indian investments are traditionally very return-oriented
and dependent on immediate financial viability. But acquisitions
are often strategic decisions where a company may not see
returns immediately. In a situation where there are no fixed
rules in the Indian coal sector, decisions can be questioned
much more in the absence of clear guidelines.  “We had explained this problem to a committee formed by
the prime minister’s office. Also, we had suggested in 2010 the
need for a public-private-partnership (PPP) initiative for
acquisitions because in PPPs, the decision-making is faster. But
once again, there are no guidelines on PPP selection. The
department of public enterprises has already taken up the task
and we are given to understand that the guidelines are at an
advanced stage.  “Unsolicited offers are not looked into. For instance,  Coal India  floated global expressions of interest, but companies
may not respond to that unless someone is in a dire urge to get
acquired. So, we should be allowed to look into standalone
proposals and depending on how satisfactory the merit of the
proposal is, we should be allowed to go ahead with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 