-- 
Gail India Considers East Coast LNG Import Facilities

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 
2011-03-08T07:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/gail-india-plans-floating-lng-facilities-to-boost-fuel-imports.html
(Corrects story first published March 7 to show Gail is
considering on-shore and off-shore facilities in headline and
first paragraph, Goel is former finance director throughout.)    Gail India Ltd. (GAIL)  is considering
setting up liquefied natural gas import facilities on the
nation’s east coast to meet increased demand for the fuel, the
company’s former finance director said.  The terminal may be floating or on land, R.K. Goel, who
retired on Feb. 28 as finance director, said in a telephone
interview March 7. A floating re-gasification unit, currently
used in Kuwait, Dubai and  Brazil , may cost as much as 24 billion
rupees ($533 million), Goel said.  An east-coast facility is one option New Delhi-based Gail
is considering, P.K. Jain, who took over as finance director
this month, said in a telephone interview today. “There’s no
concrete proposal yet,” he said. Jain declined to comment on
how much the project may cost.  Gail,  India ’s biggest gas transporter, may add 60 million
cubic meters a day in capacity to the Hazira-Vijapur-Jagdishpur
pipeline, boosting volumes to 115 million cubic meters, Rajeev
Mathur, executive director for marketing, said in September. A
proposed terminal at Haldia may link to the line while a
terminal at Karaikkal, near Chennai, in southern India can meet
regional demand.  The facility may have an initial capacity of 5 million tons,
former finance director Goel said. A floating terminal is faster
to deploy and may cost about 25 percent less, he said.  The government is encouraging households, factories and
vehicle owners to switch to the cleaner-burning fuel from coal
and diesel to reduce pollution. India’s natural gas consumption
rose 26 percent in 2009 to 52 billion cubic meters, according to
BP Plc data.  India has asked Qatar to double the supply of LNG to the
country to 15 million metric tons a year, India’s Oil Minister S.
Jaipal Reddy said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  