-- 
Gannett Considers Charging for Online News Content, Dubow Says

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-03-07T23:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/gannett-considers-charging-for-online-news-content-dubow-says.html
Gannett Co., the owner of 82
newspapers including  USA Today , is considering charging for its
online content, Chief Executive Officer Craig Dubow said.  The company, which also owns television stations, is trying
a paid-content model at three newspaper websites, and is likely
to experiment more before making a decision about the broad use
of paywalls, Dubow said in a telephone interview today.  “We’re going to see more of this until we can get exact a
model as possible,” Dubow said. “We want to be able to do this
and do it once.”  Gannett is among media companies searching for ways to
create paying customers out of people who now access news for
free on the Internet. The  New York Times Co. (NYT)  will start charging
readers for online access “very shortly,” Chairman and
Publisher Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr. said last week.  Gannett’s newspaper in Greenville,  South Carolina , has
started charging readers $7.95 a year to access content devoted
to Clemson University sports. Those subscribers view 40 to 70
pages per visit, compared with 6 to 8 pages on Gannett’s free
websites, according to the McLean, Virginia-based company.  Paying customers “like what they are seeing,” Dubow said.  The company started a branding and marketing campaign
designed to show advertisers and consumers that Gannett spans
multiple platforms. Along with the campaign, called “It’s All
Within Reach,” Gannett introduced a new logo and corporate
website.  After soliciting input from customers and advertising
agencies, Gannett decided to raise brand awareness, Dubow said.  “Our consumers and business customers really want media
and marketing solutions to be put together for them by the
company,” he said.  Gannett fell 19 cents to $16.05 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 6.4
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 