-- 
GE’s Sylvester to Head Lighting as Petras Moves to HGI

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-07T16:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/ge-home-business-names-sylvester-president-ceo-ge-lighting.html
  General Electric Co. (GE) , founded by the
inventor Thomas Edison, named Maryrose Sylvester to run the
lighting unit.  Sylvester spent 14 of her 23 years at GE in lighting and
most recently has led GE Intelligent Platforms, a software and
services division where she doubled revenue, Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE said today in a statement.  She succeeds Michael Petras, 43, who will take the top post
at HGI Global Holdings Inc., a health-care company owned by
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, according to a separate statement
from HGI.  GE Lighting, once up for sale along with the appliances
division, was pulled off the block in 2008, when Petras took his
job there. The unit provided about $3 billion of the parent
company’s $150.2 billion in revenue last year, according to GE.  Profit and sales will rise this year as more light-emitting
diode products are sold, and customers prepare for the U.S.
government’s ban on incandescent-light manufacturing, beginning
with 100-watt bulbs in 2012, GE said in December.  HGI is a Cleveland-based provider of specialty medical
products for chronically ill patients. The chief executive post
has been vacant since HGI was purchased in October by New York-
based Clayton Dubilier.  Jack Welch , a retired CEO of GE, is an
adviser to Clayton Dubilier.  Sylvester will report to Jim Campbell, CEO and president of
GE Appliances & Lighting. HGI said in its statement that
Petras’s appointment takes effect March 21.  Petras’s move marks the second departure within a week of a
GE division chief. Last week, the company said Ron Pressman, who
runs the real-estate unit, will leave on April 1. He will be
succeed by Mark Begor, a 31-year GE veteran.  GE is a diversified technology, media and financial
services company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ; 