-- 
Genzyme Chief’s Sanofi Deal Payout as Much as $221.2 Million

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-03-07T21:11:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/genzyme-chief-s-sanofi-deal-payout-as-much-as-221-2-million.html
  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ)  Chief Executive
Officer Henri Termeer will receive $158.4 million in the sale of
his Cambridge, Massachusetts-based biotechnology company to
French drugmaker  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) , according to a filing.  Termeer, 65, will get $145.9 million in cash from his
shares,  stock options  and restricted stock units, the filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today said. He
will also receive a $12.5 million change-of-control payment if
his employment is terminated when the deal closes. Termeer said
Feb. 16 when the companies announced the $20.1 billion agreement
that he planned to leave after a transition period.  The CEO, who held that position at Genzyme since 1985, also
stands to gain as much as an additional $62.8 million in so-
called contingent value rights tied to Genzyme’s experimental
multiple sclerosis drug, Lemtrada. If Genzyme meets each
milestone, the CVR would be worth $14 a share. Adjusted for the
probability of reaching each goal, the CVR’s “intrinsic value”
is $5.58, Genzyme said in the filing.  “We had valued it closer to $2.50 to $3 per share using
much less optimistic probabilities,” said  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with ISI Group Inc. in New York, in a report today. The
CVR will be publicly traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Shares Rise  Genzyme rose 22 cents to $75.87 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Sanofi, based in Paris,
agreed to buy the biotech for $74 a share plus potential CVR
payments in February after a nine-month pursuit.  The value the market places on the CVR is near the
difference between Sanofi’s cash offer price and where the
shares are currently trading, Schoenebaum said. That would price
them at less than $2. “We continue to think the CVR looks
undervalued,” he said. Genzyme holders will receive one CVR for
each share.  Sanofi will pay $1 per CVR if Genzyme meets production
targets this year for two rare-disease medicines, Cerezyme and
Fabrazyme, which had supplies restricted by a plant
contamination. The CVR will pay another $1 if Lemtrada wins U.S.
approval for multiple sclerosis. CVR owners will receive $2 if
Lemtrada sales exceed $400 million within specified periods per
territory, $3 if sales exceed $1.8 billion, $4 if they surpass
$2.3 billion and $3 if they top $2.8 billion.  CVR Probability  Genzyme today projected a 70 percent probability of
reaching the production milestone, expected to be in the fourth
quarter; and ascribed a 90 percent likelihood Lemtrada will be
approved, estimated to be in the third quarter of 2012. The
company gave an 80 percent probability of the drug reaching $400
million in revenue, expected in the third quarter of 2013; and a
16 percent chance Lemtrada will top $2.8 billion in sales,
projected in the third quarter of 2016.  “Henri had been extremely eloquent in convincing me of the
value of Lemtrada,” Sanofi Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher said at a press conference at Genzyme’s headquarters
when the deal was announced. “I said to him, ‘The way this deal
is structured, that if we do get to $2.8 billion on Lemtrada
sales, and we will certainly be incented to do it, I am going to
bring a check personally to Henri, and also with his favorite
wine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  