-- 
Global Rout Resembling 1994 Seen as Inflation Exceeds Rates

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-03-07T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/global-bond-rout-resembling-1994-seen-as-inflation-exceeds-benchmark-rates.html
Emerging-market central banks risk
triggering a “1994-style” sell-off in global bonds as soon as
next year if they’re still tightening monetary policy when the  Federal Reserve  begins raising interest rates.  That’s the warning of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Economist
Bruce Kasman, who calculates that even with recent increases,
benchmark rates in developing countries remain about 200 basis
points below their 2008 average and, adjusted for inflation,
will end this year near their recession lows. Underlying
inflation levels also are moving higher, he finds.  A reluctance to act faster means the central banks of these
economies ultimately may fail to contain inflation at home while
fanning it abroad, leaving themselves and the Fed toughening
monetary policy at the same time, Kasman said. His fear is that
simultaneous shifts will lead financial markets to echo 1994,
when investors first doubted the Fed’s inflation-fighting mettle,
only for Treasuries to slide more than 3 percent as policy
makers almost doubled the federal funds rate.  “There is a recipe for disruptive dynamics in markets if
policy adjustments have to gather steam in a synchronized way,”
said New York-based Kasman, a former official at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  who now oversees economic research at
the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets. Such a scenario could
develop in 12 to 36 months and would “take a toll on risk
assets. Bonds get killed,” he said.  ‘Behind the Curve’  Central bankers from emerging and developed markets meet
today in  Basel ,  Switzerland , for talks at the Bank for
International Settlements. They convene four days after European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet surprised investors
by saying a rate increase in the euro area is “possible” next
month, pushing German two-year notes to their second weekly drop.  Emerging-market bonds already are starting to underperform
and will continue to do so amid speculation that their central
banks “are seen to have fallen behind the curve” in beating
inflation, Stephen Jen, a managing director at BlueGold Capital
Management LLP, told a London conference on Feb. 28. Such
securities have lost about 1.2 percent since mid-October in
dollar terms, according to JPMorgan Chase’s GBI-EM Index.  Although he doubts  developing countries  are losing control
of inflation,  Jim O’Neill , the London-based chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, says the yield on the 10-year U.S.
Treasury note could “quickly” reach 5 percent if global growth
is allowed to pick up faster than anticipated, forcing the Fed
to start normalizing policy. The interest rate on the benchmark
U.S. security was 3.49 percent on March 4.  Biggest Worry  “The biggest thing I worry about is a major sell-off in
bonds like 1994,” said O’Neill, who helps to manage about $840
billion. “The ideal situation is the developed world comes back
as the developing world slows, but what could happen is as the
U.S. and others strengthen, they give the developing world
another growth kick.”  The consensus forecast remains for a muted decline in U.S.
Treasuries, with 10-year note yields rising to 4.25 percent in
the second quarter of next year, according to the median
estimate of 53 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Bill Gross ,
who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in January that even though he anticipates
the end of the  bull market  in bonds, there won’t be a
significant  bear market . Gross has cut his holdings of
government-related debt to the lowest level in two years.  Food, Oil Costs  The recent surge in food and oil prices also means the
central banks of  Russia ,  India ,  China  and  Brazil  soon will
accelerate their rate increases, said Scott Minerd, chief
investment officer at Guggenheim Partners LLC in  New York . He
notes China is the world’s second largest consumer of crude,
which is now trading above $100 a barrel. Global food prices
reached a record in February, according to the  Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations .  The BRIC economies “need to take dramatic policy measures
to cool off overheating markets and fight inflation,” Minerd
said in a March 1 report. “Restrictive monetary policy will
lead to economic slowdown” in the developing world.  Nevertheless, while 17 of the 21 emerging countries
Kasman’s team monitors are lifting rates -- with Brazil doing so
last week -- he says he’s concerned they aren’t acting fast
enough. He estimates the average interest rate for these
economies, weighted for gross domestic product, will end the
year almost a percentage point below the August 2007 level of
7.1 percent, even with inflation and growth averaging about 6
percent.  Growth Concern  These countries currently are sitting “behind the curve”
because they fear higher rates would choke expansion amid
lingering weakness and geopolitical risks overseas, said Michala Marcussen, head of global economics at Societe Generale SA in  London . Even higher rates relative to the developed economies
also risk luring more speculative capital and pushing up
currencies to the detriment of exports, she said.  A case in point: While China, the fastest growing major
economy, has raised its one-year deposit rate three times since
mid-October to 3 percent, consumer-price gains remain almost 2
percentage points higher. That’s handing savers an incentive to
buy goods and assets, meaning monetary policy stays stimulative
rather than restrictive. At the same time, China has limited
gains in the yuan against the dollar, supporting exports.  China isn’t alone, although its influence is greater
because it serves as a lynchpin for other emerging-market rates.
A Bloomberg study in mid-February of the most recent data
available showed eight of 14 other Asia-Pacific economies,
including India, also were running negative real rates.  Negative Rates  At Morgan Stanley in London, economist Manoj Pradhan
estimates his weighted average global interest rate will climb
just 70 basis points to 3.5 percent this year as the Fed and
Bank of Japan keep rates low. Accounting for inflation, the real
global rate will inch above zero only in the final quarter, he
calculates.  That leaves central banks in developing nations with a
small window to ensure price pressures don’t “get away from
them,” requiring them to intensify their policy tightening, he
said. For now, they’re trying to preserve growth and stabilize,
rather than slash, inflation, which may mean “they tolerate
inflation too much and have to speed up the interest-rate
process later,” Pradhan said.  They also could create problems beyond their borders.
Developing markets wield greater sway over global pricing power
now than in 1994 because their share of world GDP has almost
doubled to just over a third, according to International
Monetary Fund data.  Exporting Inflation  At the same time, China is becoming an “exporter of
inflation” rather than deflation as labor costs rise, David Woo,
head of global rates and currency research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York, told Bloomberg Television March 1.
The cost of goods the U.S. imports from China rose 0.3 percent
in January, according to the Labor Department.  International policy makers may end up boosting  interest
rates  in lock-step rather than in line with the demands of their
own economic cycles, squeezing the global recovery by limiting
the scope for countries to power growth through exports, said
Piero Ghezzi, head of global economics, emerging markets and
currency research at  Barclays Capital  in London. His colleagues
predict the Fed will begin raising rates from near zero in
August 2012.  Simultaneous Moves  “Synchronized rate increases are always bad for global
growth and markets,” Ghezzi said. “My fear is many central
banks will have to play catch-up.”  Policy makers aren’t in a hurry to tighten for now because
they currently prize financial stability over price stability,
said  Thomas Mayer , Frankfurt-based chief economist at Deutsche
Bank AG. He projects global inflation soon could reach as high
as 6 percent, with emerging markets nearing 10 percent. The last
time the world experienced such pressures was in 2008, when they
were thwarted only by the credit crisis and recession, he said.  This time, central banks will allow inflation to run, Mayer
said. They will nevertheless try to cap long-term bond yields by
pledging to keep interest rates low, avoiding a repeat of 1994,
he said. He noted that even with inflation in the U.K. at 4
percent in January, the 10-year government note yielded about
3.6 percent last week.  “Central banks may be behind the curve, but I can’t see
them trying to get ahead of it,” which “can create problems
for bond markets and is what happened in 1994,” Mayer said.  Back then, the Fed lifted the rate banks charge each other
on overnight loans three times, in 25 basis-point steps. Policy
makers then executed two half-point moves before a 75 basis-
point increase that took it to 5.5 percent at year-end.  Treasuries lost 3.3 percent, according to data from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, and global capital losses reached about
$1.5 trillion that year. The transition to higher rates played a
part in the Mexican currency crisis and the bankruptcy of  California ’s Orange County. U.S. growth slowed to 0.9 percent in
the second quarter of 1995 from 5.6 percent a year earlier.  “As we saw in 1994, a long period of easy money does
create excesses in financial markets,” Kasman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  