-- 
Global Corn, Wheat Harvests to Keep Trailing Demand on La Nina, DTN Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-07T06:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/global-corn-wheat-harvests-to-remain-short-of-demand-on-la-nina-dtn-says.html
Global harvests of corn and wheat
may trail demand again if the La Nina weather event persists
through July, tightening global supplies, according to
forecaster Telvent DTN Inc.  La Nina is forecast to cause heavier rainfall in the
northern U.S. plains and the Canadian prairies, potentially
causing a repeat of last year’s flooding that slashed  Canada ’s
milling-wheat output and delaying corn planting in parts of the
U.S.,  Bryce Anderson , an agricultural meteorologist, said in a
phone interview today. That may contribute to a second straight
annual shortfall for wheat and a third yearly deficit for corn.  “There is reason to be concerned about how our grain
supply is going to be,” said Anderson, who last year correctly
predicted dry weather would hurt U.S. and Argentina soy crops.  Tighter supplies of corn and wheat may sustain gains in
food prices, which are already at a record according to an index
tracked by the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization.
That may push governments in countries facing supply deficits to
boost imports and increase food subsidies to prevent unrest seen
in the Middle East and North Africa.  Corn futures in  Chicago  surged 95 percent in the past year
as rising demand for livestock and ethanol in the U.S. pushes
the global stocks-to-use ratio to the lowest in 37 years. Wheat
jumped 68 percent in the same period after drought last year in  Russia  and Eastern Europe prompted countries to restrict exports,
while flooding in Canada and Australia curbed supply of milling-
grade grains used for human consumption.  Declining Yields  The food price index may increase further, the FAO said
March 3, and consumers need to get used to paying more for food,
the  International Monetary Fund  said the same day.  Corn yields in the U.S. may be as much as 10 bushels-an-
acre lower than the Department of Agriculture’s forecast of 162
bushels an acre next season if La Nina persists through July,
delaying planting in the northern corn belt, Anderson said.  The delay may mean the U.S. crop will go through its
pollination and reproductive phases during the hottest times of
summer, putting them at risk of yield losses, he said.  “The biggest risk as far as losses go, I would have to say
at this point, is corn,” Anderson said. “Much of the corn
supply is dependent on how the U.S. performs, and there is
concern about how the U.S. situation is going to be for this
season,” he said, referring to the next planting. Corn for May
delivery increased 0.2 percent to $7.2975 a bushel today,
erasing an earlier loss of 0.6 percent.  Drought Easing  The U.S. harvest represents about 39 percent of the global
corn  output  in the 2010-2011 season, and 55 percent of world
 exports , according to USDA data.  The worst may be over for the drought-affected areas in  China ’s wheat-growing region and there’s a “better chance of
rainfall” over the next month, improving soil moisture and
preventing losses to the crop, Anderson said.  Still, La Nina may hurt the wheat crop in the U.S., the
world’s largest shipper, he said. That, and the potential for
flooding in Canada, may further curb supply of milling-wheat as
Canadian farmers cut acreage, he said.  “We’re not guaranteed that the world wheat crop is going
to approach the volume that it needs to be at, in order to start
curbing some of the supply issues,” Anderson, 57, said by phone
from  Nebraska . “That’s the big issue right now.”  The Southern Oscillation Index, which tracks fluctuations
in air pressure between Darwin and Tahiti, was at 22.3 in
February, rising from 19.9 a month earlier, according to the  Australia  Bureau of Meteorology. The gauge was at 27.1 in
December, the highest since 1973, according to the bureau’s data.
A reading of 7 or more indicates La Nina is present.  “The peak is over, but the event does not seem to be
really backing off,” Anderson said. “It’s still strong.”  Telvent DTN is a market information provider to about
700,000 clients across  North America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  