-- 
Goldman Leads M&A List Spurred by Commodities Demand in BRICs

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/goldman-heads-m-a-rankings-spurred-by-commodities-demand-in-bric-economies.html
The merger boom that started in 2010
isn’t looking like any of the past three. The takeover binge of
the 1980s was fueled by  Michael Milken ’s junk bonds; the late-
1990s wave of Internet and telecom deals, by inflated stock
prices; and the private-equity frenzy that produced a record
year for deals in 2007, by leveraged loans.  The more recent surge comes from the expanding BRIC
economies --  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  -- and beyond.
Deals are rising among the companies that supply raw materials
to these countries. Worldwide deals in energy, power and basic
materials made up about a third of the merger and acquisition
market in 2010, compared with about 20 percent in the previous
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies with
headquarters in emerging markets played a role in more than a
third of 2010 takeovers, about twice their historical share.  Emerging-market acquisitions helped the total value of
announced deals for 2010 grow 27 percent to $2.2 trillion,
driving up advisory fees. It’s the first annual increase in fees
since the banner year of 2007. Goldman Sachs took the top spot
in an annual ranking of advisers by the fees they collect in the
April issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine.  Lower volatility in commodity prices is helping deals come
together, says Carl Contiguglia, co-head of natural resources  investment banking  at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the No. 2 fee earner.  “The back half of 2010 was the beginning of a natural
resources M&A boom,” Contiguglia says. “I forecast that to
continue through 2011.”  Biggest Deal    Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s $42.5 billion purchase of offshore
oil rights from the Brazilian government, announced in
September, was the biggest deal of the year. Less than a month
earlier, London-based Vedanta Resources Plc agreed to buy Cairn
India Ltd. for $9.6 billion to get access to India’s biggest
onshore field.  Even dealmaking within the world’s mature economies has
been spurred by the BRICs. Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar
Inc. agreed in November to buy South Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based  Bucyrus International Inc. (BUCY)  for $7.6 billion to sell giant mining
machines in China.  “Demand is being driven by these super-charged emerging
economies,” says Cary Kochman, head of M&A for the Americas at
Zurich-based  UBS AG. (UBSN)  “We are quickly moving from oversupply of
raw materials into a tighter demand situation.” UBS, which is
helping advise Bucyrus, is No. 5 in the rankings.  Goldman No. 1  In other deals, emerging-market companies expanded to
better compete on the global stage, says Antonio Weiss, head of
investment banking at  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , which ranked 11th in the
tally. Russia’s two biggest potash producers, OAO Uralkali and
OAO Silvinit, agreed in December to a $7.8 billion combination
to help them supply materials to international markets. Goldman
Sachs, Morgan Stanley and VTB Group are advising Uralkali,
according to Bloomberg data, and Bank of America is working with
Silvinit.  Goldman Sachs retained its No. 1 ranking for the seventh
straight year, showing that Western banks with global reach
dominate the new merger landscape. Big Western banks led the way
even in takeovers of companies based in emerging Asian markets.
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, both based in New York, and
Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  all logged more deals than
local competitors such as China International Capital Corp.,
Bloomberg data show.  For the first time, an emerging-market bank made the Top 20
ranking. Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Rio de Janeiro-based
investment bank, came in 18th place on the list.  Core Acquisitions  Companies are using acquisitions to build and refine their
existing businesses rather than plunge into new ones as they
emerge from the worst financial crisis in decades, says Jeffrey Kaplan, head of M&A at Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America. Conglomerates such as  ITT Corp. (ITT)  and Sara Lee Corp. are
pursuing breakups -- another sign that companies are choosing to
focus on their core markets.  “Coming out of such a severe downturn, even with the cheap
cost of debt, shareholders are not looking for companies to take
on big risks,” says Kaplan, whose firm has been advising
Sara Lee.  With the  International Monetary Fund  forecasting robust
growth in the BRICs in 2011, bankers say acquisitions will
increase for the second straight year after hitting $4 trillion
in 2007.  “You have all this cash built up, and you have sectors such
as power and energy that are active,” says John Studzinski, head
of Blackstone Group’s advisory unit. “This year’s going to match
2007, or it will be higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 