-- 
Goldman Economist Broadbent Appointed to Bank of England Policy Committee

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-07T18:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/goldman-s-ben-broadbent-named-as-boe-new-panelist.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Senior
European Economist Ben Broadbent was appointed to the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee to replace  Andrew Sentance ,
who has been calling for higher rates for the past nine months.  Broadbent will join when Sentance’s term ends on May 31,
the Treasury in London said in a statement today. His “broad
professional experience in the financial sector and academia, as
well as his detailed knowledge of the U.K. economy, will be
extremely valuable,” it said.  Broadbent, who has previously worked at the Treasury and
the Bank of England, will join a committee that has split four
ways on policy for the first time since the central bank’s
independence in 1997. With inflation at twice the bank’s target
and the economic recovery threatened by the government’s fiscal
squeeze, policy makers are divided on whether to increase
interest rates or expand stimulus.  Broadbent is “likely to be less hawkish than Sentance,
who’s on an outlying path in the policy debate,” David Tinsley,
an economist at National Australia Bank in  London  and a former
central bank official, said in an interview. “Most incoming
members of the MPC will want to learn the ropes and the dynamics
of the committee and are likely to vote with the pack for at
least the first few months.”  Divided Meeting  The bank’s rate-setting panel starts its next two day
policy meeting on March 9. At the last meeting, Sentance voted
to increase the benchmark interest rate by 50 basis points from
a record low of 0.5 percent.  Martin Weale  and Spencer Dale
called for a 25 basis-point increase, while the remaining six
opted to maintain the current rate.  Adam Posen  voted to expand
the bank’s bond-purchase plan.  Bank of  England  Governor Mervyn King welcomed Broadbent’s
appointment and said he is joining at a “critical time.”  “I am sure will make a valuable contribution to policy
going forward,” King said.  Broadbent and colleagues recently changed their U.K. rate
forecast and see the central bank raising its benchmark rate by
a quarter point in May and in each of the subsequent two
quarters, according to a March 6 report. They forecast that the
rate will be at 2.25 percent by the end of next year. Goldman
Sachs previously expected the first increase in the fourth
quarter.  Broadbent is the latest Goldman Sachs employee to enter
policy making, and the third with experience of working at the
New York-based firm to join the MPC. Former U.K. rate-setters
David Walton and Sushil Wadhwani both had Goldman Sachs on their
resume before joining the central bank.  ‘Excellent Economist’  New York Federal Reserve Bank President  William Dudley  is
Goldman Sachs’s former chief U.S. economist and Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  is a former managing director. Bank of
Italy Governor  Mario Draghi , the current frontrunner to become
the next president of the European Central Bank, is a former
vice chairman of its international arm.  Henry Paulson and  Robert Rubin  both headed the bank before
becoming Treasury secretaries, while other former leaders
include Stephen Friedman, who was an adviser to President George W. Bush and Jon Corzine, who governed New Jersey.  “He’s an excellent economist,” said  Jim O’Neill ,
Broadbent’s former boss and now chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management. “Incredibly sharp and one of the best the economics
department had in the last 15 years anywhere around the world.”  ‘Independently Minded’  The Treasury said in an advertisement for the role that
applicants must be “independently minded and be able to exert
their influence within the bank, the MPC and in the wider
external policy debate.” The salary will be 131,771 pounds
($213,324) plus healthcare benefits, and the position will be on
a part-time basis, averaging three days a week.  Former policy maker Kate Barker and Treasury officials Tom Scholar and Dave Ramsden interviewed candidates and made
recommendations to Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne.
Of the 27 applications, only one was from a woman, and
Broadbent’s appointment means the MPC remains an all-male panel.  “The government would like to see a greater number of
women apply for future appointments and will continue to
encourage them to do so,” the Treasury said today.  Broadbent will join Posen, Weale and  David Miles  as the
fourth external member of the rate-setting panel. Governor  Mervyn King ,  Paul Tucker , Charles Bean,  Paul Fisher  and Dale are
the internal members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  