-- 
China Guangdong Plans 756 Million-Pound Offer for Kalahari

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-08T06:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/guangdong-nuclear-bids-1-2-billion-for-uranium-producer-kalahari-minerals.html
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group
Co., the nation’s second-largest reactor builder, made a 756
million-pound ($1.2 billion) bid for  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH)  as
the Chinese government seeks uranium to boost atomic generation.  The proposed acquisition would give the state-owned company
access to  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) ’s Husab uranium project in  Namibia . Kalahari owns about 43 percent of Australia’s Extract,
which calls its venture the fifth-biggest uranium deposit.  “This would give them a foothold in one of the largest
uranium assets in the world and supply their plans to
significantly grow their reactor fleet,” Simon Tonkin, an
analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd. in Perth, said today. Rio
Tinto Group, a shareholder in Kalahari and Extract, may seek to
block the offer or make a counter bid, according to Tonkin.
Bruce Tobin, a Rio spokesman in  Melbourne , declined to comment.  China Guangdong made a “possible offer” of 290 pence a
share, 11 percent above Kalahari’s March 4 close, it said in a
statement yesterday. Kalahari rose 9.5 percent to a record 285
pence in London trading after earlier saying it was in talks
with an unidentified third party. The acquisition by China
Guangdong would be the second-biggest Chinese takeover of a
foreign mining company, according to Bloomberg data.  Extract climbed 7.3 percent to A$9.94 at the 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney, the biggest gain since Oct. 15, compared with a
gain of 0.2 percent for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Extract’s directors will “consider the implications” of
the proposed bid, the company said in a statement today to the
Australian stock exchange. Extract said it recommends
shareholders take “no action” and await advice from the board.  ‘Attractive Value’  “The Kalahari board believes this represents attractive
value for Kalahari shareholders,” Mark Hohnen, chairman of the
London-based company, said in the  China  Guangdong statement.
Kalahari will recommend the proposal to its stockholders,
according to the Chinese company.  China may raise its 2020 target for atomic power generation
to 86 gigawatts, with annual investment of 70 billion yuan
($10.7 billion), the state-run China Daily said Jan. 26. In
comparison, capacity may total 11.7 gigawatts by the end of
2011, the National Energy Administration said.  The plan is subject to regulatory approval in China and the
securing of funding, the Chinese company said. China Guangdong
would also seek approval from the Australian Securities &
Investments Commission because a deal would give it more than 20
percent of Extract.  Offer Price  China Guangdong’s offer is 17 percent more than the average
price of Kalahari’s shares in the 20 trading days before the
announcement of the bid. That’s less than the 33 percent average
premium paid by Chinese companies for foreign mining companies
in 10 comparable deals in the past 10 years, Bloomberg data
show.  Kalahari’s stake in Extract is valued at about A$1 billion
($1 billion), based on Extract’s A$9.26 closing share price in
Sydney yesterday, giving the company a market value of A$2.3
billion. Rio, the world’s third-largest mining company, has a 14
percent stake in Extract and 11.5 percent of Kalahari.  Extract, based in Perth, Western  Australia , said last month
it was in talks with London-based Rio about merging the
companies’ uranium projects in Namibia. Extract also said it was
talking to Kalahari “to explore various options that might
simplify the Extract/Kalahari shareholding structure.”  Rio owns the Rossing uranium mine in Namibia. The deposit
is the third-biggest producer of the nuclear fuel, accounting
for 7 percent of world supply, according to World Nuclear
Association figures.  Husab is about 7 kilometers (4.4 miles) from Rossing and 30
kilometers from Paladin Energy Ltd.’s Langer Heinrich project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  