-- 
Michael Page Profit Climbs on Growth in Asia, Latin America

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-03-07T16:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/michael-page-profit-climbs-on-growth-in-asia-latin-america.html
  Michael Page International Plc (MPI) , the
U.K.’s second-biggest recruitment company, said full-year profit
climbed five-fold, boosted by growth in  Asia  and Latin America.  Net income rose to 67.5 million pounds ($110 million), or
21.1 pence a share, from 12.4 million pounds, or 3.8 pence a
share, a year earlier, the Surrey, England-based company said in
a Regulatory News Service statement today. Revenue climbed 16
percent to 832.3 million pounds.  The recruiter  is expanding in Asia, Latin America and the
Middle East to compensate for weak economies in the U.K. and
Ireland. Michael Page more than doubled its headcount in Asia in
2010, opening a seventh office in  China  and a second office in  Singapore , it said in the statement. The company has so far
opened offices in Malaysia and  India  this year and may look at
getting into  Indonesia , Taiwan and  Colombia , Chief Executive
Steve Ingham said today.  “We are looking at new countries in south east Asia,
Indonesia is an obvious one, and Taiwan; in Latin America, we
are looking Colombia,” Ingham said by phone today. “In lesser
developed markets, there is very little competition which
explains why our growth has been the strongest in these
regions.”  Revenue from permanent placements in 2010 grew 37 percent
to 356 million pounds, providing 43 percent of the group’s
revenue, Michael Page said. Revenue from temporary placements
grew 4.3 percent to 476.3 million pounds.  U.K. Stabilizing  “Strength overseas continues to drive the business forward
and conditions in the U.K. are stabilizing,” Henry Carver, an
analyst with Peel Hunt LLP said in a note to investors today.
“The outlook for 2011 is confident and the cash position is
strong.” Carver recommends holding the stock.  The U.K., Michael Page’s single biggest country market,
made up 28 percent of the recruiter’s gross profits in 2010,
down from 32 percent the year before. About 90 percent of
Michael Page’s business in the U.K. is from non-government
bodies, Ingham said.  “Austerity measures have made it very difficult,” Ingham
said. “Our most extreme growth is elsewhere.”  Hays Plc, the U.K.’s largest recruitment agency, posted a
first-half profit last month after an “excellent performance”
in the Asia-Pacific region.  Michael Page shares fell 11 pence, or 2.1 percent, to 524.5
pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , giving the company a
market value of 1.61 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  