-- 
Michelin-Starred Indian Chef Imports London Style to Mumbai

-- B y   M a r g o   T o w i e
-- 
2011-03-07T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/michelin-starred-indian-chef-takes-london-style-dining-back-home-to-mumbai.html
Ziya, the Mumbai restaurant of
Michelin-starred chef Vineet Bhatia, is trying to adopt the
European habit of serving diners their own plates of food in a
country where curries, dals and biryanis are usually shared.  Judging by the waiter’s long explanation of this idea to a
large family group, it’s going to be uphill work.  Ziya, from a Hindi word meaning light and splendor, opened
last April in  the Oberoi , where terror attacks killed 37 people
in 2008. The hotel was Mumbai-raised Bhatia’s training ground as
a chef before he moved to  London  and won his first star in 2001
for Zaika and a second for Rasoi five years later.  At 13,000 rupees ($289) for dinner for two with wine, Ziya
is one of India’s most expensive establishments, and a similar
meal at his London restaurant would set you back about the same
amount. Bhatia, who jets in and out to check his standards are
maintained, describes its cuisine of dishes such as lamb with
potatoes, black lentils and roti as “evolved Indian food.”  The ambience created by light-backed latticed screens, high
gold-painted ceilings and yellow-hued table settings is
reminiscent of the chambers of a Mughal emperor’s palace. Window
tables in the 74-seater mezzanine-level restaurant look out to
the  Arabian Sea  and the bay-hugging avenue known as the Queen’s
Necklace for its glittering street lights. Those seated away
from the windows can watch chefs work behind a glass wall.  Turning up without a booking on a Friday night, my guest
and I were placed at one of several spacious window tables for
four. Even with the family and tourist groups filling long
tables across the large room, it was pleasantly quiet and
private, a respite from a noisy, chaotic city. The Indian
background music had thankfully been turned down from one
earlier visit, when we’d had to raise our voices to be heard.  Miniature Painting  Bhatia is known for pairing traditional tastes with new
techniques, and Ziya features many of his signature dishes, each
as artistically composed as a Mughal miniature painting. The
menu is extensive, with wide choices for vegetarians in a city
where about one in two people don’t eat meat.  Among the starters, the wild-mushroom risotto-like khichdi,
topped with tomato-and-butter ice cream and a razor-thin plume
of lotus stem, appeared as a culinary and visual work of art
that went down deliciously with a crisp Pouilly-Fuisse. The
crunchy roti-wrapped prawns, white tomato soup and little frozen
cubes of Bloody Mary flavored jelly were an outstanding trilogy
of contrasting textures and tastes.  The wine tasting list is good value with seven course-
matching servings from around the world (2,900 rupees). Local
choices are the most wallet-friendly option for bottles, thanks
to  India ’s hefty duties. Grover’s La Reserve (2,900 rupees),
from the Nandi hills around Bangalore, is a decent blend of
Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon that pairs well with the food.  Comfort Food  As an unashamed lover of foie gras, the perfectly seared
liver’s pairing with spices and a fennel salad gave an
unconventional sweet-and-sour punch that didn’t disappoint. An
orchestral arrangement of flavors that defined the perfect
comfort food came in a plate of tandoori-baked lamb chops with
mashed potatoes, samosa, mint jus and lemongrass foam.  For me, the highlight was one of Bhatia’s signature dishes
that goes way back to his first Michelin star at Zaika, grilled
lobster on a bed of broccoli amid a moat of spicy lobster jus.
Dusted over at the table with cocoa, the medley of flavors was
startlingly tasty and the flesh tender and moist.  Ziya isn’t perfect. A glass of Champagne should have been
colder, a paneer and spinach entree seemed mismatched with its
accompaniments, and a grilled pineapple dessert was nothing to
write home about. The room strikes some as stark.  By contrast, the service is as close as it gets to
perfection, with explanations that took me from quail hunting in
Rajasthan to lotus ponds in Karnataka.  Ziya, Upper Lobby Level, The Oberoi Mumbai, Nariman Point,
Mumbai, 400 021, India. Tel. +91-22-6632-5757 or click on
 http://www.oberoihotels.com/oberoi_mumbai/dining.asp   The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Dinner for two is 13,000 rupees, including wine.  Sound level? Loudish at lunch, subdued at dinner.  Inside tip? Window seat looking down Marine Drive by night,
chef’s view by day.  Special feature? Foie gras, latticed screens.  Business meetings? Yes, it’s discreet enough.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***  (Margo Towie is an editor at Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margo Towie in Mumbai at 
 mtowie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 