-- 
Microsoft Is Said to Pay Nokia More Than $1 Billion in Deal

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-03-07T21:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/microsoft-is-said-to-pay-nokia-more-than-1-billion-under-software-accord.html
  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will pay  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
more than $1 billion to promote and develop Windows-based
handsets as part of their smartphone software agreement,
according to two people with knowledge of the terms.  Nokia will pay Microsoft a fee for each copy of Windows used
in its phones, costs that will be offset as Nokia curtails its
own budget for software research and development, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the final
contract hasn’t yet been signed. The agreement runs for more
than five years, the people said.  If it succeeds, the partnership may benefit both sides
financially while helping stave off a smartphone threat from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Nokia shares have dropped 26 percent
since the accord was unveiled Feb. 11, reflecting doubts about
the move to adopt Microsoft’s operating system, which is less
than six months old and has just a few percentage points of
market share.  “This gives Microsoft scale and allows Nokia to rip out
costs,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners in  New
York , who recommends buying Microsoft shares. “Microsoft is
getting the platform boost that comes from acquiring a Nokia for
about a billion dollars.”  Shrinking Margins  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia needs to cut costs to keep 
operating margins from narrowing further, after they shrank to
4.9 percent last year from 19 percent a decade earlier. For 2011
and 2012, Nokia may cut its budget for research and development
in devices and services by about a third from last year’s
spending of about 3 billion euros, said Sami Sarkamies, a
Helsinki-based analyst with Nordea Bank.  Microsoft spokeswoman Melissa Havel declined to comment on
the specifics of the agreement. Laurie Armstrong, a spokeswoman
for Nokia, said the final contract hasn’t been signed and the
company will share further details when they are complete.  Nokia’s royalty payments will help Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft make a profit on the accord even after the
payments to Nokia, one person said. Some of the payment to Nokia
would be made before the company starts selling the phones,
meaning Microsoft bears some upfront cost in the partnership.  Ballmer Under Pressure  Microsoft shareholders want the company to salvage its
mobile-software business while also reining in costs. The
company doesn’t break out results for its mobile-software unit,
and instead groups them with the profitable Xbox video-game
business, making it difficult to evaluate the financial
performance of phone software.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  has come under
pressure from investors and his own board to improve sales of
mobile software after the company lost market share to Google
and Apple. Microsoft stock has declined 7.8 percent so far this
year.  The agreement for the more than billion-dollar payment was
part of a campaign by Microsoft to keep Nokia from choosing
Google’s Android operating system, one of the people said. Nokia
also opted for Microsoft because Windows Phone software, which
is newer than Android and has a smaller number of handsets for
sale, gives Nokia a better chance to stand out, one of the
people said.  The agreement also has Microsoft paying Nokia for the right
to use its patent portfolio, one of the people said.  As part of the deal, Microsoft will use Nokia’s Navteq
mapping products for functions such as geolocation services and
selling local advertising and coupons tied to a user’s position.
If successful, that also could generate additional revenue for
Nokia, which will share in the sales. The two companies will
also divide revenue from services like search and advertising,
Microsoft President Andy Lees said last month.  Generating Profit  Peter Klein, Microsoft’s chief financial officer, said last
week at an investor conference that sales from these kinds of
services are important to generating profit from the deal.  “In success, it is a very mutually beneficial deal
economically for both companies,” Klein said.  Such tailored user services may provide billions of
dollars of revenue to Nokia over the term of the contract, one
of the people said.  Days after the agreement was announced, Nokia CEO Stephen Elop said the agreement will add billions of dollars in value to
Nokia, without specifying how much. Microsoft’s Lees said the
agreement involves funds changing hands for royalties, marketing
and ad-revenue sharing. Both companies have declined to provide
specific amounts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 