-- 
Middle East Unrest Could Cut Global Gas Supplies by 3%, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-07T02:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/middle-east-unrest-could-cut-gas-supplies-3-goldman-sachs-says.html
Global natural gas supplies could be
reduced by about 3 percent if production cuts in Libya spread to
other producing nations in the Middle East,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  said in a report dated March 6.  Gas exports totaling 79 billion cubic meters a year could
be cut if social unrest causes disruptions in Egypt, Oman, Yemen
and  Algeria , said the Goldman analysts led by London-based
Samantha Dart. That is the equivalent of 2.6 percent of global
supplies and includes 10 billion already suspended in Libya, the
report said. Potential disruptions to Algeria would have the
largest impact as the country produces 2.7 percent of global
output, according to the report.  While demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and
Egypt and spread to Iran, Yemen and Oman, there have been no
signs that production from those countries is affected. Violence
in  Libya  has also cut oil output in the North African country by
as much as 1 million barrels a day, sending  oil prices  to the
highest in 29 months.  “We believe that the potential disruptions of gas
production in countries currently under social unrest are
significant,” the Goldman report said. “Even if Algeria were
the only region to halt gas supplies on top of the Libyan
disruptions already in place, we believe global gas markets
could face a negative supply shock.”  Algeria was Africa’s largest natural gas producer in 2009,
according to data from BP Plc’s Statistical Review. The country
exports 60 percent of its output “via pipeline to  Italy  and  Spain  or via liquefied natural gas to the rest of the world,”
said the Goldman analysts.  The loss of Algerian supplies would be exacerbated by low
inventories in the Mediterranean region and a lack spare LNG
capacity to make up the shortfall, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  