-- 
MIDEAST DAYBOOK: Egypt Borrowing Costs; Tunisia Market Reopens

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-03-07T04:17:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/mideast-daybook-egypt-borrowing-costs-tunisia-market-reopens.html
  Egypt ’s borrowing costs are rising
to the highest in more than two years and stocks listed overseas
are tumbling as the Cairo exchange’s five-week shutdown and new
rules on shareholder disclosure keep investors away.  Options traders are betting more than ever that crude oil
is heading to $200 a barrel as some websites call for a “Day of
Rage” in  Saudi Arabia  and anti-government protests spread in the
Middle East and North Africa.  Libyan troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  used artillery and
helicopter gunships in their effort to block the rebels’ advance
west from the oil hub of Ras Lanuf toward the leader’s hometown
of Sirte.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* Egypt raised 3 billion pounds ($509 million) in treasury bills
  yesterday, 1.5 billion pounds less than planned, as yields
  rose on concern the economy is struggling to recover from the
  revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak .
* Egyptian leaders agreed on candidates for a new cabinet that
  is due to be sworn in today to help end the crisis since an
  uprising ousted President Hosni Mubarak last month.
* Abu Dhabi’s support for state-owned companies in the oil-rich
  sheikhdom will be “highly probable” after it helped
  recapitalize  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and Tabreed, Moody’s
  Investors Service said.
* Saudi Arabia’s Council of Senior Islamic Scholars warned
  against protests in the kingdom, the Saudi Press Agency said.
*  Iraq ’s biggest refinery restarted operations after a sabotage
  attack on Feb. 26, the Oil Ministry said.
* Global natural gas supplies could be reduced by about 3
  percent if production cuts in  Libya  spread to other producing
  nations in the Middle East, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
  report dated March 6.  CONFERENCES
* GCC foreign ministers meeting in  Abu Dhabi .
* Moody’s Investors Service holds GCC Credit Risk Conference
  in Dubai.  MARKETS:
*  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 0.7 percent.
* Crude oil futures for April delivery gained 1.5 percent to
  $106.02 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
  Mercantile Exchange at 8:15 a.m. in Dubai.
* Gold for April delivery rose 0.6 percent to $1,437.5 an ounce.
* Dubai Financial Market General Index gained 2.7 percent,
  Bahrain All Share Index increased 1.3 percent, ADX General
  Index jumped 1.1 percent, Saudi  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose
  0.9 percent, Muscat Securities Market advanced 0.8 percent and
  Kuwait Stock Exchange Index increased 0.7 percent. Morocco
  Casablanca Stock Exchange Index fell 0.1 percent.
* Qatar’s stock market reopens after a banking holiday.
* Tunisia’s stock exchange reopens.  EQUITY MOVERS:
*  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)  SAK, country’s biggest
  lender, said its shareholders approved a cash dividend of 40
  fils a share and bonus shares of 10 for every 100 held.  FINANCIAL RESULTS AND MEETINGS:
*  Depa Ltd. (DEPA)  , the interior design contractor that
  fitted out the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, said 2010
  profit will be “significantly impacted” due a claim related to
  the Burj Khalifa contract.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  