-- 
India’s Clothing Retailers Shut Stores to Oppose New Tax

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-03-07T12:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/india-s-clothing-retailers-shut-stores-to-oppose-new-tax.html
  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) ,  Shopper’s Stop Ltd. (SHOP)  and other Indian clothing retailers shut
their stores today to protest the government’s decision to levy
a 10 percent tax on branded apparel, an industry group said.  More than 10,000 shops in the country remained closed,
Kumar Rajagopalan, chief executive officer of the  Retailer’s
Association of India , said in a telephone interview. Apparel
makers have sought a meeting with government officials to
discuss the tax, said Rahul Mehta, president of Clothing
Manufacturers’ Association of  India . The shops will reopen
tomorrow.  Shopper’s Stop has dropped 10 percent in Mumbai trading
since Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee on Feb. 28 announced the
10 percent tax in his federal budget for the year starting in
April. The charge may slow demand for branded clothes after
higher cotton prices already pushed up prices, said Rajagopalan.  “This is going to increase the price of garments,” he
said. “Consumption will come down, especially at a time when
customers are reeling under inflationary trends.”  Prices of apparel in the nation have risen by as much as 35
percent in the last year, because of the cotton prices, Clothing
Manufacturers’ Mehta said. Cotton, which surged to a record in  New York  today, has more than doubled in the past year on signs
that demand is exceeding supplies.  Shopper’s Stop fell 3.6 percent to 315.8 rupees at the 3.30
p.m. close of trading in Mumbai today. Pantaloon Retail fell 1.5
percent to 265.15 rupees.  Shopper’s Stop shut 34 stores in 15 cities to join the
strike, its spokeswoman Malini Sharma said. Reliance Trends, a
unit of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , closed 42 stores in 27 cities
today, said Arun Sirdeshmukh, its chief executive officer.
Rakesh Biyani, executive director of Pantaloon Retail couldn’t
be reached for comment in his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  