-- 
ING Direct Canada Says 100,000 Clients to Use New No-Fee Account This Year

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-03-07T20:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/ing-direct-canada-says-100-000-to-use-new-account-this-year.html
The Canadian unit of  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
expects at least 100,000 people to sign up for its new no-fee
checking account this year, Chief Executive Officer Peter Aceto
said.  ING Direct Canada  plans to offer its Thrive checking
account, which pays interest and doesn’t carry monthly fees,
across the country beginning March 9. The Toronto-based lender
has been testing the account over the past five months with
22,000 clients.  The bank, which doesn’t have branches and has operated in  Canada  for 14 years, wants to gain market share from lenders
such as  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in
selling mortgages, mutual funds and other products. Aceto
expects to have a million clients in Canada doing day-to-banking
at ING within a few years.  “I think it will make a modification of how Canadians will
look at ING Direct,” Aceto said in a telephone interview today.
“Certainly our goal over the next few years is to have at least
50 percent of our two million customers doing day-to-day banking
with ING Direct.”  According to the  Canadian Bankers Association , 60 percent
of Canadians pay C$15 ($15.43) a month or less on monthly
service fees, while 28 percent don’t pay any fees.  To advertise the product’s launch, the bank will issue
checking accounts with C$7,000 in them to four Canadian
celebrities including former National Hockey League player
Trevor Linden. The celebrity who gives away money the fastest
through social media and other means will receive C$15,000
towards the charity of their choice.  ING Groep, based in Amsterdam, is the largest Dutch
financial-services company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 