-- 
Irish `War Cabinet' May Seek Senior Bank Bond Restructuring as Debts Rise

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-03-07T00:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/irish-war-cabinet-may-seek-senior-bank-bond-law-as-debts-rise.html
Ireland’s incoming government said
it may need to introduce laws allowing the restructuring of some
senior bank bonds, as the country’s debt level risks becoming
“unsustainable.”  The Fine Gael-Labour coalition, due to take power on March
9, said laws may be needed to “extend the scope of bank
liability restructuring” to include senior unsecured
unguaranteed bank bonds, in  proposals  approved by both of the
parties yesterday in Dublin.  “The outgoing government’s blank cheque for bank policy
must now be ended,” the parties said in a joint program for
government. “We must step back from the edge of national
insolvency.”  Labour leader Eamon Gilmore told party members that the new
government will set up a “war cabinet” to combat the country’s
economic woes, which began in 2008 when the ending of a decade-
long housing boom was amplified by the global financial crisis.
The outgoing government was forced to seek an international
bailout last year, and in return agreed to protect senior bank
bondholders.  The new government, which will be led by  Enda Kenny , also
wants to cut the 5.8 percent interest rate on the 85 billion-
euro ($119 billion) aid package. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
on March 4 rebuffed his plea to cut the cost of its bailout,
saying “relief isn’t the issue.”  Poisonous  “It is something they need to work on, there is a need to
alter the terms,” said  Austin Hughes , chief economist with
Dublin-based KBC Bank Ireland. “There is difference between a
free lunch and something that is completely poisonous.”  During the three-week election campaign, Fine Gael and
Labour said they would seek European agreement to share the cost
of Ireland’s rescue of the financial system with senior bank
bondholders. The country’s six government-guaranteed banks have
16.4 billion euros in senior unguaranteed unsecured bonds
outstanding, the country’s central bank said on March 2.  “Ireland faces clear-and-present dangers,”  Joan Burton ,
Labour’s finance spokeswoman, said yesterday. “Nowhere is that
more evident than the challenge to unwind the wretched bank
guarantee in an orderly way that can disentangle the debts of
our state from the debts of the bankers.”  End Further Transfers  In a Feb. 25 national vote, Fine Gael won 76 seats, and
Labour took 37 seats in the country’s 166-seat parliament. The
new government also said it will end further transfers to the
National Asset Management Agency, set up to take toxic debts
from lenders including Bank of Ireland Plc.  The incoming government will set further payments to the
banks at a level that is “consistent with national debt
sustainability,” according to the program for government.  Irish indebtedness will surge to 125 percent of gross
domestic product by 2013, the International Monetary Fund
forecasts. The government will stick to the outgoing
government’s fiscal targets for the period between 2011 and 2012
and will draw up a new plan to cut Ireland’s budget deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2015.  The outgoing ruling parties had aimed to cut the deficit,
which grew to 12 percent of GDP last year, to 3 percent of GDP
by 2014.  “We want to build Ireland’s reputation here and abroad,”
Kenny told reporters in Dublin yesterday. “There are suspicions
about Ireland in  Europe , we want to banish those. We want to
make it clear that we want to pay our way and play our part.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  