-- 
Israel Plans to Remove Illegal West Bank Outposts by End of 2011

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-03-07T18:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/israel-plans-to-remove-illegal-west-bank-outposts-by-end-of-2011.html
  Israel  plans to remove all  West Bank 
settler outposts built illegally on private Palestinian land by
the end of 2011, the government said today in a response to a
petition brought to the country’s High Court of Justice.  The government’s policy was set out in a document presented
to the court by the Justice Ministry in response to a petition
brought by the  Peace Now  organization, which monitors settlement
construction, regarding the status of six specific West Bank
outposts.  “While this is significant in that it is the first time
the government has committed itself to a timetable, we are
skeptical it will carry this out and not find excuses to avoid
doing so over the next nine months,” said Yariv Oppenheimer, a
Peace Now spokesman.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  Peace Now says about 70 outposts were built all or in part
on private Palestinian property. The government’s response
didn’t specify the total number of illegal outposts.  Mark Regev ,
a spokesman for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said he had
no comment beyond the document’s content.  The government said in its response that the fate of those
outposts not built on private land will be “subject to future
consideration.”  The  United Nations  says all settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 