-- 
Lithuania Names Vasiliauskas as Next Central Bank Governor

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-03-07T14:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/lithuania-names-vasiliauskas-to-be-central-bank-governor-1-.html
Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite named former Deputy Finance Minister Vitas
Vasiliauskas as the Baltic country’s next central bank governor.  The president nominated the 37-year-old lawyer to replace
Reinoldijus Sarkinas, whose mandate expired on Feb. 15, the
Vilnius-based president’s office said in an e-mailed statement
today. The appointment still requires Parliament’s approval.  Vasiliauskas worked as Grybauskaite’s deputy between 2001
and 2004 when she held the top position in the  Finance Ministry .
He was also the head of Grybauskaite’s presidential election
campaign in 2009.  “The central bank should be run by an economist, not a
lawyer,” said  Violeta Klyviene , chief Baltic economist with
Danske Bank A/S. “I’m disappointed that the selection of a
candidate for this rather important position in the economy
narrowed down to domestic politics, down to loyalty and not
expertise. The global financial crisis has shown that Lithuania
needs a very strong economist with expertise in global trends.”  Klyviene said an international competition instead would
have helped find the most suitable candidate for the job and may
have attracted qualified Lithuanians working in foreign
institutions abroad.  Vasiliauskas, who received his doctoral law degree from the
 Vilnius University , has been teaching law and worked for legal
firm LAWIN since 2004. He also led  Lithuania ’s pre-accession tax
negotiations with the European Union.  Lithuania, which joined the pre-euro  exchange-rate 
mechanism in 2004, is targeting euro adoption in 2014. The
country pegs the litas to euro in a currency-board system, where
the central bank keeps foreign-currency reserves at least at the
level of all cash in circulation to maintain the exchange rate.  Sarkinas, who chaired the central bank’s board since 1996,
will remain in his post until April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  