-- 
Ivory Coast Conflict Escalates as Gbagbo Seizes Control of Cocoa Exports

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-08T20:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/ivory-coast-president-gbagbo-takes-control-of-cocoa-and-coffee-exports.html
Ivory Coast President  Laurent Gbagbo 
took control of local purchases and exports of cocoa and coffee,
escalating a conflict with rival  Alassane Ouattara , the
internationally recognized winner of a November election.  Cocoa supplies from Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest
exporter, have been disrupted since late January after Ouattara
banned shipments for a month in an attempt to deny funds to
Gbagbo, who refuses to cede power. On Feb. 22, Ouattara extended
his order until mid-March. Cocoa prices are up 30 percent since
the Nov. 28 election.  “As long as the stalemate continues, prices will trend
higher,” said Erica Rannestad, a commodity analyst at CPM Group
in New York.  At least 365 people have been killed in  Ivory Coast  since
the disputed Nov. 28 election, according to the  United Nations .
A second civil war, involving widespread violence against
civilians, is the “most likely scenario in the coming months,”
the  International Crisis Group  said on March 3.  “The purchasing of coffee and cocoa from producers and
groups of producers throughout the country is now exclusively
done by the state,” according to an announcement yesterday on
state-owned Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne. “Exports of
products from the cocoa and coffee sector is done by the state,
by persons mandated by the state or holding an export license.”  U.S. Reaction  Gbagbo’s move to take control of the cocoa and coffee trade
“amounts to theft” and is “another desperate act in his
campaign to cling to power,” U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters today.  Rebels in the Ivory Coast who back Ouattara said yesterday
that they took control of Touleupleu from forces loyal to
Gbagbo, marking their capture of a third western town in two
weeks.  In January, the European Union announced a freeze on the
assets of the Ivory Coast ports that export cocoa and coffee,
along with the state oil company. Cocoa, oil and coffee are the
country’s top  revenue  earners, according to the Central
Intelligence Agency. About 68 percent of the population depends
on agriculture and related activities, the website said.  Confusion for Companies  “The end seems to be nowhere in sight,” said Luis Rangel,
a vice president at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .
Yesterday’s announcement “is creating further confusion as
companies will not know which of the two leaders to follow,” he
said.  Last month, cocoa farmers said they were struggling to find
buyers because of a lack of financing and the curb on exports.  “Gbagbo just won’t step down,” said Rannestad of CPM.
“As long as he’s able to pay the military, it’s hard for
Ouattara to take office.”  In Ivory Coast, traders “stopped or slowed down their
purchases, as warehouses are full,” Caobisco, a European
industry group, said on Feb. 22. Cargill Inc. said in January it
temporarily suspended bean purchases.  Cocoa for May delivery fell $29, or 0.8 percent, to settle
at $3,633 a metric ton at 12:14 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , erasing a 2 percent gain, on signs of higher production in  Ghana , the world’s second-largest producer. Prices reached a 32-
year high of $3,775 on March 4.  In  London , cocoa futures for May delivery declined 26
pounds, or 1.1 percent, to 2,320 pounds ($3,749) a ton on NYSE
Liffe. Earlier, the price gained as much as 1.7 percent.  Ivory Coast picks two crops annually. The harvest of the
main crop began in October.  “The real risk is if the ban is extended beyond May, when
the mid-crop comes,” Cedric Chehab, the head of commodities
research at London-based researcher Business Monitor
International, said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 