-- 
Japan Stops Use of Pfizer, Sanofi Vaccines on Four Deaths

-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   J u n k o   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-03-07T02:49:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/japan-stops-use-of-pfizer-sanofi-vaccines-on-four-deaths-1-.html
Japan’s health ministry suspended
the use of pediatric vaccines made by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Sanofi-
Aventis SA after reports of four deaths following immunizations.  The use of Pfizer’s  Prevenar , to protect children against
meningitis and pneumonia, and Sanofi’s  ActHIB , to fight
 Haemophilus influenzae type b , will be suspended until at least
tomorrow, when a safety panel will meet to discuss the cause of
the deaths, the ministry said in a March 4 website posting.  The temporary suspension is a precautionary measure
following the deaths of four children who had previously been
immunized simultaneously with several pediatric vaccines, said
Victor Carey, the Sydney-based Asia Pacific medical director for
Sanofi’s vaccines unit. About 1.5 million Japanese children have
received ActHIB since it was approved in Japan in 2007, 15 years
after it was first licensed in  Europe , he said.  “No causal relationship has been established between
immunization and these fatalities, but an investigation is under
way, which we’re fully cooperating with,” Carey said in a
telephone interview.  Haemophilus influenzae type b, or Hib, caused 2 million to
3 million cases of serious disease, notably pneumonia and
meningitis, and 386,000 deaths in young children in 2000,
according to the Geneva-based  World Health Organization .  More than 200 million doses of ActHIB have been given to
children in more than 120 countries, according to Paris-based
Sanofi.  Multiple Vaccines  The deaths of the children in Japan occurred from March 2
to March 4, the ministry said. ActHIB was given to three of the
four children, who were simultaneously vaccinated with at least
one other vaccine from a different manufacturer, Carey said.  Pfizer’s  Prevenar  is a so-called  pneumococcal conjugate
vaccine  that aims to prevent invasive disease caused by
serotypes of the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacterium. The vaccine
that protects against 13 serotypes generated $2.42 billion last
year and a shot that fights seven serotypes had $1.25 billion in
2010 sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Surveillance in  North America  and Europe, where Prevenar
has been used for at least a decade, hasn’t identified any major
safety concerns, the WHO said in a  2007 report . Evidence
suggests pneumococcal conjugate vaccines will have a
“considerable impact on pneumococcal disease and overall infant
mortality,” the United Nations health agency said.  Victoria Davis, a Pfizer spokeswoman, declined to comment
specifically on the deaths in Japan.  “Pfizer thoroughly reviews and continually monitors all of
its medicines and vaccines as safety is our top priority,” the
New York-based drugmaker said in an e-mailed statement. “The
company thoroughly evaluates all reported cases and works
closely with health authorities to determine if there is any
association with use of our medicines and vaccines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Junko Hayashi in Tokyo at 
 juhayashi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in  Singapore  at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 