-- 
Japanese Shares Decline as Oil Surges Amid Escalating Conflict in Libya

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-03-07T03:57:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/japanese-shares-fall-as-oil-climbs-libyan-conflict-escalates-sharp-drops.html
Japanese stocks fell after  oil
prices  surged as escalating conflict in  Libya  deepened concern
that higher fuel costs will weigh on an economic recovery.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, retreated
2.8 percent. Mitsui & Co., Japan’s second-biggest trading
company, dropped 1.9 percent. Sharp Corp., a maker of flat-
screen panels that gets almost half of its sales abroad,
declined 1.3 percent. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s No. 1 publicly traded bank, slipped 1.3 percent.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 1.5 percent to
10,533.49 as of 12:36 p.m. in Tokyo. The broader Topix index
lost 1.3 percent to 943.56 as oil rose for a second day and
fighting intensified between Libyan rebels and troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi . Shares also fell after the resignation of
Japanese Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara increased concern
political gridlock will hamper efforts to combat the country’s
public debt.  “With crude prices rising on Libya, there’s a strong sense
of caution,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in
Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which oversees about $104
billion. “Investors are also worried about disorder in Japanese
politics.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index slipped 0.4
percent today. The index slipped 0.7 percent on March 4 in  New
York  after fighting in Libya cut crude oil production in the
African country by as much as 1 million barrels a day, spurring
concern higher fuel prices will crimp U.S. consumer spending.  Toyota, Honda  Toyota fell 2.8 percent to 3,680 yen and Honda Motor Co.
slid 3.2 percent to 3,430 yen, the biggest drags on the Topix
index. Toyota also fell after Standard & Poor’s reduced its  credit rating  on the company on March 4 because of “weak”
profitability.  Mitsui & Co., which counts commodities as its largest
source of profit, dropped 1.9 percent to 1,496 yen. Sharp,
Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays fell 1.3
percent to 831 yen.  Fighting between Libyan rebels and government forces
intensified yesterday as the opposition advanced west from the
oil hub of Ras Lanuf toward Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte. Clashes
in the country,  Africa ’s third-largest oil producer, have become
more deadly in the past two day as Qaddafi’s troops use
artillery and helicopter gunships in their effort to block the
rebels’ advance.  Crude Gains  The price of crude oil for April gained as much as $1.50
percent to $105.92 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  today, the highest intraday price since
Sept. 29, 2008.  “Sensitivity towards crude oil futures is higher in Japan
than in the U.S.,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and
strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Shares also fell after Maehara’s resignation dealt a blow
to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  as he seeks to win funding for the
country’s budget. Maehara’s departure, after taking campaign
contributions from a foreign resident, may increase the
possibility Kan will step down or dissolve the Diet and call a
snap election.  Mitsubishi UFJ lost 1.3 percent to 448 yen. Softbank Corp.,
Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone operator, fell 1.6 percent to
3,395 yen. Fast Retailing Co.,  Asia ’s largest clothing chain,
declined 2.1 percent to 12,300 yen, the heaviest drag on the
Nikkei.  “Political chaos is adding to confusion about the
outlook,” for Japan’s economy, Daiwa’s Nagano said. “Normally
the market doesn’t react much to political news, but this time,
it may really hinder the budget. The market is viewing this
negatively.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 