-- 
JPMorgan Ranks No. 1 in Bond Fees as Low Rates Spur Refinancing

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-03-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/jpmorgan-no-1-in-bond-fees-as-record-low-rates-drive-massive-refinancing.html
Spurred by declining interest rates,
banks in 2010 capped off the biggest two-year bond sale binge on
record. Corporate bond sales of $2.8 trillion were the second
largest on record behind 2009’s $3.1 trillion.  Corporate and sovereign bond deals around the world
generated a total of $14.9 billion in fees for bankers, down
from $15.5 billion in 2009, according to data compiled for
Bloomberg Markets magazine’s seventh annual ranking of the best-
paid investment banks.  Fees dropped in 2010 because companies felt less urgency to
borrow than in 2009, when markets reopened after the crisis,
bankers say. While the quantity of bonds sold globally declined
12 percent, a record $369 billion of high-yield, high-risk bonds
-- the most lucrative for underwriters -- helped prevent a
comparable drop in fees.  Corporate treasurers around the world are taking advantage
of the lowest borrowing costs since at least 1996 by refinancing
higher-interest debt and pushing out maturities, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
Index.  After two years of hoarding cash, they’re also borrowing
more to fund a growing number of acquisitions and to fund share
buybacks, says Therese Esperdy, head of global debt capital
markets at New York-based JPMorgan.  Corporate bond yields dropped to as low as 3.36 percent in
October from 4.4 percent at the end of 2009, according to the
BofA Merrill Lynch index. Yields stood at 7.8 percent in October
2008.  ‘More Aggressive’  “Given the amount of cash on corporate balance sheets,
companies have become much more aggressive about pushing out
their refinancing horizon,” Esperdy says. She says companies are
refinancing bonds that don’t mature for three or more years.  JPMorgan was the No. 1 underwriter in 2010, taking or
sharing the top spot for the third straight year, earning $1.26
billion in fees, according to Bloomberg data.  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America climbed to No. 2, with $1.07
billion in fees. New York-based Citigroup continued its slide in
the rankings, slipping to No. 5 from No. 2 last year.  Citigroup was the lead bond underwriter from 2004 to 2008.  The biggest corporate bond deal of 2010 was  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KFT) ’s sale of $9.5 billion of debt for its takeover of London-
based Cadbury Plc. Cadbury agreed to an 11.9 billion pound
($19.2 billion) offer from Kraft after a five-month standoff
over pricing in a deal that created the world’s largest
confectioner.  Novartis Buys Alcon  Another big cross-border deal was Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis AG’s sale of $5 billion in debt to fund its acquisition
of U.S. eye-care company Alcon Inc.  The second-biggest corporate bond deal was the $6 billion
in debt issued by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. to
finance part of its purchase of railroad Burlington Northern
Santa Fe Corp. The total sale price was $26.5 billion, with
Buffett digging into his $30.6 billion cash pile to pay for
almost a third of it. The rest of the deal, the biggest takeover
in 80-year-old Buffett’s career, was funded with Berkshire
shares.  Barclays’s bond team is projecting that U.S. investment-
grade debt sales will increase about 4 percent this year as
growing demand for floating-rate debt makes up for a projected
decline in fixed-rate bonds.  With yields still low and balance sheets flush with cash,
companies are more likely to finance acquisitions with debt
instead of shares, says Nigel Cree, head of syndicate for the
Americas bond team at Deutsche Bank.  Very Low Yields  Two-year U.S. Treasury yields fell to a record 0.31 percent
in November, helping corporate bond sales. As European leaders
sought to bolster confidence in the finances of  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland and  Spain , the yield on two-year German bunds
dropped to as low as 0.43 percent in May.  On the other hand, global investment-grade bond yields have
climbed 0.7 percentage points to 4.05 percent from their low in
October to March 3. That triggered bond index losses averaging
1.5 percent in the last three months of 2010, the worst decline
since the quarter ended on Sept. 30, 2008, according to the BofA
Merrill Lynch index.  “There’s definitely a risk to the demand in our market to
the extent we continue to see rates move upward,” says Andrew Karp, Bank of America’s head of high-grade debt syndicate for
the Americas. “If that occurs at a time when equities are
rallying, and you believe dollars chase returns, you could see
money shifting out of fixed-income into equities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 