-- 
JPMorgan No. 1 Investment Bank Driven by Emerging Market Deals

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/jpmorgan-tops-investment-bank-fees-spurred-by-deals-from-beijing-to-brazil.html
Investment bankers, whose
institutions have already been bailed out to the tune of
$817 billion across the globe, now have something else to thank
taxpayers for: deals.  In a year when some of the biggest transactions came from
emerging markets, governments from  Washington  to Beijing helped
buoy investment banking fees by selling off their stakes in
financial companies, automakers and other corporations.  Bankers eagerly signed up to handle those government
offerings, even though they sometimes paid fees of less than 1
percent, compared with a historical average of 3 percent to 5
percent, Bloomberg Markets reports in its April issue.  The government-backed deals helped to push fee revenue up
last year by 5.8 percent across the industry to $49.1 billion
from $46.4 billion, as total deal volume stayed constant at
about $7 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Markets magazine for its seventh annual ranking of the best-paid
investment banks.  The volume of announced mergers and acquisitions rose 27
percent, to $2.2 trillion, while fees rose 23 percent to $17.9
billion.  Deal totals in the bond markets fell to $4.1 trillion from
$4.7 trillion, and fees also fell.  Fees for all IPOs and secondary stock offerings dropped to
their lowest level since Bloomberg began compiling such data in
1999, averaging 2.9 percent. The industry average in 2003 was
5.6 percent.  On the Mend  Although bankers say global markets are on the mend, it
will take years before they see anything close to the record
$86.9 billion in investment-banking fees earned in 2007, says
Hugh “Skip” McGee, head of global investment banking at  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s Barclays Capital in  New York .  “You’re going to be hard-pressed to get back to ’07 levels
anytime soon,” he says.  The world’s best-paid investment bank in 2010 was  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , which ranks No. 1 in the Bloomberg 20 for the third
year in a row, with total fees of $4.14 billion. The bank also
led the field in fees from bond and equity issues.  Morgan Stanley supplanted  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for the
No. 2 position in total fees for 2010, earning $3.67 billion.  Goldman Sachs is No. 3 overall with $3.60 billion. It ranks
No. 1 in earnings from mergers and acquisitions, as it has every
year since the Bloomberg 20 started in 2004.  Asia Critical  James “Jes” Staley, chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s
investment bank, told investors and analysts at a Feb. 15
meeting at the bank’s New York headquarters that Asia was a
“critically important” region for the investment bank in 2010.  “Three of the five largest markets last year in terms of
IPOs were  Hong Kong  at $57 billion, Shenzhen at $47 billion and
Shanghai at $27 billion,” Staley, 54, said. He said that while
his unit gets 18 percent of its revenue from emerging markets,
the growth in revenue from that sector is 1½ times that of the
investment bank as a whole.  Outside Asia, the U.S. Treasury was one of the most
important customers for Wall Street last year, selling stock it
acquired during the 2008 to 2009 financial meltdown in a long
list of companies, including  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Ally Financial  Inc. (formerly GMAC), and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Treasury
negotiated rock­bottom prices, paying bankers, including Morgan
Stanley, JPMorgan and Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
0.75 percent to sell about half of its stake in  General Motors
Co. (GM)   Petrobras’s Big Deal  Morgan Stanley picked up only 0.4 percent in fees as sole
underwriter for the $10.5 billion in Citigroup stock Treasury
sold. Brazil’s  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR)  paid underwriters 0.65
percent to execute $23.5 billion of its $70 billion secondary
stock offering, the biggest in history.    Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) , which launched the biggest
IPO ever, paid its underwriters 1.96 percent for the $12 billion
that was raised in Hong Kong.  JPMorgan was an underwriter of the Agricultural Bank
offering. At the meeting with investors, Staley said the
investment bank expanded its workforce last year by 42 percent
in  China , 40 percent in Brazil and nearly 20 percent in Russia.  Bankers are less optimistic about fast growth in  Europe  and
the U.S., where new strictures by the  Federal Reserve  and the
European Central Bank on the amount banks must hold in reserve
against bad loans, and the amount of leverage they can take on,
mean the high-flying days of 2005 to 2007 are over.  Dreaming of 2007  “The 2007 levels will be really difficult to get back to
because of the new capital requirements and the deleveraging of
financial institution balance sheets across the board,” McGee,
51, says.  Asian corporations kept their bankers busier than in any
other region. Asia provided seven of the ten biggest IPOs in
2010, including the $22.1 billion dual offering in Shanghai and
Hong Kong by Agricultural Bank.  While the U.S. and Europe lagged in the sale of new stock
and bonds, the younger, emerging economies bubbled with new
money and deals.  “All those countries that we thought of as the emerging
markets are very developed right now,” says Purna Saggurti, co-
head of global investment banking at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
“China is the second-largest investment­banking fee market
already. You can’t call it an emerging market anymore; it is the
developed world.”  Mergers, acquisitions and share offerings were the daily
bread of bankers last year in the BRIC countries -- Brazil,
Russia, India and China.  Cross-Border Deals  About 25 percent of the banking industry’s M&A volume and
some of the largest IPOs came from cross­border deals in Asia
such as U.S. insurer AIG’s $20.5 billion spinoff of its Asian
arm, AIA Group, which was the second-largest IPO last year.  A host of big Western banks had a hand in that deal,
including Barclays, Citigroup Global Markets Asia,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Securities Asia,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
Asia, Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Far East subsidiary and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   “Firms are once again thinking global after the
retrenchment of the last couple of years,” Barclays’s McGee
says. “They are looking to resume their growth trajectory.”  In the U.S., Timothy F. Geithner’s Treasury Department kept
investment banks busy last year. Deutsche Bank alone advised the
U.S. Treasury on 13 separate transactions that sold $3.9 billion
in warrants for taxpayers in 2010.  GM’s IPO  Paul Taubman, co-president of institutional securities at
Morgan Stanley, says the most important transaction of 2010 came
very late in the year -- the November IPO of General Motors,
which filed for bankruptcy on June 1, 2009. On Nov. 17, it
launched an initial public offering in which it sold $18.1
billion of common shares at $33 each, making it the second-
largest U.S. IPO on record. General Motors stock, after rising
as high as $39, was down on March 4 from its IPO price, closing
at $32.39.  “The General Motors deal was important for the economy; it
was important for the markets,” Taubman says. “It was a defining
moment last year in many respects. It was increased in size; it
was increased in price; it traded well in the aftermarket.”  That deal marked the culmination of a banner year for
Morgan Stanley’s investment bank. Profits from continuing
operations in the unit, including trading, more than doubled to
$3.75 billion last year from $1.39 billion in 2009. The firm
generated higher investment-banking revenue in the fourth
quarter than Goldman Sachs.  The firm, which in June 2009 repaid the government $10
billion it borrowed through the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
was a lead underwriter on three of the four largest IPOs last
year: GM, the Agricultural Bank of China and AIA Group.  High-Profile Hiring  Taubman, 50, credits Morgan Stanley’s rise in investment
banking to its high-profile hiring over the last half of the
2000s, beginning with the bank’s global head of M&A, Robert Kindler, who Taubman lured away from JPMorgan in 2006.  Kindler, 57, was a mergers lawyer for New York law firm
Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP before becoming a banker in 2000.
Morgan Stanley also hired Gary Shedlin from Citigroup, who
Taubman says brought with him a long roster of clients, and Dan Toscano, hired last year from HSBC to run Morgan Stanley’s
leveraged finance business.  “We’ve been able over the past few years to systematically
attract, recruit and integrate some of the best bankers on the
Street,” Taubman says.  Multinational Cross-Border  Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan, Goldman and other big banks are
more heavily invested than ever in serving multinational
corporations doing cross-border transactions. Banks that have
such a global presence have to be able to handle everything from
sharp swings in currency rates to political unrest, says Jacques Brand, co-head of investment banking at Deutsche Bank in New
York.  The exchange rate of the euro, for instance, swung during
2010 from a high of $1.45 in January to as low as $1.19 in June.
By October, it was back above $1.40.  That represented a bigger swing in value than those of the
Russian ruble and the Brazilian real during the same period.  In 2010, the market for mergers, stock and bond issues in
the U.S. and Europe was dampened by a series of crises that
began on April 22, when the European Union estimated that
Greece’s budget deficit for 2009 had been 13.6 percent of gross
domestic product, more than triple Greece’s own previous
estimate.  The cost to buy credit protection against Greek debt
surged, and markets in both Europe and the U.S. recoiled as the
EU quickly put together a 440 billion euro ($594 billion)
bailout fund to guarantee the debt of Greece and other shaky
euro-zone economies, including Ireland, Portugal and Spain. The
euro plunged against the dollar.  Blow to Confidence  The next blow to confidence came on May 6, when in the
course of less than an hour shares listed on the New York Stock
Exchange plunged, briefly erasing $862 billion in market value.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued an October
report on the incident, concluding that it started with a $4
billion automatic sell order by an asset manager that triggered
a flood of follow-on sales by high­frequency traders.  “The first couple of months of 2010 were very strong,”
Deutsche Bank’s Brand, 50, says. “A combination of the sovereign
debt crisis in Europe, particularly around Greece, combined with
the flash crash, really undermined the investor confidence
that’s necessary for robust M&A and capital raising.”  The midyear freeze on deals in Europe sealed the fate of
European investment banking for the entire year, Barclays’s
McGee says.  Shrinking Europe  “That market shrunk pretty significantly from ’09 to ’10,”
he says. “The total fee pool was actually down year over year,
so that has an impact on anybody that has a sizable presence in
the region, as we do.”  London-based Barclays moved up a notch to No. 8 in the
Bloomberg 20 with total fees of $2.25 billion.  Though Europe’s troubles dulled the overall deal market,
there was still a steady stream of transactions in the U.S.,
particularly toward the end of the year.  “We saw a good pickup in the U.S. markets,” Bank of
America’s Saggurti says. “The 2010 capital raising was all about
cleaning up balance sheets and refinancing because the markets
were forgiving and were available.”  Corporate and sovereign bond sales worldwide declined
overall by 12 percent, and yet 2010 was still the second-best
year on record, with companies taking advantage of low  interest
rates  to refinance higher-interest debt and garner cash for
share buybacks and acquisitions, bankers say.  Bond Fees Down  Fees overall fell to $14.9 billion from a record $15.5
billion in 2009 due to the decline in volume, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Within the debt markets, companies around the world sold
$369 billion in high-yield “junk” bonds -- the most lucrative
for underwriters -- the most since Bloomberg began keeping count
in 1999.  “High-yield will continue to thrive in the current
environment in a world in which issuers are fearful that rates
may increase,” Saggurti says. “Well-regarded, well-capitalized
B, BB, BBB credits are a bit of a safe haven as the economy
continues to heal.”  The rise in announced M&A deals in 2010 bodes well for
investment banking generally in 2011, Taubman says.  “If there’s more M&A activity, that drives all the volumes
around it,” he says. More M&A activity means more so-called
bridge financing to help companies complete their acquisitions,
he says, which can in turn be followed by bond and equity deals
for the merged company.  Spending $1 Trillion  In the U.S., bankers say, corporations are ready to put the
$1 trillion in capital they’ve been hoarding over the past two
years to work.  “We came into 2011 with a lot of momentum,” Brand says.
“The market broadly is coming off of a very strong high-yield
issuance, very strong equity market in the fourth quarter and
increasing momentum in M&A activity. Corporations feel
optimistic about their ability to consummate transactions, so I
think we’re going to see an uptick in M&A activity.”  One good sign for the bankers: Private-equity firms are
doing deals again. Firms such as Blackstone Group Inc., Carlyle
Group and KKR & Co. represented 25 percent of investment-banking
fees during the height of the leveraged-buyout boom in 2006 and
2007, according to Deutsche Bank. That figure dropped to about
5 percent of the market in 2008 and 2009.  Private Equity Comeback  Last year, private equity accounted for about 16 percent of
the industry’s fees, Brand says, and he expects the number to
exceed 20 percent this year.  Deutsche Bank advised IMS Health Inc., a Norwalk,
Connecticut-based health-care company, in its $5.2 billion sale
to TPG Partners, which was announced in 2009 and completed in
February. It was the largest leveraged buyout since the collapse
of Lehman Brothers and the fifth-largest ever.  “We saw sharp, renewed LBO and IPO activity in 2010, and we
expect that to continue in 2011,” Brand says.  Investment bankers are confident that M&A and stock and
bond issuance will all rise substantially this year, especially
if Europe stabilizes. Deutsche Bank led 24 technology IPOs
around the world last year and has a healthy pipeline slated for
2011, Brand says.  The U.S. Treasury will continue to be a source of revenue.
The Treasury still owns large stakes in General Motors, AIG,
Ally Financial and other U.S. corporations. Virtually every bank
on Wall Street got a piece of the business last year.  More Mergers Coming  Investors should also expect to see more mergers among
natural resource companies this year, including metals, mining,
coal and oil, McGee and Saggurti say.  “The consolidation opportunity in those sectors has been
brewing for quite a while now, and people are pulling the
trigger as we speak,” Saggurti says.  Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  completed its biggest
acquisition since 1999 and the largest purchase in the world
last year when it paid $41 billion in a stock swap to buy Fort
Worth, Texas-based natural gas company XTO Energy Inc. McGee
calls the purchase, announced in 2009, a “game changer” in the
energy field and notes that it was followed by smaller
acquisitions of natural gas companies by Chevron Corp. and
others.  All the ingredients are there for a strong recovery in
investment banking this year, bankers say, though they still
worry that unemployment in the U.S. and Europe and inflation in
China and other emerging markets could muffle economic growth.  Still, more deals will be done by private companies --
which have less clout when it comes to demanding discounts. That
means fees may continue their rise through 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story: Dawn Kopecki in New York
at   Dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 