-- 
JPMorgan Leads in Stock Fees as Asia Beats West With Big IPOs

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-03-07T05:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/jpmorgan-leads-in-stock-fees-as-asia-beats-west-with-7-of-10-biggest-ipos.html
The year that China officially
became the world’s second-largest economy marked another
milestone. In 2010, Beijing gave investors the world’s biggest-
ever initial public offering -- the $22.1 billion share float of  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  in  Hong Kong  and Shanghai.  The Agricultural Bank listing was the highlight of a year
in which share sales by Asian companies dominated the equity
capital markets, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its April
issue. Asian companies accounted for 6 of the world’s 10 biggest
offerings.  Total fees from arranging IPOs and secondary stock
offerings were almost unchanged for the year, at $16.3 billion
compared with $16.4 billion in 2009, even though the total
amount companies across the world raised in 2010 jumped
23 percent, to $549 billion, from 2009, according to data
compiled for Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking of the best-paid
investment banks.  That’s because the fees charged for those deals dropped 19
percent, to an average of 2.94 percent from 3.65 percent. That’s
the lowest average fee for equity deals since Bloomberg began
compiling such data in 1999. The data exclude fees from self-led
deals, in which investment banks collect commissions from
selling their own companies’ stock.  Government-backed deals helped push fees down.  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s $18.1 billion offering in November paid banks only
0.75 percent.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  picked up just 0.4 percent in fees
as sole lead underwriter for the $10.5 billion disposal of the
U.S. Treasury’s remaining stake in  Citigroup Inc. (C)   AgBank IPO  By those standards, the Agricultural Bank listing was
lucrative.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, which
were among the banks leading the offering, were paid
1.96 percent by the Chinese government for the $12 billion Hong
Kong portion of the IPO. The Beijing-based bank, which is
China’s biggest lender by customer, was the last of China’s big
financial institutions to go public. It was established in 1951
to serve China’s rural areas.  Asia raised more through IPOs than any region on record
since Bloomberg began keeping such statistics in 1999. Seven of
the 10 biggest IPOs were in Asia, and companies in the region
raised $115 billion through IPOs, compared with $91 billion for
the rest of the world.  “The pace of activity in Asia is likely to continue
unabated,” says Dan Cummings,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s New York-
based head of global equity capital markets. “There were so many
landmark offerings that it almost becomes difficult to
distinguish what is a landmark offering anymore.”  JPMorgan No. 1    JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was No. 1 in fees from underwriting
equity offerings in 2010, according to the Bloomberg Markets
ranking. JPMorgan has led the equity ranking for three
consecutive years. It took in $1.61 billion, topping Goldman
Sachs, No. 2 with $1.57 billion, and No. 3 Morgan Stanley’s
$1.51 billion.  The year featured the biggest share issue ever: Sao Paulo-
based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s $70 billion secondary offering,
$23.5 billion of which was underwritten by Bank of America,
Morgan Stanley and Citigroup. The share sale is designed to fund
the Brazilian company’s ambitious deep-water oil-drilling
program. Fees for the part of the offering that were
underwritten were 0.65 percent.  New York-based Citigroup,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Bank of America
and Morgan Stanley led the $3.5 billion IPO of state-controlled  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , and Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley led
Malaysia’s $4.7 billion IPO of  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM) ,
which were the largest in each country’s history.  AIG Spinoff  The second-biggest IPO of the year, the $20.5 billion Hong
Kong sale by insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s main
Asian unit,  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , was led by Citigroup, Deutsche Bank,
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. The sale helped put AIG, now
majority-owned by the U.S. Treasury, on course to repay its
government creditors.  Governments had no trouble attracting underwriters despite
the lower fees.  “They are the marquee deals, and everybody knows who does
them,” says Steven Kaplan, a professor at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business. “You are advertising that you
can do these big deals.”  Global issues of stock and convertible bonds will increase
only about 5 percent over 2010, according to year-end forecasts
by Matthew Johnson, New York-based head of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s global
equity syndicate.  “We’ve been in a multiyear bear market from an equities
perspective,” Johnson says. He is cautiously optimistic that
it’s finally about to end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 