-- 
Kalahari Minerals Surges to Record in London on Talks on Possible Takeover

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-03-07T12:22:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/kalahari-minerals-in-talks-with-a-third-party-which-could-lead-to-an-offer.html
Kalahari Minerals Plc advanced to a
record in  London  trading after entering talks on a possible
takeover of the company that is part owner of Namibia’s Husab
uranium project through its stake in  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT)   Kalahari “confirms that it is in talks with a third party,
which may or may not lead to an offer being made for the entire
issued share capital,” the London-based company said today in a
statement. “Discussions are continuing and a further
announcement will be made when appropriate.”  Kalahari, which owns 43 percent of Extract, jumped as much
as 19 percent, the biggest gain since March 2009, to 309 pence
in London and traded at 289.75 pence by 12:08 p.m., giving the
company a market value of 711 million pounds ($1.2 billion).  Itochu Corp., a Japanese trading company, bought 15 percent
of Kalahari and 10.3 percent of Extract last year. Rio Tinto
Group, the third-largest mining company, owns 11.5 percent of
Kalahari and 14.2 percent of Extract, which has a market value
of about A$2.3 billion ($2.3 billion), Bloomberg data show.  Extract said last month it was in talks with Rio on merging
their uranium projects in  Namibia . Rio owns the Rossing mine,
while Extract owns the adjacent Husab deposit. That followed
comments in June from Extract Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Leslie that there would be “synergies” between the two mines
and his company would study cooperation with Rio’s project.  ‘Potential Synergies’  Husab is the world’s fifth-largest primary uranium deposit,
Extract says. Rossing is the third-biggest producer of the
nuclear fuel, accounting for 7 percent of world supply,
according to World Nuclear Association figures. Illtud Harri, a
spokesman for London-based Rio, declined to comment today.  Husab is about 7 kilometers (4.4 miles) from Rossing and 30
kilometers from Paladin Energy Ltd.’s Langer Heinrich project.  Extract is in talks with Rio “with a view to capturing the
significant potential synergies that could be generated from a
joint development of the two projects,” the Perth-based company
said last month. “Extract is also holding discussions with  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH)  to explore various options that might
simplify the Extract/Kalahari shareholding structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  