-- 
Kuoni Agrees to Purchase Online Travel Manager Gullivers for $720 Million

-- B y   M a t t h i a s   W a b l   a n d   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-03-07T08:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/kuoni-agrees-to-buy-gullivers-travel-for-720-million-in-online-expansion.html
  Kuoni Reisen Holding AG (KUNN)  agreed to
acquire Gullivers Travel Associates, operator of the Octopus
online travel service, from Travelport for $720 million to
expand its Web-based offerings.  The purchase of GTA will allow Kuoni to increase
destination management services on the Internet, including
hotel reservations, bus services, transfers and sightseeing,
the Swiss company said today in a statement.  The acquisition “will transform us into one of the
leading global providers of online destination management
services,” Kuoni Chief Executive Officer Peter Rothwell said
in the statement. Gullivers operates in 26 cities with almost
12 million hotel nights booked last year, Kuoni said.  “Considering they paid a multiple of 8.4 times adjusted
Ebitda, GTA is no bargain,” said Chris Burger, an analyst at
Helvea AG in Zurich.  Gullivers boosted adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization by 42 percent last year to $84
million, Kuoni said. Revenue rose 10 percent to $294 million.
London-based Gullivers has business-to-business operations and
also sells directly to travelers through its Octopus website.  Kuoni declined 7 Swiss francs, or 1.6 percent, to 425.75
francs in Zurich trading at 9:28 a.m. local time.  Kuoni is asking shareholders to increase share capital
through a discounted rights offering with target proceeds
of about 250 million francs ($270 million). The Zurich-based
company has also secured committed credit facilities of
600 million francs.  Credit Suisse is acting as Kuoni’s financial adviser on the
transaction and is managing the planned capital increase, the
bank said by e-mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net ;
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf,  Germany  at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net 
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ; 