-- 
NATO Increases Airborne Surveillance of Libya, Envoy Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-07T20:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/nato-increases-airborne-surveillance-of-libya-envoy-says-1-.html
The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization is increasing surveillance of  Libya ’s air space as
its leaders consider options, including a no-fly zone over the
country, U.S. Ambassador to NATO Ivo Daalder said.  The U.S. and European alliance has been providing
surveillance over the  Mediterranean Sea  with Airborne Warning
and Control System radar planes for 10 hours a day and will
increase that to round-the-clock coverage, Daalder told
reporters on a conference call today. The alliance started such
flights as  Operation Active Endeavour  in the aftermath of the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on  New York  and the Pentagon.  Increased flights will give NATO “a better picture of
what’s really going on in this part of the world,” Daalder
said.  Libyan troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  used artillery and
helicopter gunships today to block rebels from advancing west
from the oil hub of Ras Lanuf toward the leader’s hometown of
Sirte.  “Our sense is that a no-fly zone is one possibility,”
Daalder said. “We have actually seen a decrease in both fighter
and overall air activity over the weekend. It really peaked late
last week and is starting to come down.”  Alliance’s Role  Daalder said that during a meeting in Brussels today, he
urged fellow NATO ambassadors to consider how the alliance could
deploy aircraft, ships and surveillance equipment. Uses might
include providing humanitarian relief, enforcing a  United
Nations  arms embargo on Libya and establishing the no-fly zone,
Daalder said.  NATO defense ministers scheduled to meet in Brussels later
this week will use the results of the increased monitoring,
along with other information from military planners, to discuss
and possibly make a decision on alliance involvement in Libya,
Daalder said. Not all member countries have decided which route
to take, he said.  “Towards the end of the week, we will be in a position to
know what it would take to do a no-fly zone,” he said. “We
will have a pretty good idea what kinds of options are
available.”  Members of the  U.S. Congress  have called for imposition of
a no-fly zone over Libya, where Qaddafi’s forces have conducted
air strikes against opponents.  Not a Deciding Factor  Still, air actions haven’t been the deciding factor in the
fighting between Qaddafi’s forces and rebels who have taken
control of significant portions of the country, Daalder said.
No-fly zones also are more effective against fighter jets than
against helicopters or ground operations, he said.  “That doesn’t mean we shouldn’t look at it,” he said.
“We are and we will, but it’s not going to be the solution to
every problem.”  The U.S. and the NATO alliance also would want a new UN
Security Council resolution calling for a no-fly zone before
taking such action, he said, confirming conditions outlined
previously by other U.S. officials.  The NATO ambassadors, who usually meet once a week, are
meeting daily before the defense ministers arrive on March 10.  Daalder said the airborne surveillance system also could be
used to monitor weapons movements in the same way it is
currently deployed to monitor the flow of terrorists.  Information-Gathering  The planes would gather information on aircraft and surface
traffic patterns in Libya and at sea, he said. The system “is
not looking for individuals,” Daalder said regarding news
reports that the flights have tracked flights by Qaddafi’s jet.  “We have  Awacs  flying around the Mediterranean at all
times,” the envoy said. “As the situation develops in
particular regions, we may redeploy our assets in that way.”  Daalder and a U.S. State Department spokesman, Mark Toner,
dismissed a news report that the U.S. had approached  Saudi
Arabia  to provide weapons to rebels in Libya.  “That’s inaccurate,” Toner said during the call. The U.S.
focus is on working with allies in NATO and through the United
Nations, he said. White House press secretary Jay Carney also
said today that it’s “premature” to discuss sending weapons
and supplies to the rebels.  While providing arms to the rebels “is one of the range of
options that is being considered,” Carney said, “it would be
premature to send a bunch of weapons to a post office box in
eastern Libya. We need to not get ahead of ourselves in terms of
the options we are pursuing.”  U.S. officials have said they are still trying to determine
whom the rebels represent and who is leading them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bob Drummond at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net  