-- 
NATO Says World Won’t Stand ‘Idly By’ Amid More Libya Violence

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-03-07T14:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/nato-says-world-won-t-stand-idly-by-amid-more-libya-violence.html
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said world leaders won’t stand “idly by” if the
Libyan regime steps up violence against its own people, calling
the actions of  Muammar Qaddafi  “outrageous.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is conducting
“prudent planning for any eventuality” that arises from the
spreading violence in Libya, Rasmussen said. While any such
action would probably require the approval of the  United Nations 
Security Council, the NATO chief didn’t rule it out.  “I can’t imagine the international community and the
United Nations standing idly by if Qaddafi and his regime
continue to attack their own people systematically,” Rasmussen
told reporters today at a briefing in Brussels.  Troops loyal to the Libyan leader used artillery and
helicopter gunships to block the rebels’ advance toward the
capital Tripoli, marking an increase in bloodshed in the past
two days. Rasmussen said the use of violence against protesters
and rebel fighters may amount to crimes against humanity.  Rasmussen said the imposition of a no-fly zone over  Libya 
to halt air attacks on rebels would require a “wide range of
military assets” in addition to a UN mandate. U.S. politicians
including Senators John McCain and  John Kerry  have called for
the measure.  The NATO chief declined to detail the military alliance’s
planning, adding that he’s received no information that any NATO
action will be called for. The U.S. is considering military
options to support the anti-Qaddafi forces, though any such
operation “has to be an international effort,” President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff,  William Daley , said yesterday.  “NATO has no intention to intervene in Libya, but as a
defense alliance and a security organization, our job is to
conduct prudent planning for any eventuality,” Rasmussen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  