-- 
Nestle, USPS, Sony, Bavaria, Sears: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-07T12:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/nestle-usps-sony-bavaria-sears-intellectual-property.html
Denner, a Swiss retailer, said it
will resume offering Nespresso-compatible coffeemaker capsules
after a local court lifted an injunction against their sale amid
a patent dispute with  Nestle SA. (NESN)   Denner will need at least three weeks to restart production
and stock supermarket shelves, Nicole Schoewel, a spokeswoman
based in Zurich, said March 4 by phone. Nestle said it will
continue trying in court to halt the sale of the capsules.  “This preliminary ruling is not a ruling on the merits of
the case,” Julian Liew, a spokesman for Nestle’s Nespresso
unit, said in an e-mail. “We will continue with the legal
action to protect our  intellectual property  rights.”  The court in  St. Gallen ,  Switzerland , halted the capsule
sales in January, about a month after Denner, a unit of Swiss
retailer Migros, began marketing them. They are made by Alice
Allison SA. Sara Lee Corp. and Ethical Coffee Co. also started
selling their own versions of coffee for Nespresso machines last
year, offering consumers alternative pre-filled capsules for the
first time.    Postal Service  Sued Over Patent to Handle Returned Mail  The U.S. Postal Service was sued by an Alabama company that
claims the agency is using without permission its patented
method of processing undeliverable mail.  Return Mail Inc. , based in Birmingham, filed the complaint
Feb. 28 in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in  Washington ,
seeking “reasonable and entire compensation” for the use of
its invention.  The two sides met “on at least five occasions to discuss
licensing the invention,” between 2003 and 2006, and the Postal
Service approved a pilot program to process returned and
undeliverable mail without striking an agreement over the
patent, Return Mail said in the complaint.  “Return Mail invested millions of dollars and spent years
developing its innovative and cost-saving system” the company
said. “Instead of licensing and paying for the use of Return
Mail’s invention, the Postal Service took Return Mail’s
invention and used it to create its own address change service
called OneCode Address Correction Service.”  The Postal Service has estimated it would save hundreds of
millions of dollars from this system, according to Return Mail.
The agency had filed a request with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to invalidate the patent. Instead, the patent
office issued a certificate confirming the validity of patent
6,826,548 on Jan. 4, Return Mail said.  The patent was issued in November 2004.  The Postal Service, which posted a loss of $329 million in
its first quarter ended Dec. 31, is predicting that it will run
out of cash by the end of the fiscal year and has cut almost
230,000 employees through attrition since 2000.  The case is Return Mail Inc. v. U.S., 11cv130, U.S. Court
of Federal Claims (Washington).  Sony PlayStation 3 Game Consoles Seized by Dutch Customs    Sony Corp. (6758)  said some of its PlayStation 3 game consoles
were seized by Dutch customs authorities following a patent-
infringement complaint lodged by  South Korea ’s  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)   The consoles were seized late last month, said Yasuhiro
Okada, a Tokyo-based Sony spokesman, declining to specify the
number of consoles taken. Ken Hong, a spokesman at Seoul-based
LG, said the company doesn’t comment on pending legal matters.  The move highlights the widening legal feud between the two
Asian electronics makers, which compete in products ranging from
televisions to mobile phones. Sony’s earnings may be hurt if the
injunction continues for more than a month, according to Shiro
Mikoshiba, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “If this is resolved within a month or so, Sony can
probably avoid an impact by using its products in inventory,”
Mikoshiba said.  The Netherlands confiscated thousands of Sony PS3s after LG
Electronics won a court injunction over a patent claim, the
Financial Times reported March 4, without saying where it got
the information.  Sony is considering ways to divert to other shipping points
in  Europe , according to a person with knowledge of the plan. The
Japanese maker is also considering a move to overturn the Dutch
ruling, the person said, declining to be identified because the
plans haven’t been made public. PS3 consoles are distributed to
other parts of Europe from the Netherlands, the person said.  Sony doesn’t disclose regional breakdowns of its PS3
shipments.  Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
brought cases in Los Angeles federal court and the International
Trade Commission in Washington on Dec. 28 seeking to block LG’s
shipments of mobile phones, saying LG handsets use Sony’s
technology without permission.  LG, the world’s third-largest maker of mobile phones, on
Feb. 4 countered with complaints with the ITC seeking to block
sales of Sony Bravia televisions and PS3 consoles, claiming they
use LG’s patented technology without permission.  On Feb. 9, Sony filed two separate complaints with the Los
Angeles court and the ITC against the South Korean company’s LCD
televisions and monitors.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dutch Brewer Says It Wins Bavaria Trademark Battle in  Italy   Bavaria NV, the Netherlands’ second-largest brewer, said it
won a legal battle against German producers who sought to
prevent it from using trademarks with the name Bavaria for its
Dutch beer in Italy.  Trademarks the Lieshout, Netherlands-based company
registered in Italy between 1971 and 1995 were declared valid by
an appeals court in Turin, Italy, Bavaria said March 4.  The ruling means that “Bavaria can continue to sell in
Italy its Bavaria Holland beer with no impediment,” Peer
Swinkels, a member of the board of Bavaria, said in an e-mailed
statement March 4.  The Italian tribunal’s decision follows a 2009 ruling at
the European Union’s highest court stating that the German
brewers can’t use EU rules protecting regional food names to
challenge the Dutch brewer’s use of the Bavaria brand name,
which dates back to 1925.  The case at the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg was part
of a growing number of battles over so-called geographical
indications that protect the branding of food and drink products
from a particular region.  The Bavarian brewers’ association, established in the
1880s, has fought to stop the Dutch company selling beer with
the name Bavaria. They said the Italian court’s decision was not
a straightforward victory for the Dutch company.  The Italian court said that Bavaria will have to show its
“trademarks were registered in good faith” and “will have to
make sure that they use the name in such a way that consumers
won’t be confused” as to the origin of the beer, the German
brewers’ spokesman Walter Koenig said by telephone March 4.  EU rules from 2001 that protect regional food and beverage
names “must be interpreted as having no adverse effects on the
validity” of existing trademarks such as Bavaria, as long as
they were registered in good faith, the EU court said in 2009.  The German brewers will examine “very carefully” the way
the name Bavaria is used by the Dutch brewer on labels and “may
decide to take action,” if it sees possible breaches of the
ruling, said Koenig.  Sears Unit Sued by Voss of Norway Over Water Bottle Shape  Lands’ End, the clothing retailer owned by  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD)  was sued for trademark infringement by a Norwegian
exporter of water and water bottles.  Voss of Norway ASA claims Lands’ End’s  H2go  glass water
bottle infringes the trade dress of its  cylindrical water
bottles , and that the public is confused by the similarity
between the two products.  The Oslo-based Norwegian company did acknowledge that the
product has been removed from the Lands’ End website. It filed
suit because it seeks compensation for what it says is its past
injury.  Voss asked the court for an order barring Lands’ End from
future sale of products that infringe the Norwegian company’s
intellectual property, and mandating the destruction of all
infringing products and promotional material.  Additionally, the Norwegian company asked for awards of
Dodgeville, Wisconsin-based Lands’ End’s profits derived from
the alleged infringement and money damages, and requested both
be tripled to punish the retailer for its actions. Voss also
asked for attorney fees and litigation costs.  Lands’ End spokeswoman Michele Casper said in an e-mail
that her company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Voss is represented by John A. Clifford,  Rachel Zimmerman 
and Heather Kliebenstein of  Merchant & Gould PC  of  Minneapolis .  The case is Voss of Norway ASA v. Lands’ End Direct
Merchants Inc., 0:11-cv-00541-JRT-SER, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota.  NBC Sued for Infringing ‘Happy Wife, Happy Life’ Trademark    Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal  and a company owned by one of
the women who appears on “ The Real Housewives of New Jersey ”
television program were sued for trademark infringement by a
comedian who bills himself as “America’s No. 1 Family Comic.”  Jeffrey Mishler, who performs under the name “ Jeff
Allen ,” specializes in “Christian, family-friendly comedy,”
he said in the complaint filed March 3 in federal court in
Nashville,  Tennessee .  He said that for years he’s used the signature phrase
“Happy Wife, Happy Life” with his comedic observations about
married life and parenting.  Mishler, based in Nashville, registered the phrase as a
trademark in December 2004. According to the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the mark is registered to use
for comedy performances, pre-recorded media containing his
performances and for clothing, including T-shirts, sweatshirts
and baseball caps.  “The Real Housewives of  New Jersey ” is a reality program
featured on NBC’s Bravo TV cable network. One of the women
featured on the program is Teresa Guidice, owner of  Fabulicious
LLC .  Fabulicious is a co-defendant along with NBC.  Mishler objects to Guidice’s use of “Happy Wife, Happy
Life” on television and on the Internet, and to NBC’s sale
through its shopbybravo.com Internet store of  T-shirts  and
 coffee mugs bearing the phrase .  The comedian claims NBC and Guidice’s company’s use of the
phrase damages his business, goodwill, reputation, profit and
the strength of his trademark.  He asked the court to bar NBC and Fabulicious from further
use of the phrase and for awards of money damages and the
defendants’ profit attributable to the alleged infringement.
Claiming the infringement is deliberate, he asked that the
greater of the damages or the profit be tripled to punish the
defendants for what he claims is deliberate infringement.  He also seeks awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Neither Guidice nor Bravo responded immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment.  Mishler is represented by Richard S. Busch of Nashville’s
 King & Ballow .  The case is Jeffrey Mishler v. NBC Universal LLC,
3:11-00194, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Tennessee
(Nashville).  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Renault Management Faces Union Pressure Over Spy Investigation    Renault SA (RNO) ’s unions said top management at the French
carmaker including Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  should
be held accountable for a mishandled espionage investigation.  Chief Operating Officer Patrick Pelata told Le Figaro March
4 he’d “face the consequences” after raising doubts about the
findings of an internal probe that led to the dismissal of three
executives and a criminal investigation. Renault dismissed the
executives in January after its probe concluded they received
payments from Chinese companies via foreign accounts.  The affair has “dealt a blow to the credibility of Ghosn
and Pelata, who were both directly involved,” said Fabien
Gache, a spokesman for CGT, Renault’s biggest union.  French police were informed two of the alleged accounts
could not be found, said a person with knowledge of the probe,
confirming French media reports. Thus far, police have received
no information on a possible third account, the person said,
declining to be identified because the investigation is
confidential. Police are still waiting for submissions from
Switzerland and Liechtenstein, the person said.  The three dismissed managers, upstream development chief
Michel Balthazard, his subordinate Bertrand Rochette and
Matthieu Tenenbaum, the deputy electric-car program chief, have
denied the allegations and filed criminal defamation claims.  Renault spokeswoman Caroline De Gezelle declined to comment
on the case or whether it may lead to senior resignations.  “A certain number of elements” now suggest that Renault
was misled about the foreign accounts, Pelata said in the
newspaper interview.  If the company had acted on false information, “we will
face the consequences, all the way up to the top of the company
-- which means all the way up to me,” Pelata was also quoted as
saying. The three fired employees would be offered compensation
and reinstatement if vindicated, he added.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  on RMC radio
welcomed Pelata’s accountability pledge as a “dignified”
gesture.  Ghosn and Pelata should both be held accountable for the
botched investigation, a spokesman for the  Force Ouvriere  union
said March 4, declining to be identified in accordance with the
organization’s policy.  Renault’s third major union grouping, the centrist CFDT,
urged sanctions against “those responsible for these mess-
ups,” in an  open letter  addressed to Ghosn this week.  The Renault CEO said Jan. 23 he had personally overseen the
internal probe and its “multiple” findings of espionage by the
three executives. “If there were no certainties about this, we
wouldn’t be where we are now,” he said on TF1 television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  