-- 
New Jersey Towns Seek Voter Permission to Break Christie Property Tax Cap

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/new-jersey-towns-seek-voter-permission-to-break-christie-property-tax-cap.html
At least 12  New Jersey  communities
want to exceed Governor  Chris Christie ’s 2 percent cap on
property-tax increases, less than three months after it took
effect.  The communities placed advertisements in newspapers
alerting voters to referendums in April, Bill Dressel, executive
director of the New Jersey League of Municipalities said
yesterday in an e-mail. Towns readying for the referendums
included Brick and Edgewater Park, he said. In addition, the
Record reported that Riverdale, North Arlington and Chesilhurst
also signaled they intend to hold referendums.  New Jersey had the nation’s highest state and local tax
burden in fiscal 2009 for the third straight year, the
Washington-based  Tax Foundation  said last month. Residents paid
12.2 percent of their incomes in state and local levies. New
York was next with 12.1 percent.  “It’s going to be a tough sell, but once people see the
reality of the services that may be cut, I think they will vote
yes,” said Scott Pezarras, business administrator and chief
financial officer in Brick, a township of 79,000 people near the  Jersey Shore . “Most people are going to understand.  Yesterday was the deadline to advertise the referendums,
said Lisa Ryan, a spokeswoman for the Department of Community
Affairs.  Law’s Exemptions  Christie, 48, a first-term Republican, last year signed a
measure capping growth in the taxes as of Jan. 1 unless local
governments ask voters for permission for a bigger increase. The
law also exempted higher levies to cover bond payments,
increased health-insurance or pension costs and natural
disasters.  Property taxes have proven a perennial issue in New Jersey,
where bills averaged $7,281 in 2009, according to state data.  Pezarras said his town advertised a referendum seeking an
unspecified increase above the cap. He said the move was brought
about after Christie cut $5.6 million in state aid and officials
drew down their surplus by $3 million, to $5.4 million. If the
town doesn’t exceed the cap, it may have to end curbside pick-up
of trash or dismiss as much as 23 percent of its police force,
he said.  The township is trying to convert a closed landfill to a
solar-energy field to boost revenue, he said.  ‘Hard Cap’  “They’re exercising their prerogative to ask voters to
require any higher levy,” said  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for
Christie, who took office in January 2010. “That was the intent
of putting in place a hard cap backed by voters approving any
breach.”  The governor has urged lawmakers to pass his 33-point
“toolkit” of measures designed to help local governments meet
the new standards. While lawmakers have approved a measure
capping police and fire arbitration awards, they have yet to
approve most of the package.  Towns scheduled to hold referendums, according to the
League of Municipalities:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  