-- 
NFL Players Favored 2-1 in Dispute With Team Owners by Americans in Poll

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/nfl-labor-optimism-follows-one-week-extension-as-contract-talks-resume.html
Americans, by a ratio of more than
2-to-1, are lining up with National Football League players in
their labor dispute with team owners that threatens to shut down
the professional sport.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 4-7 showed that
43 percent of those surveyed side with the players and 20
percent with the owners. The remaining 37 percent either don’t
follow football or aren’t sure which side they favor.  “Fans live vicariously through the players, and are more
sympathetic to player causes,”  David Carter , executive director
of the Sports Business Institute at the University of  Southern
California , said in an interview.  Among the issues are what share of the league’s $9 billion
in revenue players should get and whether to expand the season
to 18 from 16 games and impose a rookie wage scale.  The  NFL Players Association  has rejected owners’ demands
and say the teams should open their accounting books. The union
also is seeking improved health care for retirees, some of whom
suffer from nerve damage, joint deterioration and the effects of
repeated head trauma.  While the NFL has offered to reveal some financial data, it
has refused to show everything the union sought. The NFL said
the data offered is more than has ever made available to the
union, including some information that it doesn’t disclose to
its own clubs.  In the Bloomberg poll, Democrats back players by a 5-to-1
majority; support among Republicans divides evenly between
players and owners. The telephone poll of 1,001 adults aged 18
or older has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage
points.  ‘Not Asking for More’  “Most people paying attention are going to side with us if
they know we are not asking for more,” said Chris Carr, a union
representative with the  Baltimore Ravens . He said widely
publicized information on concussions underscores for the fans
“how dangerous the game is. They do not want their favorite
players getting hurt before the playoffs.”  NFL owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the league’s labor
contract, saying it didn’t account for costs, such as those of
building stadiums.  The league, which had $9 billion in revenue last year,
wants to double the amount set aside for expenses before
calculating the percentage set aside for players.  Under the expiring agreement, about $1 billion is deducted
before player payrolls are calculated for costs related to
stadiums, marketing, the  NFL.com  website and the  NFL Network ,
according to  DeMaurice Smith , the union’s executive director.  ‘Long-Term Future’  “This is not about winning or losing,” said NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello . “It is about getting an agreement that ensures the
long-term future of the game for the fans, players and clubs. We
have an opportunity to make the game and the league even better
and we are working very hard to reach a new agreement.”  Both sides agreed last week to extend the current
collective bargaining agreement to March 11 and to continue
negotiations.  Smith and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell have declined to
discuss specifics of the talks, adhering to a mediator’s request
to keep silent.  If the talks deadlock, owners could lock out players and
the union could abandon its role in the talks and become a trade
association, starting a process that would let players file
antitrust lawsuits seeking to block a shutdown of the sport.  The week-long extension of the bargaining agreement came
three days after U.S. District Judge David Doty in  Minneapolis 
ruled that team owners had improperly negotiated $4 billion in
television rights fees that could have been used to pay the
league’s debts if they shuttered the league in 2011. Doty will
consider damages in a yet-to-be-scheduled hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  