-- 
Obama Calls Violence by Qaddafi Loyalists `Unacceptable'

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-07T19:51:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/obama-calls-violence-by-qaddafi-loyalists-unacceptable-.html
President  Barack Obama  authorized
$15 million in humanitarian aid for those fleeing the fighting
in Libya and said the U.S. and its allies are considering
military options in response to the “unacceptable” violence
being used against anti-government forces.  The president said the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
is reviewing a “wide range” of possible actions as Libyan
troops loyal to Qaddafi used artillery and helicopters to block
rebel advances.  The U.S. wants to send a “clear message” to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and his allies that “they will be held
accountable for whatever violence continues to take place,”
Obama said after meeting with Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  at the White House.  The president didn’t take questions on the turmoil in  Libya 
after making his remarks in the Oval Office. The administration
is coming under pressure from some lawmakers in the U.S. to take
stronger military action, such as imposing a no-fly zone over
Libya or helping arm the rebels. U.S. and officials in the U.K.
and  France  have said imposing a no-fly zone must have broad
international backing.  “There are a range of options that could be categorized as
military,” and that includes using armed forces to deliver
humanitarian assistance, White House press secretary Jay Carney
said at a briefing after Obama spoke. “No option has been
removed from the table.”  Arming Rebels  While there is a discussion about providing arms to
opposition forces, Carney said, “it would be premature to send
a bunch of weapons to a post office box in eastern Libya.”  Enforcing a no-fly zone remains “very much on the table,
but people need to understand the complexities of it, both in
its implementation of what it can and can’t achieve,” he said.  Humanitarian assistance is one of the “principal options”
being discussed by the administration, Carney said  To help with the flood of people fleeing to Libya’s
neighbors, the U.S. already has provided $2 million to support
emergency evacuations. The additional $15 million from the U.S.
Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund would go to
international and non-government organizations.  Obama said last week that the unrest in Libya may end up in
a protracted stalemate between Qaddafi and his opponents.    Oil Prices   The escalating violence in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s
largest crude oil reserve, has pushed oil to a 29-month high in  New York  on concern that supply disruptions may spread through
the Middle East.  Crude oil for April delivery rose 38 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $104.80 a barrel at 11:38 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures touched $106.95, the highest intraday price
since Sept. 26, 2008. The contract is up 29 percent from a year
ago.  Carney said the administration is “cognizant of the fact
that Americans are experiencing a sharp rise in prices at the
gas pump.”  The U.S. is consulting with oil-producing nations and
allies on how to deal with any disruption in production or
shipments, he said. Libya produces less than 2 percent of global
supply, according to Bloomberg estimates.  The Obama administration will consider tapping the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve if oil flow is affecting by
spreading unrest.  “I wouldn’t look to a price threshold” to determine
whether the reserve would be used, Carney said. “The issue here
is disruption, is there a major disruption in the flow of oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  