-- 
Obama Begins '12 Contest With Quest for Money Based on Record, Not Promise

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-03-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/obama-begins-2012-race-with-quest-for-money-based-on-record-not-promise.html
President  Barack Obama  is seeking to
revive a spirit of hope that swept him into office in 2008 as he
works for reelection. This time, he is doing it with a record.  He has started raising money for Democratic races in 2012,
rallying supporters and financiers in Florida last week to ``do
it again.’’  “In each of us I think that spirit still exists and that
sense of hope still exists,” he told about 70 financial backers
at one of two events in Miami March 4. The president’s first
fundraising foray for his party’s 2012 races helped bring in $1
million for the  Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.   In swing states such as  Florida  and Ohio, where Obama won
with margins of 3 and 5 percentage points, economic trouble
persists, with unemployment rates of 12 and 9.6 percent at the
end of 2010. And the public mood has soured, with  Quinnipiac
University  polling finding 49 percent job-approval for Obama in
Ohio and 47 percent approval in Florida in late January.  Running for re-election on more than that promise of hope,
the president has started making the case that his achievements
in health care and economic stimulus are contributing to the
revival of the  U.S. economy .  “This will be a fundamentally different race for Mr. Obama
than he had in 2008,” said Stuart Rothenberg, editor of the
Washington-based Rothenberg Report.  “Then he represented change and captured the imagination
of many,” Rothenberg said. “Now, he has a record and a
performance that can be evaluated. He will have a tougher time
winning key states like  Ohio  and Florida.”  Since Obama took office, unemployment in Florida has risen
to 12 percent from 8.7 percent, while Ohio’s jobless rate has
gained a percentage point, to 9.6 percent, as of December 2010.  In February 2007, as Obama was starting to raise a record
$749 million for his 2008 campaign, the U.S. unemployment rate
was  4.5 percent . The latest data from the  Labor Department  shows
a rate almost twice that at 8.9 percent.  Florida, Ohio  “If you look at the results of the last two presidential
elections, the six most competitive states were  Colorado ,
Florida,  Iowa ,  Missouri , Ohio and  Virginia , with Florida and
Ohio having the largest number of electoral votes,” said  Charlie Cook , publisher of the Cook Political Report in
Washington. “It’s hard to see how any nominee could win the
presidency without carrying at least one of those two.”  Florida’s  home foreclosure rate  in 2010 ranked third in the
nation, behind Nevada and  Arizona , at 5.51 percent, or one in
every 18 homes, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based data company. Foreclosures have increased 26
percent in Florida from 2008.  Ohio’s 2010 foreclosure rate was 13th in the nation at 2.13
percent, or 1 in every 47 homes, according to RealtyTrac.
Foreclosures there declined 4.8 percent from 2008, though they
were up 6.4 percent from 2009. The U.S. foreclosure rate last
year was 2.23 percent, or one in every 45 homes, a rise of 23
percent from 2008.    Oil Prices   At the same time, unrest in the Middle East pushed crude
oil for April delivery to $104.42 a barrel on March 4 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept. 26,
2008.  “We’ve now gone through two tough years, and some of us
are beaten down and worn out,” Obama told supporters during his
eighth trip to Florida since taking office in January 2009.
“And I’m grayer and looking a little older than I did.”  Still, Obama said they have reason to be hopeful because of
accomplishments that include an improving economy, a new health-
care law designed to bring insurance coverage to those who lack
it and advancements in alternative energy sources.  Recession  Obama won the White House in the throes of the deepest
recession since the Great Depression. Since his inauguration,
the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index has gained 64 percent.  February’s 8.9 percent  unemployment rate  is the lowest
level in two years. Hiring was widespread, with manufacturing,
construction and transportation companies adding workers.  If sustained, the pace of last month’s increase in payrolls
would reduce the unemployment rate to 6.9 percent by November
2012, when Obama faces re-election, said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. The rate was 7.8 percent when Obama took office.  Even so, American confidence has slipped as the campaign
season approaches, with just 29 percent saying the economy will
improve over the next year, a decline of 11 percentage points
from a month earlier, according to a  Wall Street Journal/NBC
News poll  conducted Feb. 24-28. The poll has a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Obama’s job approval rating dropped to 48 percent from 53
percent a month ago, according to the poll.  Voter Displeasure  Voters expressed their displeasure in November’s midterm
elections, ousting incumbents and putting the  Republican Party 
in control of the  House of Representatives  and narrowing the
Democratic majority in the Senate.  For the midterm elections, the Democratic National
Committee and the party’s House and Senate fundraising
committees took in more money combined than their Republican
counterparts for the first time since the Federal Election
Commission began tracking party money for the 1978 elections,
year-end filings show.  Yet Republican outside groups helped administer what Obama
called a “shellacking.”  Led by Republican strategist Karl Rove’s American
Crossroads and its Crossroads GPS affiliate, Republican-leaning
outside groups spent $184 million on the 2010 congressional
races, while comparable Democratic groups spent $87 million.  Political advocacy groups Rove helped create will try to
raise at least $120 million to defeat Obama, the organizations
said earlier this month.  Republican Field  As Obama starts his fundraising drive, the Republican field
remains unformed, with a clear challenger yet to emerge.  A Gallup poll Feb. 18-20 of registered Republicans and
Republican-leaning independents showed former Arkansas Governor
Mike Huckabee, who unsuccessfully sought his party’s nomination
in 2008, leading with 18 percent support, followed by former
Governors Mitt Romney of  Massachusetts  and Sarah Palin of  Alaska , each with 16 percent. Newt Gingrich, a former House
speaker from  Georgia , had 9 percent support.  While Palin hasn’t declared her intentions, Gingrich
announced March 3 that he was setting up a website to raise
money and explore a run for the White House. Other potential
candidates include former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty and
former Senator Rick Santorum.  Florida has long been considered a critical swing state in
presidential elections, voting for Republican  George W. Bush  in
2000 and 2004 and for Obama in 2008.  In Florida, the  Quinnipiac poll  showed a slight margin of
disapproval for Obama’s election to a second term, with 48
percent opposed and 45 percent supporting. The survey taken Jan.
25-31 carries a 2.9 percentage point margin of error.  Senator Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat who will confront a
concerted challenge for reelection in 2012, joined Obama at a
fundraising dinner under a tent outside the home of real estate
developer Michael Adler.  “Of all the swing states,” Nelson said, “Florida is the
big prize.”  The president sent a clear message to supporters there: “I
need you to do it again. That’s what tonight is all about. And I
promise you this is not the last time you’re going to see me
here in Florida.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  