-- 
Obama Said to Pick Locke to Replace Huntsman as U.S. Ambassador to China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-08T06:40:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/obama-said-to-pick-commerce-secretary-locke-as-china-envoy.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
nominate Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to be the next U.S.
ambassador to China, replacing Jon Huntsman, an administration
official said.  Locke, 61, who is of Chinese ancestry, is a former two-term
governor of Washington and has led annual trade talks between
the U.S. and China. Obama may name Locke as soon as today, the
official said yesterday, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the announcement hadn’t been made. Huntsman, 50, is set
to vacate the ambassador’s post on April 30.  If confirmed by the Senate, Locke would take over the
diplomatic mission in a country that is a linchpin in Obama’s
trade policy.  China’s economy  passed Japan’s to become the
world’s second-largest last year, and the Asian nation is the
second-biggest U.S. trading partner after  Canada .  His experience in trade negotiations with China makes him
an “excellent” choice, said Ted Dean, chairman of the Beijing-
based American Chamber of Commerce in China. “He’s very
familiar with our issues and we’ve seen him at work on them,
we’ve also seen him speak out publicly on issues that are
important to us.”  At the last round of the annual trade talks, held in
Washington in December, China agreed to curtail the use of
pirated software by the government and state-owned enterprises
that were hurting sales by U.S. companies such as Redmond,
Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The agreement included
provisions that would track implementation and are showing
results, Dean said.  Top Competitor  Obama regularly cites China as a top economic competitor to
the U.S., and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned Congress
last week that the two countries are in a “competition for
influence” around the world. Locke’s Commerce Department
reported a $273.1 billion trade deficit with China last year, a
20.4 percent increase from 2009 and the biggest U.S. bilateral
trade gap.  China has expanded its global presence as it searches for
commodities to fuel its economic growth. In response, Obama has
traveled to countries such as  India  and  Indonesia  and met with
the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  to boost trade. As
commerce secretary, Locke has been a central figure in Obama’s
drive to double U.S. exports in the next five years.  The economic relationship between China and the U.S.,
marked by more than $400 billion in annual trade, is complicated
by disagreements on issues as varied as human rights, China’s
enforcement of intellectual property laws and what Obama
officials say is the artificially low value of China’s currency.  Rock Star  Locke is popular in China, thanks to his long relationship
with the country and his visits there. On a trip last October to
open a Sam’s Club warehouse store in  Guangdong province , he was
rushed by so many fans that Huntsman, who was accompanying him,
compared Locke’s air of celebrity to that of the rock star Bono,
of the group U2.  Locke’s grandfather immigrated more than a century ago to  Washington  state from Guangdong province, working as a servant
in exchange for English lessons. Both of his parents were also
born in China and Locke spoke Taishanese, a Chinese dialect, at
home in  Seattle . He didn’t begin English lessons until he went
to preschool.  When Locke was 10, his family took him to see his
grandmother, who had fled China and lived in a Hong Kong refugee
camp. The family’s plan to leave him with his grandmother was
abandoned when he became homesick and persuaded his parents to
bring him back to the U.S., he said in an interview last year.  Presidential Bid  Almost four decades later, after attending Yale University
and Boston University’s law school, Locke returned to  China  as
Washington’s governor.  After he left the governorship and before being nominated
to the Commerce post, Locke worked on issues involving China as
a partner at Davis Wright Tremaine LLP, a Seattle-based law
firm. Obama’s plan to name Locke as ambassador to Beijing was
previously reported by ABC News.  Huntsman’s decision to resign has led to speculation that
the former governor of  Utah  may be considering a bid for the
2012 Republican presidential nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at at
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  