-- 
Obama Tells Australia’s Gillard Pacific Trade Vital to Growth

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-07T17:35:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/obama-tells-australia-s-gillard-pacific-trade-vital-to-growth.html
President  Barack Obama , meeting with
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  at the White House, said
the U.S. and  Australia  have a shared interest in expanding trade
in the Pacific region.  “We’re very excited about the prospects of joining forces
with Australia and other countries to promote growth and
employment in the region,” Obama said today.  Gillard is making her first visit to  Washington  as prime
minister, and her itinerary includes stops focused on trade and
growth.  The U.S. is Australia’s third biggest trading partner,
after China and Japan. Two-way commerce between the two nations
was more than $30 billion last year, according to U.S.  Census
Bureau  figures. Obama has said he wants to increase the U.S.
economic presence in the Pacific region, a goal fitting within
his drive to increase U.S. exports and counter-balance  China ’s
growing influence.  Gillard said Australia expects “major progress” on trade
at the next meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
forum, which is being hosted by the U.S. The leaders’ meeting is
scheduled for November in Hawaii.  Obama and Gillard conducted one-on-one talks, then held
expanded meetings with top aides with an agenda that included
the situation in Afghanistan. Australia is the biggest
contributor to the U.S.-led coalition outside of North Atlantic
Treaty Organization nations.  Year of Transition  “We discussed the fact that 2011’s going to be a year of
transition in which we more and more provide the assistance
necessary for Afghans to take the lead in that effort,” Obama
said.  At a NATO conference in  Portugal  in November, Gillard said
nations need an “enduring commitment” to Afghanistan, and that
it will take some time to hand over control to local military
forces. Australia had more than 1,500 troops in Afghanistan at
that time.  Gillard said today she is “very personally committed” to
“seeing the mission done and to ensuring we play our part in
training the Afghan National Army and bringing security to
Afghanistan.”  After their Oval Office meeting, Obama and Gillard went to
Wakefield High School in Arlington, Virginia, to visit an 11th
grade history class.  In 2009 Obama went to the school to give
his annual back-to-school speech.  School Visit  Obama said he brought Gillard to the school because she is
Australia’s former Minister for Education, Employment and
Workplace Relations.  While at the school, Obama declined to say if he has plans
to visit Australia. A trip last year was postponed during the
debate on health-care legislation and never rescheduled.  Obama said Americans and Australians have a “similar sort
of open frontier spirit” that places a “premium on
individualism.”  Gillard, 49, of the  Labor Party , became Australia’s first
woman prime minister in June 2010, succeeding Kevin Rudd. Her
schedule today also includes meetings with Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , Federal Reserve Board Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk.  Tomorrow, Gillard speaks to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  She is scheduled to address a joint session of Congress on
March 9, the first such address by an Australian since Prime
Minister  John Howard  in 2002, according to her office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net 
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 