-- 
Obama Reopens Debate on Military Trials of Detainees

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-03-08T23:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/obama-allows-resumption-of-guantanamo-military-trials-ending-two-year-ban.html
(Corrects Chaffee’s title in 20th paragraph.)  President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
order the resumption of military trials for detainees at the
U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, has reopened the debate
about how to handle suspected terrorists who might be set free
if given access to U.S. courts.  With an executive order, Obama codified a two-track
approach, declaring that some detainees are eligible for
terrorism trials in U.S. civilian courts while acknowledging
that others will need to go before military commissions at
Guantanamo. It’s an approach that is unlikely to quell the furor
over a prison camp that he promised to close at the beginning of
his presidency.  The actions will “broaden our ability to bring terrorists
to justice, provide oversight for our actions and ensure the
humane treatment of detainees,” Obama said yesterday in a
statement accompanying the order.  According to administration officials, the president
remains committed to closing the Guantanamo facility, contending
that its existence serves as a recruiting tool for extremists.
The White House will continue to oppose restrictions by Congress
on the government’s ability to transport prisoners from
Guantanamo to the U.S. for trial, the officials said.  Still, some members of Obama’s own party criticized the
president for failing to close a facility he campaigned against.  ‘Falls Far Short’  “The process outlined in the executive order falls far
short of core constitutional values by failing to provide
judicial review of cases considered by the review board or
guaranteeing meaningful assistance of counsel,” Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, said in a statement. “I am also concerned
that these orders do little to bring us closer to closing the
prison at Guantanamo Bay.”  Obama has struggled to craft a policy on the treatment of
detainees who authorities believe are still allied with or were
trained by al-Qaeda and yet can’t be tried in civilian courts
because of legal or intelligence constraints. In a May 2009
 speech , the president said that devising such a policy was “the
single toughest issue that we will face.”  During his presidential campaign, Obama vowed that he would
close the Guantanamo detention facility within a year of taking
office -- a pledge he hasn’t been able to keep in the face of
widespread opposition to bringing suspected terrorists onto U.S.
soil. His action yesterday reopens a trial process at Guantanamo
that he suspended two years ago.  Administration officials did not provide details on which
cases would commence at Guantanamo, though they said new trials
could start in the coming weeks.  New York Trial  In 2009, Obama and Attorney General  Eric Holder  announced a
plan to bring Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the accused mastermind of
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and four alleged co-conspirators
to trial in federal court in  New York City , about a quarter-mile
from the site of the World Trade Center towers. The
administration began reconsidering that decision after New York
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said he wanted the trial moved. The
mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  Last April, Holder said that the administration was still
considering New York City as a site for a trial and that other
locations were also under review. At the time, Holder said the
administration hadn’t decided whether to hold the trial before a
military commission or in a civilian court. In November, he said
that the administration was “close” to selecting a trial
location.  Both Are Needed  Holder said in a statement yesterday that the
administration needs the ability to use both military
commissions and federal courts “as tools to keep this country
safe.” He previously referred cases for consideration for trial
before military commissions.  In a separate statement, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said the government must keep the option of prosecuting
suspected terrorists in U.S. federal courts.  “For years, our federal courts have proven to be a secure
and effective means for bringing terrorists to justice,” he
said. “To completely foreclose this option is unwise and
unnecessary.”  In addition to garnering complaints from his own party, the
president’s decision drew a different line of criticism from
Republicans. Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, chairman of
the House Armed Services Committee, said Obama was repeating the
mistakes of President  George W. Bush ’s administration by
creating detainee policy “by executive fiat” rather than
through legislation.  ‘Baffling’ Decision  “It’s baffling to me that the White House, which prides
itself on operating differently than its predecessor, would
repeat the same mistakes by refusing to work with Congress to
create a comprehensive plan for the long-term detention and
prosecution of detainees at Guantanamo Bay,” the California
Republican said in a statement.  Still, McKeon and House Judiciary Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, welcomed the decision to resume
trials before military commissions.  “The next step is to abandon the ill-advised campaign
promise to close Guantanamo Bay,” Smith said. In one of his
first acts as president, Obama signed an order to close the
prison within a year -- a deadline that lapsed following
congressional opposition to trying suspects in civilian courts.  According to a fact sheet distributed with the executive
order, the administration says it has revised the military
commission process to include “a ban on the use of statements
taken as a result of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and a
better system for handling classified information.”  ‘Additional Process’  The military tribunals, combined with a new review
mechanism, provide “additional process for detainees that have
been languishing for years at Guantanamo,” said Devon Chaffee,
advocacy counsel for the law and security program of  Human
Rights First , a Washington-based international human rights
organization. “The problem of indefinite detention continues to
pose a serious threat to fundamental rights.”  Obama’s directive says that if detainees no longer pose a
threat to U.S. security, Gates and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  are to find a transfer location outside the U.S.  The detention facility at the U.S. naval base in Cuba was
opened by the  Bush administration  after the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks. It currently houses 172 detainees, according to Tanya
Bradsher, a Defense Department spokeswoman.  Geneva Conventions  In addition to issuing the executive order, the
administration is seeking Senate ratification of  Protocol II  to
the Geneva Conventions, dealing with civil war, to bring policy
into line with current military practice and with those of other
nations. It was originally  submitted to the Senate  by President
 Ronald Reagan  in 1987.  The U.S. also is declaring that it will adhere to a section
of another protocol setting out humane treatment and fair trial
safeguards for detainees, according to the fact sheet.  “These steps we take today are not about who our enemies
are, but about who we are: a nation committed to providing all
detainees in our custody with humane treatment,” Clinton said
in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  