-- 
Lockhart Says Fed Shouldn't Rule Out More Asset Purchases If Economy Slows

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-07T15:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/lockhart-says-fed-shouldn-t-rule-out-more-asset-purchases-if-economy-slows.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Atlanta
President Dennis Lockhart said the central bank shouldn’t rule
out asset purchases beyond the $600 billion planned by June
because turmoil in the Middle East risks causing a slowdown in
the U.S.  “With the information I have today, my first inclination
is to be very cautious about extending asset purchases after
June,” Lockhart said today in a speech in Arlington, Virginia.
“Given the emergence of new risks, however, I prefer a posture
of flexibility as regards policy options.”  Lockhart’s comments echoed Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
who told Congress last week that economic conditions continue to
justify holding the central bank’s target rate at near zero as
well as additional monetary stimulus. Private economists are
projecting the Fed will start to raise  interest rates  by early
2012 as the economy strengthens.  The Atlanta Fed president told reporters after his speech
that a third round of large-scale asset purchases could be
needed in the event of another downturn.  “How would we ease?” he said. “Well, we are using asset
purchase tools as opposed to interest rates. As I explained in
the speech earlier, they have a functional equivalence” in
their impact on markets. “That would be to me the logical
thing, LSAP3, or something like that.”  “I want to remain open to whatever has to be done or needs
to be done at a given time.”    Oil Prices   Turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa has the
potential to create another oil price shock, Lockhart told
reporters after his speech. A former commercial banker who had
worked previously in  Iran , Lebanon,  Saudi Arabia  and  Greece ,
Lockhart said a wide range of outcomes are possible.  While the  U.S. economy  can absorb a “moderate increase”
in oil prices, a bigger increase sustained over a longer period
could do damage, Lockhart said. Research shows a “high
correlation” between oil price shocks and recessions, Lockhart
said.  “I don’t have extraordinary certainly that this is a
temporary or a minor kind of effect,” Lockhart said. “We
cannot rule out there would be a higher run-up of energy prices.
Having said that, it is certainly not my base case scenario for
the economy.”  Lockhart said higher oil prices were among the factors that
could weigh on businesses as they consider hiring and new
investments, adding he was heartened by recent signs that
businesses are adding to payrolls again.  Jobs Report ‘Encouraging’  “Friday’s jobs report was encouraging, particularly
considering that the January report had so much noise,”
Lockhart said to National Association for Business Economics’
annual economic policy conference in Arlington, Virginia. “But,
in my opinion, it is premature to declare a jobs recovery firmly
established” and “achieving something close to full employment
will take some time.”  Employers in the U.S. added 192,000 workers in February
amid an improving economy. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
declined to 8.9 percent, the lowest level since April 2009,
figures from the Labor Department showed last week.  A survey of economists released today by NABE found 71
percent expect the Fed to raise its target interest rate over
the next year. Thirty percent expect the Fed to raise interest
rates by 26-50 basis points, while 17 percent believe that
monetary policy makers will boost rates by 25 basis points or
less. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Lockhart repeated his forecast for growth of 3 percent to 4
percent, inflation firming to around 2 percent, and gradual
employment growth.  State Budgets  The Atlanta Fed chief also said that cutbacks at the
federal and state government level are already factored into his
forecast. The U.S. must ensure it keeps its top  credit rating ,
he said.  “We should not assume things have historically been viewed
as unthinkable are not possible,” Lockhart said in response to
audience questions. “We have to ensure” that  U.S. Treasuries 
remain “the Triple A asset that it is.”  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  