-- 
Tognum Surges on Report Daimler, Rolls-Royce Plan Joint Bid for Company

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-03-07T10:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/tognum-surges-after-daimler-rolls-royce-reported-to-be-planning-joint-bid.html
  Tognum AG (TGM) , the German manufacturer
of  diesel engines  for ships and tanks, surged the most in more
than two years after Manager Magazin reported  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  are preparing a joint takeover bid.  The Friedrichshafen, Germany-based company rose as much as
17 percent to 21.61 euros, the stock’s biggest jump since Oct.
13, 2008. The shares traded at that level as of 11:48 a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 2.9 billion euros ($4
billion).  Daimler, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , and Rolls-Royce plan
to each acquire half of Tognum, Manager Magazin reported on its
 website , citing unidentified people close to the companies. Top
executives at the company have been negotiating for the past
week, with a decision expected shortly, the paper said.  Daimler spokesman Florian Martens didn’t immediately
respond to messages left at his office and on his mobile phone.
A Rolls-Royce spokesman couldn’t immediately be reached. Julia
Loeffelsend, a spokeswoman for Tognum, declined to comment.  Daimler is already Tognum’s largest shareholder. The
company holds 28 percent of the heavy-duty engine maker, which
was formerly a wholly owned subsidiary of the maker of Mercedes-
Benz cars and trucks. It was previously called MTU
Friedrichshafen.  The automaker sold Tognum for 1.6 billion euros to
Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT Partners in March 2006
to help pay for cutting jobs. Daimler bought a 22 percent stake
for 585 million euros in April 2008, increasing the holding to
more than 25 percent three months later.  Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said in
January he had no plans to raise the company’s Tognum stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 