-- 
Oil at $110 May Trigger Pain U.S. CEOs Weathered at $100

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-07T21:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/oil-at-110-may-trigger-pain-chief-executives-weathered-at-100.html
A recovering economy helped U.S.
chief executive officers weather crude’s surge past the $100
mark. At $110 a barrel, the pain would start to kick in.  As oil traded at 29-month highs last week on concern that
violence in Libya would further crimp Middle Eastern supplies,
CEOs said they were waiting to see how much the price rises, and
for how long.  “Any time something like oil goes up dramatically
overnight, it becomes very hard to adequately plan,” said  Samuel Allen , 57, chairman and CEO of  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s
largest maker of agricultural equipment. “It has caused us to
be more careful or cautious in watching the outlook, but we have
still moved forward with all our plans.”  Corporate assumptions would have to start changing when oil
reaches $110 a barrel, according to economists such as  Chris Low 
of FTN Financial in New York. Crude at that price would offset
the benefit from the  tax cut  approved by Congress in December,
and begin to slow economic growth, Low said.  “As long as consumers are willing to pay up a little more,
there really isn’t going to be a significant impact,” Low said
in an interview. “But we’re pretty quickly running out of time
there with oil through $100 a barrel. We’re getting to levels
where we have to think about taking our forecasts lower.”  Oil Rises Again  Oil for April delivery rose $1.02 to $105.44 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since
Sept. 26, 2008. That pushed the gain to 22 percent since Feb.
18, when crude began climbing as Libya’s civil strife stoked
concern that energy exports elsewhere in the region might also
be at risk.  Brent crude , the London benchmark used to price many
European and African oils, slipped 93 cents to $115.04 a barrel.  As manufacturers such as Deere assess how prices may affect
business, consumer companies already are adapting. U.S. airlines
have enacted six broad fare increases in 2011, and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  is tightening the stock of autos in case buyers shun
showrooms as they did in 2008 when gasoline peaked at $4.11 a
gallon before the financial crisis.  “We worry about $100 oil all the time,” Vice Chairman
Stephen Girsky said in an interview. “We’re war-gaming that all
the time. Part of the strategy is to keep inventories low.”  GM’s supply of 517,000 vehicles at the end of February
represented about 2.5 months of deliveries, compared with about
2.9 months’ worth a year earlier at the Detroit-based automaker.
The clampdown came amid industrywide sales running at the
fastest annual pace since 2009.  Gasoline’s Rise  Consumers’ response to costlier gasoline is pivotal because
they account for about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy  and feel
oil-market disruptions with every fill-up, economists said. At
$3.51 a gallon yesterday in a survey by Heathrow, Florida-based
motorist group AAA, the average U.S. retail price for regular
unleaded gasoline has risen about 14 percent this year.  The duration of higher prices will determine how consumers
react, said  Daniel Yergin , chairman of IHS-Cambridge Energy
Research Associates Inc. in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and author
of the 1991 oil-industry history “The Prize: The Epic Quest for
Oil, Money and Power.”  “If it’s a short term, then take it in stride,” Yergin
said in an interview. “If it’s longer term, if it extends out
weeks or months, then it really becomes a very big question mark
for economic recovery.”  ‘Main Conduit’  A $10-a-barrel increase in crude would “reduce growth by
somewhere between 0.2 to 0.3 percentage points per year in each
of the next two years,” said Drew Matus, senior economist at
UBS Securities LLC in  New York . “It’s basically an overall
impact on the economy, but obviously the main conduit through
which it would act would be the U.S. consumer.”  While that kind of drag wouldn’t come close to pushing the
U.S. back into a recession, it would slow the rebound from the
worst economic slump since the Great Depression. For 2010, the
world’s largest economy expanded 2.8 percent, the most in five
years, after shrinking 2.6 percent in 2009.  Oil at $125 would be “really a crucial tipping point,”
pushing gasoline to $4 a gallon, said  Carl Riccadonna , senior
U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York.  “That would be the level where we start to significantly
downgrade our economic projections,” Riccadonna said, including
a 50 percent slash in his forecast for growth of about 3.1
percent in household consumption.  ‘Stall Speed’  “Suddenly we’re looking at GDP right around 2 percent,”
he said in an interview. “At that 2 percent level on GDP, we’re
very close to stall speed on the economy.”  Some pullbacks are under way. American Airlines parent  AMR
Corp. (AMR)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  are trimming planned growth in
seating capacity to blunt fuel expenses, even with the boost
from more fare increases this year than in all of 2010.  Frontier Airlines, a unit of Indianapolis-based  Republic
Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) , joined that effort today, saying second-
quarter seating capacity would be unchanged from a year earlier
after forecasting growth of as much as 2.5 percent. Greg Aretakis, vice president of revenue production, cited the
“uncertainty” of future oil prices.  “Rising gas prices and still-high unemployment levels
weigh on the minds of our customers,”  Bill Simon , CEO of U.S.
operations for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said on a conference call
on Feb. 22. “These issues affect discretionary spending and
figure into our assessment for guidance.”  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has posted seven
straight quarters of declining same-store sales in the U.S., and
it forecast a drop in such revenue this quarter of as much as 2
percent from a year earlier.    Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD)  expects that gamblers eventually may need
some reassurance to help overcome any reluctance to pay more to
drive to one of the Las Vegas-based company’s casinos.  ‘Psychological Aspects’  “I’m sure you’ll start to see promotions around gasoline
and other things as part of a marketing campaign,” Chief
Operating Officer Paul Chakmak told analysts on a conference
call on March 1. “People are generally fairly resilient, other
than the psychological aspects of it.”  Pump prices in some states are approaching the $4-a-gallon
mark, topped by the $3.90 average in California and $3.88 in
Hawaii through yesterday, according to AAA’s  website . Retail  diesel fuel  climbed to $3.88 a gallon, up 17 percent this year,
according to AAA.  ‘Near-Term Concern’  “Our near-term concern is more for our customers,”
Deere’s Allen said in an interview. The product lineup at
Moline, Illinois-based Deere includes lawnmowers, grain
harvesters and construction equipment, some running on gasoline
and others on diesel fuel.  For Boise Inc., a maker of paper and packaging, each 50-
cent increase in diesel fuel means the loss of $8 million in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
Chief Financial Officer Samuel Cotterell said.  While the Boise, Idaho-based company doesn’t build fuel
surcharges into contracts, it may be able to pass along some
costs, Cotterell told analysts on a March 2 conference call.  Recent indicators suggest that the economy has been strong
enough to handle the march toward $100 oil that began last
month. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC
News U.S. Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.3 in the
period to Feb. 27, little changed from the minus 39.2 reading
the prior week that was the highest in almost three years.  Joblessness fell to 8.9 percent last month, and employment
climbed by 192,000, the Labor Department reported on March 4.  Growth in payrolls and income should shield the nonfuel
spending crucial to the economy, said Frank Badillo, a Columbus,
Ohio-based senior economist for Kantar Retail.  No Decline  “We won’t see a falloff in nonfuel spending,” Badillo
said in an interview. “It will be affected, but it’s not like
we are going to see huge declines. They are going to continue to
spend more, it just may not be as much more.”  Oil supplies in Saudi Arabia also are sufficient to ensure
that oil at $120 or even $150 a barrel from disruptions
elsewhere in the Middle East would only be a “blip up” that
wouldn’t last long, said  Nayantara Hensel , the U.S. Navy’s chief
economist.  “Oil prices would need to exceed $125 per barrel for more
than four months to substantively limit economic growth,” she
said in an interview.  Like Deere, manufacturers such as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the
world’s largest maker of construction equipment, haven’t made
any changes yet to investment decisions in response to the jump
in crude.  “We take a long-term view,” said Jim Dugan, a spokesman
for Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar. “The prices of various
commodities are a small piece of that.”  Drill-Bit Parts  At  Dover Corp. (DOV) , about a quarter of annual revenue comes
from the oil and gas industry, where rising demand for equipment
such as drill-bit parts buoys results. About the same amount is
tied indirectly to consumer spending, because the Downers Grove,
Illinois-based company also makes refrigerated display cases.  “For us, the increase in oil isn’t any different than the
increase in steel, or nickel or copper or, goodness gracious,
even the increasing cost of health care,” CEO Robert Livingston
said in an interview. “When we can’t cover it with productivity
initiatives, yes, we do pass it on to customers.”  Manufacturers tend to absorb energy-cost increases as long
as they’re confident that the new levels are only temporary,
because they don’t want to change their prices too often,
according to FTN Financial’s Low. Unlike price surges triggered
by market speculation, which tend to fade more quickly, oil-
market fallout from the Libyan crisis may not end soon, he said.  “We’re talking about revolution that has spread across
borders that is, if anything, getting hotter over time,” Low
said. “It will likely be many months before the situation in
the Middle East has calmed down.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  