-- 
Molycorp Surges as China Raises Rare Earth Deal Stakes: Real M&A

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-07T22:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/molycorp-surging-as-acquirer-as-china-raises-rare-earth-stakes-real-m-a.html
  China ’s control of rare-earth metals
is providing  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , owner of the largest U.S. deposit of
the minerals, with the most-valuable currency in the industry to
pursue acquisitions.    Great Western Minerals Group Ltd. (GWG)  and  Ucore Rare Metals
Inc. (UCU)  may become targets after shares of Greenwood Village,
Colorado-based Molycorp tripled since its U.S. initial public
offering in July as China curbed exports, Byron Capital Markets’
Jon Hykawy said. Molycorp is now valued at 117 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that includes net debt,
the highest of any diversified metals producer.  The surge in Molycorp’s market value to $3.9 billion makes
takeovers cheaper as it tries to compete with Chinese producers
that control  95 percent  of the world’s supply of elements used
to make magnets for  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s Tomahawk cruise missiles and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius sedans. While Molycorp’s mine in the
Mojave Desert once met almost all the world’s demand, it has yet
to turn a profit and doesn’t have substantial amounts of the
“heavy” rare-earth metals that command the highest prices.  “Time is not on their hands,” said Brian Hennessey, a
Purchase, New York-based analyst for Alpine Mutual Funds, which
oversees $6 billion. “Molycorp would do themselves a service by
diversifying into heavy rare earth. There are a number of
companies with much lower valuations in the marketplace. They
can use their currency to do fairly accretive acquisitions.”  Periodic Table  Great Western, which plans to start production at a South
African mine in 2013, and  Canada ’s  Quest Rare Minerals Ltd. (QRM)  and  Avalon Rare Metals Inc. (AVL) , which control heavy rare-earth
deposits, may be possible takeover targets for Molycorp,
Hennessey said.  Ucore of Halifax, Nova Scotia, may also attract suitors for
its  Alaska mine  that contains both heavy and light rare-earth
materials, according to Byron Capital’s Hykawy and Jack Lifton,
an independent commodities consultant and strategic metals
expert who has studied mining for almost 50 years.  Ross Bhappu, Molycorp’s chairman, declined to comment about
potential acquisitions.  Molycorp shares advanced as much as 4.6 percent before
retreating $1.56, or 3.2 percent, to $47.70 in  New York  Stock
Exchange trading. Great Western climbed 6 cents, or 7.3 percent,
to 88 Canadian cents in Toronto. Ucore slipped 7 cents, or 6.4
percent, to C$1.03.  Today’s Trading  Quest increased 17 cents, or 2.9 percent, to C$5.97. Avalon
gained 34 cents, or 4.8 percent, to C$7.46. The Bloomberg Rare
Earth Mineral Resources Index climbed 0.8 percent.  The rare-earth elements are 17 chemically similar metals,
such as lanthanum, neodymium and dysprosium. They are used in
magnets for everything from cell phones and electric cars to
wind turbines, guided missiles and targeting systems for tanks.  BlackBerrys made by  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  of Waterloo,
Ontario; Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPods;  General
Motors Co. (GM)  of Detroit’s plug-in Volt; and Toyota City, Japan-
based Toyota’s Prius all use rare-earth metals.  While rare-earth materials are relatively abundant in the
earth’s crust, finding deposits large enough to mine is less
common, the U.S. Geological Survey said. Global demand for the
elements may more than double by 2020 from 125,000 metric tons
last year, according to Molycorp’s filing last month with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Rare-earth metals are expensive for producers to extract
and are often laced with radioactive elements. China has come to
dominate the market because it has been able to produce the
metals more cheaply and with fewer environmental restrictions
than its competitors.  China’s Quotas  Prices for rare-earth metals and shares of the companies
that produce them have jumped since China said on July 8 that it
would reduce export quotas for the second half of 2010 by 72
percent as it attempts to meet domestic needs while closing
polluting and inefficient mines.  Prices of many “light” rare-earth elements, including
lanthanum and cerium, rose 600 percent to 700 percent on average
last year, Matt Gowing, a Toronto-based analyst at Mackie
Research Capital Corp., said in a report to clients dated Feb.
8. The price of dysprosium, a “heavy” rare-earth element used
in magnets for car motors, almost tripled to $305 a kilogram.  The Bloomberg Rare Earth Mineral Resources Index of 14
companies surged 276 percent since July 8, seven times more than
the 37 percent gain for the MSCI World Materials Index of 161
commodities producers in the same period.  Molycorp, which was formed in 2008, had climbed 241 percent
since raising $394 million in its July 29 IPO to start its mine
near Mountain Pass,  California . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced 18 percent in the same period, Bloomberg data show.  Las Vegas  The 2,222-acre site, an open-pit mine located 60 miles
southwest of Las Vegas, produced a majority of rare-earth
materials from 1965 to 1985, a report from the  Government
Accountability Office  in April showed.  While U.S. deposits also exist in several states such as
Idaho, Wyoming and Utah, they are still being explored and could
take as many as 15 years before becoming fully operational,
according the GAO report.  The rally in Molycorp’s shares has left the company a
market capitalization of $3.9 billion. Molycorp also had $346
million more cash than debt as of Sept. 30, giving it an
enterprise value of about $3.71 billion as of last week. That
was 117 times its about $32 million in Ebitda that analysts
estimate Molycorp will generate this year, higher than the 42
other diversified metal producers globally that are forecast to
have earnings this year.  The median multiple was 6.3 times Ebitda, the data show.  Relative Value  Molycorp, which started its Mountain Pass mine in December
for the first time since 2002 and has yet to report a profit on
a net income basis, also sold $180 million of convertible
preferred shares last month as it plans to increase production
capacity to 40,000 metric tons a year by the end of 2013.  “Heavy” rare-earth metals account for only 1 percent of
Molycorp’s mine, according to Mackie Research’s Gowing.  “If I were running Molycorp, I would act as quickly as I
could to shore up what must be a light rare earth-dominated
output from Mountain Pass,” said Toronto-based Byron Capital’s
Hykawy, who covers rare-earth mining companies and is the only
analyst tracked by Bloomberg with a “sell” rating on Molycorp.
“The longer Molycorp management waits, the greater the chance
the market switches its attention to some other critical
material, and presently overvalued companies like Molycorp drop
in value.”  Molycorp’s Bhappu said in an interview on March 5 that the
company may still be undervalued. He pointed to estimates that
showed analysts project Molycorp’s shares will reach $66.25.
That implies a 39 percent gain, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Compelling Argument’  “Rare earth prices where they are today, you can make a
compelling argument for Molycorp being undervalued,” he said.  Great Western, with a market capitalization of C$322
million ($331 million), and Ucore, which has a value of C$147
million, would be likely targets for Molycorp, Hykawy said.  Great Western, which has posted annual losses since at
least 1991, specializes in processing rare-earth elements into
alloys used to make batteries, magnets and products for the
aerospace industry. The producer said on March 2 it increased
its stake in a rare-earth exploration company that owns the
shuttered Steenkampskraal mine in  South Africa  to  93 percent .  In January 2009, Great Western said it was working with the
mine’s owner to restart the mine, giving it  exclusive access  to
rare-earth metals at the site. The company’s shares have
advanced 274 percent in the past year.  ‘Might Look Attractive’  “We are not aware of anyone looking at us as a takeover
target,” Gary Billingsley, chairman of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-
based Great Western, said in an e-mail. Partly because of the
South African mine “we might look attractive to certain
groups,” he said.  Ucore operates a former uranium mine at Bokan Mountain in
southeastern Alaska. The  19-mile Bokan  site is estimated to be
one of the largest combined heavy and light rare-earth mineral
deposits within the U.S., according to the company’s website.
Ucore mines for “heavy’ rare-earth minerals such as dysprosium,
which is used to make wind turbines and electric vehicles.  The company met  with U.S. lawmakers in February to discuss
initiatives that would allow the U.S. to recapture market share
in the rare-earth magnet manufacturing industry. Ucore’s CEO Jim McKenzie has said his goal is to become the first company to
produce dysprosium for magnets entirely on U.S. soil.  Shares of Ucore have more than doubled in the past year.  ‘Players Out There’  “There are players out there right now that I’m sure would
be interested in acquiring our deposit at these levels,”
McKenzie said in a phone interview. “That doesn’t mean we want
to be acquired at these levels.”  Alpine Mutual’s Hennessey favors Quest Rare Minerals and
Avalon as takeover targets for Molycorp. The companies hold two
of the largest deposits of “heavy” rare-earth elements in the
world, according to Mackie Research.  A portion of Quest’s Strange Lake project in northern  Quebec  holds about 1.15 million tons of the metals, according
the company’s website. About  43 percent  are “heavy” rare-earth
elements. Avalon controls the  Nechalacho deposit  near Thor Lake
in the Northwest Territories of Canada, its website said.  The site holds an estimated 1.3 million tons of rare-earth
elements, with “heavy” types accounting for about 20 percent,
according to Mackie Research.  Avalon is forecast to start producing from Nechalacho in
2015, with Quest’s Strange Lake deposit reaching production a
year later. Quest has doubled in value in the past year, while
Avalon has almost tripled, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Neither company has any reported revenue, the data show.  Strange Lake  The weighted-average price of rare-earth metals at Avalon’s
Nechalacho site is estimated to be $94 per kilogram and $120 a
kilogram at Quest’s Strange Lake deposit, according to Mackie
Research. That’s 45 percent to 85 percent higher than Molycorp’s
Mountain Pass mine, which is valued at $65 a kilogram.  “There should be consolidation because of this valuation
discrepancy,” said Alpine Mutual’s Hennessey. “It makes a
whole lot of sense.”  Peter Cashin, CEO at Montreal-based Quest Rare Minerals,
didn’t respond to a phone message outside normal business hours.  “We have no direct knowledge that Avalon is presently a
takeover target,” said Donald Bubar, Toronto-based Avalon’s
CEO. “We have heard such speculation occasionally, but to my
knowledge, there is no substance to it.”  ‘All Over’  Molycorp’s Bhappu said last month rivals approached it
seeking investment in their projects. The companies, which he
declined to identify, are “all over the world, from Africa,  Australia , Canada, the U.S.,  South America ,” he said. “The
real focus for us is, rather than acquiring, better evaluation
and expansion of what we have on our own property.”  Companies that rely on rare-earth metals to make their
products such as Toyota may also be looking to buy assets or
secure supply agreements, according to Lifton. That may hasten
consolidation in the industry, he said.  “Our purchasing groups are leading various efforts to
mitigate any potential supply disruption and ensure that we have
a stable supply for our production needs,” Jeff Makarewicz,
vice president of materials engineering at Toyota, said in an e-
mail.  Rare-earth mining companies are “already talking to each
other and to companies like Molycorp and Toyota,” Lifton said.
“Everybody’s looking for heavy rare earths right now.”  LVMH, Bulgari  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  plans to acquire  Bulgari SpA (BUL)  for 3.7 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) to add the world’s third-largest jeweler in
what would be its biggest acquisition in at least a decade.  The largest luxury-goods company agreed to purchase the
Bulgari family’s 50.4 percent stake for 1.87 billion euros in
stock and will then make a tender offer for the rest, according
to a joint statement today.    Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , the largest maker of computer hard-
disk drives, agreed to buy a rival unit of Tokyo-based  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501)  for about $4.3 billion in cash and stock to reduce costs.  Western Digital will pay $3.5 billion in cash and give
Hitachi 25 million of its shares, according to a statement.
Hitachi will own about 10 percent of Irvine, California-based
Western Digital after the deal is completed.    Terumo Corp. (4543)  of Tokyo, Japan’s largest medical device
maker, agreed to buy Gambro AB’s CaridianBCT unit for $2.63
billion, including debt, to become the world’s biggest maker of
blood-transfusion equipment.  There have been 4,144 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $412.9 billion, a 31 percent increase from the $314.8
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at +1-212-617-3143 or  scasey4@bloomberg.net . 