-- 
Hong Kong’s Inclusion in China 5-Year Plan Shows Importance

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-07T06:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/hong-kong-s-inclusion-in-china-5-year-plan-shows-importance-1-.html
  Hong Kong ’s inclusion in China’s
12th five-year plan indicates the city’s role as a financial
center is not threatened by Shanghai, Chief Executive Donald
Tsang said.  The plan “clearly mentions that the central government
will strengthen Hong Kong’s position as financial center,”
Tsang  said in Beijing  today. “Shanghai is China’s leading
financial center and it is not in direct competition with Hong
Kong. Rather, this is a mutually beneficial relationship.”  Hong Kong is vowing to grow as an offshore center for yuan
trading, as Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  allows the currency to
become more readily available beyond China’s borders to reduce
reliance on U.S. dollars in trade and finance. Shanghai, whose
economy exceeded the size of Hong Kong’s, has pledged to become
a world financial center by 2020 in  China ’s plan.  China’s plan includes “international use of renminbi and
Hong Kong will play an integral role” in it, economists led by
Kevin Lai at Daiwa Capital Markets wrote in a March 2 report,
referring to the yuan. “We expect the renminbi business to
expand significantly in Hong Kong over the next three years”
and benefit the city’s economy, they said.  Sales in the city of yuan-denominated debt, known as dim
sum bonds, totaled 13.3 billion yuan ($2 billion) in the first
two months of the year compared with zero in the same period of
2010. The amount of local-currency debt issued in Shanghai rose
13 percent to 267.5 billion yuan.    Shanghai  will focus on onshore financing activities, while
Hong Kong is developing offshore yuan business with help from
Shanghai, Tsang said.  Tsang also said today residents “welcome” the city’s
budget revision as this could benefit many groups and his
government will listen to different opinions.  Thousands of people marched in Hong Kong yesterday,
protesting against the government budget four days after
Financial Secretary John Tsang announced HK$40.5 billion ($5.2
billion) in cash and tax rebates, while scrapping an earlier
budget proposal to inject money into workers’ pension fund
accounts.  --Bonnie Cao, Sophie Leung, with assistance from Eva Woo.
Editors: Dirk Beveridge, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  