-- 
Morgan Stanley Names Pick Equities Head as Francois Focuses on Derivatives

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-07T21:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/morgan-stanley-names-pick-equities-head-as-francois-focuses-on-derivatives.html
  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, named Ted Pick sole head of equities as his
co-chief, Luc Francois, concentrates on expanding the firm’s
equity-derivatives business.  David Russell, head of equities in  Asia , will relocate to  London  to run European equities, New York-based Morgan Stanley
said today in a memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Gokul Laroia,
currently co-head of Asia-Pacific  investment banking , will
replace Russell in Asia. Kate Richdale will become the sole head
of Asia-Pacific investment banking, according to the memo.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 52, has said he wants
to increase the bank’s market share in equity-derivatives, which
are financial instruments such as options or futures that derive
their value from underlying equities. Morgan Stanley had $4.96
billion in equity-trading revenue last year, excluding losses
tied to its own credit spreads, second to  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  among U.S. firms.  “This business is a key strategic focus for us and we will
continue to benefit from Luc’s considerable expertise as we seek
to maximize our revenue opportunities in this area,” according
to the memo, which was written by Pick, 42, and co-heads of the
investment-banking division, Paul Taubman and Colm Kelleher.  Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, confirmed the memo’s
contents.  ‘Area of Focus’  Francois, Russell and Laroia will report to Pick, according
to the memo. Francois will remain on the firm’s management
committee. Pick joined Morgan Stanley in 1990, becoming a
managing director in 2002 and co-head of global equities in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Francois joined
the bank in 2008 and previously was co-head of equity-
derivatives at Paris-based  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  “The derivatives business has been an area of focus for
us, both for the institutional space, financial institutions,
for the hedge fund community and also for the individual
private-wealth clients that we have around the world,” Gorman
said at a Feb. 1 conference. “It continues to be a focus, it’s
not exactly where we want it to be and expect it to be, but it’s
a major focus for the management in our equities group.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  