-- 
House to Wait for Senate to Act on ‘Swipe’ Changes, Bachus Says

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-03-07T20:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/house-to-wait-for-senate-to-act-on-swipe-changes-bachus-says.html
U.S. House lawmakers will wait for
the Senate to introduce changes to the  Federal Reserve ’s
proposal that would cap debit-card “swipe” fees, House
Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus  said.  “We’re not going to address it without some assurances”
that the Senate would move to change the law as well, Bachus, an
Alabama Republican, said today at the Institute of International
Bankers annual conference in Washington.  The House panel’s decision to wait for action by the
Democrat-controlled Senate may delay the legislative attack on a
rule that may cost banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as much as $12 billion in annual revenue.
Senator  Richard Durbin , the Illinois Democrat who fought to
require fee caps under the Dodd-Frank Act, said he will block
efforts to change that provision of the regulatory law.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  have questioned the measure, saying
an exemption for banks and  credit unions  with less than $10
billion in assets might have the unintended consequences of
making the smaller firms less competitive.  The rule will “devastate our community banks,” Bachus said.  The Fed proposed capping debit-card fees at 12 cents per
transaction, replacing a formula that averages about 1 percent
of the purchase price. Dodd-Frank requires that the cap rule be
completed by April 21 and in effect by July 21.  Retailers that support the Fed proposal like  Home Depot
Inc. (HD)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  have said the reduction in fees
will give them freedom to reduce costs for consumers.  Visa, MasterCard  Shares of  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , which set the fees
and pass the money to card-issuing banks, tumbled more than 10
percent after the Fed’s plan was released Dec. 16, amid investor
concern that the caps will damage their business model.  Representative Randy Neugebauer, a Texas Republican and
subcommittee chairman on the Financial Services panel, said in
an interview last week that the next step for the House “is
legislation to postpone the rule and have the federal regulators
conduct an economic analysis of some sort.”  “We’re saying to the Senate, give us an indication on
whether action will be taken there,” Bachus said. “As soon as
we get an indication that there is some movement out of the
Senate, we’re ready to address it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  