-- 
Palm Oil Demand to ‘Outpace’ Supplies in 2011, TransGraph Says

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-03-07T01:09:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/palm-oil-demand-to-outpace-supplies-in-2011-transgraph-says.html
Palm oil demand will grow this year,
outpacing supplies, even as production in  Southeast Asia  may
improve from the second quarter onwards on better weather
conditions, TransGraph Consulting Pvt. said.  Global demand may rise 5 percent to 48.9 million metric
tons in 2011, from 46.6 million tons last year, the Hyderabad-
based company said in a report released today. Output is
forecast to increase 4.2 percent to 47.8 million tons.  “Demand from China and  India  continues to be strong
throughout the year and overall annual demand shall outpace
supplies, eating into the stocks for a second consecutive
year,” the report said. Inventories are forecast to drop 28
percent to 2.86 million tons in 2011, compared with 3.97 million
tons last year, the report said.  World food prices have surged as droughts, heavy rains and
floods hurt crop-growing nations, affecting production and
depleting stockpiles of grains and cooking oils. The La Nina
weather event, which brought heavier-than-usual rainfall to
parts of Southeast Asia, continues to weaken, the Australian
Bureau of Meteorology reported on March 2. Subsiding severe
weather patterns will bring respite to plantations in the
region, TransGraph said.    China ’s dependency on imported oilseeds and cooking oils
will remain strong in the coming months as drought and reduced
acreage lowers its rapeseed harvest, the report said. Indian
purchases of oilseeds will increase after June, when domestic
crushing slows, the report said.  Prices Peaked  Prices of vegetable oils have peaked and are expected to
consolidate and decline, Murali Krishna P.V., chief executive
officer of TransGraph, said in an interview on March 4.  Palm oil will average between 3,300 and 3,400 ringgit
($1,123) a ton for the next three to four months, and will drop
to about 2,900 ringgit in that period because of improving
weather conditions and a better outlook for soybean crops and
supplies, he said.  There will be an overall increase in plantings of soybeans
and corn “due to tight grain and oilseed balance sheets,”
TransGraph said in the report. “Between soy and corn, we bet
more on corn due to its multi-year stock, encouraging revenues,
strong demand for bioethanol, and there shall be marginal
additions, if any, to soybean crop areas.”  Soybean futures may trade between $11.50 to $14.25 a bushel
in the next three to four months, while  soybean oil  may be
between 43 cents to 59.5 cents a pound. Palm and soybean oils
are substitutes in food and fuel uses, and prices can be
influenced by shifts in energy costs.  Crude Gains  Rising crude oil prices prompted by unrest in the Middle
East have increased the appeal of vegetable oils used in
biofuels. Crude in  New York  increased 0.7 percent to $105.12 a
barrel at 9 a.m. in  Singapore , a 29-month high.  “We see that if crude oil consistently trades above the
$100 mark, it could offset the weak impact emanating from
improving weather, driving the prices back to bullish tones,”
the report said. “With weather and biodiesel demand being the
major trump cards, any supply disruptions during the next season
would fuel edible oil markets.”    Palm oil  futures on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchanges have
averaged 3,737 ringgit this year, and closed at 3,660 ringgit on
March 4. The contract rose 4.1 percent last week.  World food prices climbed to a record in February, the
eighth straight monthly gain, on surging dairy, grain and meat
costs, the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization said
on its website on March 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 