-- 
Poland Shouldn’t Speed Up Rate Increases, Monetary Panel’s Gilowska Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-03-07T13:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/poland-shouldn-t-speed-up-rate-increases-monetary-panel-s-gilowska-says.html
  Poland  shouldn’t accelerate
interest-rate increases because inflation is being driven by
global prices and tax increases while government budget cuts may
hurt economic growth, central banker Zyta Gilowska said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski left the benchmark seven-day rate
unchanged at 3.75 percent this month after raising it by a
quarter point in January, its first increase since 2008. Central
bank Governor Marek Belka said last week that price growth will
slow in the second half after inflation quickened to a 20-month
high of 3.8 percent in January.    Monetary policy  has no impact on the main causes of
inflation,” which can be traced to world commodity prices and
government increases in value-added and excise taxes, Gilowska
said in a March 5 interview. “There is no justification for
speeding up rate increases in such a situation.”  Policy makers around the world are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, driven by surging food and fuel prices.
The  European Central Bank  may raise interest rates next month,
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on March 2.  The zloty, which held its gains after Polish central
bankers opted against raising rates the same day, retreated to a
week-low after Trichet’s comments.  ‘Cautious’ Policy  “The reaction was short-term, but not sustained,”
Gilowska said. “It’s difficult to make the case for drastic
zloty depreciation as our currency has the potential to
appreciate on productivity gains, since we have low wage
pressure correlated with high unemployment.”  The Polish central bank has adopted a “cautious” rate
policy that has had “no direct impact” on the zloty’s exchange
rate, Gilowska said.  Poland’s 10-member Monetary Policy Council rejected motions
to increase  interest rates  at five monthly meetings from August
to December. Gilowska supported a motion to increase rates by 50
basis points in August, then switched sides and opposed rate
increases at subsequent meetings, according to voting records
published today by the central bank.  Voting tallies for the January meeting, when rate setters
backed a quarter-point tightening, may be published no earlier
than March 20, according to the central bank law.  Three-month forward-rate agreements that investors use to
fix interest rate costs or wager on changes in borrowing costs
dropped 8 basis points to 4.50 percent after last week’s Polish
rate decision. The agreements rose to 4.55 percent after
Trichet’s March 2 comments and stayed unchanged today.  The zloty traded at 3.9772 per euro at 1:55 p.m. in Warsaw,
little changed from 3.979 on Friday.  ‘Serious Trouble’  Central bankers should avoid“hasty reactions” as the
government plans to narrow the  budget deficit  from an estimated
7.9 percent of gross domestic product last year, she said.  Poland will narrow the shortfall to the European Union
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product next year, Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said on March 2. Two days later, Prime
Minister  Donald Tusk  said the country would meet the goal in
2013.  “Deficit reduction at that pace could cause serious
trouble for the economy and we’d see what a real recession
means,” Gilowska said. “The plan is unrealistic. Still, some
genuine budget consolidation has to be undertaken.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net 
NI EUROPE
NI INF
NI FRX
NI GFX
NI CEN
NI MMK
NI POLAND
NI EEU
NI EM
NI ECO
NI RP
NI EXCLUSIVE 