-- 
Poland’s M&A Market Will Match or Exceed 2010 Totals, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-07T13:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/poland-s-m-a-market-will-match-or-exceed-2010-totals-deutsche-bank-says.html
  Poland ’s mergers and acquisitions
market this year will meet or exceed the value of transactions
in 2010,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  forecasts.  “The focus of investors on Poland is much stronger” now,
Miklos Kormos, head of  investment banking  for central and
eastern Europe, said on March 2 in an interview at the bank’s
Warsaw office. “Poland stands alone for a number of reasons,
which include economic performance, the size and the potential”
of the country.  Turkey  is the only comparable country, he said.  The value of Polish transactions quadrupled to $19 billion
last year compared with $4.6 billion a year earlier, according
to Bloomberg data. Deutsche Bank, the No. 2 organizer of
transactions in Poland last year, advised Bank Zachodni WBK SA,
the Polish lender that Allied Irish Bank Plc is selling to Banco
Santander SA in the biggest transaction of 2010.  Unlike some of its rivals, the German lender doesn’t expect
the finance industry to be the main source of deals, looking
instead to state asset sales, Polish companies expanding
elsewhere in eastern  Europe  and private-equity purchases.  Still, the banking market remains “appealing” to
investors, and sales “will be successful if they happen,”
Kormos said.  So far this year Deutsche Bank has advised Raiffeisen Bank
International AG on its purchase of EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA’s
Polish business, a deal worth 490 million euros.  In other deals, Deutsche Bank is also helping Bank
Gospodarki Zywnosciowej, known as BGZ, which may sell shares
this year. The deal is moving at “full speed now” and “there
has never been better momentum for BGZ,” Kormos said.  Deutsche Bank is also advising a bidder for Polkomtel SA,
Poland’s second-largest mobile phone operator, a sale that
“could be the biggest leveraged acquisition in Europe this
year,” Kormos said, declining to name the client.  Last year’s transactions included participation in the 1.25
billion-euro ($1.75 billion) deal that ended Vivendi SA’s
dispute with Deutsche Telekom AG over the ownership of Polska
Telefonia Cyfrowa Sp. z o.o., a Polkomtel competitor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  