-- 
Policy Makers in U.S. Should Work to Reduce Budget Deficit, Survey Shows

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/policy-makers-in-u-s-should-work-to-reduce-budget-deficit-survey-shows.html
Lawmakers in the U.S. should aim to
reduce federal spending and streamline the  tax code , according
to a semiannual survey by the National Association for Business
Economics released today.  While two-thirds of the group’s 263-member panel said they
support a more restrictive fiscal policy over the next two
years, 71 percent expected no “meaningful reform,” the group
said in a statement. Containing health-care costs in Medicare
and Medicaid was the best way to reduce the gap, followed by
comprehensive  tax reform  and revamping Social Security, the
group said.  “The respondents expressed concern about rising fiscal
deficits, and are eager for the president and Congress to curb
federal spending,” the Washington-based economists’ group said
in the statement.  The panel said it supported comprehensive changes to the
tax code that reduce marginal tax rates while eliminating
credits and deductions. More than two-thirds favored allowing
expensing of investment in plant and equipment, while
eliminating the deductibility of interest on corporate income
tax returns, the statement said.  Sixty-two percent of panelists said the  Federal Reserve ’s
plan to purchase up to $600 billion in Treasuries was good for
the economy and most said it should continue through to its
planned termination in June. Sixteen percent said the Fed’s
unconventional easing policy had hurt the economy.  Seventy percent of the respondents said  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the two largest purchasers of mortgage debt, should
“ultimately” be privatized.  Forty percent said they believed inflation posed a greater
risk to the economy than deflation, while 18 percent said
deflation was the primary near-term threat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  