-- 
Pound Weakens as ECB Is Forecast to Raise Its Rates Before Bank of England

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-07T16:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/pound-approaches-five-week-low-versus-euro-before-home-data-boe-decision.html
The pound fell against the euro for
a fourth day on speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise
interest rates before the  Bank of England .  Bank of England policy makers will maintain the U.K. rate
at 0.5 percent on March 10, according to the estimates of all 61
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told reporters last week that the Frankfurt-based
central bank may raise rates at its April meeting. “There is,
amongst central bankers, a solid unity of purpose to continue to
anchor solidly inflation expectations,” Trichet said today in  Basel ,  Switzerland , after chairing the Global Economy Meeting.  “It looks now that the momentum is with the ECB and that
is going to be the first central bank to tighten,” said
Elizabeth Gregory, a Geneva-based market strategist at ACM
Advanced  Currency Markets . “The strength that we’ve seen in the
euro has been accelerated by Trichet’s comments and in contrast
to that the U.K. economy has had to suffer through some pretty
bad data, so at the moment the pound just hasn’t had any extra
fuel to add to its fire.”  The pound weakened 0.3 percent against the euro, to 86.225
pence, as of 4:32 p.m. in London, after reaching 85.717, the
strongest this month. Sterling was 0.2 percent weaker at
$1.6224. Earlier it strengthened to $1.6342.  U.K. interest rates will rise in June according to sterling
overnight index average forwards data from Tullett Prebon Plc.  ‘Slow and Steady’  Rate increases will probably come at a “slow and steady”
pace starting in the next quarter to prevent soaring inflation
from becoming embedded in the “national psyche,” the  Confederation of British Industry  said today.  Britain’s currency has gained 3.9 percent against the
dollar this year amid speculation the nation’s central bank will
need to raise  interest rates  to curb price rises. Soaring food
and energy costs helped to push inflation to 4 percent in
January, the most since November 2008.  “The yield differential is the major driver of currency
markets at the moment,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubihsi UFJ Ltd. in London. “My sense is
that the pound could strengthen into the Bank of England
meeting, but it’s unlikely to extend those gains after the
meeting unless the BOE surprises and tightens policy.”  The U.K. said it’s appointed Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Managing Director Ben Broadbent to replace  Andrew Sentance  as an
external member of the Monetary Policy Committee after his term
ends on May 31.  Split Votes  Ten-year U.K. government bond yields were one basis point
higher at 3.64 percent. The 4.75 percent security maturing in
March 2020 fell 0.06, or 60 pence per 1,000-pound ($1,623) face
amount, to 108.485. Two-year yields were two basis points lower
at 1.38 percent.  Policy makers were spilt, with three of nine voting for a
rate increase, at the central bank’s most recent meeting, on
Feb. 10, minutes released on Feb. 23 showed. Gilts have handed
investors a loss of 1.3 percent this year, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries lost 0.4 percent and German
debt, the euro-area’s benchmark securities, lost 2 percent, the
indexes show.  Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, which manages
68 billion pounds of bonds, expects gilts to decline further as
investors bet interest rates will increase.  “There’s more to go, there is more for yields to rise,”
Mark Connolly, head of fixed income at Scottish Widows, said in
an interview in Edinburgh on March 2. Gilts “are not yet
cheap,” he said, in the interview published today.  U.K. house prices fell in February, according to the median
estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The number
of real-estate agents and surveyors saying prices fell exceeded
those seeing gains by 26 percentage points in February, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors is forecast to say
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  