-- 
U.K. Government Supports Prince Andrew’s Role as Trade Envoy

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-07T13:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/prince-andrew-s-role-as-u-k-trade-envoy-in-doubt.html
Prince Andrew performs a
“valuable” role promoting British business and has full
government support, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman
said after media criticism of the prince’s overseas links.  “We fully support Prince Andrew in his role as trade
envoy,” Steve Field told reporters in London today. “He’s made
a very important contribution to U.K. trade through that role
and continues to do so. We aren’t reviewing that role in any
way.”  Field was speaking after Business Secretary Vince Cable
said it’s up to Prince Andrew, whose official title is the Duke
of York, to decide whether to continue in his unpaid role as
 U.K. special representative for international trade and
investment  after criticism of his business links and the cost of
his foreign trips.  Cable said he found no fault with the prince’s actions as
trade envoy and that he has “played a very positive role”
since taking over the job in 2001 from the Duke of Kent, who had
performed it since 1976. The business secretary said he doesn’t
know the truth about “speculative stories” in the media about
the prince’s links with Jeffrey Epstein, a jailed American
financial adviser.  “He is a volunteer, he has offered to perform this role,
it’s up to him to judge the position he wants to be in,” Cable
told  BBC  Radio 4’s “Today” show. “There are conversations
that will take place with him about what he’ll do in the future,
but that’s simply a matter of managing the relationship.”  Prince’s Links  The prince has attracted criticism in the British media and
from the opposition  Labour Party  for his relationships with
Epstein, who was imprisoned in 2008 for soliciting prostitution,
and with Saif Al-Islam Qaddafi, a son of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , as well as for the cost of his trips abroad promoting
British trade.  “We should be dispensing with his services; the charge
list is so long, he’s a bit of an embarrassment,” Labour
lawmaker Chris Bryant told the BBC. Bryant said a recent trip to
Latin America cost the government 130,000 pounds ($212,000), and
the prince had taken six staff, more than if he had been a
minister.  The prince speaks at events and carries out visits to
promote U.K. business around the world and market Britain as
a destination for investment, according to UK Trade &
Investment, a government agency.  ‘Unique Position’  “The duke’s unique position gives him unrivalled access to
members of royal families, heads of state, government ministers
and chief executives of companies,” the  website  says. “He is
able to reaffirm the importance the U.K. attaches to bilateral
relationships at the very highest levels; to lobby on behalf of
British business.”  The U.K. government meets the prince’s expenses and he is
not paid for the role, Field said. The prime minister sees trade
as an important part of the government growth strategy, he said.  “We think he makes a valuable contribution and so does
British business,” Field said. “His contribution to U.K. trade
has been recognised by British companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  