-- 
Libya Rebels Push to Regain Town as NATO Weighs No-Fly Zone

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-03-08T21:25:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/qaddafi-s-airstrikes-on-rebels-spur-nato-discussions-of-libya-no-fly-zone.html
Libyan rebel fighters prepared an
offensive to regain a town lost to Muammar Qaddafi’s forces as
the U.S. and its allies stepped up discussion on imposing a no-
fly zone that may help the insurgents win the civil war.  Opposition forces are seeking to recapture Bin Jawad, about
110 miles (160 kilometers) east of Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte,
after pulling out in the face of reinforced government troops,
Khaled el-Sayeh, a coordinator between the fighters and their
ruling council in Benghazi, said by phone. Qaddafi’s forces hit
rebels in the area today with rocket barrages and airstrikes,
the  Associated Press  reported.  Rebel officials asserted their fight is going well,
contradicting news reports today that Qaddafi’s forces were
advancing in places such in Zawiyah, which has been the rebel-
held city nearest the capital, Tripoli.  “We have triumphed, we have prevailed. And it’s only a
matter of time,” rebel council spokesman Abdulhafid Ghoga told
reporters in Benghazi today. “When mercenaries stop coming in,
and the planes, we will liberate the other cities, including
Tripoli.”  While there was no letup in fighting, crude fell from a 29-
month high in New York as members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries discussed holding a special
meeting on increasing production. Crude oil for April delivery
dropped 42 cents to settle at $105.02 a barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  ‘Full Spectrum’  President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  in a telephone call today discussed international
actions to stop attacks on Libyan citizens, the White House said
in a statement. They agreed to start planning a “full spectrum
of possible responses,” including military surveillance,
humanitarian aid, enforcement of an arms embargo and imposition
of a no-fly zone, according to statements from the White House
and Prime Minister’s office.  “They agreed that the common objective in Libya must be an
immediate end to brutality and violence, the departure of
Qaddafi from power as quickly as possible and a transition that
meets the Libyan peoples’ aspirations,” the White House
statement said.  Artillery Sites  Air strikes yesterday around the ports of Ras Lanuf and
Brega and the nearby desert area of Al Agaila didn’t inflict any
losses on the rebels, and mostly targeted artillery
installations, el-Sayeh said.  Qaddafi lacks adequate ground troops to put down a national
uprising, which explains his use of air strikes, said a member
of the opposition movement.  Mahmoud Jebril, who belongs to the National Transition
Council based in the eastern city of Benghazi, said today that
Qaddafi relies largely on “security brigades” led mainly by
his sons and loyal officers.  “Those brigades are not big in numbers, but they are well
trained,” Jebril told a group of European Parliament members in
Strasbourg,  France . “Those forces cannot be enough to put down
any uprising. The scope is a nationwide revolution. Out of the
10 big cities in Libya, seven are under the control of the
revolution.”  No-Fly Zone  Jebril called for foreign powers to impose a no-fly zone to
ground Qaddafi’s warplanes while stressing that they should
avoid “direct” military intervention in the country.  Qaddafi’s military has made forays into Zawiyah without
taking control, Mustafa Gheriani, spokesman for the rebel
fighters, said today in an interview in Benghazi. Qaddafi’s
forces carried out air strikes on Zawiyah yesterday and it was
being besieged today, el-Sayeh said.  Earlier, the Associated Press, citing a witness who
declined to be identified on concern over reprisals, said
Qaddafi loyalists recaptured Zawiyah after heavy shelling, and
that Libyan army tanks and vehicles were roaming the streets and
firing at homes.    Al Jazeera  television said that Qaddafi asked a former
prime minister, Jadallah Azzuz Talhi, to negotiate a safe
departure for himself and family members. Qaddafi’s son Saadi
ruled out any such deal in an interview with Al Arabiya
television, and it was also rejected by the rebel council.  The rebels’ “demands are clear: No negotiations,” said
Ghoga, the rebel council spokesman.  ‘Stop the Carnage’  Rebel representatives met with Italian officials in
Benghazi and are awaiting “an advanced position from  Italy  to
support the revolution,” Ghoga said. The U.S. also may be
considering sending a delegation to Libya, he said without
saying where he received the information.  He said a UN-imposed no-fly zone would settle the conflict
in the rebels’ favor.  “We expect the UN to impose no-fly zone, that’s the least
they can do to stop the carnage,” Ghoga said.  Hague said told reporters in  London  today that a no-fly
zone over Libya is a “realistic, practical possibility,”
though it will need international support and a legal basis to
operate.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization defense ministers are
due to meet March 10 and 11 in Brussels to discuss Libya. The
U.S. ambassador to NATO, Ivo Daalder, said the alliance is
stepping up surveillance of Libyan airspace with radar planes,
and “will be in a position to know what it would take to do a
no-fly zone” toward the end of this week.  GCC Call  The six Persian Gulf states of the Gulf Cooperation Council
called on the UN to impose a no-fly zone over Libya to protect
civilians, the group’s Secretary-General, Abdul Rahman Al Attiyah, said in  Abu Dhabi  after a meeting yesterday. The Arab
League today delayed its planned meeting on  Libya  by one day, to
March 12.  The UN and 17 aid organizations appealed yesterday for $160
million to provide food, water, medicine and shelter for 400,000
people escaping the violence and another 600,000 inside the
country.  The Libyan revolt is the bloodiest in a wave of popular
uprisings in the Middle East in the past two months that have
toppled Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak . There have also been anti-government
demonstrations in Yemen, Bahrain, Jordan,  Algeria ,  Iran , Iraq
and Oman, calling for moves toward democracy and action to
improve  living standards .  Protests resumed in Yemen today with tens of thousands
calling for the immediate resignation of President Ali Abdullah Saleh. Police fired on protesters in the capital, Sana’a, Al
Jazeera reported, without stating the number of casualties.  Gulf leaders meeting this week are debating a financial aid
package for Bahrain and Oman, which have both seen demonstrators
killed in clashes with security forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  