-- 
Qaddafi Escalates War Against Rebels as Libya Fight Deepens

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-03-07T15:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/qaddafi-escalates-war-to-block-rebels-advance-as-libyan-conflict-deepens.html
Libyan troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  used artillery and helicopter gunships to block rebels
from advancing west from the oil hub of Ras Lanuf toward the
leader’s hometown of Sirte.  Rebel fighters withdrew from Bin Jawad, 110 miles (160
kilometers) east of Sirte, after battling reinforced pro-Qaddafi
troops, said Khaled el-Sayeh, a coordinator between the
opposition’s military forces and its interim ruling council in
Benghazi. Nine rebels and two of Qaddafi’s soldiers were killed
in the fighting, he said. The rebels said today they will bring
in reinforcements from the east, the  Associated Press  reported.  Clashes during the past two days have become more deadly as
the rebels moved along the Libyan coast toward Tripoli and
government troops escalated their effort to retake Misrata and
Zawiyah, opposition-held cities near the capital. Oil rose for a
second day and has surged more than 25 percent since the start
of the conflict in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer.  There were air strikes against the oil port of Ras Lanuf on
the Gulf of Sidra, seized by the rebels on March 5, and
government troops under air cover were seen headed toward the
town, Al Arabiya reported. Ras Lanuf has a tanker terminal that
exports about 200,000 barrels of oil a day. It also contains
Libya’s biggest refinery, with a capacity of 220,000 barrels a
day, more than half the country’s total output, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  Misrata Fighting  Opposition forces drove pro-government troops back to the
outskirts of Misrata late yesterday, Abu Moad, a resident, said
by telephone. Earlier, Qaddafi’s forces broke through the rebel
lines, he said. Al Arabiya reported that 40 people were killed
in the Misrata fighting  Oil rose to the highest in 29 months in  New York  as
escalating violence in Libya renewed concern that supply
disruptions may spread through the Middle East. Crude for April
delivery increased 33 cents to $104.75 a barrel at 9:45 a.m. on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures touched $106.95, the
highest intraday price since Sept. 26, 2008. The contract is up
29 percent from a year ago. Dubai’s benchmark index closed 1
percent lower, extending its drop this year to 16 percent.  ‘Prudent Planning’  NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said world
leaders won’t stand if the Libyan regime escalates violence
against rebels, while any action probably would have to be
mandated by the  United Nations Security Council .  “I can’t imagine the international community and the  United
Nations  standing idly by if Qaddafi and his regime continue to
attack their own people systematically,” the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization chief told reporters today in Brussels.
“NATO has no intention to intervene in Libya, but as a defense
alliance and security organization, our job is to conduct
prudent planning for any eventuality.”  Both Zawiyah and Misrata remained in opposition hands after
being shelled by Qaddafi’s forces, rebel council spokesman
Abdulhafid Ghoga said at a news conference yesterday in
Benghazi. Qaddafi has hired mercenaries from  Chad , Somalia,
Niger, and  Mali , Ghoga said. Qaddafi’s son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi
denied using foreign fighters during an interview on Al Jazeera.  General Abdul Fattah Younis, who resigned as interior
minister on Feb. 23 to join the opposition, said on  Al Arabiya 
that the rebels control 90 percent of the country and that
Qaddafi’s regime will fall in three days. State television
accused rebels of using civilians as human shields.  Rebel Committee  The opposition forces, based in Benghazi at the eastern end
of the Gulf of Sidra, have set up a steering committee. Its
three members are Omar Hariri, who was jailed in 1975 for his
role in a failed effort to topple Qaddafi; Ali al-Issawi, an ex-
diplomat; and Mahmoud Jibril, former head of a leading Libyan
research organization.  More than 150,000 people, most of them foreign workers,
have fled Libya to neighboring Egypt and  Tunisia  since Feb. 19,
creating a crisis in the border areas, the UN refugee agency
said on March 1.  The U.S., U.K. and  France  said they were  sending aircraft 
to deliver humanitarian aid and to help evacuate refugees. Four
U.S. military flights yesterday transported 328 evacuees from
Tunisia, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said.  The U.S. is considering military options to support the
anti-Qaddafi forces, though any such operation “has to be an
international effort,” President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff,
William Daley, said yesterday. U.S. politicians including
Senators John McCain and John Kerry have called for a no-fly
zone to be imposed over Libya to halt Qaddafi’s air attacks.  UN Special Envoy  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon yesterday appointed former
Jordanian Foreign Minister Abdel Ilah al-Khatib as special envoy
to Libya and tasked him with holding “urgent consultations”
with Libyan authorities on issues including humanitarian aid,
the UN said.  The Libyan revolt is the bloodiest in a wave of popular
uprisings in the Middle East in the past two months that have
toppled Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak.  At least 52 people were wounded in anti-government protests
in Yemen yesterday, according to  Al Jazeera . The violence came
as tens of thousands of protesters continued their calls for the
immediate resignation of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  Bahrain Protest  In Bahrain, where at least seven protesters have been
killed in clashes with security forces in the past three weeks,
Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa said there is “70 to
80 percent consensus” on a plan to engage with the opposition.
Protests have been led by the country’s Shiite Muslim majority,
which is demanding that the Sunni ruling family takes steps
toward democracy.  Authorities in Sunni Muslim-led  Saudi Arabia , who face
complaints of discrimination by their Shiite minority, yesterday
released Shiite cleric Tawfiq al-Amir, who was arrested last
month for calling for a constitutional monarchy and equal
rights, according to two Shiite activists. A protest to demand
the cleric’s release was held on March 4 in al-Hofuf in Eastern
Province. Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, is an
absolute monarchy that doesn’t typically allow public displays
of political dissent.  Saudi Arabia may escape the wave of regional unrest, along
with other smaller energy-rich monarchies such as Qatar and  Abu
Dhabi , the credit-rating company  Standard & Poor’s  said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal at   ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  