-- 
Rabo India’s Mudgil Says Higher Incomes Boosting Dairy Demand

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-07T05:53:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/rabo-india-s-mudgil-says-higher-incomes-boosting-dairy-demand.html
Shiva Mudgil, a dairy analyst with
the Indian unit of Rabobank International, comments on the
outlook for milk production and demand in  India , the world’s
biggest producer of the commodity.  Mudgil made his comments by e-mail in response to questions
from Bloomberg News.  On the outlook for milk demand:  “Milk consumption has been growing at a very healthy rate
of 5 percent. The organized sector, which handles 20 percent of
the total milk in India, is growing at 20 percent. Growth in
packed liquid milk has been a major driver in the organized
sector’s growth. Supply would play a critical role in the growth
rate of milk-products demand in India.  ‘‘Domestic dairy demand growth has accelerated on the back
of rising incomes,  population growth  and rapid urbanization.
Improved disposable incomes have led to increased share of
value-added products like cheese, yoghurt, ultra-heat treatment
milk on the dining table of a household.  ‘‘The Indian consuming class has been growing consistently
in the last two decades and this has led to improved demand for
value-added food products. For the lower class, consuming no or
very little milk, upgrading to middle class, providing more
liquid milk whether loose or packed, has been the preferred
choice within the food basket. Value-added products like cheese
and UHT milk have been the preferred options within food for a
middle class consumer upgrading to upper-middle or upper class.  ‘‘Milk and milk-products share in urban household’s food
expenditure was 18.4 percent in 2007-2008. We see a continuing
uplift in this share in the coming years. Value-added products
market is still very small and is growing at a strong rate.’’  On milk production:  ‘‘Milk production stood at 112 million tons in 2009-2010
and is expected to be 116 million tons to 117 million tons in
2010-2011. Production may grow at 3.5 percent to 4 percent in
the next five years.  ‘‘We would see a further shifting of consumers from the
unorganized to formal markets, besides strong development in
value-added dairy products. Milk production growth would be
critical to development of growing consumption base in Indian
dairy industry.’’  ---Editors: Ravil Shirodkar, Jarrett Banks  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net ; 