-- 
Rajaratnam Trial May Tarnish Goldman, McKinsey, Spark Suits

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-07T23:20:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/rajaratnam-trial-may-spark-lawsuits-against-goldman-mckinsey-amd-intel.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , McKinsey &
Co. and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  are among the companies that may be sued or
suffer damage to their reputations after witnesses at the trial
of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam describe insider
leaks.  Rajaratnam, 52, goes on trial tomorrow for trading on tips
gleaned from sources inside these and other companies, including
Morgan Stanley,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. If the billionaire native of Sri
Lanka is convicted by a Manhattan jury, U.S. prosecutors may
seek to jail him for more than 10 years.  The companies from which the leaks emanated may find
themselves in court explaining how sensitive data wound up with
traders at Galleon. While the actions of a rogue employee who
leaked tips won’t justify a lawsuit, evidence that a firm’s
executives intentionally gave data to favored traders to
manipulate share price may be grounds to sue a company, said
Mark Rifkin, a  New York  lawyer who represents investors.  “If a company made a decision for whatever reason that it
wanted to make information available to select individuals, that
in my opinion would be unlawful,” said Rifkin, of Wolf
Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP, in an interview. “We’re
paying close attention to the entire insider trading case as it
unfolds because you never know what’s going to happen.”  Largest Crackdown  Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing in a case that is the
centerpiece of the largest U.S. crackdown on hedge fund insider
trading. Prosecutors said he used tips from a network of
traders, corporate officials and colleagues to generate $45
million in profits in a scheme that went on for seven years.  Rajaratnam said his and his funds’ trades were based on
Galleon research and that investment advisers routinely speak to
company insiders in the search for news.  Prosecutors have cited about three dozen companies in which
there were tips, some coming from company employees and some
from workers at professional firms representing the companies.
Proof about the leaks will come from corporate officials, ex-
Galleon traders, and wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s phone calls in
which accused accomplices refer to companies such as Intel and
Broadcom Corp., prosecutors said.  eBay Layoffs  Evidence about Intel and McKinsey will take center stage,
as prosecutors offer testimony from former Intel employee Rajiv Goel and ex-McKinsey director Anil Kumar about alleged tips to
Rajaratnam. Goel, who was an Intel managing director, has said
he tipped Rajaratnam about company earnings. Kumar admitted
leaking news about clients including  eBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s 2008 plan for
layoffs. Rajaratnam sold short eBay shares and earned about
$500,000, prosecutors say.  The case “has McKinsey written all over it,” Rajaratnam’s
lawyer,  John Dowd , wrote in a court filing last month in which
he sought documents from the consulting firm.  Goel and Kumar pleaded guilty and are aiding prosecutors.  There may also be evidence of leaks from a former Goldman
Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  board member, Rajat Gupta,
according to court documents. Gupta, who was managing director
at McKinsey from 1994 to 2003, was sued last week by the
Securities and Exchange Commission for telling Rajaratnam about
earnings at those companies and about a Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
investment in Goldman Sachs.  Prosecutors may call Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  as a witness, according to a person briefed on
the matter. Dowd said he may summon Gupta for Rajaratnam’s case.
Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , calls the SEC claim “baseless.”    Morgan Stanley (MS) , AMD  Other companies will be in the spotlight. Jurors may hear
that an ex-IBM senior vice president, Robert Moffat, leaked news
to Danielle Chiesi, a trader at New Castle Funds LLC, and that
tips to Chiesi made their way to Rajaratnam, according to court
papers. Moffat and Chiesi have pleaded guilty. They’re not
cooperating with prosecutors.  There may be testimony about leaks from ex-Moody’s analyst
Deep Shah, whose information traveled to former Intel employee  Roomy Khan  and then to Rajaratnam, prosecutors say. Shah is a
fugitive. Khan has pleaded guilty and may testify for the
government.  Morgan Stanley and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  might be
tarnished too. Prosecutors said in a court filing that a Morgan
Stanley banker, whom they didn’t name, disclosed details of an
AMD deal to an unnamed person, who told Rajaratnam. Ex-AMD CEO
Hector Ruiz allegedly leaked news to Chiesi, according to a
person familiar with the probe.  The banker has been put on leave. Ruiz hasn’t been charged.  Front Page  “Our position is that we appear to be a victim of an
insider trading scheme,” said  Mike Silverman , a spokesman for
AMD, of Sunnyvale, California. “We’ve been cooperating with the
U.S. Attorney’s Office.”  Evidence of unlawful disclosures may be more than “just
embarrassing” to companies that are required to guard against
such leaks, said Ronn Torossian, Chief Executive Officer of 5W
Public Relations LLC in New York.  “It’s absolutely distracting from the company’s core
mission,” he said in an interview. “A microscopic problem can
very quickly become a bigger problem. These are things that can
very easily end up on the front page of a newspaper.”    Anthony Sabino , a professor at the Tobin School of Business
at St. John’s University in New York, said trial disclosures
will be just “a tiny bump in the road” for the reputations of
the “elite of corporate America.”  Black Eye  “But it will be a black eye for them, nevertheless,” he
said in an interview. “These are corporations who value their
reputations tremendously.”  Rajaratnam is also alleged to have traded on tips in
Clearwire Corp., Polycom Inc., Xilinx Inc., Spansion Inc.,  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , PeopleSupport Inc. and others.    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman; Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley;
Yolande Daeninck, a spokeswoman for New York-based McKinsey; and
Paul Fox, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble, and
Andrew Merrill, a spokesman for Ruiz, declined to comment.
Carrie Kizer, a spokeswoman for Berkshire Hathaway, didn’t
return a call.    Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for Santa Clara-based Intel, and
Jeff Young, a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Akamai, said their firms have been cooperating with prosecutors.
Intel’s cooperation began a decade ago as part of a probe of
leaks by Khan, Mulloy said. Spokespersons for other companies
didn’t return calls or declined to comment on whether they
feared they’d be sued or see their corporate reputations suffer.  Shun Shares  Andrew Stoltmann, a securities lawyer in  Chicago , said
investors may shun companies that can’t keep secrets and that
regulators may scrutinize them.  “That’s a huge FD issue,” said Stoltmann, referring to
Regulation FD, standing for fair disclosure, an SEC rule enacted
in 2000 barring corporate officers from intentionally slipping
market-moving news to favored investors before general
dissemination. “They’re opening themselves up to regulatory
issues.”    Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to
comment.  Rifkin said it is unlikely “but not impossible” that
there will be evidence that a company intentionally leaked
information or failed to adequately guard against leaks by
employees.  ‘Official Duties’  “If a company wasn’t careful, or if executives wanted the
information to get out, they could be responsible,” he said. A
key question would be whether an executive who disclosed tips
was acting “within the scope of his official duties,” he said.  Stuart Slotnick, a white-collar defense lawyer at
Pittsburgh’s Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC, said investors
would have difficulty winning a lawsuit over leaked information.
Still, he said, getting sued and having to defend a suit remains
a possibility.  “It’s unlikely a company would be held liable for the
actions of a rogue individual unless its shown the company knew
or should have know about the disclosures or the company didn’t
take precautions,” he said. “But in this country, if there’s
an accusation of wrongdoing, there will be a lawsuit.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 