-- 
Rajaratnam Criminal Trial Begins With Jury Selection in Manhattan Court

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-08T20:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/rajaratnam-jury-questionnaire-asks-about-anti-wall-st-bias-1-.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s criminal trial began today with about 110 potential
jurors assembling in  Manhattan  federal court to answer questions
about their views of Wall Street, hedge-fund managers and the
recession.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  today read items from a
15-page questionnaire to 40 of the potential jurors, who are
drawn from eight counties in  New York  state. In most cases,
people who responded “yes” to a question were called to the
bench to answer further queries in private.  “As we all know, a lot of people on Wall Street make a lot
of money,” according to the questionnaire, which Holwell
disclosed yesterday. “Does anyone think that evidence about
wealthy individuals and multimillion-dollar transactions will
make it difficult for you to decide the case fairly?”  The judge excused two potential jurors based on their
answers to that question. Others were excused because of health
problems, information they had heard about the case or personal
stock holdings. Jury selection will continue this afternoon.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund  insider trading  in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-
fund traders. He may spend as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted of fraud.  He denies wrongdoing and has argued that investment
advisers routinely speak to company insiders as they do
research.  Crowd Murmurs  Holwell elicited a murmur from the group when he said the
trial would last 2 1/2 months. The judge has said previously
that of the 300 people summoned for jury duty in the case, half
had been excused for hardship reasons. Prosecutors and defense
attorneys are to select 12 jurors and 6 alternates from the
remaining pool.  In the courtroom, there was a row of two tables for the
defendant and the seven lawyers who accompanied him today.
Rajaratnam sat at the far left of the second table, as far away
from the jury box as possible. In the first row were his lead
lawyers,  John Dowd  and Terence Lynam of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer
& Feld LLP. The government team consists of six people, at least
three of whom are assistant U.S. attorneys.  Witness List  At today’s proceeding, Holwell read out a list of potential
witnesses who may be called and subjects that may be discussed
during the trial. The list included Rajaratnam’s two brothers,
as well as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein, former McKinsey & Co. managing partner and
Goldman board member  Rajat Gupta , and former  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
employee Rajiv Goel. Goel has said he tipped Rajaratnam about
Intel’s earnings.  The questionnaire asks about potential jurors’ views on the
financial industry and the recession.  “Of course, many of us have been hurt by the recession and
we all have opinions as to whether someone is to blame for it,”
the questionnaire says. “Does the fact that the case involves
the financial industry,  Wall Street  executives,  hedge funds ,
mutual funds and the like, make it difficult for anyone to
render a fair verdict?”  Holwell’s questionnaire also asks potential jurors about
their views on insider trading and regulatory and criminal
prosecutions of such cases: “Does anyone have any feelings, for
or against the insider trading laws that would make it difficult
to render a fair and impartial verdict?”  Heritage Questions  The questionnaire probes potential jurors’ feelings about
Americans with an Indian or South Asian heritage: “Is there
anything about this fact that would affect your ability to be
impartial?”  Holwell initially rejected using such a questionnaire. Last
week, defense lawyers argued that prospective jurors should be
questioned about bias in light of a civil action filed March 1
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission against Gupta
accusing him leaking stock tips to Rajaratnam.  The SEC alleged that Gupta provided inside information to
Rajaratnam, including news of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
$5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs and Goldman Sachs
earnings, as well as earnings at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
Prosecutors said at a March 4 hearing that Gupta was “a
conspirator” with Rajaratnam in the insider-trading scheme.  “These allegations first made by the SEC are totally
baseless,”  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s lawyer, said in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  