-- 
Rand Strengthens to a Seven-Week High as Gold, Oil Gain, Reserves Increase

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-07T15:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/rand-declines-on-bets-south-africa-will-keep-selling-currency.html
The rand gained to a seven-week high
against the dollar as gold advanced after rising violence in  Libya  boosted oil to a 29-month high, stoking inflation concern,
and as South African reserves climbed the most in 11 months.  The currency appreciated as much as 0.5 percent to 6.9132
per dollar, the strongest since Jan. 14, before trading 0.1
percent up at 6.8699 by 4:39 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the
euro, the rand added less than 0.1 percent to 9.6133.  Gold rose as much as 1.2 percent to $1,444.95 an ounce, and
oil climbed 2.4 percent to $106.95 a barrel as fighting
increased between Libyan rebels and troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi , reducing the nation’s crude-oil output by as much as 1
million barrels a day, the  International Energy Agency  said.
Gross reserves rose 4 percent to $47.3 billion in February from
the previous month, as the central bank boosted foreign currency
purchases and the dollar weakened, raising the value of holdings
in other currencies, the Reserve Bank said on its website today.  Rising  oil prices  “could again translate into broad-based
dollar weakness as a result of further fears that the  European
Central Bank  would need to hike its lending rates well before
the  Federal Reserve  due to the inflationary implications of high
oil prices” and are a “potential catalyst for renewed rand
strength,” Standard Bank strategists, led by Johannesburg-based
Michael Keenan, wrote in a report today.  The central bank purchases may “re-inspire rand bulls,
because it would imply that the rand has been strong despite
ongoing dollar purchases from South African authorities,” the
strategists said.  Rand Strength  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on March 3 said the
central bank may boost its benchmark rate from a record-low 1
percent when policy makers meet in April because of quicker
inflation. The Federal Reserve’s target rate for overnight loans
between banks is in a range from zero to 0.25 percent.  The rand has climbed 6.1 percent against the dollar since
Feb. 15. The currency strengthened 11 percent in 2010, the best
performer among more than 20 emerging-market currencies against
the dollar after  Malaysia ’s ringgit. That’s helped to keep
inflation inside the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target range, enabling the bank to lower its benchmark interest
rate to a 30-year low of 5.5 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  stepped up foreign-currency purchases
after the rand’s appreciation last year reduced the
competitiveness of  South Africa ’s exports, it said today.  “We do intervene in the markets in order to build our
reserves, not to target the level of the  exchange rate ,”
Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said on Feb. 23. “We do not
have a targeted reserve. We intervene as and when it is
appropriate for us to do that.”  Bonds Decline  South Africa’s benchmark 13.5 percent security due
September 2015 fell for a third day, losing 21 cents to 120.852
rand and raising the yield give basis points to 7.92 percent.  Gold and platinum account for about a fifth of South
Africa’s export revenue. The nation, with more than $2.5
trillion in mineral reserves, is the world’s richest nation by
“commodity wealth” followed by Russia and Australia, according
to Citigroup Inc.  Trichet, who last week announced the ECB may raise  interest
rates  next month to fight mounting inflation pressures in the
euro area, said today that central bankers in Basel discussed
“spikes” in  oil, food and commodity prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 