-- 
Treasuries Rise as Slide in Asian Stocks Spurs Demand for Safety of Debt

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-07T06:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/treasuries-rise-as-slide-in-asian-stocks-spurs-demand-for-safety-of-debt.html
Treasuries rose, snapping a loss
from last week, as stock declines increased demand for the
relative safety of government debt and  oil prices  at a 29-month
high threatened to slow economic growth.  Investors outside the U.S. boosted their holdings of
longer-maturity Treasuries to the highest level since the credit
markets froze in 2008, helping curb rising yields amid concern
inflation is accelerating. Investors trimmed bets for the
Federal Reserve to raise  interest rates  this year, futures
contracts show.  “The flight to quality favors U.S. Treasuries,” said Zeal Yin, who buys  U.S. debt  for Shin Kong Life Insurance Co. in
Taipei,  Taiwan ’s second-largest life insurer with the equivalent
of $50.6 billion in assets. “Rising oil prices may make profits
decline at large-scale companies. It’s not good for the  U.S.
economy .” Yin purchased U.S. government securities last week,
he said.  Ten-year yields fell two basis points to 3.48 percent as of
6:11 a.m. in  London , according to BGCantor Market Data. The
3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 rose 1/8, or $1.25
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 7/32. The rate increased eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, last week.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.1 percent, the
first decline in three days.  Crude for April delivery rose as high as $106.39 a barrel,
the most since September 2008, as fighting between Libyan rebels
and troops loyal to Muammar Qaddafi intensified.  Libya  is  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer.  Overseas Investors  International buyers held 90 percent of their $4.44
trillion of  U.S. government debt  in notes and bonds as of
December, the same as in September 2008 when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed,  Treasury data  released last week show.  The ratio dropped to 83 percent in October 2009 as
investors sought the safety of Treasury bills with the U.S.
economic recovery still in question.  The shift toward long-term debt shows bond buyers outside
the U.S. agree with  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
assessment that inflation will be contained even as global food
and energy prices soar.  There is a 33 percent chance the Fed will raise U.S.
interest rates from almost zero in December, compared with 47
percent a month ago, according to CME Group Inc. exchange
futures.  The Fed is  scheduled  to buy $5 billion to $7 billion of
Treasuries maturing from September 2013 to February 2015 today
as part of its plan to pump $600 billion into the economy.  Treasury Losses  Treasuries have still handed investors a 0.4 loss this year
as the economy showed signs of improvement, based on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. An index of bonds around the world
dropped 0.3 percent, the figures show.  The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks returned 4.6
percent in the period, including reinvested dividends.  U.S. retail sales advanced 1 percent in February, following
a 0.3 percent gain in January, according to economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department releases the
figures March 11.  The Treasury plans to sell $32 billion of 3-year notes
tomorrow, $21 billion of 10-year securities the following day
and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on March 10.  “There’s an upward bias to yields,” said  Peter Jolly ,
Sydney-based head of market research for the investment-banking
unit of National Australia Bank Ltd., the country’s largest
lender. “The large amount of supply in an economy that looks to
be recovering will put a floor under yields.”  Ten-year rates will rise to 4 percent by year-end, he said.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, was 2.51 percentage points, about two basis
points away from a 32-month high.  An index of investor sentiment toward Treasuries through
March held at the highest level this year, based on a survey by
Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc. The gauge was 49 for the week ended
March 4. A figure less than 50 indicates investors expect prices
to decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 