-- 
Relations Between China, U.S. Enjoy `Good Atmosphere,' Momentum, Yang Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-07T06:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/relations-between-china-u-s-enjoy-good-atmosphere-momentum-yang-says.html
  China ’s relations with the U.S. are
being carried out in a “good atmosphere,” recovering after a
year in which tensions damaged ties between the world’s biggest
economies, Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said.  Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping, in line to become
China’s next head of state, will make a trip to the U.S. after
his counterpart  Joseph Biden  visits China this summer, Yang told
reporters at Beijing’s Great Hall of the People today.  Relations between the two countries soured early last year
after the U.S. announced a $6.4 billion arms sale to  Taiwan ,
President  Barack Obama  met with the  Dalai Lama  at the White
House, and the U.S. criticized China over its restrictions on
the Internet. Chinese President  Hu Jintao  met Obama in  Washington  in January, where the two leaders  agreed  to “work
together to build a cooperative partnership.”  “The presidents of the two countries have chartered the
course for the future development of China-US relations,” Yang
said. “What we need to do now is to seize the momentum and
build on the progress.”  China last week announced plans to increase defense
spending 12.7 percent this year to 601.2 billion yuan ($91.5
billion). The improved military capabilities of the country with
the world’s biggest army have heightened concern in the U.S. and
the region over its goals.  Carrier Killer  Vice Admiral David “Jack” Dorsett, the head of U.S. Navy
intelligence, said Jan. 5 the Pentagon had underestimated the
speed at which China has developed and fielded a ballistic
missile that may be capable of hitting a maneuvering U.S.
aircraft carrier. A Chinese fighter that may have radar-evading
stealth capabilities flew a test flight in January during a
visit by U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  Tensions rose last year after the U.S. announced in January
the plan to sell missiles, helicopters and ships to Taiwan.
China broke off bilateral military-to-military talks until late
last year ahead of Gates’ visit to Beijing and Hu’s state visit
to the U.S. in January.  “It is an objective reality that China and the  United
States  have some differences or even frictions over some
issues,” Yang said. “What’s important is to properly handle
these differences on the basis of mutual respect. We firmly
oppose the U.S.’s arms sales to Taiwan.”  Taiwan Ties  The U.S. is committed to arming Taiwan by law, while China
regards the island as an inviolable part of its territory, to be
reunited by force if necessary.  China’s defense spending, the world’s second biggest, is
still a fraction of U.S. outlays. The Pentagon is requesting
$671 billion for fiscal 2012, starting Oct. 1, $37 billion less
than this year’s request. U.S. analysts say China’s actual
defense spending is much higher, because the announced figures
may not include international arms purchases and other expenses.  Military ties also suffered after armed confrontation on
the Korean peninsula. U.S. officials including Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  have pushed China to rein in its ally
after two attacks killed 50 South Koreans and the North unveiled
a nuclear enrichment facility. A month after China’s top foreign
policy official State Councilor Dai Bingguo met  Kim Jong Il  in
Pyongyang, the North Korean regime on Jan. 8 sought
unconditional talks.    North Korea   Tensions escalated last March after 46 South Korean sailors
died in the sinking of the Cheonan warship, blamed on a North
Korean torpedo. In November, the North shelled a South Korean
island, killing four people.  China fought with North Korea in the 1950-1953  Korean War 
against U.S.-led forces. In October, Chinese General Guo Boxiong
visited the North to mark the 60th anniversary of China’s entry
into the conflict, noting the shared fight against “imperialist
aggression.” Kim visited China twice last year, with a May trip
to Beijing weeks after the sinking of the Cheonan.  China has refused to blame North Korea for the sinking,
saying it hasn’t seen enough evidence. The North denies any
involvement, claiming the U.S. and its allies fabricated the
case to justify a “war of aggression.” North Korea also hasn’t
apologized for the shelling of Yeonpyeong Island, saying it was
retaliating for South Korean infringement of its waters.  The U.S. has resisted China’s calls to resume multinational
talks including Russia, Japan and North and  South Korea , saying
leaders in Pyongyang shouldn’t be rewarded for provocations.  ‘Even Harder’  “It is important for all the parties to work even harder
for the resumption of six-party talks,” Yang said.  Yang said he “didn’t notice any signs of tension in the
domestic situation in China,” responding to a question about
heightened security and the physical assaults and detentions of
foreign journalists.  In the past two weeks, China has deployed thousands of
police to cities across the country, including Beijing, Shanghai
and Guangzhou, to head off online calls for rallies inspired by
the revolutions in Tunisia and  Egypt . A Bloomberg News reporter
was repeatedly kicked in the face, torso and legs by
plainclothes men on Feb. 27 in Beijing while reporting at one of
the rally points.  “There is no such issue as Chinese police officers beating
foreign journalists,” Yang said.  Yang said the world, including developed countries, should
focus on China’s economic accomplishments, including more than
three decades of economic growth averaging 10 percent a year and
successfully navigating the global financial crisis, instead of
looking for political divisions.  “The people ask themselves what is the secret of China in
making all these accomplishments?” Yang said. “Maybe we can
spend more time studying this.”  --Michael Forsythe. Editor: Ben Richardson  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +8610-6649-7580 at
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  