-- 
Republican Ensign to Announce He Won't Seek Re-Election to Senate in 2012

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-07T21:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/republican-ensign-to-announce-he-won-t-seek-re-election-to-senate-in-2012.html
U.S. Senator  John Ensign , a Nevada
Republican who was investigated by the Justice Department
following his extramarital affair with a former campaign aide,
announced today that he won’t seek re-election next year.  Ensign in a statement apologized to his family, staff and
supporters for the “pain” caused by his affair, and he said
his opting not to run again was “the most difficult decision of
my life.”  “I do not want to put my family, those that I care about,
or this state through what would be a very ugly campaign that
would ultimately cause a great deal more pain than has already
been felt as a result of my actions,” Ensign said.  First elected to the Senate in 2000, Ensign was a member of
the chamber’s Republican leadership when he disclosed in June
2009 that he had had an affair with the campaign aide. The  Justice Department  in December said Ensign was no longer a
target into a probe of whether a severance payment he made to
the aide was an illegal  campaign contribution . The Senate’s
ethics panel is still looking into allegations stemming from
matter.  Third Republican  Ensign, 52, is the third Republican senator to decide to
retire from office rather than seek re-election in 2012.
Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison, 67, of Texas and Jon Kyl, 68, of
Arizona made similar announcements earlier this year.  Democrats Daniel Akaka, 86, of  Hawaii ; Jeff Bingaman, 67,
of  New Mexico ; Kent Conrad, 62, of  North Dakota , and Jim Webb,
64, of Virginia have said that they won’t run again next year,
as has independent Joe Lieberman, 68, of  Connecticut , who
caucuses with the Democrats.  Ensign’s decision avoids a potentially divisive Republican
primary in which the two-term incumbent was seen as having
little chance to win the nomination, said  Nathan Gonzales ,
political editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report.
Gonzales said possible candidates for the Republican nomination
include U.S. Representative Dean Heller, who has been leading
Ensign in polls.  “It’s a headache avoided for Republicans,” said Gonzales,
who rates the seat “Lean Republican.”  Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the chairman of the National
Republican Senatorial Committee, said the Nevada race “will now
come down to a clear choice” between a Republican nominee’s
vision for smaller government and a Democrat “who believes in
keeping our country on the same reckless fiscal path of more
government and higher taxes.”  ‘Ripe’ for Democrats  Guy Cecil, executive director of the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, said the seat remains “ripe for Democratic
pickup.”  “Whoever Republicans field as their candidate will have a
tough time holding onto this seat,” especially with President  Barack Obama  “at the top of the ticket” seeking re-election,
Cecil said in a statement.  Ensign, a former veterinarian and hotel manager, was
elected to the  House of Representatives  in 1994. In 1998 he ran
unsuccessfully for the Senate against incumbent Democrat  Harry Reid , now the chamber’s majority leader. Two years later, Ensign
won an open Senate seat. He headed the  National Republican
Senatorial Committee  in 2007 and 2008, and then was chairman of
the Senate’s Republican Policy Committee. He gave up that post
when he acknowledged the affair after the woman’s husband went
to Fox News with an account of the relationship.  Investigations of Ensign came after Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonpartisan group
known as CREW, complained about the matter to the Senate ethics
panel after Ensign disclosed the affair with Cynthia Hampton.  Outside Counsel  The panel earlier this year announced appointment of
outside counsel to review whether Ensign violated federal law
and Senate rules in the $96,000 payment made to Hampton. Such
inquiries are conducted whether “substantial credible
evidence” exists of an ethics violation, according to the
committee’s Feb. 1 statement.  CREW urged the panel to investigate allegations by the
woman and her husband, a former top aide on Ensign’s Senate
staff, that they were dismissed from their jobs because of the
affair and were paid severance. The group alleged, in part, that
a $96,000 payment to Cynthia Hampton by Ensign’s parents may
have amounted to an illegal contribution to the senator’s
campaign.  The New York Times reported in October 2009 that Ensign
helped Douglas Hampton secure business as a lobbyist for two
companies whose executives had made donations to the senator’s
political causes. Douglas Hampton lobbied Congress and federal
agencies even though he was barred from doing so within a year
of leaving his job on Ensign’s staff, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  