-- 
Tribune Creditors Open Bankruptcy Court Dispute Over Buyout

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-03-07T21:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/tribune-creditors-open-bankruptcy-court-dispute-over-buyout.html
Tribune Co. creditors began a court
fight today over a plan to reorganize the bankrupt newspaper
publisher by shifting $1.57 billion in losses onto lenders led
by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey is faced with choosing
between two reorganization proposals for Tribune during a two-
week hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware , a process one attorney
involved compared to “water torture.” Tribune’s newspapers and
television stations have plunged in value since a 2007 leveraged
buyout and are now worth a little more than half the $13 billion
the Chicago-based company owes, according to court documents.  Disputes over the LBO led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell  have pitted holders of about $2.5 billion in debt from
before the buyout against lenders owed more than $10 billion for
funding the deal. JPMorgan and other lenders now are seeking
immunity from a proposed lawsuit by the rival creditors that a
court-appointed examiner concluded the lenders may lose if it
went to trial.  “This has been a long, ugly bankruptcy fight,” said
Marshall Sonenshine, chairman of Sonenshine Partners LLC, the
New York-based investment bank that arranged the bankruptcy
auction of the Philadelphia Inquirer newspaper last year.
“These companies are not thriving in this process.”  Tribune owns eight newspapers, including the  Los Angeles
Times  and the  Chicago Tribune , with a combined daily circulation
of 1.9 million last year. The company’s 23 TV stations include
sites in  New York ,  Chicago  and  Los Angeles .  ‘Like Water Torture’  The fighting between the two groups of creditors “is
really like water torture,” said bankruptcy attorney James O.
Johnston, who represents a hedge-fund that owns part of the
buyout debt. “When will it stop?”  “Brother, you’re telling me,” Carey responded as the
hearing began.  Carey said after lawyers for the two sides made their
opening statements for and against the two plans that once he
hears all the evidence, he may decide to reject both proposals.  “What then?” Carey asked, without giving either side a
chance to answer.  The lenders and noteholders are backing competing plans to
distribute $6.75 billion in new stock, cash and new loans to
Tribune’s creditors. Both would keep Tribune intact once it
exits bankruptcy. The biggest differences are over how to
resolve allegations that the 2007 buyout caused Tribune’s
insolvency by loading it with debt that couldn’t be repaid.  Specialized Debt Securities  Pre-buyout creditors, mainly noteholders and a group that
owns specialized debt securities, want to sue the LBO lenders,
company officials including Zell, and Tribune’s former owners,
who collected $39 a share for their stock.  Zell, who has objected to both plans, resigned as Tribune’s
chief executive officer in 2009 and remains chairman. He claims,
through one of his companies, to be a creditor owed $235
million.  The noteholder group is led by hedge fund Aurelius Capital
Management LP and Wilmington Trust Co., an agent for investors
who hold exchangeable subordinated debentures issued by Tribune
in 1999. Under their plan, a litigation trust would sue the
lenders, accusing them of moving forward with the buyout while
knowing the loans would make Tribune insolvent.  Their plan calls for putting as much as 65 percent of
Tribune’s stock into a trust overseen by a board and a trustee
appointed by Aurelius, according to court records. The stock
would be distributed once the main buyout lawsuit ends, based on
who wins.  57 Percent Chance  The lender lawsuit may bring more than $1.57 billion to
non-LBO creditors, Aurelius said in court papers while
predicting a 57 percent chance of victory. If Aurelius wins, the
lenders wouldn’t recover anything until the pre-buyout creditors
are repaid all $2.5 billion they claim they are owed.  On July 27, bankruptcy examiner Kenneth N. Klee released a
report that bolstered the pre-buyout creditors’ position. The
second part of the LBO, completed in December 2007, was
vulnerable to a court challenge, Klee concluded. Tribune filed
for  bankruptcy protection  one year after the buyout.  No matter which plan is approved by Carey, the lenders will
ultimately get the majority of Tribune’s new stock, according to
Aurelius.  Competing Plan  JPMorgan, based in New York, is sponsoring Tribune’s
competing plan, along with two  hedge funds  that hold buyout
loans -- Angelo Gordon & Co. and Oaktree Capital Management LP.
Under that plan, Tribune and its official creditors’ committee
agreed not to sue the lenders for arranging and funding the
buyout loans. In return, the lenders agreed to give other
creditors, including noteholders, more than $400 million in
cash. Aurelius and other pre-buyout creditors would lose a total
of more than $2 billion as a result.  Tribune’s plan would allow recoveries to be distributed
more quickly. While the main buyout lenders would have immunity
from lawsuits, a creditors’ trust would still pursue dozens of
cases against Tribune officials, including Zell, and some former
shareholders.  Delaying distribution of the stock would harm the company
because it leaves ownership “in limbo,” said attorney James
Sottile, who represents the official committee of unsecured
creditors, which supports the JPMorgan plan.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  