-- 
Trichet Says Central Banks Have ‘Unity of Purpose’ on Inflation

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-03-07T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/trichet-says-central-banks-have-unity-of-purpose-on-inflation.html
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , speaking on behalf of the world’s major
central bankers, comments on inflation threats, economic growth
and global imbalances.  He made the remarks after chairing the Global Economy
Meeting at the  Bank for International Settlements  in Basel,  Switzerland , today.  On inflation:  “There is, amongst central bankers, solid unity of purpose
-- this is not new -- to continue to solidly anchor inflation
expectations and this is an element, which is considered by all
of us that this is important.”  “There is a unity of purpose. And this is crystallizing in
solidly anchoring inflation expectations.”  “What is clear is that it is in the emerging economies you
see strong signs of inflationary threat, that is absolutely
clear.”  “In the advanced economies we are all looking at avoiding
second-round effects and anchoring inflation expectations.”  “We will continue to solidly anchor inflation
expectations. That doesn’t mean we take the same decisions.”  “We see clearly that there are inflation threats that are
particularly visible in the emerging countries. There you really
have an issue of inflationary threats. Colleagues are all very
keen to anchor inflation expectation, which for all central
banks is of the essence.”  “We will consolidate confidence of the economic agents, of
households and all those taking decisions.”  On  oil prices :  “We concentrated on the prices themselves and the
evolution of prices. It was the angle of supply and demand. We
are in an environment where we have a spike in the price of oil,
commodities and food. That’s something that’s not new but under
the present circumstances more acute. But we didn’t address
directly the issue of geopolitical phenomena that are
unfolding.”  “The additional tensions that have been observed
particularly in the prices of oil and energy are adding
importance to the message we had in January. That’s true for the
global economy as a whole.”  On global growth:  “In the view of the Global Economy Meeting, growth is
confirmed. The recovery is confirmed at a relatively robust
pace. Growth remains largely driven by emerging countries’
growth, which is dynamic, and by the confirmation of recovery at
the level of advanced economies. Emerging  Asia  is especially
dynamic. It is clear that at the level of the global economy
that we see this feature, but uncertainty remains.”  On fiscal policy:  “We consider it important that fiscal policies remain
sound.”  On reducing global imbalances:  “We all consider that in the medium- to long-term
perspective, it is very important that we have a rebalancing of
macroeconomic imbalances.”  “Of course, it’s work in progress. We consider that the
efforts of the various economies should continue.”  “We should not lose momentum and continue to work very,
very actively in the medium term to reduce these imbalances in
line with global diagnosis.”  “It is very important not to lose momentum. It is one of
the preconditions for sustainable growth and job creation at the
global level.”  On ECB policy:  “I had already given all the explanation at a press
conference last week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Basel  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Basel at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  