-- 
Romney Can’t Withstand Obama’s Kiss of Death: Kevin Hassett

-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 
2011-03-07T00:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/romney-can-t-withstand-obama-s-kiss-of-death-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
The 2012 presidential campaign is
finally stirring to life, with would-be Republican candidates  Haley Barbour  and Mike Huckabee musing about whether  Mitt Romney 
should be disqualified by similarities between Massachusetts’
Romneycare and Obamacare.  As if on cue, President  Barack Obama  defended his health-
care overhaul in remarks to the nation’s governors by
associating it with Romney’s, an embrace the former
Massachusetts governor surely could do without.  How Americans perceive Romney’s health legislation is
shaping up to be an important influence on whether he sinks or
swims in his expected second bid for the presidency. Since
Republican primary voters will be driven by a desire to repeal
Obamacare, Romney needs to make a convincing case that what he
did in Massachusetts is different -- maybe even a model for how
to change what Obama enacted nationally.  If Romney can’t make that case, his road to the Republican
nomination will make an Everest climb look like a Sunday stroll.
The facts suggest he has a steep path ahead of him.  Romney’s 2006 remake of health care in  Massachusetts 
represented an attempt to provide universal health coverage
without a full government takeover of the industry. Its central
feature is an individual mandate, requiring all citizens to
purchase health insurance if they can afford it. Those who don’t
face steep fines. Sound familiar?  The rationale for the mandate was that it would end the
free-rider problem posed by uninsured people relying on
emergency care (which by federal law must be provided) in lieu
of health coverage.  Connecting the Uninsured  The plan established subsidized health coverage through a
so-called connector, for people who don’t make enough to
purchase insurance but are not eligible for Medicaid. Because
the newly insured could then afford to see doctors in their
offices, the plan promised to reduce health spending, since a
doctor visit is much cheaper than a trip to an emergency room.  Governor Romney did veto certain sections of the bill,
including a fee for businesses that don’t provide insurance to
employees, coverage for “special status aliens” and the creation
of a public health advisory council to determine what benefits
must be included in insurance plans. Each of his eight line-item
vetoes was overridden by the legislature. Romney subsequently
proclaimed that even with a legislature that was 85 percent
Democratic, he still got 95 percent of what he wanted.  Romney has insisted that the Massachusetts plan is
“entirely different” from Obama’s. A comparison of the two plans
uncovers key similarities.  Legal Linchpin  Both plans impose government-designed purchasing exchanges
that augment government control of health care and include the
individual mandate, which has become the linchpin of Republican
legal challenges to Obamacare.  By contrast, the differences on which Romney hangs his
presidential viability strike me as few and relatively minor.
They include the fact that the 70-page Massachusetts bill,
unlike its much lengthier federal counterpart, didn’t raise
taxes on individuals and businesses or authorize trillions in
new spending.  Nor can Romney rest his laurels on quantifiable results.  On the plus side, the implementation of Romneycare has
increased the percentage of insured Massachusetts residents to
an estimated 97 percent, but these gains have come at a
tremendous cost to taxpayers and patients. About 75 percent of
the newly insured have coverage that is largely or completely
subsidized by taxpayer money through the state’s Medicaid and
Commonwealth Care programs, according to figures  compiled by  the
Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority.  Longer Waits  Another troubling repercussion of the new program has been
its effect on the quality of medical care. The average wait time
for new patients to see a primary-care physician has risen to 53
days, according to the  Massachusetts Medical Society , which
represents doctors. That has led to increased emergency-room
visits.  In addition, insurance premiums have increased, suggesting
that curing the free-rider problem brought no net cost savings.
This is likely because the previously uninsured are seeking care
much more often now that their insurance can foot the bill.  Romney often emphasizes that the biggest difference between
his reform and Obama’s is that his applied only to the people of
Massachusetts (as if somehow that’s a governor’s choice). He
adds that the way to fix America’s tough problems is to let
states experiment and innovate and learn from each other.  Failure on Display  The irony is that Romney is right about this: Obamacare
will be much easier to repeal precisely because Massachusetts
went first and failed so miserably.  To his credit, Romney was humble about the reform when he
pushed it, recognizing early on that such complex legislation
would have to be revised after its effects became clear.  “Will it work? I’m optimistic, but time will tell,” Romney
wrote in a 2006 Wall Street Journal op-ed. “Legislative
adjustments will surely be needed along the way.”  I suspect the hyper-competent Romney would have fixed
problems as they emerged if he hadn’t stepped down after one
term at the start of 2007. Regardless, the right fixes haven’t
been enacted, and the Massachusetts overhaul is looking like an
unmitigated disaster.  The Massachusetts experience shows us how bad it would be
for the U.S. if Congress doesn’t repeal Obamacare. When it does
go down, Romney will indirectly be responsible. Being the first
to drive off a cliff, however, hardly qualifies one for the
White House.    Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the  American Enterprise Institute , is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  