-- 
TRUenergy May Spend $10 Billion by 2020 on Renewable, Gas-Fired Plants

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-07T07:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/truenergy-may-spend-10-billion-by-2020-on-renewable-gas-fired-plants.html
TRUenergy Holdings Pty, the
Australian electricity supplier owned by  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , said
it may invest as much as A$10 billion ($10 billion) in new gas-
fired  power plants  and renewable energy projects by 2020.  Australian electricity providers, including Sydney-based  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  and  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , may spend an estimated
A$31 billion on new power generation by 2020, Richard McIndoe,
managing director of the CLP unit, said in Sydney today.  Power investment in  Australia  depends on the “right”
government policies to set a price on carbon emissions, he said.
“The emphasis is on punishment, rather than incentives,” he
said. “You’ve got to incentivize people.”  Australia, which burns coal to generate more than 80
percent of its electricity, plans to impose a price on
greenhouse gas pollution starting in July 2012 in preparation
for a trading system that could begin as early as 2015, Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  said last month. A cap-and-trade program
would give power plants, factories and other polluters a “very
strong” incentive to curb emissions, Gillard said last month.  TRUenergy will need to “invest a lot more” and an initial
public offering for the Australian unit is an option to help
fund expansion, Andrew Brandler, chief executive officer of Hong
Kong-based CLP, said in September.  While an Australian share sale is “one of the options”
for the Melbourne-based power company, it has “no immediate
plans” for a listing, McIndoe said in an interview today.  Carbon Policies  Continued uncertainty about what policies the government
will introduce to tackle climate change threatens investment in
new power stations, he said in a speech in Sydney earlier today.  “We need the right carbon policy settings -- not just a
carbon price,” according to McIndoe.  TRUenergy in December agreed to buy New South  Wales  state
electricity assets, including retailer  EnergyAustralia , for
A$2.04 billion, doubling its retail customers in Australia to
about 2.8 million. TRUenergy also bought three generator-
development sites and the rights to trade output from the state-
owned Mount Piper and Wallerawang coal-fired power stations.  TRUenergy’s assets include the Yallourn coal-fired power
station in Victoria state and the Tallawarra gas-fired plant in
New South Wales. The company is also vying for Australian
government funding to develop a solar project and has received
New South Wales approval to build a second gas-fired plant at
Tallawarra that would cost as much as A$330 million.  The  Yallourn station  in the Latrobe Valley, 150 kilometers
(93 miles) east of  Melbourne , supplies 22 percent of Victoria’s
electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 