-- 
Russia Plans $10 Billion Fund to Attract Global Buyout Firms

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-03-07T14:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/russia-plans-10-billion-fund-to-attract-global-buyout-firms.html
The Russian government is setting
up a $10 billion fund aimed at boosting investment by overseas
buyout firms in the country, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.    Russia ’s VEB development bank is working with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. on the fund, which will invest in partnership with
overseas private-equity firms, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the plan hasn’t been disclosed yet. The
government is seeking to lure buyout firms such as  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and Carlyle Group LP to invest in one of the nations
where they are least active, one of the people said.  Leveraged buyout firms have led $1.5 billion of takeovers
this year in Russia, about half the $2.9 billion of investments
announced in  China , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Carlyle, one of the world’s biggest private equity firms, shut
its Moscow office in 2005, a year after opening it, saying the
country was too risky. Carlyle co-founder  David Rubenstein  last
week reiterated that Russia doesn’t provide a good environment
for investments.  “Russia has not proven to be a place where Western private
equity investors can have the returns and realize the profits
commensurate with the risks they’ve had to take,” Rubenstein
said at the Super Return conference in Berlin last week.  Investments in Russia  Ekaterina Karasina, a Moscow-based spokeswoman for VEB,
didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking comment. A Goldman
Sachs official in  London  declined to comment. VEB Chairman
Vladimir Dmitriev said on March 1 the bank was in talks with
funds including  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte and China
Investment Corp. to jointly finance investments in Russia.  Among the top global LBO firms, only  Fort Worth , Texas-
based TPG Capital is active in the country. TPG partnered with
VTB Capital, the investment arm of Russia’s second-largest bank,
to buy 35.4 percent of superstore chain 000 Lenta. The investors
are embroiled in a legal dispute with Svoboda, Lenta’s largest
shareholder, over the control of the retailer.  The Financial Times reported the setting up of the Russian
fund earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net 
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  