-- 
Santulli’s Milestone May Raise Debt to Build Helicopter Lessor

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-03-07T11:40:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/santulli-s-milestone-may-raise-debt-to-build-helicopter-lessor.html
Milestone Aviation Group, which
leases helicopters to oil-and-gas explorers and law-enforcement
agencies, has completed $205 million in transactions since its
creation six months ago and may raise $600 million in debt in
the next year or so, Chairman Richard Santulli said.  Santulli formed Milestone with $500 million in equity after
leaving his post as head of  Warren Buffett ’s NetJets Inc. in
mid-2009. He said Milestone has bought $141 million in equipment
and committed to $64 million more as it builds a business
providing helicopter leases and funding private jet purchases.  Santulli turned to helicopters after stepping down in 2009
as chairman and chief executive of NetJets, which lets customers
buy flight-hours across a fleet of jets. He created NetJets in
the mid-1980s and sold it to Buffett in 1998, leading the
company until 2009, when he quit following losses amid a
recession.  “We haven’t done any leverage yet, so we have a lot more
firepower,” Santulli, 66, said in an interview. “All our deals
have been done with equity so far. We’re probably looking at
another $500 million to $600 million, in debt.”  Among Milestone’s purchases are five Sikorsky S-76C++
helicopters that the Dublin-based company signed for in December
and only announced yesterday at a helicopter trade show. The
helicopters are set for delivery in the second half of this
year. Sikorsky is a unit of United Technologies Inc. Milestone
has also bought helicopters from  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s
AgustaWestland unit and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.’s Eurocopter.  Customers so far include Aeroservicios Especializados SA
(Asesa) of  Mexico ; CareFlite in the U.S.;  Global Vectra Helicorp
Ltd. (GVH)  of  India ; Helijet International Inc. of  Canada ; and Omni
Taxi Aereo in  Brazil , he said.  Milestone’s initial $500 million of equity last August came
from U.S. private-equity firm Jordan Co., together with Nautic
Partners. Santulli, Milestone CEO William Kelly and other co-
founders also have invested.  While the majority of the business is helicopter leasing,
Milestone also helps finance private jets.  Santulli  ran Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s equipment-leasing business until 1980, and
later formed a helicopter-leasing business that by 1986 owned
191 helicopters. He wound down that business when he bought the
predecessor to NetJets.  Santulli said he intends to expand the business to build a
multibillion-dollar company and isn’t looking to sell Milestone.  “I’m not a flipper,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  