-- 
Sasol Boosts Dividend as Oil Gain, Cost Control Lift Profit

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-03-07T15:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/sasol-first-half-profit-rises-21-on-cost-controls-oil-1-.html
  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuels made from coal, raised its first-half dividend by 11
percent as oil price gains and cost controls increased profit.  The increase to 3.10 rand a share reflects “the improved
market and economic conditions,” Johannesburg-based Sasol said
in a statement today. Net income rose to 7.6 billion rand ($1.1
billion) in the half through Dec. 31 from 6.3 billion rand.  Sasol, South Africa’s largest company by sales and market
value, will spend 23 billion rand on acquisitions and projects
this year and 31 billion rand in 2012 to take advantage of
rising demand and prices for fuel. Average crude  oil prices  in  New York  rose 12 percent in the period from a year earlier.  The company is also expanding abroad after earnings were
crimped in recent years as a surge in the South African rand
reduced sales. A proposed $8.8 billion coal-to-fuel project in  China  by Sasol and partner Shenhua Ningxia Coal Industry Group
Ltd. was approved by the Chinese environmental ministry,
according to a posting on the ministry’s website.  Sasol is studying a 48,000 barrel a day gas-to-fuel plant
in  Canada , and a 30,000 barrel a day plant in  Uzbekistan . The
company is often paid in dollars while paying costs in rand.  The company gained 0.7 percent to 386.99 rand at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, giving it a market value of 248 billion
rand. The currency strengthened 7.5 percent to average 7.11
against the dollar in the period.  Investment at Home  Sasol is spending 8.4 billion rand expanding wax plants, 8
billion rand sinking shafts to access new coal reserves and 7.8
billion rand boosting synthetic fuel output in  South Africa .  Earnings excluding one-time items, a gauge used by analysts
who track Sasol, climbed 22 percent to 12.97 rand a share.  Costs will be contained within “inflationary levels” for
the full year, the company said. Sasol is targeting synthetic
fuel output of 7.2 million metric tons after it fell 7.5 percent
in the first half as the company’s South African coal-to-fuels
plant had its biggest ever planned maintenance outage, it said.  The company uses proprietary technology to make gasoline,
diesel and jet fuel from coal it mines in South Africa and from
natural gas from below the ocean floor near  Qatar . Sasol shifted
the focus of future investment to gas last year, betting it will
be a less costly raw material than coal.  Sasol acquired a stake in Talisman Energy Inc.’s Canadian
shale-gas assets for C$1.05 billion ($1 billion) this year and
said it will complete a feasibility study into a motor-fuels
plant in the country in the second half of next year. It’s also
looking for shale gas in South Africa in a venture with
Chesapeake Energy Corp. and Statoil ASA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 