-- 
Saudi Arabia's `Day of Rage' Lures Record Bets on $200 Oil: Chart of Day

-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-03-07T08:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/saudi-arabia-s-day-of-rage-lures-record-bets-on-200-oil-chart-of-day.html
Options traders are betting more
than ever that crude oil is heading to $200 a barrel as some
websites call for a “Day of Rage” in  Saudi Arabia  and anti-
government protests spread in the Middle East and North Africa.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows open interest, or the number of
outstanding contracts, for “call” options to buy New York
crude for June delivery at $200 a barrel. The number has
escalated, along with crude futures, to the highest since the
options started trading in July 2009 amid worsening civil unrest
in Libya and rare demonstrations in Saudi Arabia.  “If you look at the volatility and increase in money for
call options in the last month or so, it does suggest that
market participants are now more worried about the upside,”
said Yingxi Yu, a Singapore-based commodity analyst with
Barclays Plc. “People are also quite concerned about protests
spreading across different parts of the region.”  Saudi Arabia produced 9.71 million barrels a day in 2009,
one-third of OPEC output and almost six times as much as  Libya ,
according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.
Websites have called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March
11 and March 20,  Human Rights Watch  said Feb 28. Protests in
five of the kingdom’s eight immediate neighbors have prompted  King Abdullah  to boost spending on housing, social welfare and
education to curb unrest in his country.  “The price of oil is going to go up, whether you like it
to or don’t,” said Juerg Kiener, chief investment officer at
Swiss Asia Capital Ltd. in  Singapore . “If Saudi Arabia fails,
then I say you have a fire in the house. They gave out $30
billion of money so maybe they’ll buy time. But I don’t see the
problems disappearing.”    Call options  grant the holder the right, but not the
obligation, to buy a security at an agreed price before a set
date. The $200 June New York crude options expire May 17. Oil
rose to $106.45 a barrel today, the highest intraday price since
Sept. 29, 2008  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Kyoungwha in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  