-- 
Saudi Shares Advance to Two-Week High on Economic Reforms; Dubai Drops

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-07T14:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/saudi-shares-advance-to-two-week-high-on-economic-reforms-dubai-drops.html
Saudi stocks rose to a two-week high
on optimism the kingdom may escape the political unrest sweeping
the region as the government introduces economic reforms and on
speculation government-back funds bought local assets.    Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, gained 2.7 percent, and  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the
kingdom’s biggest lender, jumped to the highest level this
month. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  climbed 3.3 percent to
5,950.74 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, the highest since
Feb. 23. The gauge has gained 12 percent in the past three days,
following a 15 percent decline last week. The Tadawul All Share
Bank Index rallied 5.5 percent.  “Investors are feeling more confident that the kingdom is
less vulnerable to what is happening in the region,” said Amro Halwani, a senior trader at  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  in Riyadh. “The
government is taking fast steps to introduce reforms, and
government-backed funds intervention in the market has put a
floor on prices, at least in the short term, and helped widen
risk appetite amongst retail investors.”  Governments from Jordan to Yemen have offered concessions
to quell public discontent.  Saudi Arabia ’s king last month
announced plans to spend about 110 billion riyals ($29 billion)
on programs aimed at boosting  housing, education and social
welfare.  Standard & Poor’s  said today that Middle East’s biggest
oil exporter may escape the political turmoil in the region and
the outlook for the nation’s credit rating is stable.  Saudi Reforms  The Tadawul has lost 11 percent since Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted in January. Saudi Finance Minister
Ibrahim al-Assaf told Al Arabiya on March 5 that stock prices
are attractive now and the Saudi Public Pension Agency bought
shares last week.  The kingdom’s Labor Ministry is looking into setting a
minimum wage for nationals working for private employers,  Al
Arabiya  television reported on its website today, citing
ministry officials it didn’t identify. The government approved a
legal framework to govern property ownership by nationals in the
six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, Saudi Press Agency reported
today.  “Today we saw hot money rush into banks; the sector has
been a laggard in the recent rally and the catch up was
expected,” Shuaa’s Halwani said. Saudi Arabia is relatively
“under-banked” and the banking industry has the highest growth
potential among the GCC countries, Khalid Howladar, a senior
credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service, said in Dubai
today.  Tunisia Rallies  Saudi Basic, also known as Sabic, advanced to 96.75 riyals,
the highest since Feb. 22.  Al Rajhi  increased 2.1 percent to
72.75 riyals, the highest since Feb. 28.  Tunisian shares rose from a 16-month low as the exchange
opened today after the country’s newly appointed Prime Minister
called for the election of a national council to write a new
constitution following a week-long closure. The benchmark
Tunindex gained 4.2 percent in the capital Tunis.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose 2.6 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
declined 1 percent, while Bahrain’s BB All Share Index gained
0.1 percent. Kuwait’s SE Price Index retreated 0.9 percent and
Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  slipped 0.4 percent. Oman’s  MSM30
Index (MSM30)  lost 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  