-- 
Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi Raise Oil Prices: Persian Gulf Oil

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-07T11:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/saudi-arabia-abu-dhabi-raise-oil-prices-persian-gulf-oil.html
  Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest
oil exporter, raised its official selling prices for all crude
grades to customers in Asia and Northwest Europe for April
shipments and cut prices to buyers in the U.S.  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the state-run producer in the
capital of the  United Arab Emirates , lifted official prices to
30-month highs for crude sold in February and increased the
amount of oil it will supply in April.  The following is a weekly summary of Persian Gulf crude and
product market news and forthcoming events:    Crude Oil   Saudi Arabia’s government-owned producer increased the
formula prices for its Arab Extra Light, Light and Medium crudes
to Asia by 65 cents a barrel, the company said March 5. Arab
Light to  Asia  will sell at the highest since July 2008 at $1.95
a barrel above the average of the Oman and Dubai grades, the two
Gulf benchmarks used by traders.  Aramco set the price for its Extra Light grade for April
loadings for U.S. buyers at a premium of $2.60 a barrel over the
 Argus Sour Crude Index , 10 cents less than for March cargoes.
The price of Arab Light crude to the U.S. will be at parity with
the Argus index, 30 cents a barrel lower than for March.  Aramco this week offered two European refiners additional
cargoes of Arab Light crude for loading this month, officials
involved in the negotiations said. The official prices for light
grades to Northwest Europe and the  Mediterranean Sea  gained as
oil rose and lighter crudes from  Libya  were kept out of the
market because of worsening turmoil in the North African
country.    Saudi Arabia  has said it will supply enough additional
crude to make up for shortages caused by the uprisings that have
cut exports from Libya.  Adnoc, as the Abu Dhabi government’s oil company is known,
raised its retroactive selling prices for cargoes shipped in
February to their highest in 30 months. Murban crude, the
emirate’s largest export grade, was increased 8.4 percent to
$103.60 a barrel, the highest since the August 2008.  Adnoc will boost crude supplies in April on the strength of
demand in Asia and as producers seek to replace lost Libyan
barrels or allow lighter West African crudes to be diverted to
European markets. The company maintained its 10 percent supply
cut for Murban crude, the emirate’s main export grade, while
eliminating reductions in supply of its other grades.  Qatar too raised official selling prices for February.
Qatar International Petroleum Marketing Co., or Tasweeq, is
offering to sell four, 500,000-barrel cargoes of deodorized
field condensate and low-sulfur condensate for May loading from
Ras Laffan. The offer closes March 14.    Iraq ’s oil exports rose last month to their highest since
the 2003 U.S.-led invasion, after shipments resumed from the
country’s northern Kurdish region, said Falah al-Amri, the head
of Iraq’s State Oil Marketing Organization. Exports in February
climbed 2 percent from the previous month to 2.2 million barrels
a day, he said.  Light Products    Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemical maker, is switching to using propane and naphtha
as feedstocks to make up for limited supply of natural gas in
Saudi Arabia, said Mutlaq Al-Morished, executive vice-president
for corporate finance. Sabic and other Saudi petrochemical
producers use mostly ethane because the government provides it
at subsidized prices. Other feedstocks such as propane and
naphtha are more expensive, and companies use fewer of them.  Refineries  Iraq is set to restart a unit at its Baiji refinery, which
was damaged in a terrorist attack Feb. 26. The refinery will
resume production at a unit that was under maintenance, to
compensate for output lost in the attack that damaged two of the
plant’s four crude units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 