-- 
Scor Is Said to Be Lead Bidder for Aegon's Transamerica Re Unit Over RGA

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i
-- 
2011-03-08T14:24:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/scor-is-said-to-be-lead-bidder-for-aegon-s-transamerica-re-unit-over-rga.html
  Scor SE (SCR) ,  France ’s largest reinsurer,
is in talks to buy Dutch rival  Aegon NV (AGN) ’s Transamerica
Reinsurance unit, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  A deal for the U.S.-based business, which had a book value
of 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) as of 2009, may still be
weeks away, said the people, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. Scor has emerged as the
lead bidder over  Reinsurance Group of America Inc. (RGA) , one of the
people said.  Scor Chief Executive Officer Denis Kessler has been seeking
to expand the Paris-based company’s life-reinsurance business,
which helps insurers pool their risks and accounted for about 40
percent of 2010 operating profit. Kessler agreed last month to
sell the company’s U.S. fixed-annuity unit to free up capital
for its “core” life-reinsurance operations.  “We don’t know if Transamerica Re satisfies the
acquisition criteria” of Scor, Kessler said today on a
conference call with reporters. He declined to comment on
whether the company is in talks to buy Transamerica Re. Scor may
consider purchasing assets including mortality reinsurance,
Kessler said. He didn’t name any takeover targets.  Scor may not buy all of Transamerica Re’s assets, one
person said last month. The talks may not result in an
agreement. A spokesman for Aegon declined to comment.  Mortality Assets  Any offer by Scor would “be on part of the portfolio and
essentially targeted on mortality” assets, said Jean
d’Herbecourt, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux in Paris who has
an “outperform” rating on Scor. Transamerica Re’s U.S.
mortality business portfolio has an estimated value of about
$570 million, d’Herbecourt wrote in a Jan. 4 note to investors.  Scor fell 3 percent to 20.43 euros in Paris trading as of
3:13 p.m., valuing the company at about 3.84 billion euros.
Aegon rose 1.7 percent in Amsterdam trading.  Scor today raised its 2010 dividend after reporting fourth-
quarter profit rose 64 percent. The company said it estimates
about 200 million euros of total costs from natural disasters in  Australia  and  New Zealand  this year.  Aegon, trying to pay back a 2008 government rescue valued
at 3 billion euros, said last month it was in talks with one
party on the sale of the reinsurance unit. The Hague-based
company raised 903 million euros in a share sale last month, and
said that the potential sale of Transamerica would cause 2011
underlying pretax profit to be negatively affected.  Sale ‘Flexibility’  Aegon has “flexibility” with regard to the sale of
Transamerica Re, Aegon CEO Alex Wynaendts said last month on a
conference call.  Aegon obtained Transamerica Re as part of the purchase of
San Francisco-based Transamerica Corp. in 1999.  Transamerica Re was the third-largest U.S. life reinsurer
in 2009 with an 18.1 percent market share, trailing
Chesterfield, Missouri-based Reinsurance Group of America and
Swiss Reinsurance Co., according to the  Society of Actuaries .
Scor had a 2.9 percent share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  