-- 
Scottish Widows Says U.K. Bonds to Extend Decline on Interest Rate Outlook

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-07T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/scottish-widows-says-u-k-bonds-to-extend-decline-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
  Scottish Widows  Investment
Partnership, manager of 68 billion pounds ($110 billion) of
bonds, expects gilts to decline further as investors bet
interest rates will increase.  While the Edinburgh-based company bought conventional U.K.
government bonds in recent weeks after prices fell for five
straight months, it remains “some way from being long gilts,”
said Mark Connolly, head of fixed income. Scottish Widows
prefers inflation-linked bonds and company credit, he said.  “There’s more to go, there is more for yields to rise,”
Connolly said in an interview at his office in the Scottish
capital. Gilts “are not yet cheap,” he said.  Scottish Widows, the second-largest money manager in
Edinburgh, expects  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  to lift
borrowing costs more quickly over the next two years than larger
city competitor  Standard Life Investments . Scottish Widows
reiterated its prediction that the central bank will start
raising its benchmark rate in August, while Standard Life has
said the rate will stay on hold for longer.  The Bank of England’s benchmark interest rate has been at a
record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009, while inflation
accelerated to twice its 2 percent target in January.  Policy makers were spilt, with three of nine voting for a
rate increase at the Feb. 10 meeting, minutes released on Feb.
23 showed. Gilts have declined 1.8 percent this year, after
delivering losses from September through January, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Not in Price  “Once rate rises start to happen, we think they’ll happen
more quickly” than investors are anticipating, Connolly said on
March 2. “We’ve got a target of the  base rate  at 3 percent at
the end of 2012, which is a long, long way from where we are
now. That’s not in the curve.”  The median of 30 economists’ predictions compiled by
Bloomberg is for the main rate to rise to 1.5 percent by the end
of the second half of 2012.  Scottish Widows put on trades that benefit from an
underperformance of shorter-dated U.K. bonds relative to those
with longer maturities, Connolly said. Corporate bonds will beat
gilts as economic growth gathers pace, he said.  The company’s biggest mutual fund, the 2.5 billion-pound
Scottish Widows Corporate Bond Fund, rose 5.6 percent in the 12
months to Feb. 25, ranking 59th of 87 similar funds and compared
with an average increase of 6.3 percent, according to data from
Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  ‘Headwinds’  Policy makers are torn as they seek to balance their
mandate to curb inflation with the danger of the economy
slipping back into a recession after the output shrank 0.6
percent in the fourth quarter. Deputy Governor Charles Bean said
last week the recovery “still faces headwinds.”  Connolly’s call is at odds with Standard Life, whose head
of bonds said last month that investors were pricing in too many
increases in  interest rates .  “It’s very difficult to see that type of amplitude of move
going forward,” Euan Munro, who oversees 64.9 billion pounds at
Standard Life, said in a Feb. 10 interview. Government bond
yields would stabilize as the economic growth slowed, he said.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate rose to the highest in two
weeks after King said March 1 that he expected to be writing
letters explaining why inflation is above its 3 percent upper
limit “through the rest of this year.” The breakeven rate is a
gauge of inflation expectations derived from a gap between
nominal and index-linked bonds.  Boosting borrowing costs as a gesture would be “self-
defeating,” King told lawmakers in  London .  The breakeven rate was at 3.25 percentage points last week,
after climbing to 3.28 percentage points on March 3. The rate
increased from 3.06 percentage points on Jan. 4 and the 2010 low
of 2.48 percentage points on Aug. 31.  “There’s more to go” on inflation, Connolly said. “With
what’s priced in the market, breakevens are still attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  