-- 
SEC `Capacity Gap' Risks Oversight Lapses as Regulator's Targets Multiply

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/sec-capacity-gap-risks-oversight-lapses-as-regulator-s-targets-multiply.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is about 400 employees short of what it needs to
manage its current workload, according to a consultant’s four-
month internal review mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The preliminary findings by Boston Consulting Group Inc.
reinforce arguments by SEC officials that the agency is
underfunded and understaffed as it takes on oversight of
derivatives, credit-rating firms and municipal bonds, according
to a draft copy of the report obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Without sufficient human resources, the agency will be
unable to complete the requirements of Dodd-Frank while
maintaining its current activities,” the draft said.  The study said staffing levels had declined since 2005 and
that SEC employees interviewed consistently complained their
departments were understaffed. The “capacity gap” of 375 to
425 employees identified in the report could be partially offset
by shifting managers down to front-line or support roles, it
suggested. The SEC could also resort to a large influx of
temporary workers, the report said.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in Feb. 17 testimony to the
Senate Banking Committee that her agency has been “fully
engaged” with the consultants. She said she expected its report,
which is due March 14, to “identify additional efficiencies for
SEC operations.” The chairman has said her agency needs a
larger budget and eventually 800 more workers to implement the
regulatory demands of Dodd-Frank, the law signed by President  Barack Obama  in July.  Republican Cuts    House Republicans  have proposed cutting federal spending
back to 2008 levels for the rest of the current fiscal year to
help reduce the nation’s budget deficit.  A major spending increase for the SEC “would further the
mindset that our nation’s problems can be solved with more
spending, not more efficiency,” Representative  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey , chairman of the House subcommittee that oversees the
SEC, said in a January statement. “Government agencies must
learn to operate effectively within their budgets.”  The Boston Consulting study said every SEC division is
failing to get to some “potentially high-impact activities”
because of budget constraints.  Stephen Crimmins, a former SEC trial attorney who has been
pushing lawmakers to increase the agency’s budget, said that the
consultant’s report may help it advocate for more money from
Congress.  “Things have changed so fundamentally for the SEC that
they really need a radical reassessment of their needs,” said
Crimmins, now a partner at the K&L Gates law firm in  Washington .  Management Structure  The report noted that the regulatory overhaul dictates the
management structure of the agency in some ways, such as adding
new offices to supervise credit-rating firms and municipal bonds.
Schapiro, it said, will have four more managers when those
offices are up and running, for a total of 24 direct reports.  In comparison,  Gary Gensler , head of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, has 10 direct reports, the consultant said.
“Dodd-Frank reorganizes the SEC without full consideration of
managerial” and other consequences, the report found.  The report also was critical of the SEC employees’ union,
saying its seniority rules could hamper how people are
transferred to new roles. “In some cases, this could mean that
the least experienced employees get reassigned to the most
critical work, as defined by Congress, rather than assigning the
ideal person for the job,” the report said.  Firing Bad Workers  In addition, the union grievance process makes it almost
impossible to fire bad workers, the consultants found. The SEC’s
“involuntary attrition rate” is less than 1 percent per year,
while the federal rate varies from 4 percent to 8 percent, the
consultants said.  “The related complexities increase risk aversion among
managers to consider dismissal as a real option for poor
performance,” the report said. “Frequently managers resolve
this by either enduring poor performance or moving poor
performers to new roles.”  The report also cites poor communication between the agency
and self-regulatory organizations it oversees, including the
3,000-employee Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which
regulates brokerages. It suggests “the SEC could adopt a much
deeper and broader oversight program specially dedicated for
FINRA” and that it needs “multiple and deep lines of defense”
against gaps in Finra regulation.  Finra Oversight  The consulting firm also took a dim view of the SEC’s need
to set up the Office of Minority and Women Inclusion, a
requirement under the law that seeks to increase diversity in
the agency’s contracting programs and on  Wall Street . The unit’s
“functions are largely duplicative, and the creation of a new
office requires additional resources,” the report noted.  The minority office, which the SEC has put on hold citing
budget constraints, also needs to familiarize itself with
federal rules to “avoid illegal diversity practices (eq. quota
setting),” the consultants wrote.  After receiving the consulting firm’s final report, the SEC
will have to issue a series of reports to Congress every six
months documenting how it’s implementing the recommendations.    John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
contents of the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 