-- 
EU’s CO2 Cap Plan Makes Future Supply Unclear, Barclays Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-07T16:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/selling-of-eu-co2-permits-less-heavy-this-year-barclays-says.html
European Union proposals to alter
the number of permits in its emissions trading program may make
future supply less clear,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said.  Plans to set aside as many as 800 million permits in the
next phase of the emissions trading program raises questions
about whether or not the European Commission will attempt to
tighten the cap in the future,  Trevor Sikorski , a London-based
analyst at Barclays said in the e-mailed research note.  The European Commission, the EU regulator, will present a
policy paper tomorrow to map the bloc’s goal for saving energy
and cutting  greenhouse gases  through 2050. Plans to reduce
emissions further by setting aside permits may have been
dropped, according to a draft proposal.  “The European Commission has to choose between the current
limited ambition for the cap and providing market participants
with clarity on the future supply of allowances and level of
scarcity,” Sikorski said in the note.  EU permits for December rose as much as 1.3 percent to
16.02 euros ($22.44) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. They have risen 12 percent so far this year and were
at 15.90 euros as of 3:35 p.m. local time.  Rising prices for EU permits reflect “less heavy” selling
by emitters more than increasing  oil prices , Sikorski said. The
EU’s decision on permits for airlines was in line with
expectations while a ruling on early sales of permits for use
starting in 2013 may also help reduce uncertainty, he said.  The premium of EU permits over United Nations offsets for
December, traded as a separate contract on ICE, widened as much
as 9 cents to 3.99 euros a ton, its biggest gap since the
contracts began trading, exchange data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The spread widened after UN credits rose less than EU
permits on increased supply of credits, which “kept a cap on
gains” Sikorski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  