-- 
Serb Premier Will Also Act as Finance Minister Until Election

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-07T07:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/serb-premier-will-also-act-as-finance-minister-until-election.html
Serbian Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  is taking over the  Finance Ministry  in a shuffled
cabinet, with the ministry focusing on “development” in the
government’s last year.  Cvetkovic will assume responsibilities from  Diana Dragutinovic , the only women ever in  Serbia  to have run the
portfolio. While Dragutinovic was a “great expert, this is a
special moment when we are entering the last year of this
government and a development component must be added to the
Finance Ministry,” he said.  Dragutinovic kept Serbia’s fiscal gap under control
throughout 2009 and 2010 to meet the requirements under the
International Monetary Fund’s bailout loan as the country felt
the pinch of the global recession and the government responded
with budget incentives to prevent deep a economic contraction.  The economy shrank 3 percent in 2009 and grew an estimated
1.75 percent to 2 percent in 2010.  The country’s major challenge is inflation, already higher
than 10 percent, at an annual 11.2 percent in January. The
central bank expects inflation to peak in March or April this
year, before gradually falling to 6 percent, the upper band of a
3 percent to 6 percent target band for the end of 2011.  Cvetkovic spoke live in an interview with B92 TV channel,
after his cabinet issued a statement saying that his shuffled
government will have 17 ministries, down from 24, and 21 members
of the government.  Living Standard Improvements  Following last week’s pledge to focus on improving  living
standards  in a nation where “between 700,000 and 1 million
people are unemployed” and where average wages are no more than
320 euros ($447) per month, Cvetkovic said the government will
work out a plan making banks offer longer grace periods for debt
repayments to more than 900,000 people.  The debt rescheduling is designed to cut monthly debt
repayments by half through new grace periods of up to two years.  “This will simply improve your life. After two years, your
monthly installment will return to normal,” Cvetkovic said.  He said the government will not sell Telekom Srbija AD “at
any cost. Either we get an excellent price or we do not sell
Telekom.” The government has set 1.4 billion euros as a minimum
price for a 51 percent stake.  The new law on ministries, needed for the Cabinet shuffle,
will be debated by Parliament this week. Cvetkovic will address
members of Parliament on Tuesday with a new program. The new law
on ministries will “restrict ways in which members of the
Cabinet will communicate with media,” Cvetkovic said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in London at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  