-- 
Sex Suspension at BYU Is Reason for Celebration: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-07T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/sex-suspension-at-byu-is-cause-to-celebrate-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
The he-had-sex suspension of a
Brigham Young University basketball player, a key contributor to
the team’s success this season, should have idealistic fans of
college sports waving their pompoms.  What we have here, at long last, is an institution of
higher learning acting the part. Pathetically, it’s an all-too-
rare case of a university placing a higher value on values than
athletic glory and the massive payday and promotion that
accompanies winning in these billion-dollar television contract
days.  Turns out that raising championship banners, cutting down
nets and sharing  One Shining Moment  isn’t everything to
everyone. Not even a university whose basketball team -- armed
with one of the best players at the college level, a scoring
machine known as “The Jimmer” -- was well positioned for a No.
1 seed in the NCAA men’s basketball tournament. Was. As in past
tense.  BYU began last week as a legitimate threat to win the whole
shebang. The Cougars were ranked third in the Associated Press
poll, behind Ohio State and  Kansas , on the strength of having
won 27 of their 29 games. And then Brandon Davies, the team’s
leading rebounder, the inside presence every contender needs,
was jettisoned for violating the school’s honor code. For the
rest of the season. No amount of sorry means a second chance.  ‘Who We Are’  It didn’t matter that Davies, a 6-foot-9 forward who’s
known for his soft hands and fleet feet, was integral to the
team’s winning ways. It didn’t matter to coaches or
administrators that removing Davies would allow opponents to
game plan their defenses almost exclusively on Jimmer Fredette,
Division I’s scoring leader. Didn’t matter.  “This is who we are,” said Tom Holmoe, athletic director
at BYU, a private university owned by the  Church  of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.  Some things, to some people, are more important than
scoring more points than the other team, even in the month of
March.  There will be no second chance for Davies, who, according
to the Salt Lake Tribune, had consensual sex with his
girlfriend.  No allegations. No police reports. No ugliness. Just sex,
which at most any other university wouldn’t raise an eyebrow
much less the ire of an ethics review board.  But this is BYU, where the  honor code  includes a host of
bullet points that at most institutions would be considered
nothing more than vices. It reads like this:  Be honest  Live a chaste and virtuous life  Obey the law and all campus policies  Use clean language  Respect others  Abstain from alcoholic beverages, tobacco, tea, coffee, and
substance abuse  Participate regularly in church services  Observe the Dress and Grooming Standards  Encourage others in their commitment to comply with the
Honor Code  This isn’t about religion. It’s about right and wrong and
priorities that have become so screwed up that coaches,
professors and administrators have forgotten their mission
statement.  It’s about easing admissions standards for kids who can
help win games. It’s about changing test scores and bogus
classes where athletes raise their academic standing without
even attending class.  It’s about a must-win system that prompts Tennessee
basketball coach Bruce Pearl to lie to NCAA investigators. It’s
about UConn’s Jim Calhoun emphasizing wins for his basketball
team over rules and regulations.  No Compromise  Countless athletes have been given second and third chances
simply because they can help the team win, which means more
exposure, more money and, history shows, more applications.  BYU wasn’t willing to compromise, though, which is a good
thing.  “We won’t relax the honor code for a situation that has to
do with a basketball player,” Holmoe said.  Imagine that. A school and athletic director whose
principles aren’t malleable, no matter how tempting as the
madness of March approaches.  There’s no sympathy here for Davies, who grew up in Provo,  Utah , and knew the rules when he chose BYU over Gonzaga, Utah
State, Cal, Washington State, Penn State and  Santa Clara , all of
which recruited him.  He chose BYU. All of it.  In their first game without Davies, the Cougars were blown
out, 82-64, by  New Mexico , which had a rebound advantage of 45-
29. Fredette had 33 points, but needed 26 shots.  According to Fredette, Davies apologized to his teammates
(six of whom are married) for letting them down.  “We told him it’s OK,” Fredette said. “Sometimes in life
we make mistakes.”  And sometimes we get it right. BYU did.  (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  