-- 
MSG Maker Ajinomoto May Spend $3.7 Billion on Acquisitions in Three Years

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-03-08T07:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/msg-maker-ajinomoto-may-spend-3-7-billion-on-acquisitions-in-three-years.html
Ajinomoto Co., the Japanese
seasonings maker that first sold monosodium glutamate, may spend
300 billion yen ($3.7 billion) on acquisitions in the next three
years as the company expands overseas.  “We want to beef up our strong areas like  Brazil  and
Southeast Asian countries as well as expand in new markets such
as the Middle East and  Africa ,” President Masatoshi Ito, 63,
said in an interview at the company’s Tokyo headquarters
yesterday. In July, a team directly reporting to Ito will be set
up to study potential purchases and alliances, he said.  The seasonings maker may target overseas foodmakers and
companies doing biotechnology research as it aims to boost
operating profit by 26 percent in three years as Japan’s
shrinking population dampens demand. The company, which earned
about 60 percent of its operating income overseas last year, may
borrow to partly fund its expansion, Ito said.  “Ajinomoto has been rather sleepy in recent years but may
now be waking up,” said Edwin Merner, Tokyo-based president of
Atlantis Investment, which manages about $3 billion in assets.
“They should consider buying smaller companies in  developing
countries  in  Asia , Africa and South America, and then invest and
build them up.”  ‘Being Picky’  Ajinomoto, which means “the essence of taste,” fell 0.8
percent to 917 yen at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. The stock has climbed 8.4 percent this year after
declining annually in the four years through 2010.  “We’re allowing ourselves the luxury of being picky about
which company to buy,” Ito said. “It’s not easy because we are
looking for companies that have high odds of being successful.”  The company made its last acquisitions in 2007. It bought
the 75 percent it didn’t already own in Calpis Co., a Japanese
maker of dairy-based beverages, for 82.5 billion yen. Ajinomoto
also acquired New Season Foods Inc., an Oregon-based supplier of
ingredients for instant soup, and 33 percent of  Yamaki Co. , a
Japanese maker of soup stocks.  Ajinomoto had cash and near cash items of 98 billion yen as
of March 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Among the measures we need to take in order to grow are
acquisitions and alliances,” Ito said. “Our priorities are  Southeast Asia  and  South America  and surrounding areas.”  Cutting Costs  Ajinomoto’s biggest overseas market is Asia excluding Japan,
as the region contributed 15 percent of its revenue and 36
percent of the operating profit in the last fiscal year.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, will rise to 87 billion yen in the 12
months ending March 2014 from an estimated 69 billion yen this
year, Ajinomoto forecast last month. Sales may rise to 1.37
trillion yen in the year ending March 2014 from an estimated
1.21 trillion yen this fiscal year, it said.  Operating profit may increase at least 4 percent next
fiscal year, Ito said. Fermentation and other raw materials
costs may rise by 10 billion yen, he said.  The company, which began selling the food flavoring known
as MSG more than a century ago, expects to cut costs by 7
billion yen over the next three years by introducing a new
production system that uses fewer raw materials, Ito said.  Ajinomoto also makes amino acids used in  animal feed .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  