-- 
Shekel Gains on Bets Rates to Rise As Economy Grows; Bonds Drop

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-03-07T14:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/shekel-gains-on-bets-rates-to-rise-as-economy-grows-bonds-drop.html
The shekel rose to the highest in
two weeks and  government bonds  fell on speculation the pace of
interest-rate increases in  Israel  will quicken amid heightened
concern inflation will accelerate as the economy grows.  Fourth-quarter economic growth, higher commodity prices and
depreciation in the shekel “are expected to lead to an upward
revision of the inflation forecast to around the upper limit of
the target inflation range and to a somewhat faster forecast
rate of increases in the Bank of Israel interest rate,” the
central bank said in minutes of the Feb. 21 rate decision
released today. The central bank staff previously had forecast
2011 inflation of 2.6 percent with a gradual increase in the
interest rate to about 3.3 percent by year end, according to the
minutes.  “The market is expecting a faster rise in interest rates
as inflationary pressures are climbing boosted by a strong
economic environment,” said Shraga Stern, a trader at Union
Bank of Israel Ltd.  The shekel has strengthened 3.1 percent since January,
trimming the decline this year to 2.1 percent. The currency was
up 0.7 percent against the dollar to 3.5980 at 4:31 p.m. in  Tel
Aviv , after earlier increasing to 3.5937, the highest level
since Feb. 21.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the
benchmark lending rate for March to 2.5 percent, the second
consecutive increase, after annual inflation rose to 3.6
percent, exceeding the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target range.  Bonds Retreat  The benchmark Mimshal Shiklit maturing January 2020
dropped, pushing the yield on the 5 percent bond up two basis
points to 5.22 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close, the highest since
December 2009.  “Institutional investors are trimming their positions on
concern about the geopolitical situation and higher interest
rates,” Stern said.  Libyan clashes during the past two days have become more
deadly as those opposing leader  Muammar Qaddafi  moved along the
Libyan coast toward Tripoli and government troops escalated
their effort to retake Misrata and Zawiyah, opposition-held
cities near the capital. Oil rose for a second day and has
surged more than 25 percent since the start of the conflict in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  