-- 
Carso Climbs to the Highest Level Since December as Slim `Unlocking Value'

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-03-07T22:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/slim-s-carso-climbs-to-highest-since-december-as-spinoff-unlocking-value-.html
Grupo Carso SAB, the holding company
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , climbed to the highest
level since December after a spinoff of its mining and real-
estate businesses made it easier to value the conglomerate.  The shares climbed 1.5 percent to 39.61 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City, the highest closing level since Dec.
24, according to historic figures adjusted to reflect the
company’s spinoff value.  “The point of a spinoff is to unlock value that is
intrinsic to the stock, and here again, Carlos Slim was smart
and he was right about unlocking value,” said Walter Hoehler, a
Mexico stocks trader at Ixe Securities Inc. in New York.  Slim, the world’s richest man according to Forbes magazine,
spun off real-estate firm Inmuebles Carso SAB and mining company
Minera Frisco SAB on Jan. 6 in a transaction that gave Grupo
Carso shareholders one share of each new business. All three
companies have gained since the spinoff, even as the country’s
benchmark IPC index dropped 5.4 percent in the period. The gauge
declined 0.8 percent to 36,603.30 today.  After the spinoff, the holding company’s businesses include
the Condumex manufacturing company and retail unit Sanborns.  “These are businesses that have been well-managed, not
just now but for a long time,” said Martin Gonzalez, an analyst
with Invex Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. “The fact that you
don’t have these other types of companies within the
conglomerate makes it easier to see the numbers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  