-- 
South Africa Wool Sales to Resume This Week Amid Foot-And-Mouth Export Ban

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-03-07T14:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/south-africa-wool-sale-to-resume-this-week-amid-export-ban.html
  South Africa ’s wool industry will go
ahead with a weekly auction in Port Elizabeth on March 9 after
canceling last week’s sale because of an export ban on cattle,
sheep, pigs and their products.  The  Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries 
announced on Feb. 28 that it halted exports for at least three
months after about 300 animals tested positive for foot-and-
mouth disease in KwaZulu-Natal province.  Wool exporters decided to go ahead with the sale and
stockpile the wool in containers while they negotiate for a
health certificate from the department, Pierre De-Lange, the
head of marketing at  Cape Mohair & Wool , a wool and livestock
brokerage company, said by from  Port Elizabeth  today.  “Buyers have decided to take it into their own hands,” he
said. “The wool is safe.” The industry is confident it will be
able to clear the fiber for export because it was shorn up to
six months before the outbreak of the virus, De-Lange said.  About 10,800 bales of wool with an estimated value of 65
million rand ($9.5 million) were scheduled to be sold, Ona Viljoen, a spokeswoman for  Cape Wools SA , an industry body, said
in an e-mail today. This wool will now be sold this week, she
said.  “There are buyers who have their wool washed and combed
before export and they insisted that the sale goes ahead,”
Viljoen said. “It’s possible that some of the buyers will buy
and store the wool. World demand for wool currently exceeds the
supply and that is the main driver for the increase in wool
prices over the past few months.”  ‘Greasy’ Wool  About 98 percent of the South African clip is exported, 80
percent of it in an unprocessed form known as ‘greasy’ wool,
Cape Wools said.  The department’s decision to temporarily suspend the
country’s status as free from foot-and-mouth disease means that
no health certificates can be issued for the export of greasy
wool. Processed wool is not affected.  “We decided to postpone the auction to afford buyers the
opportunity to first consult with their clients before any
further decisions are taken,” Paul Lynch, chairman of the Wool
and Mohair Brokers’ Association, said on March 1.  About 290 million rand worth of wool that has been bought
is waiting for clearance certificates for export, Viljoen said.  The Department of Agriculture said on March 3 that animals
tested for foot-and-mouth disease have started showing lesions.
Efforts to determine the furthest point of infection are under
way, the department said on its website.  The South African Police Service and the Road Traffic
Inspectorate are on stand-by to set-up roadblocks to control the
movement of animals, according to the  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 