-- 
South Korea's Won Leads Decline in Asian Currencies on Rising Oil Prices

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-07T08:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/south-korea-s-won-leads-decline-in-asian-currencies-on-rising-oil-prices.html
  South Korea ’s won and the Malaysian
ringgit led declines in Asian currencies on concern rising oil
prices will cool global economic growth and reduce demand for
the region’s exports.  Crude rose to a 29-month high and the MSCI Asia-Pacific
Index of shares dropped for the first time in three days on
speculation investors will slow purchases of higher-yielding
emerging-market assets. A government report today showed
Taiwan’s trade balance shrank to $920 million in February, from
$1.9 billion the previous month.  “Surging oil prices may hurt global economies and that is
bad for Asia as the region depends on external demand,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “Drops in stocks cut risk appetite among investors,
weighing on Asian currencies.”  The won declined 0.4 percent to 1,119.30 per dollar as of 3
p.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
ringgit fell 0.2 percent to 3.0315 and the Philippine peso
weakened 0.1 percent to 43.295.  The won retreated from a two-week high on concern South
Korea’s trade balance will deteriorate as unrest in the Middle
East drives oil costs higher and  China ’s plan to stem inflation
hurts overseas shipments. South Korea is Asia’s fourth-largest
importer of crude and China is the country’s biggest export
market. Premier  Wen Jiabao  told the annual National People’s
Congress in Beijing over the weekend that reining in inflation
is the nation’s top priority.  China’s Inflation Plan  “The Middle East problem has not yet ended and the oil
factor is driving the won lower,” said Sam Hong, a currency
dealer at  Shinhan Bank  in Seoul. “Another big issue is China’s
plan to tackle inflation, which will cap China’s growth. Korea’s
economy is very much influenced by China’s.”  South Korea said  price stability  is the nation’s policy
priority during the first half and economic growth may slow
because of the surge in oil and an outbreak of foot-and-mouth
disease. The climb in other global raw-material prices and
China’s monetary-policy tightening are further risks for the
economy, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance said in a
statement today.  The Bank of Korea may boost its benchmark interest rate to
3 percent from the current 2.75 percent on March 10, according
to all of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Ringgit Retreats  The ringgit slipped from near a 13-year high on speculation
the central bank will leave borrowing costs unchanged this week
to support growth as higher  oil prices  threaten to stoke
inflation.    Bank Negara Malaysia  will keep its overnight rate at 2.75
percent when it meets on March 11, according to eight of 12
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Four predicted an
increase to 3 percent. The currency snapped a two-day gain after
oil extended a three-week rally, putting pressure on the
government’s budget deficit.  “People are more concerned that higher oil prices will
affect subsidy bills and growth,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan,
a currency strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “It looks more likely that policy makers will try to
keep rates on hold to support a recovery.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to
NT$29.426 against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The  Thai baht  rose 0.1 percent to 30.45, while
Indonesia’s rupiah was unchanged from March 4 at 8,789,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s dollar and
the Chinese yuan were little changed at S$1.2665 and 6.5629,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  