-- 
South Korea Targets Wider Asia Bond Sales to Cut Crisis Risk

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-03-07T03:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/south-korea-targets-wider-asia-bond-sales-to-cut-crisis-risk-1-.html
South Korea is seeking to sell bonds
to a broader range of investors, especially within  Asia , to
limit the risk of large, swift investment outflows triggering a
crisis, a finance ministry official said.  “We would like to broaden our bond buyers overseas so that
we can avoid a financial crisis caused by the sudden flight by a
few,” Woo Hae Young, director of the Government Bond Policy
Division at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said an
interview at his office in Gwacheon on March 4. “We’re looking
to Asia, especially  China , Hong Kong,  Singapore ,  Malaysia , and
Thailand, for long-term investors.”  Two nations, the U.S. and Thailand, together hold more than
40 percent of foreign-owned South Korean bonds, according to
end-2010 data from the Financial Supervisory Service. Overseas
investors sold Korean assets in 2008, triggering a plunge in the
won and pummeling bond prices, after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. intensified the global financial crisis.  Woo also said that the government plans to issue more
inflation-linked bonds and may begin to buy back treasuries in
April or May. The government buys back bonds ahead of maturity,
replacing old issues with new ones in an effort to improve
market liquidity.  South Korea’s local-currency bonds have declined 0.3
percent this year, the third worst in the region after the  Philippines  and  Indonesia , among Asia’s 10 most active markets,
according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. In the past
12 months, the bonds have gained 5.6 percent.  Biggest Buyers  The yield on the benchmark three-year note was 3.94 percent
as of 11:29 a.m. in Seoul, up from 3.38 percent at the end of
last year. The rate was at 4.08 percent a year ago.  The won slid 0.2 percent to 1,117.04 per dollar, paring its
gain to 1.4 percent for the past 12 months.  The U.S. held 20.5 percent of foreign-owned South Korean
bonds as of end-2010, followed by Thailand at 20 percent and
Luxembourg at 15.7 percent. Others included: China at 8.9
percent, the U.K. with 6.1 percent, Malaysia at 5.8 percent,  France  with 5.3 percent,  Switzerland  at 3 percent,  Hong Kong  at
2.8 percent, and Singapore with 2.5 percent.  Officials will encourage purchases by a more diverse range
of buyers by meeting with investors, Woo said. Foreigners own
6.6 percent of local bonds.  Paying Tax  In January, the government revived a tax of as much as 14
percent on interest income from treasury and central-bank bonds
held by foreigners, as well as a 20 percent levy on capital
gains from their sale.  Those moves and expectations of interest-rate increases
triggered a record net sale of bonds by foreigners in December.
Foreign investors sold off a net 5.3 trillion won ($4.7 billion)
in December and 441.7 billion won in January before buying a net
254.9 billion won in February, according to the  Financial
Supervisory Service .    South Korea  needed an International Monetary Fund-sponsored
bailout to avoid default during the Asian financial crisis in
1998, as the won tumbled and the amount of short-term debt
surpassed the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  