-- 
Springbok Champion Stransky Tips Rival All Blacks For World Cup

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-07T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/springbok-champion-stransky-tips-rival-all-blacks-for-world-cup.html
  New Zealand ’s All Blacks will be
“nearly impossible” to beat at this year’s  Rugby World Cup ,
according to former South African player Joel Stransky, who
kicked his side to victory in the competition sixteen years ago.  Led by captain  Richie McCaw , currently the “greatest
player in the world,” hosts New Zealand will this time live up
to their billing as favorites, said Stransky, 43, who now earns
his living as a commentator.  “I don’t think they’ll bottle it this year,” he said in
an interview on March 2. “Home ground advantage will be huge
for them. They have a very experienced team and they’ve got some
real stars there.”  Stransky, from Pietermaritzburg in  South Africa ’s KwaZulu-
Natal province, won the World Cup for the Springboks in 1995 by
slotting a three-point drop-goal in extra time to help his side
beat favorites New Zealand 15-12 in Johannesburg.  That game is best remembered for the appearance of South
African President  Nelson Mandela  wearing the Springbok number 6
shirt of captain Francois Pienaar, an event which is now the
subject of the 2009 movie ‘Invictus,’ starring  Morgan Freeman 
and  Matt Damon .  The Springbok, which has been the emblem of South African
rugby since 1906, was used by the nation’s sporting codes during
apartheid in which teams were almost uniformly whites-only. The
symbol was retained by the national rugby team after the advent
of democracy in 1994.  Dark Horses  England   Defending champions South Africa are currently struggling
with a series of problems which could derail their chances of
repeating their success at this year’s tournament, Stransky
said. The main issues are with coaching, player selection and
their attacking game, he said.  A resurgent England, under former World Cup winner  Martin Johnson , will be probably provide the biggest threat to New
Zealand’s ambitions this year and are likely to be the “dark
horses” of the September tournament, according to Stransky. Of
the other main contenders, the Australian squad is too
inexperienced and the French are too inconsistent, he said.  New Zealand, known as the All Blacks because of their black
shirts, shorts and socks, haven’t won rugby’s top prize since
the inaugural tournament in 1987. The team is currently at the
top of the  world rankings , followed by  Australia , South Africa,
England and  France .  Last season, captain McCaw led the All Blacks to 13 wins
from 14 matches, winning the sport’s player of the year award
for a third time and becoming the first to win the prize twice
in row.  Main Weakness  All Blacks chief Graham Henry won the coach of the year
award, while his charges won the International Rugby Board’s
team of the year prize. New Zealand’s main area of weakness is
likely to be at the lineout, which is when both teams compete
for the ball as it’s thrown onto the pitch after having been
knocked out of bounds, according to Stransky.  “If they consistently win the line-out play then they’ll
be impossible to beat,” he said.  The 2011 Rugby  World Cup  starts on Sept. 9 in Auckland,
where New Zealand take on Pacific Islanders Tonga. The All
Blacks have been drawn in the first of four pools, where they
will also face France, Canada and Japan for a place in the
quarter-finals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  