-- 
Springbok Champion Stransky Favors Rival All Blacks to Win Rugby World Cup

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-07T08:40:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/springbok-champion-stransky-favors-rival-all-blacks-to-win-rugby-world-cup.html
  New Zealand ’s All Blacks will be
“nearly impossible” to beat at this year’s  Rugby World Cup ,
according to former South African player Joel Stransky, who
kicked his nation to victory in the competition 16 years ago.  Led by captain  Richie McCaw , currently the “greatest
player in the world,” tournament host New Zealand will this
time live up to its billing as favorite, said Stransky, 43, who
now earns his living as a commentator.  “I don’t think they’ll bottle it this year,” he said in
an interview on March 2. “Home ground advantage will be huge
for them. They have a very experienced team and they’ve got some
real stars there.”  Stransky, from Pietermaritzburg in  South Africa ’s KwaZulu-
Natal province, won the World Cup for the Springboks in 1995 by
slotting a three-point drop goal in extra time to help his team
beat New Zealand 15-12 in Johannesburg.  That game is best remembered for the appearance of South
African President  Nelson Mandela  wearing the Springbok No. 6
jersey of captain Francois Pienaar, an event depicted in the
2009 movie ‘Invictus,’ starring  Morgan Freeman  and  Matt Damon .  The Springbok, which has been the emblem of South African
rugby since 1906, was used by the nation’s sporting codes during
apartheid in which teams were almost uniformly whites-only. The
symbol was retained by the national rugby team after the advent
of democracy in 1994.  Dark Horses  England   South Africa is currently struggling with a series of
problems which could derail its chances of defending its title
this year, Stransky said. The main issues are with coaching,
player selection and the team’s attacking game, he said.  “I wouldn’t bet my house on” South Africa winning the
trophy, Stransky said. “There are some problem areas that need
to be sorted out. I’m not sure our coaching team is all singing
off the same hymn sheet so it’ll be difficult.”  A resurgent England, managed by 2003 World Cup-winning
captain  Martin Johnson , will probably provide the biggest threat
to New Zealand this year and likely be the “dark horses” of
the September tournament, according to Stransky. Of the other
main contenders, the Australian squad is too inexperienced and
the French are too inconsistent, he said.  New Zealand, which has won 75 percent of its international
Test matches, hasn’t taken rugby’s top prize since the inaugural
tournament in 1987. The All Blacks top the  world rankings  ahead
of  Australia , South Africa, England and  France .  Main Weakness  Last season, McCaw led his team to 13 wins from 14 matches,
winning the sport’s player of the year award for the third time
and becoming the first to win the accolade twice in row.  Graham Henry won the coach of the year award, while the All
Blacks took the International Rugby Board’s team of the year
prize. New Zealand’s main area of weakness is likely to be at
the lineout, which is when both teams compete for the ball as
it’s thrown onto the pitch after having been knocked out of
bounds, according to Stransky.  “If they consistently win the lineout play then they’ll be
impossible to beat,” he said.  New Zealand, which is rated as the 8-11 favorite to win the
2011 Rugby  World Cup  by U.K. bookmaker William Hill, opens the
tournament on Sept. 9 against Tonga in Auckland.  The All Blacks have been drawn in Pool A, where they will
also face France, Canada and Japan for a place in the
quarterfinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  