-- 
Standard Chartered Kenya Profit Climbs 13% on Loan Income

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-07T13:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/stanchart-kenya-full-year-profit-climbs-13-as-loan-income-grows.html
  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s Kenyan
unit, the East African nation’s third-biggest lender by market
value, said full-year profit rose 13 percent to a record as
earnings from loans increased amid a surge in mortgage lending.  Net income climbed to 5.34 billion shillings ($65.1
million) in the 12 months through December, from 4.73 billion
shillings a year earlier, Nairobi-based  Standard Chartered Bank
Kenya Ltd. (SCBL)  said in a statement handed to reporters today. Net
interest income, the money banks earn from interest charges on
loans, grew 8.5 percent to 8.38 billion shillings, it said. The
earnings increase marked the fourth consecutive year of record
profit, Chief Executive Officer Richard Etemesi said.  “Ours is a growth story, not a recovery story,” he told
reporters at a briefing in Nairobi. “In 2011, we will continue
to deliver a strong and consistent financial performance.”  Bank earnings in East Africa’s largest economy have grown
as accelerating economic expansion spurs more Kenyans to take
out loans, open accounts and demand other financial services.  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , the country’s biggest lender, said last week
full-year earnings surged 69 percent, while  Barclays Bank  of  Kenya  Ltd. said profit jumped 74 percent over the same period.  Loans and advances climbed 6 percent to 60.3 billion
shillings in the year, helped by a 47 percent jump in mortgage-
loan advances amid “huge appetite” from new applicants,
Etemesi said.  Rate Cuts  The increase in loans came even after banks failed to match
eight interest-rate cuts by the  Central Bank  of Kenya since
December 2008. The benchmark rate has been cut to a record low
of 5.75 percent from 9 percent in December 2008, while
commercial-bank rates have fallen to 14.03 percent from 14.8
percent over the same period.  Last week, Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  called for banks
and other financial institutions to lower lending rates to
“reasonable levels” in order to help fuel economic growth.
Interest-rate spreads of 5 percent to 6 percent would be
“profitable,” Kibaki said.  Etemesi said that lowering  interest rates  by two percentage
points wouldn’t increase the number of borrowers as most of
Kenya’s population don’t have access to financial services. Of
Kenya’s 40 million people, only 2 million of them are borrowers
because of barriers, including legal fees and a lack of credit
profiles, he said.  “Unless we remove barriers we will not double customers by
reducing rates,” Etemesi said.  Profitability Measure  Standard Chartered’s cost-to-income ratio, a measure of
profitability, increased to 42 percent last year from 40 percent
in 2009 after the bank made additional investments in technology
that are expected to boost income growth in the future, Renaldo D’souza, an analyst at Nairobi-based Genghis Capital Ltd., said
in a phone interview today.  “I think it has the lowest” cost-to-income ratio, D’souza
said. The measures at rivals Barclays Kenya and  Kenya Commercial
Bank Ltd. (KNCB)  are “more than 60 percent because the staff cost in
those banks are high and because of the cost of operating many
branches,” he said.  The lender had a dividend yield, a ratio that shows how
much a company pays out in dividends each year relative to its
share price, of 4.9 and paid out 71 percent of its profit while
one of its peers, Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., had a similar
dividend yield while paying 33 percent of its profit as
dividends, Francis Mwangi, an analyst at Nairobi-based African
Alliance, Securities Ltd. said in a telephone interview.  “Stanchart has had an impressive dividend yield, most
banks are catching up now,” Mwangi said.  Opportunity to Sell  Compared with its peers,  Standard Chartered ’s profit growth
was the lowest,  Aly-Khan Satchu , a Nairobi, Kenya-based
independent financial analyst, said by phone.  “Earnings were less than expected, some investors are
taking the opportunity to sell,” Satchu said. “I am not sure
the growth trajectory of the business is as great as it should
be. Growth investors are going to look elsewhere”.  Shares in Standard Chartered dropped 5 shillings, or 1.8
percent, to 270 shillings by the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi. The
stock surged 46 percent over the past 12 months, outperforming
an 11 percent increase in the benchmark NSE-20 index over the
same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  