-- 
State Schools May Cite Crises to Cut Professors, Moody’s Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-07T18:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/state-schools-may-cite-crises-to-cut-professors-moody-s-says.html
State universities may take the rare
step of declaring a fiscal crisis in order to fire tenured
faculty members, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The  Nevada  System of Higher Education, which includes the
University of Nevada,  Las Vegas , is considering such a move,
after Governor Brian Sandoval proposed deep cuts in funding,
Moody’s said in a report. As government support declines and
with a weakened capacity to raise tuition and fees, other state
schools may be forced to make similar moves, Moody’s said.  Universities are targeting faculty because salary and
benefits paid to teachers offer the largest area of potential
cost savings, according to the report co-authored by Edith Behr,
an analyst in  New York . Private colleges are less likely to take
similar steps as a way to fire tenured faculty because it may
harm their reputations and fundraising, according to the report.  “This is a sacred cow,” said John Nelson, managing
director of the company’s higher-education rating group. The
tenure system typically protects a teacher from dismissal for
most reasons.  “It is a bedrock principal for academic life in
universities,” he said of tenure in a telephone interview.  Some institutions, such as  Florida State University  in
Tallahassee and Clark Atlanta University in Georgia, have fired
tenured professors without first declaring a “financial
exigency,” the legal term most often used, Behr said by e-mail.
Declaring a fiscal emergency is rare, according to the credit-
rating company. The analysts cited a survey of 62 schools in
which 12 used the step to fire 134 professors in the 1970s.  The tenure system also makes it more difficult for
universities and colleges to trim faculty costs because of the
“powerful role” played by professors who have achieved that
status in governing the institutions, according to the March 2
report. State schools in Florida, Illinois and  Texas  have taken
steps to compel senior professors to retire by offering buyouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 