-- 
Stern Firm to Cease Foreclosure Work, Unit Says in Filing

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-03-07T23:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/stern-s-florida-law-firm-to-cease-foreclosure-work-djsp-says-in-filing.html
The Law Offices of David J. Stern
PA, under investigation in  Florida  for its foreclosure
practices, will stop processing home-seizure cases by the end of
the month, according to an affiliated company.  Stern’s firm “will be ceasing the practice of law with
respect to all pending foreclosure matters,” according to a
filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission by  DJSP Enterprises Inc. (DJSP) , which provides non-legal services for the
firm. “As a result, the company does not expect to receive any
further file referrals from this customer.”  Stern and his firm are under investigation in Florida for
allegedly “fabricating and/or presenting false and misleading
documents in foreclosure cases,” according to the attorney
general’s  website . Shannon Knowles, a spokeswoman for Attorney
General Pam Bondi, said the investigation hasn’t ended.  “It doesn’t stop” because the firm is closing its
foreclosure practice, Knowles said.  No one answered the phone at the Plantation, Florida,
office that the law firm and DJSP share. Stern’s attorney,
Jeffrey Tew, said the firm would stop handling foreclosures and
declined to comment further.    Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  last year barred the firm from
handling their foreclosure cases.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said in October
that it had stopped directing foreclosure work to the firm.  Stern was replaced as chief executive officer at DJSP in
November. DJSP notified Florida’s unemployment agency in a Feb.
15 letter that it will eliminate 96 of its 150 jobs and may shut
down completely by April 15. The company and the firm cut more
than 400 jobs in November.  DJSP fell 9 cents, or 39 percent, to 15 cents at 5:20 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
declined 75 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida, at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 