-- 
Stocks Retreat, Led by Chipmakers; Oil, Gold Gain

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-03-08T13:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/stocks-decline-on-greek-downgrade-rising-middle-east-unrest-oil-climbs.html
(Corrects 10th paragraph of story that moved on March 7 to
show that five-year Treasuries fell.)  U.S. stocks fell, erasing last
week’s gain, as chipmakers slid after a ratings downgrade and
oil advanced to a 29-month high. Ten-year Treasuries climbed,
while Greek default risk increased to a record after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.8 percent to
1,310.15 at 4 p.m. in  New York  and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
erased earlier gains to slip 0.4 percent. Oil advanced 1 percent
to $105.44 a barrel. Gold trimmed gains after rallying to as
much as $1,445.70 an ounce, an all-time high. Ten-year Treasury
note yields slid five basis points to 3.51 percent.  Chipmakers in the  S&P 500  slumped 2.5 percent collectively,
the biggest decline among 24 industries, after Wells Fargo & Co.
cut the group to “market weight” from “overweight.” Fighting
increased between Libyan rebels and troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi , reducing crude-oil output by as much as 1 million
barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency .  “It’s going to be hard for the market to push through this
headwind from oil in the short-term,” said Daniel Genter,
president of RNC Genter Capital Management in  Los Angeles , which
oversees about $3.7 billion. “The oil theme has taken over from
the inflation theme because of the effect higher energy prices
will have on inflation and economic growth. The market wants to
go higher because all the other demographics look solid, but
we’re entangled in this net of geopolitical uncertainty.”  ‘Still Optimistic View’  Teradyne Inc., Micron Technology Inc. and Applied Materials
Inc. lost at least 4.6 percent to lead declines in all 19  semiconductor companies  in the S&P 500 after the Wells Fargo
analysts cited the rally that more than doubled the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index over the past two years.  “Our sector downgrade is more an indication of a more
moderate though still optimistic view of the sector rather than
any active concern about the chip stocks as a group,” Wells
Fargo analysts wrote in a note to clients.  Takeovers helped lift U.S. and European shares earlier.
Western Digital Corp., the largest maker of computer hard-disk
drives, rallied 16 percent after agreeing to buy a unit from
Hitachi Ltd., while jewelry maker Bulgari SpA surged after
receiving a takeover offer.  As crude approaches $110 a barrel, higher energy costs may
begin to cause pain for companies that were able to weather $100
oil thanks to a strengthening economy. Corporate assumptions
would have to start changing when oil reaches $110 a barrel,
according to economists such as  Chris Low  of FTN Financial in
New York. Crude at that price would offset the benefit from the  tax cut  approved by Congress in December, and begin to slow
economic growth, Low said.  Oil Forecast  Commerzbank forecast today that West Texas Intermediate oil
will average $107 in the second quarter. Technical analysts from
Citi FX say oil is poised to test prices above $120 for the
first time since September 2008 after breaching a target near
$103. Oil faces resistance above $120 a barrel, the 76.4 percent
retracement level on a linear-chart Fibonacci study of oil’s
2008 collapse, said  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical analyst at
Citi FX, part of Citigroup Capital Markets in New York.  Treasury five-year notes fell, pushing the yield up one
basis point to 2.195 percent. The  Federal Reserve  purchased $6.6
billion in debt maturing from September 2013 to February 2015 to
support the U.S. recovery.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said the
central bank shouldn’t rule out asset purchases beyond the $600
billion planned by June because the  U.S. economy  could slow
again. Fed of Dallas President Richard W. Fisher said he might
vote to cut short the asset-purchase program if he believed it
to be “counterproductive.”  European Markets  Most European stocks declined, with three shares retreating
for every two that rose in the Stoxx 600. Inmarsat Plc dropped
13 percent as sales missed estimates. Bulgari soared 59 percent
after LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA agreed to buy the
world’s third-largest jeweler for about 3.7 billion euros ($5.2
billion).  Credit-default swaps on Greek bonds rose 50 basis points to
a record 1,036 basis points, according to CMA. Moody’s signaled  Greece  may face further cuts as European leaders prepared to
meet this week to discuss ways to contain the region’s debt
crisis. The Greek Finance Ministry said the Moody’s decision was
“incomprehensible.” Moody’s didn’t heed the progress Greece
made in cutting the deficit by 6 percentage points of gross
domestic product last year, according to a ministry statement.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold Greek
10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose 8 basis
points to 906 basis points. The spread for Portuguese 10-year
securities climbed eight basis points to 428 basis points.  Asian Shares  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.9 percent. Kajima Corp.,
a Japanese construction company, slid 2.3 percent following a
report that its highway project in  Algeria  may incur losses of
more than 80 billion yen ($971 million).  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.6 percent to snap a
six-day streak of gains, the longest in eight weeks. Air China
Ltd. and Korean Air Lines Co. lost more than 3 percent on
speculation higher fuel costs will crimp earnings.  India ’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index retreated 1.4 percent as
the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party said March 5 it would end
support for Singh’s  Indian National Congress -led government.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian gulf stocks advanced
1.4 percent, with  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index rising
3.3 percent. S&P said the country may escape the popular unrest
that is sweeping the Middle East and that the outlook for
nation’s debt is stable.  Tunisia’s Tunindex gained 4.2 percent as trading resumed
after a week-long stoppage triggered by violent protests that
forced the prime minister to resign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 Mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  