-- 
Sutherland’s Hoop Dreams Fade in Dated ‘Season’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-07T03:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/sutherland-s-hoop-dreams-fade-in-dated-season-jeremy-gerard.html
The ‘N’ word gets a fresh airing in
the mixed-bag Broadway revival of “That Championship Season”
starring “24” tough guy Kiefer Sutherland.  So do “kike,” “Polack” and various words for females.  Jason Miller’s  Pulitzer Prize -winning snapshot of mediocre
lives, unrealized dreams, craven hustling and one fine
basketball victory was hot stuff when it opened in 1972 at the
   Public Theater .  It was kin to John Updike’s “Rabbit” novels, sympathetic
yet acute in its portrayal of white, middle-aged, middle-
American male dinosaurs facing extinction.  On Michael Yeargan’s too-gorgeous set -- a high-ceilinged
parlor room whose mahogany solidity is made light by stained-
glass windows and Peter Kaczorowski’s golden lighting --
director Gregory Mosher’s irony-free revival brings together an
all-star cast for the boys’ reunion two decades after the Big
Win.  The gathering includes the late playwright’s son, Jason Patric, as Tom Daley. He’s the prodigal, booze-pickled brother
of James (Sutherland, playing hard against type as a gutless
junior high school principal with political ambitions).  Comedian Jim Gaffigan is George, the buffoonish mayor,
fighting for survival against a Jewish challenger.  Strip Mining  Chris Noth plays swaggering businessman Phil Romano, whose
wealth derives from strip-mining (“You can’t kill a mountain,”
he says with assurance. “Mountains grow back!”) and whose
power derives from political payoffs. He’s figuratively in bed
with the mayor and literally in bed with the mayor’s wife.  Playing their once and always Coach, a font of bluster and
aphorism, is the garrulous Brian Cox. The fifth member of the
team is ever a no-show, perhaps because he knows what really
went down in that final game back in 1952.  What unites these men beyond the engraved silver trophy on
Coach’s mantle is fear: of blacks, Jews, women, change. Coach
still mourns the passing of iconic red-baiters Senator Joseph McCarthy and Father Coughlin.  The men blithely recall the consequence-free rape of a
mentally challenged girl.  Time may have improved my memory of the original
production, which featured towering performances by Charles Durning, Paul Sorvino and Richard A. Dysart. For better or
worse, Mosher resists the leavening tone of A.J. Antoon’s
original, which observed these proceedings with one eye-brow
subtly raised.  Moreover, Mosher hasn’t coaxed much more than whining and
empty bluster from his cast. Hardest to take is Noth, who fills
the theater with Serious Acting, entailing much grimacing and
mangling of words.  Some snapshots -- witness Mosher’s revival last season of
Arthur Miller’s “A View From the Bridge” -- gain stature with
time. Some are destined to remain snapshots.  Through May 29 at the Jacobs Theatre, 242 W. 45th St.
Information: +1-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com 
Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 