-- 
Sweden Opens Door to CoCos as Banks Face 2013 Buffer Deadline

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-03-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/sweden-opens-door-to-cocos-as-banks-face-2013-buffer-deadline.html
  Sweden ’s biggest banks will probably
be allowed to use contingent convertible bonds to help them meet
capital requirements by 2013 that policy makers say will be
among the world’s strictest.  “We absolutely think there may be a role to fill for
CoCos,”  Martin Noreus , deputy director of the banking and
securities department at the Swedish Financial Supervisory
Authority, said yesterday in an interview in Stockholm. “We
know there is a big interest from the industry and the banks.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will this week
discuss allowing CoCos to count toward additional capital
demands for systemically important banks. Oswald Gruebel, the
chief executive officer of  Switzerland ’s biggest lender  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
has warned against using contingent convertible bonds to boost
capital, arguing regular shareholders may sell their holdings as
CoCos dilute stock values upon conversion. Noreus said Sweden is
following the debate in  Europe .  “It is potentially a good way to meet some part of the
capital requirement,” Noreus said. “There is a lot of
speculation that the requirement” for systemically important
banks “will be met by CoCos; if that is the case from Basel,
then we have to listen to what our fellow countries in the
European Union think about this.”  The securities, which convert from debt to equity at a
given trigger to contribute to regulatory capital, may bring  capital ratios  as high as 18 percent, Swedish central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves said in a Feb. 1  speech . Finance Minister
Anders Borg and Ingves have called for stricter rules in Sweden
than elsewhere to stem risk taking. The FSA wants systemically
important banks to target total capital ratios of at least 15
percent by 2013.  Swiss Recommendation  The Basel committee says banks need 7 percent core Tier 1
ratios, plus a so-called counter-cyclical buffer of 2.5
percentage points. The Basel committee is preparing its draft on
global requirements for the Financial Stability Board. In a
progress report to the Group of 20 nations last month, the FSB
said it would get input from banks on a provisional set of too-
big-to-fail measures in the second half of the year.  The G-20 agreed in November that lenders whose collapse
would threaten the wider financial system should face tougher
capital rules than other banks, increasing their ability to take
losses without failing.  A global agreement by the Basel committee may expand the
market for CoCos, following  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s sale of $2
billion of the securities last month. A Swiss government-
appointed panel recommended last year that Zurich-based Credit
Suisse AG and UBS hold as much as 9 percent of their risk-
weighted capital in CoCos by 2019.  ‘Feedback Loop’  Still, Swedish banks may follow UBS in avoiding CoCos, said
Hampus Broden, an analyst at SEB AB in Stockholm.  “The CEO of UBS raised a good point when he pointed out
that CoCos’ conversion thresholds can become self fulfilling and
it is always scary when you build in potential feedback loops
into the  capital structure ,” he said.  Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the biggest lender in the
Nordic region, declined to comment on whether it’s considering
using the securities to fulfill capital requirements.  At  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the “capital position is robust so we see
no need for such a tool, but if” the securities prove a “cheap
and efficient” option, then “nobody will say no to them,”
Thomas Backteman, a Swedbank spokesman, said in an interview.
“There may be limited investors interested in such bonds now,
but there will be demand for them if more banks use them.”  ‘A Bit Strange’  Sweden is home to four of Scandinavia’s six biggest banks.
Nordea has railed against proposals for tighter capital
requirements that Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen says
are “a bit strange” and “not realistic.” Ingves, who helped
rebuild Sweden’s financial industry after its 1990s meltdown,
and Borg say lenders need larger buffers as credit growth hovers
close to 9 percent and house prices exceed a pre-crisis peak.
Sweden’s banks are still recovering after their Baltic
operations got caught in the region’s 2009 property bubble.  The country’s banks should prepare for a 1 percentage point
increase in capital requirements every year “over the next few
years,” Borg said on March 1. Sweden’s banking industry faces
“very serious risks,” he said.  Martin Andersson, the director-general at the FSA, said in
a March 1 interview that Sweden “should be in the forefront
internationally when it comes to capital requirements.” He
wants the country’s banks to adhere to a “high capital
requirement” with what he calls “proper capital.” Policy
makers have also said they want Swedish banks to implement
tighter capital rules earlier than Basel’s 2019 target.  “The important component is that it must be very credible
and made so clear that there is no doubt that this will turn
into equity at a certain point,” Noreus said. “We can’t have
an instrument where investors start to speculate on what will
happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 