-- 
Swiss Stocks Retreat; Petroplus Shares Decline While Richemont Advances

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-07T17:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/swiss-stocks-decline-as-oil-rises-kuoni-petroplus-retreat.html
Swiss stocks declined for a second
day as oil rose amid escalating violence in Libya, while 
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Greece’s credit rating by 
three steps.  Petroplus Holding AG fell 2.1 percent after dropping out of
the SLI Swiss Leaders Index. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the
world’s largest jewelry maker, rallied 2.2 percent after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying luxury goods companies.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the country’s 20 largest publicly
traded companies fell 0.5 percent to 6,495.52 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich after swinging between gains and losses at least
10 times. The gauge lost 0.1 percent last week as European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said he may increase  interest rates  to combat inflation. The broader Swiss
Performance Index dropped 0.4 percent to 5,890.47 today.  “The medium-term outlook is still positive for equities,”
Zurich-based Dirk Wiedmann, chief investment officer at
Rothschild Banking & Trust, wrote in a note to clients today.
“However, we are concerned about a setback in the short term,
as sentiment and volatility indicators point to a sense of
complacency.”  Crude oil gained to a 29-month high as Libyan troops held
off a rebel push to capture Sirte, the birthplace of the
country’s ruler  Muammar Qaddafi . Rebels retained control of the
towns of Misurata and Zawiyah, close to the capital of Tripoli,
even after coming under sustained attack.  Cut Production  The uprising has cut oil production in the North African
country by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency . Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels a
day in January, Bloomberg News estimates show.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Greek government bonds to B1,
the same as Belarus and Bolivia, from Ba1 and assigned a
negative outlook, citing concerns that lagging tax collection
and “implementation risks” would make it more difficult for
the government to reach budget-cutting conditions.  Greek bonds fell, sending the yield on 10-year notes up 7
basis points to 12.32 percent, the most in the euro region.
Irish 10-year  government bonds  also retreated, driving the yield
up as much as nine basis points to 9.477 percent, the highest
since before the euro was created in 1999.  Petroplus sank 2.1 percent to 14.72 Swiss francs after the
SIX Swiss Exchange removed  Europe ’s largest independent oil
refiner from its SLI Swiss Leaders Index.    Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-largest Swiss bank, lost
1.2 percent to 40.43 francs, tracking declines by bank shares
across the region.  Richemont rallied 2.2 percent to 54.70 francs, as LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA’s takeover of Bulgari buoyed luxury
goods companies and after Goldman Sachs said jewelry and watch
sellers may outperform. Goldman recommended buying Richemont and
Swatch, owner of the Breguet and Omega brands, and said 600
million new consumers will enter the luxury market by 2025.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  gained 2.2 percent to 398.40 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 