-- 
Syria Must Change to Avoid Regional Turmoil, Assad’s Cousin Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-07T10:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/syria-must-change-to-avoid-regional-turmoil-assad-s-cousin-says.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
should take steps to liberalize the country’s political system
and allow more freedom to prevent the regional turmoil spreading
to  Syria , his cousin said.  Assad should “end the state of emergency, which would be a
symbolic and tangible step,” Ribal al-Assad, head of the
London-based  Organisation for Democracy and Freedom in Syria ,
said in a March 4 telephone interview.  “Second, I would tell him to call on all political players
to come to the table and discuss how to move forward and to form
a national unity government,” said Assad, 35, who is one of 8
sons and 8 daughters of Rifaat al-Assad, the uncle of the Syrian
president who was forced into exile by his brother, Hafez al- Assad, in 1984 after an attempted coup.  A Libyan revolt that began in mid-February and threatens
the rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  is the bloodiest in a wave of
popular uprisings in the Middle East in the past two months that
have toppled Tunisia’s former leader, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali,
and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  Syria must “allow all independent political parties who
genuinely believe in democracy to be established,” Assad said.
“They have to release all political prisoners, allow peaceful
freedom of expression and association, and end media and
Internet censorship. Also, they must start processes to end
state corruption. They have to do it, and they have to do it
right away.”  ‘Long Overdue’  Sweeping changes in the Arab world are “long overdue,”
said Assad, who was last in Syria in 1999. “People in that
region have been waiting for democracy and freedom a long time,
and it was time for this change to happen,” he said.  “We are in the 21st century,” Assad said. “People cannot
continue as is. You have satellite-television channels, mobile
phones and the Internet. You cannot see how the world is
advancing and accept to continue living under a dictatorship.”  Syria has taken some measures to placate citizens. The
government will keep electricity prices stable even as the costs
of power generation increase, state-owned newspaper Al Baath
reported on March 3, citing Minister of Electricity Ahmad Qusay
Kayali. The Ministry of Economy and Trade ordered a reduction in
profit margins on food items such as rice, sugar, vegetable
oils, animal fats and corn, as part of a drive to cut retail
prices, Thawra newspaper said on March 1.  President Assad issued a decree on Jan. 16 almost doubling
the heating allowance for state workers to 1,500 Syrian pounds
($32) a month, the official Syrian Arab News Agency reported
today. The measure will cost the state 15 billion Syrian pounds
a year and will benefit about 2 million people, the agency said,
citing Finance Minister Mohammad al-Hussein.  Beautiful Mosaic  “We don’t want a violent revolution,” Assad said. “Syria
is a bit different from Egypt and  Tunisia . We have Muslims,
Christians, Jews. We have ethnic minorities such as Kurds,
Armenians, Assyrians, Turkman and Circasians. It’s a beautiful
mosaic.  About 200 people began a daily vigil on Jan. 29 outside the
Egyptian embassy in Damascus and then moved to the Bab Touma
neighborhood in the old city. Their numbers dwindled because of
harassment and on Feb. 2, 15 to 20 people participating in the
vigil were attacked by unidentified men, Suhair Atassi, a
dissident who took part, said on Feb. 3.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  criticized the Syrian
authorities and called on the government to stop intimidating
demonstrators.  Indicators  ‘‘Of course’’ change is coming to Syria, Assad said. ‘‘You
can see the regime is very scared, it’s very worried. Since the
revolution happened in Tunisia they have made many changes,’’ he
said, referring to cash handouts by the regime, salary increases
of government employees and cuts in the price of heating oil.  ‘‘These are indicators,’’ said Assad, who has had no
contact with his cousin since 1994. ‘‘Why didn’t they take these
steps before, why did they have to wait until now? This shows
they are not immune to waves of change in the region.’’  President Assad issued an amnesty for some crimes committed
before today, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported,
without giving further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  