-- 
U.K. Inflation Pressures Mount as Manufacturers Face Higher Material Costs

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-07T11:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/u-k-inflation-pressures-mount-as-manufacturers-face-higher-material-costs.html
U.K. manufacturers plan to raise
prices as the cost of oil and other raw materials surge,
according to an industry association, which may fuel further
inflation pressure.  The number of companies saying they plan to raise domestic
prices exceeded those expecting declines by 39 percentage
points, the Engineering Employers Federation said in a report
published in London today. That’s up from 16 in the previous
three months and the highest since the data were first collected
in 2000.  “It reflects the fact that last year companies were
reluctant to pass on cost increases,” Lee Hopley, EEF chief
economist, said at a briefing. “The pace of increases is so
much that companies are having to pass on those costs.”  Crude  oil prices  rose to the highest level in 29 months in  New York  today on concern unrest in  Libya  will spread to other
North African and Middle East energy exporters. That may add to
U.K. inflation, which is already twice the Bank of England’s
target. Nevertheless, the central bank will leave its benchmark
interest rate at 0.5 percent on March 10, according to all 61
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Data this week may show
producer-price growth accelerated to the highest in more than
two years in February.  The proportion of manufacturers saying they hired workers
in the first quarter exceeded those reporting job cuts by 29
percentage points, the most since the survey started in 1995,
according to the report.  Hiring  Hiring “doesn’t seem to be in significant numbers, it
seems to be on temporary contracts, apart from highly skilled
positions that they’re struggling to fill,” Hopley said.  U.K. recruiting firm  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  said
today U.K. sales gained 10 percent to 302.6 million pounds ($494
million), compared with a 6.8 percent gain, to 332.2 million
pounds, for its  Europe , Middle East and African unit.  Factory production eased from its record pace in the fourth
quarter, according to the survey. The number of companies
reporting that output rose in the three months through March
exceeded those reporting decreases by 25 percentage points. That
compares with 33 in the previous quarter.  The EEF predicts manufacturing will grow by 3.5 percent in
2011. The economy may expand 1.9 percent this year and 2.6
percent in 2012, it said. The survey by EEF and BDO LLP
accounting firm was conducted between Feb. 3 and 23, with 519
companies responding, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  