-- 
U.K. Stocks Retreat; Inmarsat, SkyePharma Fall, Intertek Jumps

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-07T17:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/u-k-stocks-pare-losses-intertek-burberry-advance-as-inmarsat-retreats.html
U.K. stocks dropped as concern that
rising oil prices will derail economic growth offset  China ’s
forecast that its trade surplus will fall this year.    Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  fell 13 percent, the largest decline since its
initial public offering in 2005, as fourth-quarter sales missed
estimates.  SkyePharma Plc (SKP)  slumped 13 percent after AstraZeneca
Plc stopped producing one of its medical formulations.  Intertek
Group Plc (ITRK)  jumped 5 percent to its highest price in three months.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slipped 16.61, or 0.3 percent,
to 5,973.78 at 5:11 p.m. in London. The gauge has declined 1.9
percent since peaking at a 2 1/2-year high on Feb. 8. The FTSE
100 traded at about 13.9 times the reported earnings of its
companies, near the lowest multiple since December. The  FTSE
All-Share Index (ASX)  lost 0.2 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index gained 0.2 percent.  Oil rose to as much as $106.95 a barrel in electronic
trading in New York, the highest price since Sept. 26 2008, as
Libyan troops held off a rebel push to capture Sirte, the
birthplace of the country’s ruler Muammar Qaddafi. Rebels
retained control of the towns of Misrata and Zawiyah, close to
the capital of Tripoli, even after coming under sustained
attack. The uprising has cut oil production in the North African
country by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency . Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels a
day in January, Bloomberg News estimates show.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said reining in consumer and
property prices is the nation’s top priority in his speech to
the annual National People’s Congress conclave in Beijing.
Commerce Minister Chen Deming said that China will stabilize its
exports and increase its imports at a faster rate in 2011,
reducing its  trade surplus .  Inmarsat, SkyePharma  Inmarsat, the biggest provider of satellite services to the
maritime industry, tumbled 13 percent to 593 pence after
reporting lower-than-estimated sales. Inmarsat said voice
revenue suffered as sailors used cheaper e-mail, rather than
phones, to communicate at sea.  SkyePharma sank 13 percent to 36.5 pence, its largest
retreat since June. AstraZeneca said it will stop producing its
Pulmicort asthma drug in pressurized metered dose inhalers
because of “complex manufacturing issues.” SkyePharma
developed the formulation used by AstraZeneca.  Intertek, the world’s largest consumer-goods testing
company, jumped 5 percent to 1,994 pence. The company said it
acquired Moody International Ltd., which provides systems
certification services to the manufacturing, construction and
service markets, for $730 million in cash using new and existing
debt facilities. Intertek bought the company from Investcorp
Bank BSC, a Bahrain-based alternative investment firm.    Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , the world’s largest primary silver producer,
gained 1.6 percent to 1,633 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  