-- 
U.S. Forms Criminal Task Force on Deepwater Horizon Disaster

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-03-08T01:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/u-s-forms-criminal-task-force-on-deepwater-horizon-disaster.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  has
formed the Deepwater Horizon  Task Force  to consolidate its
investigation into possible criminal charges stemming from the
drilling rig explosion that killed 11 workers and caused the
worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  The Justice Department said in a statement that the task
force brings together “separate and simultaneous
investigations’’ by its criminal and environmental and natural
resources divisions and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  New
Orleans .  “After assessing the overlap of the cases and in an effort
to avoid duplication of effort, Deputy Attorney General James Cole has decided to establish a single task force with authority
to oversee all facets of the investigation,’’  Wyn Hornbuckle , a
Justice Department spokesman, said in the statement.  The three groups have been probing the April 20 “fire,
explosion and aftermath’’ of the Deepwater Horizon incident
since U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder announced on June 1 that
the government would seek potential criminal charges and civil
penalties.  New Orleans Base  The task force will be led by John Buretta, criminal
division senior counsel, and supervised by Assistant Attorney
General Lanny Breuer of the criminal division, according to the
statement. Much of the task force’s activities will be based in
New Orleans, where the Justice Department established a command
post last year, Hornbuckle said.  Eleven rig workers died and more than 4.1 million barrels
of crude gushed into the Gulf of Mexico after the Deepwater
Horizon rig exploded and sank. The U.S. has sued  BP Plc (BP/) , which
owned the well, and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the rig.  The two companies, along with other contractors that
supplied equipment and services to the well and BP’s partners in
the offshore lease, face potentially billions of dollars in
civil penalties and economic damage claims by individuals and
businesses harmed by the disaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 