-- 
U.S. Employment Index Increases for Fifth Straight Month

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-03-07T15:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/u-s-employment-index-rose-in-february-for-first-straight-month.html
Job prospects in the U.S. improved
in February for a fifth consecutive month, a sign employers plan
to boost payrolls.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased
1.7 percent to 101.7, the highest level since October 2008, the
New York-based private research group said today. The measure
rose 8.2 percent from a year earlier.  Labor Department figures last week showed the jobless rate
fell in February to 8.9 percent, the lowest since April 2009,
while more seasonable weather helped boost payrolls by 192,000,
the most since May. Employment growth was widespread,
underscoring Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
testimony to Congress last week that there are “grounds for
optimism” about the labor market.  The gauge “suggests that the pickup in jobs may accelerate
in the next couple of quarters,” Gad Levanon, associate
director of macroeconomic research at the Conference Board, said
today in a statement. Still, “with a shrinking government, a
stagnant construction sector, and a manufacturing recovery that
has only a small impact on overall employment, overall job
growth will still be modest.”  The index aggregates eight labor-market indicators to
forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the gauge can
signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before the
fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in advance,
the Conference Board said.  Stocks rose, adding to last week’s gain, as crude oil pared
gains after climbing to almost $107 a barrel. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent to 1,322.75 at 10:27 a.m.
in  New York .  Seven Components Rise  Improvements in seven of the index’s eight components
contributed to the increase in the ETI. These included a decline
in the number of people saying jobs were hard to get, fewer
claims for jobless benefits and an increase in temporary jobs.  Some U.S. companies are ramping up hiring.  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, and  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , based in Atlanta, announced plans last month to
hire thousands of workers.  Last week’s Labor Department report showed private
payrolls, which exclude government agencies, increased by
222,000 in February after a revised 68,000 gain the prior month.  “We believe that we are in a continued positive economic
recovery that will lead to positive labor growth over the course
of the next couple of years,” Carl Camden, chief executive
officer at Troy, Michigan-based temporary staffing provider  Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA) , said Feb. 24 at a conference in  Boston .
“We see strength in U.S. conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  