-- 
U.S. Defense Chief Apologizes Over Afghans Killed in Strike

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-03-07T16:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/u-s-defense-chief-gates-meets-afghans-amid-protests-over-civilian-deaths.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
apologized for the killing of Afghan boys by American forces
after talks with Afghanistan’s President  Hamid Karzai .  “This breaks our heart,” Gates said at a press conference
today in Kabul at the start of two-day visit in which he will
travel to southern and eastern provinces that have formed the
main zone of fighting between U.S.-led forces and Taliban
guerrillas,  Defense Department  spokesman Geoff Morrell said in a
 statement .  Gates’s visit comes six days after U.S. helicopter crews
killed nine boys cutting firewood on a forested mountainside
after mistaking them for Taliban, increasing tensions between
the U.S. military and Afghans. Hundreds of Afghans marched in
Kabul yesterday to protest civilian deaths, and Karzai rebuffed
an apology for the boys’ deaths by the U.S. commander in  Afghanistan , General David Petraeus.  The U.S. has about 97,000 troops in Afghanistan fighting
alongside almost 50,000 soldiers from 47 other nations. The
campaign has focused primarily on ousting the Taliban from the
most populous areas, including Kandahar and Helmand.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has pledged to
withdraw some U.S. forces in 2011 following a surge of troops
into the country last year that pushed back Taliban control in
parts of their southern stronghold in Kandahar and Helmand.
Gates said that the U.S. won’t totally leave Afghanistan after
2014 and will maintain a small fraction of the current military
presence in the country.  ‘Counter-Attack’  U.S. troops in the south “are preparing for a counter-
attack” as winter weather subsides, Marine Corps Major General
Richard Mills told reporters March 3 in a video conference from
his headquarters in Helmand. The U.S.-led forces’ ability to
hold on to gains made last year will determine how many troops
the U.S. and its partners can withdraw from Afghanistan this
year.  Political and military analysts say the Afghan government
and its U.S. backers have had difficulty setting up viable
civilian governance in areas recaptured from the Taliban. “We
have made real progress, but it’s tactical progress,”  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst, said last week. “We don’t know
whether we can sustain the security of these areas,” said
Cordesman, a researcher at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 