-- 
U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Benchmark Rises on Middle East Unrest

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-07T22:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-benchmark-rises-on-middle-east-unrest.html
The cost of protecting U.S.
corporate bonds from default climbed as oil rose to a 29-month
high and fighting in  Libya  intensified.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, gained 0.6 basis point to a mid-
price of 84.3 basis points as of 5:01 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The cost to
protect airline company’s debt also climbed.  Volatility in the CDX index, which earlier fell as much as
0.5 basis points, mirrored fluctuations in crude  oil prices  and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which slipped 0.8 percent after
climbing 0.5 percent. Crude for April delivery retreated from an
intraday high of almost $106.95 to $105.68 as of 12:48 p.m. in  New York .  “That’s pretty much what it boils down to, unrest in the
Middle East,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of
corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New
York. “That’s why you’re getting these kinds of swings, because
it’s very hard to price it in despite the expertise that’s out
on the Street.”  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
from as high as 88.2 basis points on Feb. 24.  Day of Rage  Fighting is increasing between Libyan rebels and troops
loyal to Muammar Qaddafi, reducing the nation’s crude-oil output
by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Saudi Arabia  released a leading
Shiite cleric as websites called for a “Day of Rage,”
according to two activists and  Human Rights Watch .  Credit-default swaps on Fort Worth, Texas-based  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
and Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines Inc. jumped with the price of
oil. Contracts on AMR, parent of American Airlines Inc., climbed
0.6 percentage point to 15.5 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it
would cost $1.55 million initially and $500,000 annually to
protect $10 million of the company’s debt. The American Airlines
unit plans to sell $1 billion of senior notes in a private
offering.  The cost to protect Delta increased 1.4 percentage points
to 8 percent upfront, according to data provider CMA.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  