-- 
UBS Names Grounds, Warshaw to Head Investment-Bank Unit Alongside Neissa

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-03-07T14:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/ubs-names-joint-global-heads-for-investment-banking-division.html
  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
named Matthew Grounds and Simon Warshaw joint global heads of
its investment banking division after  John Wall  retired.  The two will work alongside Jimmy Neissa, who was co-head
of the unit with Wall, with immediate effect, the Zurich-based
bank told employees in an e-mail. Grounds will remain head of
UBS’s Australian unit. Warshaw, head of investment banking in  Europe , is advising British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc’s
independent directors on the pay television’s 7.8 billion-pound
($16.7 billion) takeover by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.  UBS’s revenue from managing stock and bond sales and
advising clients on mergers and acquisitions fell 16 percent in
2010 from a year earlier to 2.84 billion Swiss francs ($3.1
billion). That was lower than UBS’s eight biggest competitors,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer
Oswald Gruebel said last month earnings at the investment bank
“must improve significantly” in 2011.  The division “finished 2010 with strong momentum, and we
have high ambitions for growing the profit before tax
contributions from the business,” Carsten Kengeter, CEO of the
investment bank, said in the e-mail. A UBS spokesman confirmed
the document and declined to comment further today.  UBS’s Australian unit overtook Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
local affiliate and Macquarie Group Ltd. last year to gain the
top spot in Australian mergers and acquisitions advisory,
according to Bloomberg data.  Sole Responsibility  Warshaw assumed sole responsibility for  investment banking 
for Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  after his co-head Hermann Prelle took a one-year sabbatical in September 2010.  New York-based Neissa, 49, joined UBS in 2001 and was
previously chairman of mergers and acquisitions in the
investment banking division.  Wall, born in 1961, returned to UBS in 2009 after taking a
short break from the industry. During his 25-year career at the
Swiss bank, he has overseen proprietary trading and was a co-
head of its equities unit.  Kengeter, who became sole head of the investment bank last
year, told investors in November that the decline in investment-
banking revenue was a result of UBS missing out on some of the
biggest deals. The unit needs to be more closely aligned with
sales and trading to improve earnings, he said.  He named Roberto Hoornweg as co-head of its fixed-income,
currencies and commodities unit with Rajeev Misra last month,
replacing Dimitrios Psyllidis. Misra and Hoornweg will run the
securities business together with equities co-heads Yassine Bouhara and Francois Gouws, according to the bank.  Gruebel has hired more than 1,700 investment bankers since
coming out of retirement in 2009 to rebuild UBS and stem
customer defections following a government rescue in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  