-- 
Hugh Hardy’s $37 Million DiMenna Center Opens in NYC: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-03-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/hugh-hardy-s-37-million-dimenna-center-opens-in-nyc-interview.html
Musicians have a brand new $37
million space designed for their comfort and pleasure by
architect Hugh Hardy.  Tomorrow the  Orchestra of St. Luke’s  unveils the DiMenna
Center, with plenty of rehearsal and recording studios as well
as amenities such as a library, cafe, lockers and even showers.  Long a specialist in cultural projects,  Hardy  is at work on
a new theater for  Lincoln Center  and a building for the  Brooklyn
Academy of Music .  I spoke to Hardy after a tour of the spiffy facilities.  Lundborg: What was the biggest challenge?  Hardy: First, the acoustical environment here has to
prepare you to play in any other venue in the city. So, the
acoustics are adjustable, though they are not made for amplified
sound.  The recording studio is totally quiet -- we are removed
from the world.  Lundborg: How did you deal with the existing building?  Hardy: This is an alteration of an aggressively brutalist
building -- it was concrete pure and simple. I needed to change
its character and make it far more welcoming.  What should the space look like? Well, wood is appealing,
plus musicians, of course, love wood.  Lundborg: Why are acoustics so hard to get right?  Hardy: We’ve gotten used to bigger and bigger environments.
The box office demand to increase capacity has led to all kinds
of difficulties.  During the Second World War, nobody built any concert halls
or theaters. After the war,  Lincoln Center  was a very brave
project because all those architects had never built a theater
before. We’ve learned a lot since then about the nature of
materials and the isolation that’s required.  Lundborg: How do you begin the design process?  Hardy: The question here was, “What do you really want?”
We had to sort that out because this is a unique music space and
St. Luke’s never had to ask that question since they were always
scrambling for space.  Lundborg: Tell me about your Lincoln Center project, which
is going up on top of the Vivian Beaumont Theater.  Hardy: It’s the third theater at Lincoln Center and it’s
particularly poignant for me because I worked for Eero Saarinen,
who designed the Beaumont. It was to be unlike anything else in  New York  and Eero was convinced it should have a new form.  I have great respect for Eero’s building -- I think it’s
the best one at Lincoln Center -- so our approach was to be as
light as possible, make it a transparent layer of screens, which
disappears as you move towards the theater.  Lundborg: What are you doing for the Brooklyn Academy of
Music?  Hardy: We’re building a six-story building behind a little
landmark building, so it was complicated. It’s a theater for
experimentation, plus rehearsal space and community facilities.  It will be completely flexible so they’ll be able to do
anything they want.  Lundborg: Did you choose to focus on cultural projects?  Hardy: I was chosen by the forces. It’s intrinsic to what
interests me, and this place, this city. I’ve been lucky.  I get very excited when I go to a show -- there are all
these people who don’t know each another who’ve come together to
celebrate this amazing ritual. The making of community that
theater provides is quite profound.  Lundborg: If you were hiring an architect to build your
dream house, who would it be?  Hardy: I live in a loft in a building I designed, but for
my dream house I’d get  Frank Gehry , just to see what he’d do.  Lundborg: Is there a project you’d still like to do?  Hardy: When I went to  India , I became absolutely obsessed
with the idea of building a hotel in India. I’ve never done a
hotel, and I’d love to do public spaces in that culture.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 