-- 
Hungary Central Bank Nominees Pledge Independence, as Simor Row Escalates

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-03-07T16:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/hungary-to-nominate-central-bank-policy-makers-defying-ecb-chief-trichet.html
  Hungary ’s new Monetary Council
members pledged independence from political influence, while
central bank President Andras Simor said he had to reject a
government official’s "bullying" aimed at forcing him out.  "A central bank president won’t be threatened or bullied
into resigning," Simor told reporters today in Budapest. He said
a "high-level government official," whom he declined to name,
told him several weeks ago to "prepare for a tough fight"
because he rejected quitting before his terms ends in 2013.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  and his allies, who won
elections in April, have criticized the central bank for being
too slow to cut and then quick to raise  interest rates . The
government stripped Simor of his right to nominate two of the
four outside members in the seven-member rate-setting panel and
has cut his salary by 75 percent, defying criticism from the
European Commission and the  European Central Bank .  Ferenc Gerhardt and Andrea Bartfai-Mager, both of whom
worked in the central bank under former President Zsigmond Jarai, Orban’s ally, were sworn in today after being approved by
lawmakers. The Economy Committee postponed nominations for two
other vacancies on the rate panel.  ‘Maintaining  Price Stability ’  “First is maintaining price stability and if it does not
undermine that goal, then supporting government economic
policy,” Bartfai-Mager told lawmakers today. Inflation
pressure, “unquestionable” in Hungary and around the world, is
“public enemy number one” for a central bank policy maker,
Gerhardt told reporters after his hearing.  Defending the currency is a priority, Gerhardt said, adding
that the benchmark interest rate may stay unchanged at 6 percent
in “the coming months.”  The forint traded at 271.98 per euro at 5:40 p.m. in
Budapest, compared with 271.88 late on March 4. It has gained
2.5 percent this year, the third-best performance among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, behind the Russian ruble and
the Czech koruna.  “Any concerns that the appointments would be purely
political in nature should be at least somewhat contained,”
Gillian Edgeworth, a  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  economist in  London , wrote in
an e-mail today before the nominees spoke.  Interest-Rate ‘Mistakes’  The government criticized the central bank in statements
after three consecutive quarter-point interest rate increases
from November to January, saying they were “mistakes” that
slow growth and hurt  job creation .  Monetary policy makers cited accelerating inflation for
raising the benchmark two-week deposit rates from a record-low
5.25 percent. The bank paused rate increases at 6 percent last
month after the inflation rate fell in January and the country’s
risk index also declined.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on
March 3 said the European Commission may sue Hungary over the
changes in the nomination process.  “We have a feeling that this is an answer to the ECB’s
criticism,” analysts at Erste Bank AG in Budapest, said in an
e-mail in reference to a decision to postpone announcing two of
four candidacies. “The Monetary Council may be expanded in the
second half of this year and that is when the rate-cut cycle may
begin, or perhaps before then. This way criticism of the
government for interfering in monetary affairs would be
eliminated or mitigated.”  ‘Important Role’  The new nomination process is in line with European norms
by giving parliament a bigger role in selecting central bank
policy makers, spokeswoman Anna Nagy said on March 3.  “Parliaments in” European Union “countries that haven’t
adopted the common European currency play an important role in
selecting the members of central bank bodies that shape monetary
policy,” the government said in a Dec. 22 statement, which Nagy
said remains the Cabinet’s position. “Hungary wishes to follow
this direction with the amendment.”  Gerhardt, who is currently deputy chief executive officer
at the state-owned Hungarian Development Bank, worked at the
central bank from 2005 to 2007, serving as a managing director
for banking operations at the end of 2006, according to the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s website. He has worked at the Hungarian
units of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) , and  Bayerische
Landesbank .  Bartfai-Mager worked at the central bank under Jarai, who
was president from 2001 to 2007, including as a director
responsible for financial stability issues. She worked at the
Hungarian Competition Office from 2007 to 2010.  ‘Relatively Low Profile’  “The two candidates have a relatively low profile,
nevertheless, their professional background is certainly
positive,”  Zoltan Torok , an economist at Raiffeisen
International Bank AG in Budapest, wrote in an e-mail. “Market
fears about direct political intervention into monetary policy
should get even less pronounced.”  Trichet in a Dec. 14 letter said a 75 percent cut in
Simor’s salary and the criticism of rate decisions “could be
seen as the government trying to influence the Governor in the
performance of his tasks.”  This is not the first time a Hungarian government was seen
as trying to exert influence over the independent central bank.  In 2005, Prime Minister  Ferenc Gyurcsany  enlarged the
Monetary Council and ended the central bank’s monopoly on the
nomination of new policy makers. Jarai, the bank’s president at
the time, was named in November to head the central bank’s
supervisory board. Lawmakers have since quadrupled his salary.  Two central bank chiefs were forced out before their term
expired since the end of communism more than two decades ago.
Gyorgy Suranyi lost his job after a year in 1991, when the
country’s first freely elected government changed the central
bank law to give the prime minister the power to replace him. He
served a full term from 1995 to 2001.  Peter Akos Bod, central bank head between 1991 and 1994,
resigned midway through his term, citing “political conflicts”
over the bank’s independence with the Socialist government that
had ousted the administration which installed him.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  