-- 
Forint Gains as ‘Reasonable’ Policy Makers Named to Central Bank

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-03-07T16:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/hungarian-stocks-snap-two-days-of-gains-as-oil-rises-on-libya.html
The forint gained for a second day
on speculation that a parliamentary committee’s nominees to the
central bank’s Monetary Council will be independent of the
ruling political party.  The forint strengthened as much as 0.3 percent and traded
less than 0.1 percent stronger at 271.78 per euro by 5:11 p.m.
in Budapest. The benchmark BUX Index of shares closed less than
0.1 percent higher at 22,941.41.  Ferenc Gerhardt and Andrea Bartfai-Mager, both of whom
worked in the central bank under former President Zsigmond Jarai, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ally, won endorsements in
parliament and were sworn in today. Both nominees told lawmakers
the main priority was to keep prices stable, deflecting
criticism over potential government interference.  “At a first glance, based on the new members’ background,
the nominations sound reasonable,”  Elisabeth Andreew , chief
currency strategy analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, wrote
in a research report.  Orban and his allies have urged Magyar Nemzeti Bank
President Andras Simor to quit, criticizing him for being too
slow to cut  interest rates  and then quick to raise them. The
government stripped Simor of his right to nominate two of the
four outside members in the seven-member rate-setting body.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on
March 3 said the European Commission may sue Hungary over the
changes in the nomination process as it may infringe on central
bank independence.  Lawmakers postponed nominations to fill two other Monetary
Council vacancies.  Filling only two of the four vacancies may be “a response
to the ECB criticism, namely that the government wants to
control interest rates,” analysts at Erste Group Bank AG
including Bernadett Papp in Budapest wrote in a research note.    Government bonds  maturing in 2014 slumped, lifting the
yield 9 basis points to 6.70 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  