-- 
Unlikely Economic Seers Beat the Professionals: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-03-07T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/unlikely-economic-forecasters-beat-the-pros-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
The economy can’t be predicted.  The longer I live, the more I believe that’s true. Running
the Derby of Economic Forecasting Talent (DEFT for short)
reinforces my conviction.  I salute the contest’s winners, of course, though certain
patterns over the years strengthen my skepticism about
successfully predicting economic performance. Amateurs
frequently beat professionals. No one wins consistently. Almost
everyone misses the big surprise moves.  In this game, the contestants attempt to predict six key
elements of the  U.S. economy  approximately one year in advance.
They estimate gross domestic product, inflation,  interest rates ,
the price of oil, retail sales and unemployment.  Cornelius Doherty, a retired surgeon from  San Francisco ,
won first place in the contest this year, by nailing the price
of oil with near pinpoint accuracy. A year ago, he guessed that
a barrel of oil would cost $92.10 on Jan. 31, 2011. The actual
price: $92.19. Most entrants guessed too low.  The economy will “continue to improve slowly,” helped by
the  Federal Reserve ’s “massive” expansion of the  money supply ,
Doherty said.  Saudi Arabia  will expand oil production to fund
increased benefits for its population and head off social
unrest, he said.  The contest drew a record field of 249 entries.
Stockbrokers and investment managers were well represented and
housewives, corporate executives and engineers also entered. For
some reason, few economists dared to enter.  Runners Up  Bill Wilen, a retired professor of education from Kent,  Ohio , and Geoff Townsend, a full-time investor for his own
account in Toronto, Canada, tied for second and third place.
Both of them came within an inch of guessing the inflation rate
as measured by the Consumer Price Index.  The 12-month increase in the index as of Jan. 31 was 1.66
percent. Wilen and Townsend guessed 1.7 percent. On this
variable, most people’s estimates were too high.  Wilen expects “moderate, slow improvement” in the
economy. He is worried, however, that rising  oil prices  will be
a “clinker” that slows down the economy.  Townsend is more pessimistic, saying he “wouldn’t be
surprised if we have another recession” in the U.S. and  Canada .
“People are taxed out,” he says, “and the stimulus measures
will be ending.”  Honorable Mention  I give an Honorable Mention to Steve Williams, a consulting
engineer in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan . He was the only contestant
to win or share a prize in more than one category.  Williams tied for second (with five others) in estimating
oil prices, and tied for first (with 10 others) in predicting
the U.S. unemployment rate.  He anticipates “gradual improvement” in the economy
during 2011 because “our industrial clients are beginning to
make improvements to plants.” He doesn’t expect a great year,
though, reasoning that the U.S. government deficit and high oil
prices will act as “drags.”  You, too, can try out your skill -- or luck -- as an
economic seer.  To enter the 2011-2012 Derby of Economic
Forecasting Talent, just follow these simple rules.  Provide your full name, occupation and phone number.  Answer the six questions below.  E-mail your response to me at
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com  by no later than 12:01 a.m. EST
on March 15.  Here are the questions:  Question 1: Economic growth. U.S. gross domestic product in
the fourth quarter of 2010 was growing at an annualized rate of
2.8 percent. What will be the pace of economic growth in the
fourth quarter of 2011?  Question 2: Inflation. The U.S.  Consumer Price Index  was
rising at a 1.66 percent annual pace as of Jan. 31. What will be
the inflation rate -- as measured by the change in the CPI --for
calendar year 2011?  Question 3: Interest rates. The interest rate on 10-year
bonds issued by the  U.S. Treasury  stands at about 3.49 percent.
What will be the interest rate on this benchmark bond as of Dec.
31, 2011?  Question 4: Oil prices. A barrel of West Texas Intermediate
crude oil currently trades at a spot price of about $104, up
about $20 in the past two weeks due to Mideast turmoil. What
will be the price of oil when this year ends?  Question 5: Retail sales. U.S. retail stores rang up almost
$382 billion in sales in January, up from about $380 billion in
December. What will total U.S. retail sales be in the month of
December 2011?  Question 6: Unemployment. Unemployment currently stands at
8.9 percent, down from a recessionary high of 10.1 percent in
October 2009. What will the  unemployment rate  be at year-end?  To score the contest, I award three points for taking first
place in any category, two points for second and one for third.
In case of ties, which were numerous this year, the points are
split, but a total of six points is always awarded for each
category.  I will attempt to acknowledge all entries; please be
patient. If you haven’t received acknowledgment within a week,
feel free to e-mail me again.  Entries without a phone number will be disqualified.  The winner of the contest will receive a trophy from me,
plus bragging rights of course. The second and third place
finishers receive no prize, only glory.    John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  