-- 
Turkish Stocks Fall First Day in Three, Yields Hit 9-Month High

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-03-07T17:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/turkish-stocks-fall-first-day-in-three-yields-hit-9-month-high.html
Turkish stocks fell for the first
time in three days and bond yields rose to their highest level
in nine months as violence in  Libya  drove up oil prices,
kindling concern that the trade deficit will deteriorate.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of stocks slid 1.5 percent to
60,217.58 at 5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul. Yields on benchmark
two-year bonds climbed to 9.04 percent, the highest since May
26, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.  Turkey reported last week that its trade deficit widened to
$7.3 billion in January, exceeding the median estimate of $4.1
billion from six analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Turkey imports
almost all the oil it consumes, constituting one fifth of total
imports last year, the Turkish Statistics Institute’s data
showed.  “Our bourse is entirely trading in parallel with oil
prices,” Isik Okte, a trader at Finans Invest, said in e-mailed
comments. “There is almost a one-to-one inverse relationship
between our stocks and  oil prices ,” he said.  Fighting between Libyan rebels and troops loyal to  Muammar
Qaddafi  intensified yesterday in violence that has cut the
country’s crude-oil production as much as 1 million barrels a
day, according to the International Energy Agency. Libya pumped
1.59 million barrels day in January, Bloomberg News estimates
show.  Crude for April delivery increased as much as 1.9 percent
to $106.45 a barrel in  New York , the highest intraday price
since September 2008.  Core inflation  is likely to accelerate
over the coming months, Turkey’s central bank said on March 4.  ‘External Vulnerabilities’  The lira dropped 0.1 percent to 1.5996 per dollar. The
currency has lost 3.5 percent this year, the worst performance
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg data.    Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  fell 2.8 percent to 6.92 liras
and  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  retreated 2 percent to 6.96 liras.  Turkey still has “substantial external vulnerabilities,”
including its current-account deficit, which is the “key risk
factor” for the country, Moody’s Investors Service said in an
e-mailed report today.  The government needs to strengthen its fiscal position to
win a ratings upgrade and the timing and magnitude of future
central bank rate hikes will be important in subduing inflation,
Moody’s said.  Moody’s rates Turkish credit Ba2, two notches below
investment grade, with a positive outlook.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk at   sgokoluk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  