-- 
Music Publishers Settle Copyright-Infringement Lawsuit Against Lime Wire

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-08T02:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/music-publishers-drop-copyright-claims-against-lime-wire-1-.html
Music publishers settled their
lawsuit against  Lime Wire LLC , the online file-sharing service
found liable last year for copyright infringement in a suit
brought by record companies, an industry group said.  “We are pleased that this litigation is over,” the
 National Music Publishers Association  said in an e-mailed
statement. “The parties worked hard to achieve a settlement
that is a good result for all involved.”  All claims by publishers including  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) 
against Lime Wire and its founder, Mark Gorton, are
“dismissed,” according to a filing today in federal court in
New York. No reason was given in the filing for the dismissal.
Each side will pay its own costs of the suit, including
attorneys’ fees, according to the document.  The music publishers, which also include units of  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and  Vivendi SA (VIV) , sued the file-sharing site last June, one
month after U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood found Lime Wire and
Gorton liable for inducing infringement by enabling Web users to
exchange music files for free without authorization.  The suit by the record companies was moving toward a May
trial for damages against Lime Wire and Gorton. The music
companies have estimated they could reach hundreds of millions
of dollars.  Joseph Baio, a lawyer for Lime Wire, didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment on the dismissal.  Music publishers own or manage the copyrights for songs and
compositions while the record labels own the copyrights to the
recordings.  The publishers’ case is EMI April Music Inc. v. Lime Wire
LLC, 10-4695, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donald Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  