-- 
LVMH to Take Controlling Stake in Bulgari Through Share Swap, FT Reports

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-03-07T03:08:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/lvmh-to-take-controlling-stake-in-bulgari-through-share-swap-ft-reports.html
  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (LVMH) ,
the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods , will take a
controlling stake in  Bulgari SpA (BUL) , the Financial Times reported,
citing an unidentified person close to the deal.  The Bulgari family will swap its 51 percent holding for a
stake in LVMH in a deal to be announced today, the FT reported.
LVMH will offer a “significant” premium to Bulgari’s market
value of 2.3 billion euros ($3.2 billion) as of March 4, the
newspaper said. A tender offer for the rest of Bulgari’s listed
shares will also start today, the report said.  Brothers Paolo and Nicola Bulgari are among members of the
Bulgari family who have agreed to the deal, the report said. The
two each owned a stake of about 23 percent in the company as of
Feb. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  has built Paris-
based LVMH into the world’s largest luxury-goods maker by
snapping up brands from Donna Karan International Inc. to
Glenmorangie Plc. LVMH holds 20 percent of  Hermes International (RMS) 
SCA after buying a stake in October without the knowledge of the
company’s founding family, which controls more than 70 percent
of Hermes. The founding family shareholders in the maker of
Kelly handbags have bolstered their defense against a possible
LVMH takeover.  Olivier Labesse, a spokesman for LVMH, and Paolo Piantella,
a spokesman for Rome-based Bulgari, didn’t immediately return  text messages  and e-mails seeking comment outside regular
business hours.  Dior, Hublot  The Italian jeweler fell 1.2 percent to 7.59 euros in March
4 trading in Milan, extending its drop this year to 6.1 percent.
LVMH declined 1.2 percent to close at 111.55 euros in Paris.  LVMH, with about $3 billion in cash at the end of 2010, has
announced at least eight acquisitions including the Hermes stake
purchase in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company surged 28 percent in the past 12 months,
beating the 2.8 percent gain of  France ’s  CAC 40 Index. (CAC)   Arnault’s Groupe Arnault SAS also holds 69 percent of
Paris-based  Christian Dior SA. (CDI)  LVMH bought Swiss watchmaker
Hublot for an undisclosed price in 2008.  Bulgari, the world’s third-largest jeweler, traces its
roots to the 1884 opening of a shop on Rome’s Via Sistina by
Sotirio Bulgari, according to its  website . The company has been
listed on the Milan stock exchange since 1995 and has businesses
ranging from hotels to silk scarves, in addition to watches and
jewelry.  CEO Francesco Trapani would take a “senior role” at LVMH
under the agreement, and the Bulgari family would get board
representation, the FT reported. Trapani, a member of the
family, has run Bulgari since 1984 and held 4.4 percent of its
shares as of Feb. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bulgari said Jan. 26 its fourth-quarter revenue climbed 21
percent to 357.8 million euros, beating analyst estimates. The
company, scheduled to report 2010 earnings on March 11, is
introducing more lower-priced jewelry and high-end men’s watches
as demand rebounds amid economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  