-- 
Hitachi Rises on $4.3 Billion Sale of Hard-Drive Unit to Western Digital

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u ,   M a k i   S h i r a k i   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T07:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/western-digital-to-buy-hitachi-unit-for-4-3-billion-in-cash-stock-deal.html
  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , Japan’s second-largest
manufacturer by revenue, climbed to a two-year high in Tokyo
trading after agreeing to sell its hard-disk drive unit to  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  for about $4.3 billion.  The shares advanced 1.8 percent to 514 yen, the highest
close since November 2008. The Japanese industrial group plans
to sell Hitachi Global Storage Technologies for about $3.5
billion in cash and 25 million shares of Western Digital, the
companies said yesterday.  The sale would be Hitachi’s biggest asset disposal ever as
the company, saddled with more than 850 units, seeks to focus on
making  power plants , trains and other infrastructure. For
Western Digital, the purchase would help it vault atop the
shrinking market for hard drives, which are facing mounting
competition from faster and smaller flash drives that store data
in products such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s MacBook Air and iPhones.  “Western Digital needed to strengthen its operations amid
intensifying competition and Hitachi has been considering
selling the volatile hard-disk drive business,” said Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co.
“The two companies probably struck the deal at the right time
when both sides needed to make a move.”  Western Digital surged 16 percent yesterday, the biggest
gain in more than two years, while its nearest competitor,  Seagate Technology Plc (STX) , jumped 9 percent on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, in the biggest gain since October.  Expensive Offer  The offer values Hitachi’s hard-disk drive business at 3.4
times its book value as of December. By comparison, Seagate
trades at 2.2 times book value and Western Digital changes hands
at a multiple of 1.6.  The offer amounts to about 90 percent of the unit’s annual
sales. That compares with a median price of 95 percent paid for
other companies in the industry, according to Bloomberg data
dating back to the last five years.  Seagate will benefit from the acquisition as computer
makers, which use the disk drives to store data, move away from
Western Digital to diversify their storage suppliers, said Matt Bryson, an analyst at Avian Securities LLC in  Boston , who rates
shares of Western Digital “positive.”  Last year, Western Digital tried to buy Seagate, and the
offer was refused on concern the deal would have faced antitrust
obstacles, two people familiar with the matter said in December.
Dublin-based Seagate also spurned an offer from TPG Capital.  Enterprise Customers  The Hitachi unit allows Western Digital to challenge
Seagate for the more lucrative enterprise customers, which will
result in increased competition,  said  Aaron Rakers , an analyst
for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis .  Western Digital’s “strength is different from Hitachi,”
Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi said in a press conference
yesterday. Hitachi will bring a stronger lineup for enterprise
customers, he said.  “The industry isn’t a growth industry,” said Rakers, who
recommends buying Western Digital shares. “Consolidation isn’t
a technology move, it’s oftentimes a must for the industry.”  Hitachi, which has posted four consecutive annual losses,
had considered breaking off the  hard-drive business  in an
initial public offering last year. The Japanese company will own
about 10 percent of  Irvine , California-based Western Digital
after the deal, scheduled for completion in September, and will
gain two seats on the board.  Largest Shareholder  The transaction will also make Hitachi the largest
shareholder of Western Digital, according to Nakanishi. The
Japanese company will reinvest money from the sale into its
remaining businesses, he said.  Hitachi paid $2.05 billion to purchase the data storage
business from International Business Machines Corp. to start the
unit in 2003. The unit posted five consecutive annual operating
losses before it turned profitable in 2008, according to Hitachi.  Western Digital and Hitachi accounted for 50 percent of the
number of hard-disk drives shipped worldwide during the fourth
quarter, according to estimates at research firm IHS ISuppli.
That’s almost double Seagate’s share.  The purchase will also allow Western Digital to expand in
the enterprise hard-disk drive segment, Fang Zhang, a storage
systems analyst at IHS ISuppli, said in an e-mail.  Samsung, Toshiba  “The enterprise HDD market garners significantly higher
margins than the consumer segment, which makes the enterprise a
fast-growing market for HDD revenue,” Zhang said.  Hard-disk drive shipments  will probably drop  about 4
percent this quarter from the fourth quarter amid competition
from smaller and faster storage products, according to IHS
ISuppli. Samsung Electronics Co. and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  are the
biggest makers of so-called flash memory chips that are
displacing hard-disk drives in consumer electronics and tablets.  Western Digital said it plans to raise about $2.5 billion
of debt to help fund the purchase. The company had about $231
million of long-term debt at the end of last year. The extra
debt may cause the company’s credit rating to be cut by two
levels, according to Bloomberg’s company credit model.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  