-- 
Wheat Planting Falls to 4-Year Low in Russia Amid Export Ban

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-03-07T16:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/wheat-planting-falls-to-four-year-low-in-russia-as-export-ban-hits-farmers.html
  Russia ’s ban on grain exports means
the country’s farmers will plant the fewest wheat fields in four
years, another sign that global prices will keep rising.  Wheat plantings in the country, once the second-biggest
exporter, will drop 2.3 percent to 64.2 million acres for this
year’s crop, according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of as
many as 19 producers, traders and analysts. Farmers can’t plant
more because the ban imposed after last summer’s drought is
limiting farm income. Diesel was 30 percent higher than a year
earlier in January and OAO Acron, Russia’s third-biggest
nitrogen fertilizer producer, raised some prices by more than 12
percent for the first half.  The 84 million-metric-ton grain harvest anticipated in the
survey is 1 million tons below what the government says it needs
to consider lifting the seven-month-old export ban. The absence
of Russian supplies comes as the U.S. says global grain
inventories will drop 13 percent, riots topple leaders in
Tunisia and Egypt and governments hoard food.  “The situation in Russia is absolutely crucial,” said  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , a London-based commodities analyst at  Barclays Capital , the most accurate wheat-price forecaster in
the first two quarters of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. With global stockpiles reduced, “we’d be starting a
year off on a much weaker footing,” she said.  Wheat Prices  While Russian wheat prices are 20 percent cheaper than
futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global benchmark,
First Deputy Prime Minister  Viktor Zubkov  said March 2 the
export ban could be extended from July through the end of 2011.  Russian policies may mean no reversal in the 89 percent
rally that began in June after drought and flooding from  Canada 
to Russia ruined crops. The surge contributed to what the  United
Nations  says were record-high global food prices last month. The
S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 47 percent since June, the
MSCI World Index of equities climbed 28 percent and Treasuries
returned 0.8 percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
shows.  Wheat will average $8.98 a bushel in the next quarter, 11
percent more than the $8.09 traded by 4:35 p.m. in London,
Barclays estimates. Societe Generale SA, the second most-
accurate forecaster tracked by Bloomberg in 2010, is predicting
$9.10, the highest quarterly average in more than three years.  Ukrainian Curbs  Natural disasters are cutting harvests around the world and
forcing governments to forego revenue from international sales
to ensure  food security  for their own people.  Ukraine imposed grain export quotas last year and  India 
banned shipments of lentils, onions and edible oils.  China  and
Japan are selling from state food stockpiles.  Egypt ,  Iraq ,
Bangladesh and  Saudi Arabia  tendered for grains.  Cyclones and flooding damaged crops in  Australia  this year
and drought is threatening wheat in northern China. Costs may
keep rising in coming months, with only rice keeping the world
from a repeat of the previous crisis, the UN said March 3. More
than 60 food riots occurred worldwide from 2007 to 2009, the
U.S. State Department estimates.  Russian farmers are already behind after planting 12
percent less winter wheat, a crop that normally accounts for 66
percent of the annual total, according to estimates of the
International Grains Council, whose membership exceeds 50
countries. The country’s grain stockpiles will probably drop to
5.4 million tons by June 30, 75 percent less than a year
earlier, the IGC estimates. Global inventory of wheat will
decline 10 percent to 177.8 million tons, according to the USDA.  Spring plantings could be bigger if the government provides
loans to farmers, according to Pavel Skurikhin, president of the
Moscow-based Grain Producers’ Union, which represents about
3,000 companies. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said March 2 the
government gave farmers another 1 billion rubles ($35.5 million)
to buy seeds and the same amount for fertilizers. Spring grain
plantings in Russia usually start by April and the harvests are
usually completed in October.  Growing Conditions  Harvests may also exceed expectations should growing
conditions improve.  “The early indications are that the crop is going to be
more or less normal,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior
economist at the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome.
“At this time last year we expected the record for Russia, and
look what happened. So it still has to be seen in the context of
assuming normal weather during the growing season.”  The surge in wheat prices may slow as demand weakens. North
African and Middle Eastern nations accelerated grain purchases
to boost stockpiles and curb domestic prices as unrest spread.  Grain Shipments  Grain shipments from the French port of Rouen,  Europe ’s
biggest cereal hub, to  Algeria  were the highest in more than six
months in the week to March 2, to fill contracts concluded in
past months, port data show. Egypt, the largest wheat importer,
is “running on fear” and will likely buy less in coming
months, said Mehdi Chaouky, a London-based analyst at Diapason
Commodities Management SA, which has about $8.5 billion invested
in commodities.  Relief may also come from outside Russia. Combined global
production of wheat, soybeans and corn will be 1.81 billion tons
in 2011-2012, 16 million tons more than demand, Societe Generale
estimates. That compares with a 40 million-ton shortfall in the
current season. The bank is predicting higher prices in every
quarter this year.  While Russian wheat plantings are forecast to drop,
production will rise 25 percent to 52 million tons, from last
year, when about 37 percent of the crop was wiped out by
drought, according to the median in the Bloomberg survey.
Excluding 2010, this year’s harvest would be the smallest since
2007.  Predicted Drop  Production gains also disguise a predicted drop in yields.
Russia’s most efficient farms will probably reap 3 tons a
hectare (2.47 acres), 25 percent less than before the drought,
said Mikhail Orlov, the founder of Moscow-based Ambika Group,
which advises planters and agricultural investors. Yields will
drop as farmers use less fertilizer, he said.  Government officials will consider “the necessary measures
to restrain prices” for fertilizers, Putin said March 2.  Some farmers already pledged their land and equipment as
collateral for loans last year after production declined in
2009-10, Orlov said. They may leave land fallow if no government
loans are available by the spring plantings, he said.  “We have survived, but we are not ready for the spring
planting,” Alexey Sedov, a farmer from the south-central
Saratov region, told Putin at an agricultural meeting in the
central city of Tambov on March 2. “Seeds are a sore spot,
especially since we under-planted winter grains, so there is a
big pressure on the spring sowing.”  U.S. farmers, the biggest exporters, will increase combined
winter- and spring-wheat acreage by 6.3 percent to 57 million
acres, the USDA said Feb. 14. It is scheduled to issue wheat
harvest estimates March 10.  Export Ban  Some Russian farmers may switch to sunflowers and soybeans,
said Alexander Korbut, vice president of Russia’s Grain Union.
The Moscow-based group represents about 1,000 producers and
traders.  With parliamentary elections this year and a presidential
vote in 2012, the Russian government may make fighting inflation
a higher priority than allowing farmers to obtain international
prices, said Jenia Ustinova, an associate in  Washington  at
Eurasia Group, a New York-based consulting company.  Russian consumer prices will rise 9 percent this year,
compared with almost 6.9 percent in 2010, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists. That’s
almost five times the anticipated pace in the U.S. and more than
four times the predicted gain in the euro region.  Grain Markets  Eventually, Russia will seek to revive its ambition to be a
dominant supplier in global grain markets, according to Eurasia
Group, which advises companies and government agencies.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  created state trader United Grain
Co. in 2009 to boost Russia’s exports to as much as 50 million
tons a year by about 2025, from about 20 million tons before the
ban. Russia is seeking a 20 percent share of the global grain
trade, Agriculture Minister Elena Skrynnik said in June 2009.  Russia was the world’s second-largest wheat exporter in
2009-10, the IGC estimates, shipping 18.8 million tons, behind
the U.S. which exported 23.9 million tons.  “The end of elections next year will mean a shift in focus
for the policy makers,” said Eurasia Group’s Ustinova. “The
pressure to control inflation and food prices will ease and
government will prioritize long-term development. Moscow’s goal
of becoming a grain superpower is intact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net  