-- 
Wind Farm Developers Say Serbia Needs to Allow Grid Connections, Guarantee

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-03-07T10:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/wind-farm-developers-say-serbia-needs-to-allow-grid-connections-guarantee.html
  Serbia ’s proposed new energy law may
not go far enough to unlock the country’s potential for wind
power because it lacks guarantees output will be connected to
the grid, a group of wind farm developers said.  “You can’t arrange to sell electricity from wind farms
before you actually build them and banks won’t lend if you don’t
have a power purchase agreement first,” said Mark Crandall,
Chairman of  Continental Wind Partners LLC  .  To meet conditions for joining the European Union, Serbia
needs to get at least 20 percent of its electricity consumption
from renewable sources by 2020. The country’s existing 8,000
megawatt capacity is dominated by coal-fired plants, Crandall
said.  Serbia’s newest thermal plant is 30 years old and 50
percent of the existing facilities may have to be decommissioned
by 2020, said Jacopo Moccia, regulatory affairs adviser at the
 European Wind Energy Association . “Something has to replace
it.”  Estimates by the country’s  Energy and Mining Ministry  and
the  Serbian Wind Energy Association  that wind speeds in dozens
of locations allow for wind farms of least 1,300 megawatts of
installed capacity haven’t led to development because the
government doesn’t provide assurances they will be connected to
the grid, said Crandall, a founder of the association.  Draft Version  A draft version of Serbia’s proposed energy law was
unveiled last month for public debate and possible amendments
before a parliamentary vote later this year. The government said
the law aims to stimulate clean energy development and
liberalize the market dominated by state-run Elektroprivreda
Srbije. The association said the proposed legislation may fall
short of providing the required guarantees.  “Precise conditions for connecting to the grid may be
defined only later, with bylaws, and that’s not good enough for
those who would provide financing,” Crandall said in an
interview at a business forum last week.  Though that may be less of an obstacle for building small
wind farms “there is no way to develop substantial capacity
without guaranteed rates for the electricity produced and for
connecting to the grid,” said Maja Turkovic, the association’s
representative.  Members of the association, which include local units of  Italy ’s  Fintel Energia Group (FTL)  and  Austria ’s  Kelag , are working on
a pipeline of projects for Serbia valued at 1.5 billion euros
($2.1 billion) with a combined capacity of 1,000 megawatts, she
said.  A special government decree allows Serbia to buy locally
generated electricity from new, non-polluting sources at 9.5
euro cents per kilowatt, twice the current retail rate. There
are “hardly any beneficiaries of this” because the broader
framework is lagging, Turkovic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  