-- 
Wine Revolutionaries Mix Vines, Leopards in South African Hills

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-03-07T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/wine-revolutionaries-mix-vines-leopards-in-south-african-hills.html
Eben Sadie pours glasses of red and
white, brushes back sun-bleached hair and starts talking his
wine revolution. The South African’s non-stop philosophizing
seems part vision, part spin -- until I taste his brilliant,
original wines.  “I’m a soil maniac,” says  South Africa ’s most outspoken
winemaker (a term he hates). “Some people bet on horses, I like
to walk into a vineyard and say, ‘I bet this will be the one.’”  Sadie focuses on getting terroir -- a taste of the climate,
soil, and tradition of where the grapes are grown -- into his
wines.  We’re in the  Sadie Family Wines  office above his small
winery, a room with orange walls, maps of Burgundy, and crate
shelves lined with empty bottles that once held the world’s
greatest vintages.  In this cluster of whitewashed buildings in the Swartland
district, the opinionated Sadie is making some of the most
fascinating wines I tasted during a recent trip through South
Africa’s vineyards.  An hour north of  Cape Town , Swartland is the country’s
latest buzz wine area, a Wild West compared to the famous
 Stellenbosch  district, whose sophisticated shops, flashy
architecture and wealthy French investors remind me of  Napa
Valley .  Baboon Land  Long known as wheat-growing country, Swartland has a
history of bulk wine cooperatives. The name means ‘black land,’
for the native rhino bush that turns the dry, spare landscape
dark part of the year.  In the past decade, a small group of maverick winemakers
has been changing that image.  “Here,” says Sadie, 38, “is where you can make the
greatest South African wines.”  He ticks off the region’s virtues: the temperature swings
(40 degrees centigrade by day, 15 degrees by night), the schist
and granite soils, the many old vineyards, high altitude grapes
growing in baboon habitat.  A wine perfectionist in baggy cargo shorts and scruffy
canvas shoes, he got his start in Swartland as winemaker at
 Charles Back’s Spice Route  winery, one of the district’s first
serious ventures, then  branched out on his own in 1999 with
$12,000, 14 barrels, and a German partner.  “The cellar doesn’t excite me,” he says. “What really
affects me is the angle of the plow.” Still, he constantly
experiments, even aging wine in clay amphora.  What stands out in Sadie’s several bottlings is their
surprising purity and complexity. I give the edge to his
luscious, mineral-and-orange blossom white, 2008 Palladius
($60), a blend of 10 white grapes. His dark, earthy 2009
Columella, a syrah/mourvedre red ($90) is plush, seductive. Of
his $30 “Monday to Friday” wines, I prefer the creamy yet
fresh 2009 Sequillo white to the 2008 Sequillo red.  Not Cabernet  Swartland’s revolutionaries prize blends over single
varietals, syrah over cabernet. They like organic grape growing,
natural yeasts, and above all, old vines -- all to show off the
region’s unique terroirs.  At 6 p.m., I arrive at nearby Babylon’s Peak (first vintage
2003) on the slopes of Paardeberg mountain, more than an hour
late. Owner Stephan Basson assures me that’s the norm when
you’ve been visiting Sadie.  We bump up a long rutted jeep track to a spot just below
the mountain’s 700-meter peak for a drink and the view, passing
a steep vineyard of 40-year-old chenin blanc vines that look
like thick trunked bushes.  Like many growers, Basson considered pulling them out
because of low yields and prices. Now he makes his own lively
wine from some of the grapes, and serious winemakers like Sadie
are willing to pay top dollar for the rest.  Leopards Return  The family set aside part of the mountain on their huge
farm as a natural preserve, one example of the recent efforts in
the South African wine world to preserve biodiversity. The
Western Cape is the smallest yet richest plant kingdom on earth.  “We know the leopards are back,” Basson says. I keep my
eyes open, but spot only unusual birds.  Later that evening, several producers turn up for a tasting
and braai (barbecue) at the winery of another rebel,  Adi
Badenhorst , former winemaker at a high-profile Stellenbosch
estate. Badenhorst, 40, wears flipflops, a TinTin t-shirt, and a
short grey ponytail. He carries a wine bottle in one hand and
his sleeping daughter on his back.  The 1930s winery, abandoned until he and his cousin bought
it 3 years ago, is almost restored. “Every farmer had one until
the cooperative opened in 1948,” he says. Now the cooperatives
are becoming unprofitable and the wine scene encourages growers
to make their own.  While Badenhorst’s assistant winemaker turns meat on the
fireplace grill, I head for the wines, savoring the fresh,
citrusy 2008 A.A. Badenhorst white blend and spicy, plushy 2007
red, (both $35), and the Lammershoek winery’s intriguing 2007
Roulette red ($20) and vibrant 2009 Roulette Blanc ($18).  Thanks to Swartland’s small band of talented producers,
there’s plenty of hype about the wines. They don’t all live up
to it. But, then, the revolution’s barely started.    Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 