-- 
Worker Killed at Valero’s Norco Refinery, State Police Say

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-03-07T17:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/worker-killed-at-valero-s-norco-refinery-state-police-say.html
One worker was killed and another
injured at a  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  refinery in  Louisiana  after an
evacuation prompted by the odor of hydrogen sulfide, said Doug
Cain, a spokesman for the Louisiana State Police.  Two contractors were grinding exposed metal pieces on a new
elevated unit at Norco St. Charles yesterday when one smelled
hydrogen sulfide and the workers evacuated, Cain said in a
telephone interview today.  “The incident took place on the refinery’s millisecond
catalytic cracking unit, which was shut down at the time,”  Bill Day , a Valero spokesman based in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail
today. “The incident did not present any danger to the
surrounding community” and the refinery is operating, he said.  Two contract workers with Koch Specialty Plant Services
were hospitalized, according to Day. One of those workers died
at the hospital late Sunday night and the other is expected to
be released from the hospital today, he said.  “What we found was one individual who looked like he had
fallen down a ladder,” Cain said. “The other was conscious and
was able to get down the ladder and was taken to the hospital.”  The cause of the fatality, reported to state police at 6
p.m. local time, is being investigated. It isn’t known whether
the fatality was from exposure to gas or from the trauma of the
fall, according to Cain.  “We did evaluate their meters this morning and they did
indicate some level of hydrogen sulfide exposure,” he said.  The U.S. Chemical Safety Board, which investigates refinery
safety matters, is checking if the incident is being
investigated, Daniel Horowitz, a board spokesman, said in an e-
mail today.  The refinery, 26 miles (42 kilometers) west of  New Orleans ,
can process 250,000 barrels a day, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Production includes gasoline, kerosene,  diesel fuel ,
heating oil, liquefied petroleum gases and petroleum coke,
according to the company website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  