-- 
Worldwide Semiconductor Sales for January (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-03-07T19:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/worldwide-semiconductor-sales-for-january-text-.html
Following is the text of the
worldwide semiconductor sales report.  The  Semiconductor Industry Association  (SIA), representing
U.S. leadership in semiconductor manufacturing and design, today
announced that worldwide sales of semiconductors were $25.5
billion for the month of January 2011, a gain of 1.5 percent
from the prior month when sales were $25.2 billion. Sales
increased by 14.0% from $22.4 billion in January 2010.  All
monthly sales numbers represent a three-month moving average.  “The industry will continue to benefit from steady growth,
as semiconductor content increases in a wide range of products.
The impressive growth in semiconductor sales over the past year
has been driven by strong demand across all major end markets as
the products we use everyday become smarter, faster, and less
expensive,” said Brian Toohey, president, Semiconductor Industry
Association. “We are especially encouraged by this trend in the
industrial and automotive sectors, which saw significant growth.”  The integration of semiconductors has increased across all
verticals including consumer, automotive, computer, industrial,
communications and government applications where the industry
saw 32 percent year-over-year growth in 2010. Specifically,
semiconductor sales to both the industrial and automotive
sectors saw significant year-over-year growth which increased by
50 percent and 44 percent respectively in 2010. The integration
of energy efficient tools and increased automation in industrial
applications can account for some of the growth in this sector’s
use of semiconductors. In the automotive sector, increased
demand for semiconductor enabled technologies can be attributed
to emerging hybrid and electric vehicles, entertainment
applications, engine controls and navigation systems.  SOURCE: Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  