-- 
Canada Stocks Drop as Energy Stocks Fall Amid OPEC Discussions

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:37:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/tmx-group-northgate-minerals-canadian-equity-market-preview.html
Canadian stocks slumped for a second
day as oil and gold producers dropped along with prices for the
commodities.    Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s biggest energy producer, fell
4.2 percent as members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries discussed whether to hold a special meeting
to discuss increasing production as unrest in Libya continued.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  declined 1.4 percent after the precious metal
fell. Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the nation’s second-
largest energy company, slumped 3.4 percent after oil dropped.  “If you look at the actual oil supply, it hasn’t actually
changed that much,” said Jennifer Radman, who helps oversee
about C$1 billion ($1.03 billion) as a money manager at Caldwell
Investment Management Ltd. in Toronto. “A lot of the spike in
prices has been in anticipation of things going wrong. Until you
see the actual supply lessening, you are going to have
limitations on how much higher oil can climb.”  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index declined 79.38
points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 14,012.97 in Toronto, the
lowest level since Feb. 24.  A subgroup of 58 energy producers in the Canadian benchmark
equity index advanced 8.4 percent from Feb. 11 through March 4
on concern unrest in  Libya  and the Middle East would disrupt oil
supply. The group has fallen 3.6 percent since March 4.  Stockpiles of crude oil probably rose 1.13 million barrels
from 346.4 million the prior week, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Eight of the analysts forecast a gain and six projected
a decrease. The Energy Department is scheduled to release its
weekly report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  Options in Libya  In Washington, President  Barack Obama  said NATO is debating
a “wide range” of options in Libya, and his press secretary,
Jay Carney, said that providing arms to the rebels is among
them. Arab Gulf nations advocated a no-fly zone and U.K Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said the  United Nations Security Council 
is discussing how to set a “clear trigger” for UN action to
ground Muammar Qaddafi’s air force.  “I think the Libyan situation is somewhat cooling the
market,” said Robert “Hap” Sneddon, president of Oakville,
Ontario, money manager Castlemoore Inc. and vice president of
the Canadian Society of Technical Analysts. “If things do calm
down and Qaddafi does end up leaving, you may get other areas
start to heat-up again.”  Suncor Energy dropped 4.2 percent to C$43.67, the lowest
level since Feb. 16. Petrobank Energy and Resources Ltd., which
explores for oil and natural gas in  Alberta , Canada, declined
5.4 percent to C$23.19, the biggest slide in the S&P/TSX Index.
Canadian Natural fell 3.4 percent to C$46.46.  A subgroup of gold producers in the S&P/TSX Index slumped
1.3 percent. Twenty-six of the 34 members in the group declined.  Barrick slumped 1.4 percent to C$50.80. Goldcorp Inc. fell
1.5 percent to C$47.89. Gold futures for April delivery declined
0.5 percent to $1,427 an ounce in  New York , as a stronger dollar
and dropping energy prices eroded the appeal of the previous
metal as an alternative asset and inflation hedge.    Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , Canada’s largest wireless
carrier, advanced 1.4 percent to C$34.00, the biggest gain since
Feb. 16. The Toronto-based company plans to sell as much as $1.8
billion ($1.85 billion) of senior unsecured debt in a two-part
offering, according to a person familiar with the transaction.    Celtic Exploration Ltd. (CLT)  dropped 5.9 percent to C$20.93, the
second-biggest decline in the Canadian benchmark equity index.
The oil and natural gas producer was cut to “sector perform”
from “sector outperform” at Scotia Capital Inc. The 12-month
price estimate is C$24.00.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Johnson in New York at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  