-- 
Yen Rises as Stocks Decline, Crude Oil Pares Gain, Spurring Haven Demand

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-07T22:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/yen-rises-as-stocks-decline-crude-oil-pares-gain-spurring-haven-demand.html
The yen strengthened against most of
its major counterparts as stocks fell and commodities pared
gains, boosting demand for haven assets.  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries weakened after
crude  oil prices  fell from a 29-month high. The Canadian and
Australian dollars erased gains. New Zealand’s dollar weakened
as loss estimates were increased from the Feb. 22 earthquake in
Christchurch.  “Not only are you seeing a turnaround in equities and
currencies, but you’re also seeing quite a bit of a turnaround
in oil,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “People could be
looking beyond the inflationary impact of oil prices and
focusing on the consequences it could have on growth.”  The yen added 0.1 percent to 82.24 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
New York, from 82.32 March 4. It rose 0.2 percent to 114.87 per
euro, from 115.13.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.8 percent and the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials was little
changed after gaining as much as 1.1 percent. Crude oil,  Canada ’s largest export, increased 0.4 percent to $104.88 a
barrel, after gaining as much as 2.4 percent as fighting in  Libya  had fueled concern that turmoil in North Africa and the
Middle East could curtail supplies.  Canada, Australia  Canada’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to 84.49 yen and the
Aussie fell 0.3 percent to 83.21 yen.  The surge in the prices of oil and other commodities
probably won’t generate a lasting rise in inflation, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers in his
semiannual testimony on monetary policy last week.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
the world’s central bankers are united in their aim to prevent
surging oil prices from fanning broader inflation.  “There is amongst central bankers a solid unity of purpose
to continue to anchor solidly inflation expectations,” Trichet
said today in  Basel ,  Switzerland , after chairing the Global
Economy Meeting.  The euro gained last week after policy makers left the
refinancing rate at 1 percent and Trichet said they may raise
borrowing costs as early as their next meeting in April to
contain inflation. The implied yield on the three-month Euribor
contract expiring in December was at 2.16 percent today from
1.94 percent a week earlier, indicating investors are increasing
wagers on higher  interest rates .  Rate Difference  “As long as the story continues to be higher interest
rates in the euro zone, maybe as soon as next month, the  U.S.
dollar  is going to be pretty soft against the G-10,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in  Washington  at currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc. “You’re seeing people looking toward the
Fed to not do anything.”  The dollar may reverse declines that have seen the U.S.
currency drop 3.5 percent this year after bets on its
depreciation against its major counterparts climbed to the most
on record, according to UBS AG.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the greenback against a
basket of peers including the euro, yen, pound and Swiss franc,
compared with those on a drop. Bets on the dollar weakening, so-
called net shorts, surged in the week ended March 1 to the
highest since the Commodity Futures Trading Commission began
publishing the data in 2003.  Barclays Forecast  The euro will rise to $1.45 in one year, according to
Barclays Plc, which said increasing oil prices will weigh on the
dollar. The firm had previously forecast the shared currency to
reach $1.42. Barclays said the euro will trade at $1.38 in three
months.  The pound fell against most of its counterparts on
speculation the ECB will raise interest rates before the  Bank of
England , which will maintain its overnight lending rate at 0.5
percent March 10, according to all 61 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The pound weakened 0.5 percent to 133.25 yen, from
133.91.    New Zealand ’s  Treasury Department  said costs from the Feb.
22 quake that wrecked the central business district of
Christchurch may triple the estimated NZ$5 billion ($3.7
billion) bill from a temblor that hit the city in September. The
expense will be shared between the government, insurers and
businesses, Finance Minister Bill English said yesterday.  The New Zealand dollar traded at NZ$1.3729 per Australian
dollar from NZ$1.3735 in New York on March 4. It earlier touched
NZ$1.3796, the weakest level since June 1992. The kiwi bought
73.69 U.S. cents from 73.83 last week, when it reached 73.39
cents, the lowest since Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  