-- 
Lynas's Nick Curtis Builds Fortune With Bet on Rare Earths

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-03-08T06:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/lynas-s-nick-curtis-builds-fortune-with-bet-on-rare-earths.html
Nick Curtis made a A$5 million ($5
million) contrarian bet in 2002 to develop an Australian rare
earth mine, aiming to challenge  China ’s control of global supply
of the metals. His company, Lynas Corp., now has a market value
of $3.5 billion.  Curtis, 53, saw his gamble start to pay off last year when
China slashed rare earth exports, causing prices to surge as
much as 13-fold and setting off a scramble to lock in
alternative sources of the metals used in missile guidance
systems, iPods and hybrid cars.  With China controlling more than 95 percent of the world’s
rare earths, Lynas’s stock jumped almost fourfold since June 30
as investors sought more secure future supply.  “The dominance of China in rare earths was
unsustainable,” Curtis, chief executive officer of Lynas, said
in an interview. “I’d pictured the need for order in the
industry, that these were important metals that would ultimately
need a stable, secure non-China supply chain,” Curtis said.  His decision to invest in rare earths was informed by
experience with China’s aluminum industry, where mushrooming
construction of smelters led to power shortages followed by a
government clampdown and industry regulation.  “The reform process in China in the metals sector goes
through a period of unfettered competition leading to chaos
followed by which the state tries to get control of things
again,” Curtis said.  New Supply  Sydney-based Lynas, the second-best performer on  Australia ’s benchmark stock index last year, is set to become
the first new source of supply outside China in at least two
decades with the start up this year of the A$535 million Mt.
Weld project, the world’s richest deposit of rare earths
according to Lynas.  Ore production will begin this month at the mine about
1,000 kilometers (620 miles) northeast of Perth, Western
Australia. Lynas shares fell 0.5 percent to A$2.09 at the 4:10
p.m. Sydney time close on the Australian stock exchange.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements used by
companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
They include neodymium, cerium and lanthanum used in sonar
systems, flat-screen TVs and computers.  The price of lanthanum oxide, used in hybrid batteries, has
surged more than 13-fold since the second quarter to $92 a
kilogram, according to Lynas’ website. Vehicles such as the
Toyota Prius hybrid contain about 10 kilograms of rare earths,
used to make lightweight batteries and motors.  Working in China  Curtis developed an interest in rare earths working with
Madame Bai Jie, a former head of raw materials at China’s state
planning commission. He worked for six years from 1994 at a unit
of China National Nonferrous Metals Industry Corp., which
controlled all of China’s non-steel-related metals until 2000.  Curtis bought Mt. Weld from Anaconda Nickel Ltd., part-
owned by Glencore International AG. Anaconda’s CEO wasAndrew Forrest, today Australia’s richest man, with a fortune of A$6.9
billion, according to Forbes  Asia . Forrest went on to start  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , the fourth-biggest supplier of  iron
ore  to China.  Forrest “epitomizes going long where China is short, which
was the right move,” Curtis, who graduated with a bachelor’s
degree in fine arts from the  University of Sydney , said. “I
went long where China is ultra-long, which was the wrong move
for the particular time” about 2002.  Mining Priority  China made rare earths production a priority in the early
1990s under  Deng Xiaoping , dominating the market, pushing down
prices and rendering mines elsewhere uneconomical. The
government introduced its export quota system in 1999.  Rare earth shortages followed the government’s directive in
2006 to create larger domestic companies while curbing output
and exports.  About 50 percent of global rare earth demand comes from
customers outside China and they are looking elsewhere for
supplies, Deutsche Bank AG said in a report last year. Global
demand for rare earths is forecast to rise to $11.2 billion by
2014 from $7.8 billion last year, Lynas said in a presentation
last month.  “Nick’s always been an entrepreneur,” said Warwick Grigor,
an equity analyst at BGF Equity Pty Ltd. in Sydney, who’s
tracked the “exceptional” Mt. Weld deposit since the mid-1980s.
“He saw an opportunity there. It’s probably an understanding of
the market he’s picked up from dealing with the Chinese.”  Future Prices?  To be sure, prices of some rare earths, including lanthanum,
may start to drop by 2013 as additional production creates a
“vast oversupply,” Western Minerals Group Ltd., a Canadian
exploration company, forecast last month.  Curtis, a former executive director of Macquarie Group Ltd.
and head of its commodity trading desk in Sydney, founded Sino
Gold Mining Ltd., the owner of China’s second-largest gold mine
whose shares began trading on the Australian stock exchange in
2002. The company was bought by Eldorado Gold Corp. in 2009 for
about C$2 billion ($2 billion).  “We were insiders when no one else could penetrate
China,” said Jake Klein, the former CEO of Sino Gold and now
the chairman of Conquest Mining Ltd. and board director of Lynas.  Financial Crisis  The financial crisis forced Curtis to suspend work on Mt.
Weld in February 2009 after failing to lock up funding. He
raised capital in the equity market in September that year after
the Australian government blocked China Non-Ferrous Metal Mining
Group Co. from buying a majority stake.  “This being a strategic resource with existing supplies
controlled by China, sophisticated investors got the story in a
nanosecond and the deal built its own momentum,” said Alan Young, head of natural resources & infrastructure in Sydney for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which managed and underwrote the A$450
million share sale.  China Non-ferrous Metal offered to pay A$252 million for a
51.6 percent stake in Lynas. The company has a market value
today of A$3.5 billion.  “I’d be really disappointed today if I had gotten off the
bus somewhere along the way looking at the speed it’s moving
today,” Curtis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  