-- 
Yuan Rises to 17-Year High on Signs China Will Allow More Gains

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-07T09:23:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-07/yuan-rises-to-17-year-high-on-signs-china-will-allow-more-gains.html
  China ’s yuan advanced to a 17-year
high after the government said it plans to expand cross-border
use of the currency and improve foreign-exchange management at
the weekend’s National People’s Congress.  The People’s Bank of China set the  reference rate  for yuan
trading at the strongest level since July 2005 after the
government said March 5 it will broaden the avenues of
investment for its foreign-exchange reserves, according to
documents released in Beijing at the meeting.  “We expect ongoing liberalization and that will include
further appreciation,” said Patrick Bennett, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.  The yuan rose as much as 0.09 percent to 6.5628 per dollar,
the strongest level since China unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993. The currency closed at 6.5634
in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.02 percent to
6.4075, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 2.4 percent
in a year from the spot rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The central bank set the reference rate 0.03 percent
higher at 6.5651. The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5
percent on either side of the official rate.  The use of the yuan in international trade still needs some
time, Zhang Xiaoji, head of overseas economic research at the
State Council’s Development Research Center, said March 5.  The  exchange rate  is the closest to “equilibrium” as it
has ever been, central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said March 5
at the meeting. Bolstering domestic consumption, restructuring
the economy and reducing surpluses will help the currency reach
equilibrium, Yi said.    Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in Sydney, said this means that the government
believes the currency is moving closer to “market fair value.”  --Sonja Cheung, Fion Li. Editors: Simon Harvey, Dirk Beveridge  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Cheung in Beijing at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  