-- EU Prepares for Greek Aftermath as Summit on Euro Looms
-- B y   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 2012-06-17T16:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/make-or-break-summit-looms-as-eu-preps-for-greek-fallout.html
Faced with Greek elections that
threaten to result in only more disarray, European leaders are
set to turn their attention to safeguarding the other 98 percent
of the euro-area economy.  With investors and policy makers clamoring for clarity
amidst what  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  called a
“black cloud” over the world economy,  Europe ’s chiefs are
preparing for their fourth make-or-break summit in a year. The
two largest parties, New Democracy and Syriza, are in a dead
heat in parliamentary elections, according to an exit poll.  “They need to signal and make difficult decisions as to
what they want the composition and functioning of the euro zone
to look like,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., told Bloomberg Television
June 15. “The current form doesn’t work. There’s too many
flaws.”  Before descending on Brussels June 28, leaders first need
to overcome differences on politics and policy. French President
 Francois Hollande  hosted members of  Germany ’s opposition last
week as he pushes plans, which German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rejects, to jointly guarantee debt and provide stimulus to
counter recession in the 17-nation bloc.  Spain ’s foreign
minister said June 14 that Germany helped trigger the crisis.  Merkel at G-20  “Investors outside Europe lack confidence -- we feel this
every day -- in Europe and the euro area,” Merkel said in a
June 15 speech in Berlin. “But there’s also a lack of trust
among the different actors. That trust must be restored.”  Merkel, whose role as leader of Europe’s biggest economy
gives her an effective veto on crisis-fighting policy, gets down
to business at the summit of leaders from the Group of 20
nations beginning tomorrow in Los Cabos, Mexico. Global leaders
will probably press her to give ground on her austerity-first
policy, as they did at the G-8 summit last month.  Merkel then meets in  Rome  on June 22 with Hollande, Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy ,
seeking to find common ground before the EU and euro-area
summits at the end of the next week.  “More important than the summit is the gathering of the
big four,” said El-Erian. “They hold the key.”  Greek Gridlock  The anticipation echoes the expectations that preceded
gatherings last July 21, when a second bailout agreement for
Greece was outlined; October 26, when bondholders accepted a
Greek writedown and the euro rescue fund was beefed up; and Dec.
9, when new budget rules were adopted. None of those steps
arrested the crisis.  Euro-area finance ministers plan to hold a conference call
after the election results come in to discuss their strategy,
according to a European official. A statement is likely to be
issued around 10 p.m. Brussels time, the official said.  Today’s Greek elections carry the latest threat of stoking
the turmoil, as polls show the anti-bailout Syriza party running
neck-and-neck with  New Democracy , which says a vote for Syriza
risks a Greek euro exit. Polls also suggest no clear majority,
bringing the prospect of further political gridlock.  The election is a week after Spain said it would seek a 100
billion-euro rescue for its banks, prompting concern Italy would
be next to succumb.  Europe's Future  “I don’t think the election results will determine the
future of Europe, because I see scope for compromise from both
sides,” Martin Blum, co-head of asset management at Ithuba
Capital in Vienna, said in an e-mail. “I do think that
contagion from Spain to Italy and the quality of the policy
response at the EU summit will, however, be important in
determining the future of Europe.”  The German chancellor gave a pair of speeches last week
laying out her priorities for the  Mexico  summit that signaled
she was staying the course.  “Germany will not be persuaded of all those quick
solutions such as euro bonds, stability bonds, a European
deposit-insurance fund,” Merkel told small-business leaders in
Berlin on June 15 to applause.  Since his election on May 6, Hollande has advocated moving
toward euro bonds, echoing a position backed by Merkel’s
domestic opposition and EU officials in Brussels.  Public Debt  “In the financial circles, few doubt that it makes
economic sense to create a deep, liquid and stable market for
 government bonds  with the joint issuance of public debt,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said June
15, according to the text of a speech prepared for a Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. conference in Brussels that was closed to the
press.  Monti has joined Hollande in calling for greater emphasis
on policies that promote economic growth. On June 13, Monti said
the summit needs to adopt a “credible package of growth
measures” to reduce  Italy ’s borrowing costs.  Italy’s 10-year bonds yield reached 6.342 percent this
week, the highest in almost five months, ending the week at
5.926 percent, 449 basis points more than comparable German
debt.  The euro’s guardians will also debate a blueprint being
devised that may chart the way out of the crisis and toward the
full union that Merkel envisions. Drawn up by EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy , European Commission President  Jose Barroso ,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , the plan may echo the
euro’s 1989 roadmap set out by a panel led by then-European
Commission President Jacques Delors.  “The important thing as far as we are concerned today is
that this report in a sense spelled out a methodology,” Draghi
told reporters June 6. “There was a road with dates, deadlines
and conditions to be satisfied. I think that is part of the
efforts that our leaders and we, ourselves have to draw up
today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Hertling in Athens at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  