-- AMR Pilot Union Board Considers Whether to Send Offer for Vote
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-16T03:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/amr-pilot-union-board-considers-whether-to-send-offer-for-vote.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  and its pilots
failed to agree in talks on furloughs and other concessions
sought by the carrier as it seeks to reorganize in bankruptcy.  American made a final contract offer that pilot negotiators
will take back to the union’s board, the  Allied Pilots
Association  said today in an update on its website. American
made “clear improvements” from its earlier position on some
items during the talks, and the board will review the proposal
and decide whether to send the plan to members for a vote, the
union said.  “We’re pleased that APA negotiators are taking the
proposal to their board of directors,”  Bruce Hicks , an American
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. The airline declined
to discuss details of the offer, he said.  The most recent round of talks began June 13. The two sides
met at the request of U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Sean Lane, who
plans to rule by June 22 on whether to throw out existing labor
agreements.  The pilots joined American’s flight attendants and
mechanics in failing to reach agreements during talks overseen
by a second bankruptcy judge. American wants to cut annual labor
costs by $1.25 billion as part of its restructuring.  American sought court permission to void its labor
agreements after failing to negotiate concessions from its three
main unions following the airline’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.
Those efforts echoed the results of contract talks going back as
far as 2006.  Reduce Spending  Lane allotted three days for talks between each union and
American in hopes that agreements could be reached before he
rules on allowing the airline to void contracts. The pilots
extended their initial three-day session to the last half of
this week.  American is seeking to reduce spending in each work group
by 20 percent a year, or $370 million for pilots as part of the
$1.25 billion. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline’s original
proposal included laying off 400 pilots and loosening
restrictions on flights made by regional partners and on the use
of flight marketing agreements with other U.S. airlines.  The APA, the Transport Workers Union and the  Association of
Professional Flight Attendants  have reached contract terms with
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , conditioned on a merger of the two
airlines. Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways , which hasn’t made a
formal bid for American, has said it is meeting with the
carrier’s bankruptcy creditors to build support for a
combination.  Members of five work groups represented by the TWU at
American approved the company’s last contract offer on May 15,
meaning they aren’t included in the continued efforts to toss
existing agreements. Those groups included baggage handlers and
other airport ramp workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  