-- New Zealand, Australia, South Africa Seal Rugby Series Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-16T23:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/australia-new-zealand-win-late-to-clinch-rugby-series-victories.html
New Zealand  and Australia won with
late scores and South Africa held off England as the world’s top
three rugby teams clinched series victories yesterday against
northern hemisphere teams. Argentina beat France 23-20.  Australia defeated  Wales  25-23 as Mike Harris scored a
penalty goal with the final kick of the game.  Dan Carter ’s last-
minute drop goal gave world champion New Zealand a 22-19 win
over Ireland and South Africa withstood a second half rally to
beat England 36-27.  “We’re quite relieved to be honest,” New Zealand captain
Richie McCaw said in a televised interview. “It turned into a
typical arm-wrestle.”  The All Blacks, Wallabies and Springboks lead their series
2-0 heading into the finales June 23.  Harris’s kick after the final siren gave Australia the
victory at Etihad Stadium in Melbourne. Wallabies fly-half
 Berrick Barnes , who returned to the squad about two hours before
kickoff following the birth of his first child, kicked 17 points
and set up center  Rob Horne  for his team’s only try.  “I was worried for a while that I wasn’t going to make it
back but everything went right and I was really glad to be able
to represent my country,” Barnes said in a news conference.
“It’s been a really emotional day.”  Leigh Halfpenny kicked 13 points for Six Nations champion
Wales, which got tries through  George North  and Jonathan Davies.  “I don’t think you can get any closer than that to be
honest,” Welsh captain Sam Warburton said in a televised
interview.  All Blacks Rally  New Zealand rallied from a 10-0 first-half deficit in
Christchurch to beat Ireland for the 25th time in 26 meetings.
The All Blacks played the final eight minutes with 14 men after
full-back Israel Dagg was sent to the sin bin.  “We had them in trouble a few times, but the score line
still says an All Blacks victory which is difficult to take
considering the amount of effort that went in,” Irish captain
Brian O’Driscoll said.  Carter finished with 17 points, while Aaron Smith scored
the only New Zealand try.  Conor Murray  touched down for Ireland,
which was routed in the series opener last week 42-10, and
 Jonathan Sexton  kicked 14 points.  South Africa  dominated England in the first half, though
needed a 72nd-minute try from JP Pietersen to clinch the victory
at Ellis Park in Johannesburg.  Early Lead  The Springboks got tries from Willem Alberts, Bismarck du Plessis and Francois Hougaard in the opening 20 minutes to take
a 22-3 lead. Ben Youngs touched down twice in the second half as
England pulled within 31-27 before Pietersen’s try clinched
victory.  “The first 20 minutes killed us and we were always playing
catchup,” Youngs told  Sky Sports . “Great spirit by the boys
but at the end, it didn’t count for much.”  Toby Flood  scored a third try for England, while also
kicking 12 points. Morne Steyn booted 16 points for the
Springboks.  This year marks a return to best-of-three Test series as
rugby administrators seek to make games more meaningful in the
June international period, during which touring northern
hemisphere teams have typically sent understrength squads to the
southern hemisphere.  In Cordoba,  Argentina , the home team also scored late to
take a 1-0 lead in its two-match series against France. Winger
Manuel Montero scored a try with four minutes remaining that was
converted by Pumas captain Felipe Contepomi. The teams meet
again next week in Tucuman.  Scotland earlier beat Fiji 37-25 in their only Test in
Lautoka. Tim Visser scored two tries on his debut for Scotland,
which finishes its three-Test tour of the southern hemisphere in
seven days against ninth-ranked Samoa in Apia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  