-- Blair Ex-Press Chief Denies Claim Over Murdoch’s Iraq War Call
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-16T14:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/blair-ex-press-chief-denies-claim-over-murdoch-s-iraq-war-call.html
Alastair Campbell , the chief
press officer for former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , 
said there’s no evidence News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  
pressed the British premier on behalf of U.S. Republicans to 
join a war in  Iraq .  Campbell, in an interview with BBC Radio 4 today,
contradicted a report by the  Guardian newspaper  that Campbell’s
recently published diary from that period shows Murdoch pressed
Blair in a 2003 phone call to speed up the U.K.’s involvement in
Iraq before a “crucial” vote in Parliament.  “There was nothing inappropriate in him saying what he
did,” Campbell said of Murdoch in the BBC interview. Murdoch
was “echoing” statements from Republicans and “pressing on
the timings of any actions that might be taken.”  The revelation in Cambpell’s diary may also contradict
Murdoch’s testimony to a media-ethics inquiry in April, in which
he said he never asked a prime minister for anything, the
Guardian reported. The inquiry, triggered by the phone-hacking
scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid,
is compiling evidence on Murdoch’s ties to politicians since he
entered the U.K. market in the 1960s.  “It is complete rubbish to suggest that Rupert Murdoch
lobbied Mr. Blair over the Iraq war on behalf of the U.S.
Republicans,” Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for New York-based
News Corp., said in an e-mailed statement. “Furthermore, there
isn’t even any evidence in Alastair Campbell’s diaries to
support such a ridiculous claim.”  Campbell, in a related  posting  on his blog today, quoted an
excerpt of the diary entry that dealt with the disputed phone
call, the Iraq War and support from Murdoch’s U.K. unit, News
International, which published the News of the World and still
publishes the Sun daily tabloid.  Blair “took a call from Murdoch who was pressing on
timings, saying how News International would support us etc.
Both TB and I felt it was prompted by  Washington  and another
example of their over-crude diplomacy. Murdoch was pushing all
the Republican buttons, how the longer we waited the harder it
got,” Campbell wrote in the diary, according to his blog post.  Murdoch was one of Blair’s few supporters when he decided
to go to war in Iraq and the men spoke about it on the phone
three times in the days before the invasion, Campbell told the
inquiry in May. Blair felt he had to deal with a “right-wing”
Murdoch to get his message to the public, Campbell said.  The Guardian story is “evidence of the extraordinary
topicality and controversy of the Murdoch brand that out of 700
pages of a book covering the momentous period from Sept. 11 to
the  Iraq War , the Guardian should lead their coverage on a very
short entry about this phone call,” Campbell said in the blog
posting.  The inquiry, set up by Prime Minister  David Cameron  last
year, is hearing from members of the former ruling  Labour Party 
as well as his own Conservatives about their ties to Murdoch.
Blair told the inquiry last month his personal contacts with
Murdoch evolved from a “working relationship” to becoming a
godfather to one of Murdoch’s children after he left office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  