-- Calderon Says G-20 May Boost IMF’s Anti-Crisis Firewall
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-06-17T16:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/calderon-says-imf-may-raise-more-than-430-bln-firewall.html
World leaders meeting in  Mexico  will
boost the $430 billion firewall the  International Monetary Fund 
announced in April, host President  Felipe Calderon  said.  “I estimate that there will be a larger capitalization
than the pre-accord reached in  Washington , which will be
finalized here,” Calderon told reporters in the Mexican coastal
resort of Los Cabos yesterday. “But I don’t want to speculate
by how much.”  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations are gathering in Los
Cabos for a two-day summit dominated by the financial crisis in
Europe and its risk to the global economy. While the G-20 agreed
earlier this year to boost IMF resources that could be channeled
to Europe, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  last week called on
the G-20 to do more.  “It’s going to be the first time the fund is capitalized
without the U.S., which reflects the importance of  emerging
markets ,” Calderon said. While he said he regrets the U.S.
refusal to take part, that won’t prevent it being the largest
recapitalization in the fund’s history.  “I hope there’s a very important agreement about the
IMF,” Calderon said.  EU Summit  The G-20 summit begins tomorrow amid the weakest global
economy since the 2009 recession as the crisis in the 17-nation
euro area drags on markets worldwide. With elections in Greece
today carrying the risk of the euro’s first exit and more
contagion, European leaders are due to hold their own summit in
Brussels on June 28-29 to discuss a roadmap to closer political
and economic union as a means of staunching the crisis turmoil.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , one of those
charged with drawing up the plan for closer integration, said on
June 15 that the ECB will continue to provide liquidity to
solvent banks. The ECB has already lent banks more than 1
trillion euros ($1.26 billion) for three years.  European stocks and the euro advanced for a second week
last week amid speculation that central banks will take steps to
stimulate the global economy. While the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
climbed 0.9 percent to 244.21, the gauge has still declined 10
percent from its high on March 16 after  Spain  was forced to call
for aid for its banks. The euro rose 1 percent to $1.2638.  Lagarde’s Focus  IMF chief  Christine Lagarde , who is due to attend the June
18-19 Los Cabos meeting, said earlier this year that she wants
to raise the Washington-based fund’s lending capacity by $500
billion to fend off “further shocks” to the global economy. In
April, she won commitment for about $430 billion, with key
emerging markets such as  Brazil  and  China  withholding their
specific pledges until progress is made giving them a bigger say
in how the lender is run.  Lagarde canceled a planned trip to Brazil this week to
focus on “ongoing developments in Europe,” the IMF said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, signaled
that emerging nations may supply some of the IMF boost.  “There are some conspicuous absences,” he said in an
interview in Los Cabos yesterday. “Those large emerging
countries that are part of the G-20 are now part of the
solution.”  Weak Economy  The G-20 meeting is the second straight summit to be
overshadowed by developments in  Greece . A victory today in
parliamentary elections for Syriza, an anti-austerity party, may
lead Greece to renege on the terms of its bailout and become the
first nation to leave the euro zone, throwing global markets
into turmoil.  Syriza was in a dead heat with  New Democracy , which says
its rival will take Greece out of the currency union, according
to an exit poll broadcast on state-run NET TV. The first
official result is expected around 9:30 p.m. local time.  The global economy is at a “very dangerous moment,” World
Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in Los Cabos. “If people
don’t come to the fundamental decisions, first at a national
level, but work it out internationally, very bad things could
happen.”  Calderon, who is preparing to step down after July 1
Mexican presidential elections, said that it’s “very difficult
to predict” the outcome in Greece.  “My experience is that during campaigns you say a lot of
things,” he said, when asked about the prospects of Syriza
gaining power. “The key moment we’re only going to know when
there’s a government formed.”  For the meantime, Calderon said European governments must
work together to strengthen their institutions to prevent damage
from spreading to countries like Spain and  Italy . The G-20
communique will endorse steps taken by  Europe  to achieve a
closer monetary and fiscal union, he said.  “When your credibility is broken, there’s no system or
economy than can sustain itself,” Calderon said, adding that
for now Europe doesn’t face such a dire threat. “We still have
time, and Europe still has time, to make the right decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Los Cabos at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Los Cabos at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  