-- China Launches its First Woman Astronaut Liu Yang
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-17T00:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/china-launches-its-first-woman-astronaut-liu-yang.html
China sent its first female
astronaut into space on a mission to manually dock the Shenzhou-
9 spacecraft with an orbiting laboratory as part of the
country’s plan to build a  space station  by 2020.  Air-force pilot  Liu Yang  and two male astronauts blasted
off at 6:37 p.m. Beijing time yesterday from Jiuquan in the
northwestern  Gansu province , according to a live broadcast on
China’s Central Television.  They will complete an automated docking with the Tiangong-1,
or “Heavenly Palace,” laboratory module in two days and will
then attempt a manual docking that is considered a major step in
the space station program, the state-run Xinhua  News Agency 
reported.  Chinese state media have lauded Liu’s accomplishments
during the past week, framing her selection as part of the
country’s broader push to expand its space program while other
nations cut back. China aims to put a person on the moon by 2020
as well as operate a permanent manned space station.  China’s President  Hu Jintao , who was visiting Denmark, sent
a congratulatory letter to space program officials after the
successful launch, Xinhua said.  Liu, 33, has 1,680 hours of flying time and is the deputy
head of a flight unit in the People’s Liberation Army Air Force,
Xinhua reported June 15. She was recruited to be a potential
astronaut in 2010, the news agency said.  China sent its first man into orbit and conducted its first
spacewalk decades later than the U.S. and Russia. The U.S. ended
its three-decade manned space-shuttle program last year and now
has no manned spaceflight capability.  International Cooperation  “China is ready to have international cooperation,
including with the U.S. side, in the space program,” Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Liu Weimin  said June 15. “The achievement
China has made in its space program is the result of the Chinese
people’s hard work and innovation.”  The U.S. plans to operate the International Space Station,
a research laboratory that orbits about 240 miles above Earth,
through 2020. In 2010, President  Barack Obama  scrapped plans to
return astronauts to the moon, setting a goal instead of making
a “leap into the future” of deep-space travel.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  