-- China Global Yuan Push Faces Challenges, Adviser’s Report Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/china-global-yuan-push-faces-challenges-adviser-s-report-says.html
China’s efforts to make the  yuan  a
global currency may be hampered by the lack of an independent
monetary policy, fragile domestic financial markets and an
“unbalanced” economy, a report edited by an adviser to the
nation’s central bank warned.  “In the process of yuan internationalization, it will be
hard to gain the confidence of the international community in
the value of the yuan if monetary policy lacks sufficient
independence,” according to the report from the International
Monetary Institute of Renmin University in Beijing. Chen Yulu,
the editor-in-chief of the report, is an academic adviser to the
People’s Bank of China and president of the university.  China has been promoting wider use of the yuan in
international investment and trade settlement to reduce the  U.S.
dollar ’s global dominance and curb its own reliance on the
currency of the world’s biggest economy. China controls the
value of the yuan and restricts flows of capital in and out of
the country for investment purposes, limits the U.S. says must
be lifted before the currency can be part of the International
Monetary Fund’s currency basket.  While  Europe ’s debt crisis will dominate discussions when
leaders of the Group of 20 nations meet in  Mexico  on June 18-19,
 Germany  plans to call attention to a number of issues including
the yuan exchange rate, two government officials said in Berlin
on June 12.  Artificially Weak  The yuan jumped the most in eight weeks on June 15 as the
central bank strengthened its  reference rate , helping fend off
criticism of China’s currency policy in the run-up to the G-20
meeting. The yuan, which rose 4.7 percent against the U.S.
dollar last year, has dropped 1.1 percent this year. The U.S.
contends China is keeping its currency artificially weak to
boost exports.  China’s central bank isn’t independent, with financial
decisions such as changes in the exchange rate and  interest
rates  made by leaders of the ruling Communist Party.  In its first formal evaluation of China’s financial system
published in November, the IMF warned the nation is confronting
a “steady buildup of financial sector vulnerabilities” and
needs to overhaul its state-dominated banking system. The
government needs to change the way interest rates are set and
allow the yuan to trade more freely to help contain risks in the
financial system, it said.  The nation’s “excessively rigid”  exchange-rate  system
“casts doubt on” the independence of the central bank,
according to yesterday’s report from the institute.  Significantly Undervalued  Policy makers should make the system “more open and
transparent” by designing a mechanism where the yuan is valued
against a basket of currencies “as soon as possible,”
according to the report. That would send a “clear, convincing”
signal that the yuan isn’t pegged to a single currency and that
fluctuations are a result of many factors including market
demand and supply, the authors said.  The U.S. Treasury Department last month said the yuan was
“significantly undervalued,” and urged China to allow it to
strengthen, while declining to brand the nation a currency
manipulator. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in March that the yuan is
close to “equilibrium” levels.  China may make the yuan convertible on the capital account
by 2020, the institute estimates, basing the projection on the
experiences of  Japan , Germany and other advanced economies in
opening their capital accounts. The yuan could become an
international reserve currency within 20 to 30 years, it says.  More Flexible  While China’s leaders haven’t publicly given a timetable
for convertibility, which would allow capital to flow freely for
investment purposes such as securities transactions, officials
told European Union business executives “full convertibility”
will happen by 2015, EU Chamber of Commerce in China President
Davide Cucino said in September.  Policy makers pledged in a five-year plan running through
2015 to keep loosening controls on currency flows and make the
exchange rate more flexible. The central bank in April widened
the yuan’s daily trading band against the dollar for the first
time since 2007, allowing it to fluctuate up to 1 percent either
side of a daily reference rate from a previous 0.5 percent.  China  has signed currency swaps with countries from
 Australia  to  Mongolia , eased rules to allow foreign companies to
invest in the country using yuan raised offshore and promoted
direct trading of currencies including the yen. In April, China
more than doubled the amount of funds foreign investors can
invest in domestic stocks, bonds and  bank deposits  to $80
billion under the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor
program.  Offshore Center  Standard Chartered Plc Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands 
said in March he hopes  London  will as soon as this year become
an offshore yuan center where companies can raise funds
denominated in the Chinese currency. HSBC Holdings Plc in April
became the first European bank to list an international yuan-
denominated bond in the U.K. capital.  China will need to retain limits on the yuan even after
capital-account convertibility is achieved in order to prevent
destabilizing capital flows, according to the institute’s report.
“If no strict controls are imposed on speculative hot money,
monetary and fiscal policies won’t be effective and the safety
of the nation’s financial markets and the real economy could be
seriously jeopardized.”  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Zhang Dingmin in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Christian Schmollinger  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  