-- China to Maintain Steady, Robust Growth, Hu Jintao Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-16T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/china-s-economy-to-bottom-out-this-quarter-pboc-adviser-says.html
China ’s economy will bottom out this
quarter and rebound in the following three months as government
measures to stabilize a slowdown take effect, according to an
academic adviser to the central bank.  “The second quarter should be the lowest point” this
year, Chen Yulu said in an interview at a forum in Beijing
yesterday. Full-year growth “should be able to hold up above 8
percent,” he said.  Policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy are
shoring up the nation’s expansion as  Europe ’s deepening debt
crisis curtails exports and foreign investment, and property
curbs at home damp demand for steel, cement and household goods.
Government efforts to bolster growth span cuts in  interest rates 
and bank reserve requirements, faster approval for investment
projects and incentive programs to boost home-appliance sales.  The slowdown in growth has exceeded expectations, Chen said
at the forum at Renmin University. Chen, who is president of the
university, sits on the monetary policy committee of the
People’s Bank of China.  China’s economic expansion slid to 8.1 percent in the first
three months of the year from a year earlier, the fifth
quarterly deceleration. Bank of America Corp. estimates the
decline may deepen to 7 percent to 7.5 percent in the three
months through June.  Credit Suisse Group AG has reduced China’s growth estimate
for this year to 7.7 percent, which would be the slowest pace in
13 years, on weakness in exports, investment and corporate
profits. Deutsche Bank AG lowered its forecast to 7.9 percent.
The predictions compare with a 9.2 percent expansion last year.  Yuan Depreciation  China could let the  yuan  decline against the  U.S. dollar  to
avoid further slowdown pressure in a scenario where the
sovereign debt crisis in Europe led to a “sharp” fall in the
euro,  Robert Mundell , a Nobel Prize-winning economist credited
as the intellectual father of the euro, said at the forum.  A drop in the euro to below $1.18 would be “a good time
with the Chinese government to let its currency depreciate, go
down against the dollar, because if the dollar is going up
rapidly and if China goes up with it, it would bring a new kind
of slowdown to China,” said Mundell, 79, a professor at
 Columbia University .  PBOC adviser Chen said Europe has the capacity to solve its
problems. The European Union could issue euro bonds to resolve
 Greece ’s fiscal woes and China could help out by buying some of
those bonds, he said, without elaborating.  Leaders attending the Group of 20 meeting in Mexico next
week should help France’s President  Francois Hollande  win German
cooperation on the issue, he said.  If Greece left the single currency, there would be a short-
term impact on the euro’s value, Chen said, adding that “the
notion that the euro would depreciate in the longer term if
Greece exits is too pessimistic.” The key question is whether
Greece’s departure would cause a  chain reaction  leading to
Spain,  Portugal  and other nations pulling out, he said.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Zhang Dingmin and Nerys
Avery in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Amanda Jordan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  