-- Crown Prince Nayef, Saudi Interior Minister, Dies
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D i g b y   L i d s t o n e
-- 2012-06-17T11:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/crown-prince-nayef-saudi-interior-minister-dies.html
Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Nayef,
who served as interior minister of the Arab world’s largest
economy for more than three decades, has died. He was in his
late 70s.  Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud was a member of the influential
“Sudairi Seven,” sons of the founder of the kingdom and one of
his wives, Hassa bint-Ahmed al-Sudairi. His death means  King Abdullah  must appoint an heir for the second time in nine
months. Prince Sultan, the previous crown prince, died on Oct.
22.  Head of the Interior Ministry since 1975, Nayef served
under three monarchs and set up an extensive security network to
tackle the threat from groups such as al-Qaeda. Considered more
conservative than his half-brother, King Abdullah, he backed the
religious police and clamped down on the Shiite Muslim minority
at a time of turmoil in the  Middle East  and high unemployment at
home.  While Saudi Arabia has been left mostly unscathed by the
Arab revolts of the past year and a half, Prince Nayef took a
hard line toward political dissent. At a meeting of the Gulf
Cooperation Council in March 2011 he said there were “evil
people” who “wanted to make the kingdom a place for chaos and
marches that are void of noble goals,” the  BBC  reported.  Royal Education  Nayef was born in 1933, according to the website of the
Institute for Research and Consulting Services, at the Al-Imam
Muhammad Ibn Saud Islamic University, which didn’t give his
precise date of birth. He will be buried in an unmarked grave,
as stipulated by the Sunni Wahabbi version of Islam.  The royal family began to gather in Mecca ahead of Nayef’s
funeral today, the Saudi Press Agency said. Abdullah was met
by his sons and other princes in Islam’s holiest city, it said.  Nayef, who was born in the city of Taif, received his  early
education  in religion, culture and diplomacy alongside his
brothers in the  Royal Court  and bred Arabian horses at his
stables, according to the website of the Saudi Embassy in
 Washington . He was also an avid hunter and swimmer, it said.  He was appointed governor of  Riyadh  province in 1953, the
embassy said. In 1992, King Fahd appointed Nayef as head of a
committee that established the Majlis Al-Shoura, or the
Consultative Council system.  King Abdullah changed the monarchy’s succession rules in
2007 to give an appointed commission of princes, called the
Allegiance Council, more power to select a new ruler. The
council is also to name the crown prince after Nayef. Abdullah
became king in 2005 after the death of his half brother Fahd.  Six Kings  Six kings have ruled  Saudi Arabia  since it was established
in 1932. When King Fahd died in 2005, after ruling the kingdom
for 23 years, the Royal Court announced on the same day that
Abdullah would become the monarch. The current king was born in
Riyadh in 1924, according to the Saudi Embassy in Washington.  The 1992 basic law stipulates that the king must be a son
or grandson of the kingdom’s founder, King Abdulaziz
Al Saud. Nayef’s death means that for the first time in Saudi
Arabia’s modern history a king has outlived two crown princes.  Prince Salman, a former governor of Riyadh province who was
named to that post in 1962, is now one of the most senior
princes and one of four surviving Sudairi brothers. He was born
in 1935, according to the website of the embassy in Washington.  King Abdullah’s son Prince Mutaib is head of the National
Guard, a 110,000-man Bedouin force loyal to the royal family.
Another son, Prince Abdul Aziz, is the deputy foreign minister.
Sultan’s son Prince Khaled is deputy defense minister, and
Nayef’s son Prince Mohammad is the deputy minister for security
affairs.  ‘Crush Terrorism’  Mohammed was injured in August 2009 when a suicide bomber
blew himself up at the prince’s office in the Red Sea coastal
city of Jeddah after saying he wanted to turn himself in.
Officials said the explosives were hidden in the assailant’s
underwear.  Islamic militants had begun a violent campaign against the
country in 2003 in an effort to weaken the ruling family’s
control of its oil reserves and break the kingdom’s ties with
the U.S. Western nationals were targeted in the violence, which
included kidnappings and bombings, until a crackdown by the
 Interior Ministry  subdued the militants.  In September 2010, Nayef said Saudi Arabia was able to
“crush” the ideology of terrorism. The Interior Ministry’s
forces had arrested 11,527 people since Sept. 11, 2001, for
their alleged involvement in terrorism, according to an April
2011 ministry statement.  Shiite Rebels  During Nayef’s time as interior minister, Saudi Arabia
relied on the U.S. for military protection in return for stable
oil supplies. The kingdom spent $11.2 billion on U.S. weapons
between 2005 and 2008, making it the biggest foreign buyer of
American arms during the period, according to the  Congressional
Research Service  in Washington.  In 2009, the kingdom, which is majority Sunni, fought
Yemeni Shiite rebels in a three-month war along its southern
border. Apache helicopters, made by Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
F-15 jet fighters and artillery were deployed to dislodge the
fighters, known as Houthis, after they killed a national
guardsman and seized territory inside the kingdom.  The Royal Court didn’t specify the cause of Nayef’s death.
He left the kingdom last month for scheduled medical tests and a
private holiday, the court said. The prince also went to
 Cleveland  in March for separate medical tests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Digby Lidstone in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  