-- CSN May Consider Bid for ThyssenKrupp Rio Plant, CEO Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-06-16T21:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/csn-may-consider-bid-for-thyssenkrupp-rio-plant-ceo-says-1-.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,
Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker by output, may consider
bidding for a steel plant in Rio de Janeiro state that
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  may sell.  CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known, is waiting
for ThyssenKrupp to disclose further details about the plant
before considering a possible bid, Chief Executive Officer
Benjamin Steinbruch told reporters at an event in Rio today. CSN
hasn’t hired banks as advisers on the possibility of a deal, he
said.  The plant “is on the table, it’s clear that we will
analyze it as the rest will do,” Steinbruch said. “Whenever
they disclose the details, something that still hasn’t happened,
we will certainly be interested in studying it.”  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, said May 15 a
sale of its Brazilian and U.S. plants is among “strategic
options” for its unprofitable Americas unit. The company, which
in 2010 began operating its CSA steel-slabs plant in Rio after a
5.2 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)  investment , faces output costs
in Brazil that are rising “disproportionately,” it said.  ThyssenKrupp built the facility, with a capacity of 5
million metric tons a year, to supply an estimated 3 million
tons of steel slabs to its mills in Calvert, near Mobile,
 Alabama , and the rest to Germany.  Delays at the CSA plant contributed to impairment charges
of 2.9 billion euros in the last fiscal year, when it reported a
loss. ThyssenKrupp owns a 73.1 percent stake in CSA, while Vale
SA owns the remaining 26.9 percent.  Separately, Steinbruch said today that CSN’s
Transnordestina project, which involves the 1,728-kilometer
(1,071-mile) extension of a railway in Northeastern  Brazil , will
require 7.5 billion reais ($3.66 billion) of investment. That’s
39 percent more than the 5.4 billion reais previously  disclosed 
by CSN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Millard at 
 mmillard2@bloomberg.net  