-- Czech Republic, Greece First to Reach Euro 2012 Quarterfinals
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-16T22:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/czech-republic-greece-win-1-0-to-reach-euro-2012-quarterfinals.html
The  Czech Republic  and Greece became
the first teams to qualify for the quarterfinals of the European
soccer championship by winning their final group matches 1-0.  Petr Jiracek scored in the 72nd minute as the Czech
Republic beat co-host  Poland  in Wroclaw last night, while
Giorgos Karagounis’s goal in first-half injury time lifted
Greece past  Russia  in Warsaw.  The Czechs won Group A with six points with the Greeks
second over Russia by virtue of their victory after both had
four points. Poland finished last with two points. The top two
in each group advance to the final eight.  The Czechs rebounded from an opening 4-1 loss to Russia
with two one-goal victories. They’re the first team to win a
Euro group with a negative goal difference, according to Opta
Sports.  “It’s crazy, it’s madness,” Czech defender Michal Kadlec
said in a televised interview. “If after the first game
somebody told me we’d go through and Russia would go home, I
wouldn’t believe it.”  Russia had 62 percent of possession and a 25-5 shot
advantage but were eliminated by Greek captain Karagounis, who
equaled Theodoros Zagorakis’s record of 120 games for the
national team.  “The moment is pure magic for all of us,” Karagounis told
reporters. “It is something important for  Greece  and all
Greeks. We said we would give it all, despite the difficulties.
Now it is time to celebrate.”  The Czech Republic will meet the runner-up in Group B on
June 21, while Greece faces the Group B winner the following
day.  Group B  The final round of Group B games will take place today in
Ukraine as  Germany  plays  Denmark  in Livi and  Portugal  meets the
Netherlands in Kharkiv. Germany leads the group with six points,
Portugal and Denmark have three and the Netherlands none.  After being outplayed by Poland in the first half in
Wroclaw, the Czechs controlled the game after the break. They
finally broke through with 18 minutes left as Jiracek took a
pass from Milan Baros on the left side of the area, cut toward
the middle and put a shot past goalkeeper Przeyslaw Tyton.  Poland almost tied the score in the closing seconds of
injury time, which would have eliminated the Czechs, when
captain Jakub Blaszczykowski lifted the ball over goalkeeper
 Petr Cech  only for Tomas Sivok to head it off the line.  Russia went into the game in Warsaw leading the group and
needing just a draw to advance, while 2004 champion Greece stood
last.  Karagounis scored the only goal just before halftime when
he picked up a throw-in which Sergei Ignashevich failed to
control, went through the defense and fired a low shot past
Vyacheslav Malafeev.  The Greeks were denied a penalty in the 61st minute when
Karagounis appeared to be taken down by Ignashevich. Giorgos
Tszvellas then hit the post with a free kick.  Russian pushed for the tying goal as coach Dick Advocaat
brought on striker Pavel Pogrebnyak. Igor Denisov’s shot was
stopped by goalkeeper Michalis Sifakis and Alan Dzagoev’s headed
a cross from Andrey Arshavin wide in the closing minutes.  “We played quite well, pushed forward but the other team
defended well,,” Advocaat said on UEFA’s website. “I thought
we played really well in the first half. Giving respect to
Greece, they were hard to play against in the second half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 