-- Yankees Win Eighth Straight on Teixeira’s Double in 14th Inning
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-17T04:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/teixeira-double-in-14th-inning-gives-yankees-eighth-straight-win.html
Mark Teixeira ’s two-run double in
the 14th inning gave the American League-leading New York
Yankees their eighth straight victory with a 5-3 win against the
host Washington Nationals.  Teixeira drove in Jayson Nix and  Derek Jeter  in the longest
game in terms of innings played by either team this season. The
teams were on the field for four hours and 49 minutes yesterday
at Nationals Park.  “I knew it wasn’t going to be out but I just wanted it to
stay fair,” Teixeira told reporters. “I was sitting on a
slider the entire at-bat and I got one to hit, so it was a good
time for that double.”  The Yankees (39-25), who won their first game this season
without a home run, have the best record in the  American League 
and top the AL East, while the Nationals (38-25) are in first
place in Major League Baseball’s National League East division.  Ian Desmond hit a solo home run in the eighth inning to tie
the score at 3-3 for the Nationals at their home park. Jesus Flores hit a two-run double in the second inning for the
Nationals.  The Yankees scored a run on an error by Desmond in the
fourth inning. They added two runs in the sixth on Raul Ibanez’s
groundout and a double by  Eric Chavez .  Seven Pitchers  The Yankees used seven pitchers, including  Freddy Garcia 
(1-2) in the 12th and 13th innings. He pitched two perfect
innings in relief in his first assignment since June 5 and his
second since May 21.  Rafael Soriano  recorded his 12th save while
allowing two hits in the final inning.  Andy Pettitte , who returned to the Yankees after a yearlong
retirement, set a major league record by starting his 52nd
interleague game. Pettitte, who has a 19-16 record in games
between NL and AL teams, passed the mark of Livan Hernandez.
Pettitte allowed two runs on five hits and struck out six in
seven innings.  Pettitte, who celebrated his 40th birthday on June 15,
threw 95 pitches before he left the game.  “I was pretty gassed,” he told reporters. “I don’t know
if it was from the heat, the day game, having to do a little bit
different routine. Maybe being 40, I don’t know.”  Brad Lidge (0-1) gave up two runs on three hits in two-
thirds of an inning for the Nationals, who also used seven
pitchers.  Nick Swisher  left the game in the sixth inning after he
bruised his left quadriceps sliding into home plate. Manager  Joe Girardi  said he didn’t know whether Swisher would be ready to
play today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  