-- Euro Rises for Second Week Versus Dollar Before Greek Election
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-16T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/euro-rises-for-second-week-versus-dollar-before-greek-election.html
The euro strengthened against the
dollar for a second week as investors pulled back on record bets
against the currency before the Greek election tomorrow that may
determine whether the nation remains in the bloc.  The 17-nation currency rallied amid speculation central
banks may provide aid to financial markets after  Spain  last week
became the fourth euro member to seek a rescue. The yen
strengthened against the dollar after the  Bank of Japan 
refrained from expanding monetary stimulus that debases the
currency. The dollar fell versus major peers as weaker U.S.
growth added to the case for further monetary stimulus from the
Federal Reserve at its policy meeting next week.  “Most investors think the outcome is likely going to be a
coin toss,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network,
referring to the Greek elections. “That leaves open the
prospect for a positive outcome. Consequently, we’ve seen
investors really scale back on some of those deeply bearish bets
against the single currency.”  The euro rose 1 percent to $1.2638 this week in  New York 
trading, after gaining 0.7 percent last week. The shared
currency was little changed at 99.49 yen. The dollar lost 0.8
percent to 78.73 yen, reaching 78.61, the lowest level yesterday
since June 6.  Futures Bets  Hedge funds  and other large speculators pared their bets on
a drop in the euro against the dollar from a record high,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed yesterday.
Futures traders decreased net euro short contracts to 195,187 in
the week ended June 12, the figures showed yesterday. They
reached a high of 214,418 the week ended June 5.  New Zealand’s dollar was the biggest gainer this week among
the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It rose 2.3
percent to 78.81 U.S. cents.  The  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  held its benchmark interest
rate at 2.5 percent. Governor Alan Bollard said the  exchange
rate  is more comfortable than March and signaled he expects to
hold the 2.5 percent official cash rate till mid-2013.  Brazil’s real was the weakest performer among the major
currencies, falling 1.3 percent to 2.0509 per dollar. It reduced
its loss after the government pared back a tax on overseas loans
as part of a bid to stem the currency’s three-month slump.  The real has lost 9 percent this year, the worst performer
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The euro has appreciated 2.2 percent against the dollar
this month, after falling 6.6 percent in May. The median year-
end estimate for the euro is $1.25, according to more than 50
economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Market Stress  European central banks may coordinate action in an effort
to provide liquidity to the markets, Reuters reported, citing
officials linked to the Group of 20. Ministers will hold a
conference call to discuss the Greek election outcome June 17,
Reuters said.  European Central Bank policy makers have overcome a key
concern about taking the benchmark  interest rate  below 1
percent, two euro-area central bank officials said.  The likelihood that such a move would also involve cutting
the rate the ECB pays banks on overnight deposits from 0.25
percent is no longer an obstacle for a majority of the Governing
Council, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations aren’t public. A rate cut isn’t
certain, the officials said.  Greece Votes  Greeks will vote for the second time in six weeks after a
May 6 ballot failed to yield a government. The final opinion
polls showed no party set to win a majority. Exit polls will be
released when voting ends at 7 p.m. in  Athens , with a first
official result estimate due around 9:30 p.m. The elections will
be followed by meetings by Group of 20 policy makers on June 18-
19.  The elections may determine whether  Greece  upholds
austerity conditions attached to international aid, tries to
renegotiate the terms or abandons the pledge and risks what
would be the first departure from the euro bloc. Spain on June 9
became the fourth of 17 members to request a bailout.  “If you have negative news from Greece, it’s negative for
Spain, but if you have positive news from Greece, Spain still
has issues,” said Jose Wynne, head of North America foreign-
exchange research at Barclays Plc in New York. “A weaker euro
will be part of any solution for  Europe . We would only be
switching gears if we saw a lot of central bank intervention.”  Spain’s Debt  Spain experienced a backlash following last week’s bailout.
The country’s bonds slumped, with 10-year yields rising to a
euro-era record, after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
nation’s credit rating to one step above junk, citing its rising
debt burden and weakening economy.  The bailout helped move  Italy , with 2 trillion euros ($2.5
trillion) of debt, to the front lines of the crisis, as bets
increased Europe’s third largest economy may be the next one to
succumb.  The yen strengthened the most in two weeks against the
dollar yesterday after the Bank of  Japan  refrained from
expanding monetary stimulus that debases the currency. The
central bank kept its asset-purchase fund at 40 trillion yen
($510 billion), matching the forecasts of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, fell 1.1 percent to 81.593, touching the least
since May 23.  Economic Data  U.S. industrial production decreased 0.1 percent last month
after a revised 1 percent gain in April, the Fed reported
yesterday in Washington. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment for June fell
to 74.1 from 79.3 at the end of last month.  Retail sales  fell 0.2 percent in May, following a similar
decline in April that was previously reported as a gain, the
Commerce Department said June 13.  “Weak data does encourage expectations of some easing from
the  Federal Reserve  next week,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “We’ve
certainly seen a string of softer data in the U.S. If I were to
pick a currency that would benefit from softer U.S. numbers at
this point, it would probably be the yen.”  The disappointing data add to bets the Fed may introduce
further measures to stimulate the economy. The  Dollar Index  fell
14 percent from December 2008 through June 2011, when the Fed
bought $2.3 trillion in bonds in two rounds of quantitative
easing, or QE. The central bank is also replacing $400 billion
of short-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt
to keep borrowing costs down.  Central-bank policy makers meet June 19-20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 Dliedtka@bloomberg.net  