-- Mexico Urges G-20 to Reconsider World Challenges Amid Crisis
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-17T02:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/mexico-urges-g-20-to-rethink-world-challenges-amid-euro-crisis.html
A video image of giraffes bounding
across the African savannah and a dramatic interpretation of the
“Mad as Hell” monologue from the 1976 film “Network” greeted
delegates and businessmen at the start of the Group of 20 summit
in  Mexico .  While much of the summit in the beach resort of Los Cabos
will be dominated by the outcome of elections in  Greece , host
Mexico is encouraging participants to expand their minds and
rethink global priorities.  “We do want to shake things up, we do want to do things
differently,” Mary Robinson, the former president of Ireland,
said in speech at an event today to kick off the summit, called
“Rethinking the G-20.” The day-long conference of
presentations by politicians, artists and academics was capped
by a panel discussion led by host  Felipe Calderon , the outgoing
president of Mexico.  G-20 leaders from Germany’s  Angela Merkel  to  China ’s Hu Jintao begin arriving tomorrow to the beach resort of Los Cabos
for two days of meetings that will dominated by  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The June 18-19 meeting takes place amid the weakest
international economy since the 2009 recession and a day after
parliamentary elections in Greece.  A victory for Syriza, an anti-austerity party, may lead
Greece to reneging on the terms of its bailout and become the
first nation to leave the euro currency union.  Calderon told reporters earlier in the day that G-20
members must strengthen institutions to prevent spillover from
Greece bringing down otherwise financially-sound nations like
Spain and Italy.  He said he expects G-20 leader to agree to boost the $430
billion firewall announced in April for the  International
Monetary Fund  so that the Washington-based lender can better
shield the global economy from Europe’s debt woes.  Other Challenges  While this is the fourth consecutive meeting at which
Europe’s strains have topped the agenda, at today’s event
sponsored by the Mexican government the issues ranged from
transforming education and sustainable development to boosting
protection for the environment.  “If we think about all of the crises the world is
facing,”  climate change  “is certainly one of them,”  Samantha
Smith , the leader of WWF Global’s Climate and Energy Initiative,
said in her speech. “It frightens me more than what’s going on
in the euro zone.”  The conference opened with a video that lasted several
minutes and featured an audio clip from the 1976 film
“Network.” In it, actor Peter Finch, playing an evening news
anchor, launches into an on-air tirade against everything from
rising inflation to unemployment, imploring viewers to shout
“I’m mad as hell and I’m not going to take this anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Los Cabos at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  