-- Everything Everywhere Former Chief Is Said to Plan Offer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-06-16T23:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/former-chief-said-to-plan-everything-everywhere-offer.html
Everything Everywhere, the U.K.
mobile-phone venture of  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) , may get a takeover bid from former chief Tom Alexander, who
is trying to arrange financing for the effort, people familiar
with the matter said.  Alexander met with France Telecom a few weeks ago for an
informal discussion, one person said. The talks are at an early
stage and may not lead to a bid, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the discussions are private.  A takeover would allow Alexander to resume the role he quit
last year and challenge  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in
the U.K. as carriers prepare to start offering faster fourth-
generation wireless services. London-based Everything
Everywhere, formed in a 2010 merger of  France Telecom ’s Orange
unit and Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile division, became the
largest mobile-phone operator in the U.K. after its creation.  Everything Everywhere may be valued at 12 billion euros
($15 billion), based on a multiple of about seven times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
 Nick Brown , an analyst at Espirito Santo, estimated this year.  The Financial Times earlier reported Alexander’s plan to
gather financing for a bid. Alexander has approached private-
equity firms  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Apax Partners LLP to help finance an
offer, the newspaper said.  Looking for Exit  “In relation to media speculation, France Telecom
clarifies that no offer from a third party to acquire the
business has been received nor has been invited,”  Tom Wright , a
spokesman for the Paris-based carrier, said yesterday.
“Everything Everywhere is a strong business with a clear
leadership position in the U.K. market and its shareholders are
100 percent supportive of the group, its management and its
strategy.”  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR in  New York , declined
to comment, as did Andreas Leigers, a spokesman for Bonn-based
Deutsche Telekom. A call placed to Apax outside of regular
business hours went unanswered.  The German phone company was evaluating options for an exit
from the U.K. as it sought to raise cash after failing to sell
its T-Mobile USA unit, people with knowledge of the matter said
in February. Deutsche Telekom was in the early stages of
deciding whether to sell its half of Everything Everywhere, the
people said.  Increased Rivalry  France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom created Everything
Everywhere in a bid to save more than a total of 4 billion euros
in network, marketing and administrative costs by 2014. That
deal, cutting the number of network operators in the country to
four from five, paved the way for joint procurement projects and
network sharing across all their markets.  Alexander stepped down last year after leading the merged
company since its formation. Alexander said he decided to resign
for personal reasons and to pursue other interests.  The venture will face more intense competition, after
Vodafone and Telefonica this month agreed to set up a 50-50
venture to combine parts of their U.K. mobile-phone networks to
lower costs as they move toward 4G services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  