-- Deportation Fear Eased by Obama Policy, Immigrants Say
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/in-texas-immigration-change-means-hope-and-end-of-fear.html
For a dozen years, Loren Campos said
he has worried that U.S. authorities would discover that he is
an illegal immigrant and send him back to his native  Mexico .  “It’s always been this constant fear of deportation,
always trying to stay under the radar, avoid those situations
where I might be caught,” said Campos, 23, who lives in Houston
with his mother.  Campos said his concerns lifted yesterday when President
 Barack Obama  announced that the U.S. government would end
deportations of some illegal immigrants who came to this country
as children and make them eligible for work permits.  The policy change affects about 800,000 undocumented
immigrants who were brought to the U.S. before age 16, have been
in the country for at least five years, have no criminal record
and are in school or have a high school diploma or equivalent.  In  Texas , 1.8 million of the 25 million residents are
undocumented immigrants, said Steve Murdock, a professor at  Rice
University  at Houston and former director of the U.S. Census
Bureau. Hispanics make up 38 percent of the state’s population,
according to the Census.  “The lives of many families will be less treacherous and
more predictable,” Murdock said.  Campos was 11 when his mother, Maria Pinto, moved him and
an older sister from Monterrey, in Northern Mexico, to Houston
to escape an abusive relationship, he said. Campos arrived on a
tourist visa and remained after it expired, he said.  Beauty Products  He went to college at the University of Texas at Austin,
where professors gave him research work and couldn’t pay him
because of his immigration status, he said. Since graduating in
May 2011 with a degree in civil engineering, he said he has made
money selling beauty products at laundromats, door-to-door and
on the Internet.  Campos said he plans to start work in August on a master’s
degree at the  University of Houston . The policy change will
allow him to pursue his career.  “It was this overwhelming sense of relief, just the
thought of actually being able to do what I like and feel
passionate about: engineering,” Campos said.  His mother, a cafeteria cook at Houston Baptist University,
was able to get legal resident status through a daughter who is
a U.S. citizen, he said.  “She’s getting ready to become a citizen,” Campos said of
his mother, “and she will be voting in November.”  Legal Status  Campos said he has been trying to earn legal status through
the same sister, a process that can take 15 years for siblings,
he said.  “That’s the reality of what a lot of us have to face,” he
said. “We want to follow the law, but the law is broken.”  Adrian Reyna came from Monterrey to Texas at age 11. A
decade ago, Reyna’s parents brought him and his younger sister
to Humble, a town near Houston, the state’s largest city.  In 2009, he graduated seventh in his high school class and
enrolled at the  University of Texas  in Austin, where he is a
senior studying government and political science. He said he
wants to get a master’s degree in public affairs and a law
degree.  “Under the new guidelines, I will be able to apply for a
two-year work permit and get a driver’s license,” he said. “I
won’t have to live with the fear of deportation. This is a
turning-the-corner moment for me and many others. Finally, I
will get to be recognized.”  At American Gateways, an Austin nonprofit that helps
indigent immigrants, the policy change will bring relief to many
families, said Edna Yang, the organization’s general counsel.  “Some of our clients are young students whose parents are
undocumented and brought them over at an early age,” Yang said.
“Being able to get deferred action status means they will be
able to get jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  