-- Italy Will Overcome Economic Crisis Without Aid, Monti Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-16T16:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/italy-will-overcome-economic-crisis-without-aid-monti-says.html
Italy will overcome the economic
crisis on its own without seeking outside aid, Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said.  “We will make it on our own and we are making it, and not
by ceding our sovereignty or under the heel of a troika,” he
said, referring to the collective name given to the European
Union,  International Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank .  Those institutions are overseeing national bailout programs
as the region struggles to emerge from a debt crisis that’s
engulfed  Spain  and could force Greece out of the euro. In Italy,
social tension is rising as austerity measures deepen its fourth
recession since 2001 and  unemployment  swells to a 12-year high.  Police clashed with protesters as Monti spoke at a
conference in Bologna, hours after tens of thousands of Italians
demonstrated in  Rome  against his economic policies.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield reached 6.342 percent this week,
the highest in almost five months, after Spain became the fourth
euro-region nation to request outside aid, fueling concern Italy
may follow. The yield ended the week at 5.926 percent, 449 basis
points  more  than comparable German debt.  Monti, who announced a package of measures yesterday aimed
at boosting economic growth, said it would take time for
Italians to see the fruits of his strategy.  “If for 10 to 20 years these problems were ignored, it’s
not realistic to think that in seven or eight months everything
can be resolved,” he said.  Greek Vote  The outcome of tomorrow’s Greek elections and the ability
of EU leaders to deliver a plan for economic growth at a summit
on June 28-29 may affect the depth of the crisis and Italy’s
ability to overcome it, Monti said. The premier said he “hopes
and believes” that Greeks will seek to remain within the euro.  “If in the next two crucial weeks we don’t manage to get
something concrete and a perspective for a policy geared toward
growth, I think that will change the psychology” about
overcoming the crisis, Monti said.  Monti was appointed in November after the resignation of
 Silvio Berlusconi . When his unelected government took charge,
Italy’s 10-year bond yield was more than 7 percent, the level
that prompted Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  At a separate appearance earlier today in Milan, Monti said
his government had helped move Italy back “from the precipice
of the crater” since taking power. Now that “crater is getting
bigger and we are once again in a crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  