-- Noda Ends Japan Nuclear Freeze, Risking Backlash at Polls
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-06-18T05:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/japan-nuclear-freeze-ends-as-voter-backlash-begins-for-noda.html
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  ended
 Japan ’s month-long freeze on nuclear power, approving a reactor
restart that combined with a tax increase may undermine his
political support.  Two reactors at Kansai Electric Power Co.’s Ohi nuclear
plant can be operated safely, Noda declared June 16 after
meeting with three Cabinet ministers who share approval
authority. The utility, which serves the $1 trillion economy of
Japan’s second-biggest urban region, said it would immediately
begin work to start one reactor.  Japan is reopening nuclear plants that provided about 30
percent of its energy before being idled after the March 2011
meltdowns at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima station. The
decision followed by one day a deal with opposition parties to
abandon some campaign pledges in return for agreement to double
the nation’s consumption tax. Majorities in public opinion polls
oppose both the restarts and the tax increase.  Noda “could end up like all his predecessors in the
dustbin of history very quickly,” said  Robert Dujarric ,
director of the Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at
 Temple University ’s Tokyo campus. “The dustbin is waiting for
him.”  Seventy-one percent of respondents to a Mainichi newspaper
poll published on June 4 objected to a speedy restart of the
reactors in Ohi. In a separate poll released June 5 by the Pew
Research Center, 70 percent of Japanese said the country should
reduce its reliance on nuclear energy and 52 percent feared they
or their families may have been exposed to radiation.  Mistrust Soars  “We have sufficient safety measures in place to protect
the plant’s fuel and prevent a large-scale leak of radioactive
material into the environment, even if the plant were to be
struck by an earthquake and tsunami like the one that hit
Fukushima,” Noda said in a written response on June 15 to
questions from Bloomberg News. Public mistrust of the nuclear
power industry soared after the Fukushima reactors leaked
radiation that forced 160,000 people to evacuate.  Noda, who took office in September, vowed to stake his
career on doubling the nation’s 5 percent sales tax to fund
welfare costs and lower the world’s largest debt. Earlier this
month the one-time finance minister reshuffled his Cabinet in an
effort to win opposition backing for his bill.  Noda’s  Democratic Party  of Japan agreed to shelve plans for
a minimum guaranteed pension as part of a deal on the tax
increase with the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  and the
New Komeito party. LDP lawmaker Nobutaka Machimura said the
parties hope to pass the legislation in the lower house of
parliament before the Diet session ends on June 21.  Unpopular Tax  The tax legislation is also unpopular, with 56 percent of
respondents expressing opposition in a poll published in the
Asahi newspaper on June 6, up from 51 percent a month earlier.  National elections must be held by August 2013. None of
Japan’s previous five premiers served much more than a year.  The nation’s biggest business lobby had warned power
outages would lead to factory shutdowns at companies including
Sharp Corp. and Panasonic Corp., threatening an economic
recovery in the cities of Osaka, Kyoto and Kobe.  Companies including Komatsu Ltd. and NEC Corp. have said
the nuclear restarts are needed to avert power shortages. Both
Komatsu Chairman Masahiro Sakane and NEC Chairman Kaoru Yano
have talked about moving their production overseas if there is
insufficient power for their factories.  Political Pressure  The decision to restart the Ohi reactors was “supportive
of the financial profile of the utilities sector in Japan”
because it showed that authorities were beginning to develop a
long-term approach to regulating the power industry, Moody’s
Japan K.K. said today in an e-mailed statement.  The move was insufficient to restore Kansai Electric’s
profitability or change its rating outlook because of remaining
uncertainties, such as how long reactors will be allowed to
operate, Moody’s said.  Noda’s “under intense political pressure from the banks
and the utilities” who want reactors restarted, said Andrew DeWit, a professor at Tokyo’s Rikkyo University who focuses on
 energy policy . “They want to get those income streams back in
operation.”  Stress Tests  Once the world’s biggest nuclear power generator after the
U.S. and  France , Japan shut its last operating reactor on May 5.
Kansai Electric said it aims to restart the Ohi No. 3 reactor in
early July, and the No. 4 unit as early as mid-July.  Japan’s utilities are running stress tests to assess
whether reactors can withstand the earthquake and tsunami
damaged that caused the meltdowns at Fukushima. Utilities have
submitted reports on the first phase of testing on 22 reactors,
according to the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency website.  Further restarts will probably be delayed until after
Japan’s winter season, as a new regulatory panel will have to
review stress-test results, the Nikkei newspaper said yesterday.
Reactors at Hokkaido Electric Power Co.’s Tomari plant, Kyushu
Electric Power Co.’s Sendai plant, Shikoku Electric Power Co.’s
Ikata facility and Hokuriku Electric Power Co.’s Shika plant are
likely the next to return to operation, the paper said.  Summer Demand  With summer approaching, the government set power-saving
targets in areas supplied by seven of 10 regional utilities,
including  Kansai Electric , which is most dependent on nuclear
power. Homes and companies supplied by Kansai Electric should
cut consumption by more than 15 percent from 2010 levels on
weekdays July 2 through Sept. 7, the government said on May 18.  “The conservation target will change only after we are
certain of the electricity supply from the plant,” Trade and
Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  told reporters in Tokyo after the
June 16 decision. “We only decided to restart the plant, and
that doesn’t guarantee it can supply power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  