-- Nik Wallenda Makes First Tightrope Walk Across Niagara Falls
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-16T06:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/nik-wallenda-makes-first-tightrope-walk-across-niagara-falls.html
Nik Wallenda’s dream came true as he
became the first person to traverse  Niagara Falls  between the
U.S. and  Canada  on a tightrope.  Wallenda, the seventh generation of the  Flying Wallendas 
high-wire act, covered the 1,800 feet (549 meters) in 25 minutes
and 19 seconds, walking the two-inch wire in elkskin-soled shoes
and using a balance beam.  “This is what dreams are made of, people,” said Wallenda
as he stepped onto the wire on the U.S. side of the river.  Wallenda, 33, said he was unprepared for the heavy mist and
winds above the falls that plagued his walk.  “The mist was so challenging and the winds hit me,
definitely more than I expected,” he said after dismounting the
wire on the Canadian side. “It was definitely those winds, you
can’t re-enact them, you can’t recreate them. Then my forearms
started to tense up and you feel like running.”  Wallenda, who pranced the final feet of his walk, stepped
onto Canadian soil and was immediately asked for his passport,
which he pulled from a protective pouch in his jacket.  “A lot of praying helped me a lot,” he said when he
reached safety. “In the middle of the wire, I started thinking
about my great-grandfather.”  An estimated crowd of 125,000 people on the Canadian side
and 4,000 on the American side watched Wallenda’s stunt last
night, the  Associated Press  said.  Safety First  ABC televised the walk, insisting Wallenda use a tether to
prevent him from plunging into the roaring waters of the falls
should he fall. He agreed to the condition set by the network,
which sponsored his feat and helped defray some of the $1.3
million cost, AP said.  Other tightrope walkers have crossed the Niagara River. No
one before Wallenda, who needed more than a year to secure
permission from the U.S. and Canada to attempt the feat, had
crossed at the falls.  Wallenda said the family’s legacy for performing daredevil
stunts “has been brought up a notch. That’s what this is all
about, paying tribute to my ancestors, and my hero, Karl
Wallenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  