-- Rajoy Says Spain Hurt by ’Unreasonable’ Interest Rates
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-16T11:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/rajoy-says-spain-hurt-by-unreasonable-interest-rates-1-.html
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy today
said  Spain  is paying “unreasonable”  interest rates  because of
the country’s high debt level, which is depriving the euro
area’s fourth-richest economy of credit.  “Those that owe the most are more affected when access to
markets is difficult,” Rajoy told parliamentary members during
a meeting of his  People’s Party  in the northern city of San
Sebastian. “There are many funding difficulties, for financial
entities, for big companies, for regions, and we are paying
interest rates that are far from being reasonable.”  Rajoy has called on the  European Central Bank  to lend
financial support as it sees its access to markets threatened by
surging yields. Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria
yesterday said the nation won’t need more cash from European
rescue funds to meet its goal to slash the euro area’s  third-
largest  budget deficit by 40 percent this year.  Rajoy said that total debt, including public and private
borrowing, is now more than the country’s gross domestic
product.  Spain’s bond yields surged the most since the euro was
created in 1999 this week, with the 10-year approaching 7
percent after the nation requested as much as 100 billion euros
($126 billion) in aid for its banks, and Moody’s Investors
Service cut its  credit rating  to one step above junk.  More Integration  “Europe needs more political, fiscal and banking
integration,” Rajoy said while the PP’s parliamentary members
together called for a solution to Spain’s funding and liquidity
difficulties in an e-mailed statement.  Spain’s financing needs are increasing along with its
costs. The  International Monetary Fund  yesterday forecast the
economy will continue to shrink next year and that the country
will miss its budget-deficit target of 5.3 percent of GDP this
year after a shortfall of 8.9 percent last year.  Spain’s total public debt rose to 72.1 percent of GDP in
the first quarter from 68.5 percent at the end of last year, and
it’s more than doubled since before the start of the crisis in
2008, the Bank of Spain said yesterday.  The debt ratio would rise to 90 percent of GDP if Spain
borrows the full amount of the 100 billion-euro  credit line  for
its banks, according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  