-- Rio Tinto Weighs Job Cuts, Staff Relocation to Reduce Costs
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-06-16T03:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/rio-tinto-weighs-job-cuts-staff-relocation-to-reduce-costs.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
largest mining company, is conducting an organizational review
that may lead to job cuts and staff relocation to reduce costs.  The London-based company started the global review last
year to address “escalating costs across the organization,”
 David Luff , a Melbourne-based company spokesman, said in an e-
mail today. There will be recommendations made “for sustainable
improvements to our operating model and structure that will best
support our vision to be the sector leader.”  As many as 250 employees in Melbourne and about 20 in
Sydney may lose their jobs or be relocated to Brisbane or Perth
when the review is concluded in about four weeks, the Australian
Financial Review newspaper reported today, citing an e-mail from
the Australian unit Managing Director David Peever to employees.  Rio Tinto  is joining rival  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in rationing
spending after commodity prices slumped and global growth
slowed. Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said last month the
company will tackle rising costs at its Australian operations
while taking a phased approach to mine expansions.  The company said in October it wants to divest or shut down
13 aluminum assets that include smelters and alumina plants from
 Australia  to the U.S. Prices of aluminum, which accounted for 18
percent of Rio Tinto’s revenue in 2011, have dropped by about a
fifth in the past year on the London Metal Exchange, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Growth  Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG reduced
forecasts for  China ’s economic growth this year as weakness in
exports and investment drag on the world’s biggest buyer of
metals.  Credit Suisse cut its estimate to 7.7 percent from 8
percent on June 14, while Deutsche Bank lowered its forecast to
7.9 percent from 8.2 percent. The predictions indicate the
weakest growth since 1999 and compare with a 9.2 percent
expansion last year.  Rio Tinto, with more than $33 billion of major projects
under way, in April pulled out of talks for a potential coal
port expansion in Australia’s Queensland state, citing
uncertainty in “global economic markets.”  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,  Europe ’s third-largest aluminum producer,
this month said it will close its Kurri Kurri smelter in
Australia as industry overcapacity and weakening demand curb
prices, resulting in the loss of more than 300 jobs.  Rio’s organizational review may also include moving its
offices in Melbourne and Sydney to less costly buildings,
according to the AFR. The company employs about 20,000 people in
Australia, said Luff, declining to comment further.  Rio Tinto  shares  rose 0.4 percent to A$54.5 in Sydney
trading yesterday. The stock has fallen 30 percent in the past
year, compared with a 9.4 percent drop in the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  