-- Romney Promises Energy Jobs on Bus Tour in Pennsylvania
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-06-16T23:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/romney-promises-energy-jobs-on-bus-tour-in-pennsylvania.html
Republican  Mitt Romney  rode a bus
through eastern Pennsylvania, promising a friendly regulatory
climate for new energy jobs and industry to people in places
that have seen decades of economic decline.  “The president wants to talk about the economy a little --
not as much as I want to talk about the economy,” Romney told
the hundreds of people gathered today at the Weatherly Casting
and Machine Co. in Weatherly, his first stop of the day. Obama’s
recent comment that the private sector was “doing fine” runs
counter to what businesspeople say, Romney said.  The presumptive Republican presidential nominee worked to
keep the focus on jobs a day after Obama took action to prevent
the deportation of illegal immigrants. Romney also was dogged by
protesters and former Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a
Democrat and Obama supporter who prompted him to divert from a
planned convenience-store meet-and-greet.  While “hope and change” was Obama’s 2008 campaign slogan,
Romney said, “Now I think he’d like to change it to ‘Hoping to
Change the Subject.’”  Romney’s stop at the foundry and machine shop that employs
74 people came on the second day of his six-state, “Every Town
Counts” bus tour through rural areas of states that Obama won
in 2008. He was set to visit three towns in Pennsylvania today
before flying to Ohio, where he’ll spend tomorrow, Father’s Day.
His bus trip began yesterday in New Hampshire and will move next
week to Wisconsin, Iowa and Michigan.  Media Campaigning  Romney also used the countryside as a backdrop for local
interviews with local television stations, a C-SPAN interview
and an appearance on CBS’ “Face the Nation” scheduled for
broadcast tomorrow. It’s Romney’s first national Sunday morning
news show interview this election on a network other than Fox.  Mary Dunn, 60, a furniture store owner, said she looks to
Romney to bring more jobs to “a very depressed area.”  “The mines, the factories, they’re gone,” she said.  Ronald Strohl, 72, a school bus driver, said that while he
has concerns that Romney is “not conservative enough,” he’ll
support him because “he’s more conservative than Obama.”  Obama and his family were taking a two-day break in their
hometown of  Chicago  this weekend, attending a wedding, visiting
friends and remaining out of the public spotlight.  Meatball Sandwich  Romney had planned to stop at a  Wawa  convenience store in
Quakertown to meet locals and buy a hoagie, the regional term
for a sandwich on a long roll that is called a submarine or a
hero elsewhere. After Rendell and anti-Wall Street activists
preempted him there, Romney’s campaign bus bypassed the store in
favor of another Wawa in the same town.  The former Massachusetts governor, who paid for his
meatball hoagie at the counter, told reporters that he decided
to skip the first Wawa location because Rendell might as well be
“my surrogate.” Rendell has said Obama is more likely than
Romney to win  Pennsylvania , though it’s not a sure thing. Romney
characterized Rendell as saying that “I could win Pennsylvania
-- so I’m happy to hear that.”  Speaking via satellite today to the Faith and Freedom
Coalition’s annual conference in  Washington , Romney said the
U.S. should help arm those in  Syria  fighting against the
government of President Bashar al-Assad “by encouraging our
friends there, like the Turks and the Saudis, to provide weapons
to the insurgents.”  Syria Policy  Romney criticized Obama’s approach on Syria as being “from
a dispassionate distance” and suggested Obama wasn’t
sufficiently tough on  Iran  to prevent it from obtaining nuclear
weapons.  Pennsylvania, with 20 electoral votes of the 270 a
candidate needs to win the presidency, has been a Democrat-
leaning state in the presidential election. Obama won the state
in 2008 with 54 percent of the vote and President  George W. Bush ’s challenger, Democrat  John Kerry , won the state with 51
percent in 2004.  Ohio, with 18 electoral votes, has been a closer contest
between the parties. Obama won Ohio four years ago with 52
percent, while Bush won Ohio with 51 percent in 2004.  In  New Hampshire  yesterday, Romney’s kickoff was undercut
by Obama’s announcement that his administration would stop
deporting hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who came
to the U.S. as children.  Immigration Politics  If Obama “ really wanted to make a solution that dealt
with these kids or illegal immigration in America, than this is
something he would have taken up in his first 3.5 years, not in
his last few months, Romney said in an excerpt from his ‘‘Face
the Nation’’ released by CBS today.  Romney stayed off the subject in Weatherly. Former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who introduced Romney, just
touched on the issue, questioning Obama’s timing without going
after the policy. He said Obama took office in 2009 with a
Democrat-controlled Congress and waited until ‘‘now, four months
before the election’’ to take the approach.  Pennsylvania ranked 12th on the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States Index when assessed from the start of 2009.  The state through May  added back  143,400 jobs of the
255,300 jobs it shed from April 2008 to February 2010.  At 7.4 percent, the state’s  unemployment rate  has improved
from 8.7 percent in March 2010, while it remains higher than its
April 2007 low of 4.2 percent.  Home prices  statewide through March have declined by 5.77
percent since 2007, compared with 16.29 percent nationally.  Pennsylvania Economy  The Bloomberg State Equity Index of Pennsylvania has 271
members, including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. (PNC) , and  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  Companies in the state through yesterday
have outperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Since the
start of 2009, the  Pennsylvania stock index  has gone up 119.34
percent, compared with the 48.67 percent increase in the S&P.  ‘‘I am going win Pennsylvania,” Romney told supporters at
Cornwall Iron Furnace, a Lebanon County landmark that dates to
1742. “I’m going to get this economy going again.”  Roger Esbenshade, 49, a horticulturalist from nearby
Lititz, said his area is “doing pretty good actually.” He said
the 2008 economic crisis caused things to “worsen a little bit,
but we never saw it as bad as some areas” in falling home
values or unemployment.  Ohio ranked 5th on the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States Index when assessed from the start of 2009.  The state through May added back 157,300 jobs of the
438,200 jobs it shed from June 2007 to December 2009.  At 7.3 percent, the state’s unemployment rate has improved
from 10.6 percent in January 2010, but remains higher than its
2007 average of 5.6 percent.  Home prices statewide through March have declined by 10.05
percent since 2007, compared with 16.29 percent nationally.  The Bloomberg State Equity Index of Ohio has 186 members,
including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,  First Energy Corp. (FE)  and  American
Electric Power (AEP)  Co. Companies in the state through Friday have
outperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Since the start of
2009, the Ohio stock index has increased by 67.74 percent,
compared with a 48.67 percent increase in the S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Weatherly, Pennsylvania at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  