-- Saudi Stocks Drop to January Low After Death of Nayef
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-16T13:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/saudi-stocks-drop-to-january-low-after-death-of-nayef.html
Saudi Arabia ’s benchmark stock index
dropped to its lowest level in a week after state television
reported that Prince Nayef, the kingdom’s interior minister and
crown prince, had died.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell 0.3 percent to 6,724.46 at
the close in Riyadh, the lowest since June 9, after earlier
dropping as much as 2.7 percent.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, slipped 0.6 percent to 89.75 riyals.  Al
Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest lender by market value,
declined 1.4 percent to 72.75 riyals.  The Royal Court statement cited by state television didn’t
give a cause of death. Nayef had left the kingdom for medical
tests and a holiday last month, the  Royal Court  said in May,
without specifying where he was going. He went to Cleveland,
Ohio, in March for separate medical tests. About  602 million
shares  traded in Saudi Arabia today, almost double the 12-month
daily average of 317 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There was some panic-selling because of the uncertainty
created by the reports,” Turki Fadaak, head of research at
Albilad Investment Co. in Riyadh, said today by telephone.
“Ultimately, we do not believe the stability of the kingdom
will be threatened.”  Mideast Turmoil  The death of Nayef comes as the world’s largest oil
supplier confronts unemployment challenges at home and
unprecedented change in the Middle East after popular uprisings
toppled leaders in four countries, including  Egypt  and Libya
last year. King Abdullah unveiled a $130 billion spending plan
in the first quarter of 2011, including allowances for
government workers and salary increases for military personnel.  King Abdullah appointed Nayef as crown prince on Oct. 28
and later named Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz as defense minister.
The appointments followed the Oct. 22 death of Prince Sultan,
formerly the crown prince. Head of the Interior Ministry since
1975, Nayef was the most powerful prince in the kingdom.  “Now the succession struggle will have to move to the next
in line,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-
based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said
in a phone interview today.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 