-- Saudi Shares Head for Highest Close in Two Weeks on Oil, Europe
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-06-16T09:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/saudi-shares-head-for-highest-close-in-two-weeks-on-oil-europe.html
Saudi Arabia’s shares were set for
the highest close in more than two weeks after crude oil
advanced on speculation banks will take steps to bolster global
growth as investors await the result of Greek elections.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, advanced 1.4 percent.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the
kingdom’s largest lender by market value, was poised for the
highest close in almost a week. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
climbed 0.8 percent to 6,797.46 at 12:02 p.m. in Riyadh, headed
for the highest close since May 30.  “The latest developments in international markets and oil
prices are supporting the Saudi market,” said Riyadh-based
Turki Fadaak, head of research at Albilad Investment Co.
“Investors are awaiting the outcome of the Greek elections.”  Saudi Arabia, the Arab region’s largest economy, gets more
than 90 percent of government revenue from oil sales. The Saudi
economy grew 5.9 percent last quarter from a year earlier as
crude output rose and the state boosted spending, according to
government data. Oil for July delivery climbed 0.1 percent to
$84.03 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange yesterday.  The Greek vote tomorrow may determine whether the country
remains in the euro bloc. Policy makers from the U.K. to Japan
and Canada have stepped up warnings of the threat to financial
markets should Europe fail to contain its debt crisis. The
Federal Reserve starts a two-day meeting June 19.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, giving the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  its first back-to-back weekly gain since April. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.9 percent last week after the
Bank of England announced credit-easing measures.  Saudi Basic Industries, or Sabic, rose to 91.5 riyals, the
highest intraday level since June 11, and Al Rajhi Bank advanced
1 percent to 74.5 riyals, poised for the highest close since
June 11.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  