-- Saudi Crown Prince Who Led Anti-Terrorism Efforts Dies
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-17T09:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/saudi-crown-prince-nayef-has-died-saudi-state-tv-reports.html
Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, who led  Saudi Arabia ’s terrorism fight while in his dual
role as interior minister, has died. He was in his late 70s.  The death of the heir to  King Abdullah  was announced
yesterday by state television, which cited a  Royal Court 
statement. Details of his death weren’t given. The Saudi royal
family has started to gather in Mecca ahead of the funeral
today, the  Saudi Press Agency  said. Abdullah was met by his sons
and other princes in Islam’s holiest city, it said.  Nayef had been Saudi Arabia’s most powerful prince amid the
turmoil that has rocked the region. He put down attacks by al-
Qaeda and backed the religious police in the Sunni Muslim
kingdom, the world’s largest oil producer.  He was the second crown prince to die in less than a year,
renewing questions about succession as the Saudi leadership
ages. The king named him Oct. 28 to succeed Sultan bin Abdulaziz
Al Saud. Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz, who was born in 1935,
followed Crown Prince Sultan as defense minister.  “I don’t think this will have any impact on the stability
of the country,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at
the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis. “The selection process is pretty clear. Prince Salman
will most likely become the next crown prince.”  Scheduled Exams  Nayef left Saudi Arabia last month for scheduled medical
tests and a vacation, the Royal Court said at the time. Nayef
met with a number of the kingdom’s princes and officials at his
residence in Geneva, the Saudi Press Agency reported on June 12.
The Swiss government said he died there, according to an e-
mailed  statement .  His death comes as Saudi Arabia confronts unemployment, an
issue cited by some activists during the unrest that led to the
toppling of leaders in  Tunisia ,  Egypt , Yemen and  Libya  during
the so-called Arab Spring that began in December 2010.
Joblessness reached 27 percent for Saudis between 20 and 30
years old in 2009, according to official data.  King Abdullah unveiled a $130 billion spending plan in the
first quarter of 2011, including allowances for government
workers and salary increases for military personnel.  Six kings have ruled Saudi Arabia since it was established
in 1932. Abdullah changed the kingdom’s succession rules in 2007
to give an appointed commission of princes, the Allegiance
Council, more power to select a new ruler.  Sudairi Seven  Nayef was one of the influential brothers known as the
Sudairi Seven, the sons of the kingdom’s founder, King Abdulaziz
Al Saud, and one of his wives, Hassa bint-Ahmed al-Sudairi. The
late crown prince was born in 1934, according to the  website  of
the Saudi Embassy in  Washington . His Institute for Research and
Consulting Services at the Al-Imam Muhammad Ibn  Saud Islamic
University  said he was born in 1933. Neither provided his date
of birth.  Prince Salman is a Sudairi brother who was a former
governor of Riyadh province. Other  senior royals  include Foreign
Minister Saud Al-Faisal, who was born in 1940, and Khaled al-
Faisal, governor of the Mecca province.  King Abdullah’s son Mutaib is head of the National Guard, a
110,000-man Bedouin force loyal to the royal family, and another
son, Abdul Aziz, is the deputy foreign minister. Sultan’s son
Khaled is deputy defense minister, and Nayef’s son Mohammad is
the deputy minister for security affairs.  “Succession is very complicated,” Mohammed al-Qahtani, a
democracy advocate and economist, said by phone from  Riyadh , the
capital. “They will think about stability. Salman will make a
good candidate for crown prince for the royal family.”  U.S. Comment  Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa announced a three-
day mourning period for the Saudi crown prince, the official
Bahrain News Agency reported.  Nayef pledged in February last year to stand by the people
and government of Bahrain against all that affects its security,
stability and national unity as security forces confronted
Shiite Muslim protesters, the Saudi Press Agency reported. About
a month later, Saudi Arabia sent troops to the neighboring Sunni
country as part of a Gulf Cooperation Council force to help put
down the Shiite protests.  “Nayef was known for his courage and dedication to the
security of his country,” U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia  James
Smith  said in a  statement  on the website of the American Embassy
in Riyadh. “Crown Prince Nayef was a strong leader and a good
friend to the  United States .”  ‘Crush’ Terrorism  In September 2010, Nayef, who had led the  Interior Ministry 
since 1975, said Saudi Arabia was able to “crush” the ideology
of terrorism. The ministry’s forces had arrested 11,527 people
since Sept. 11, 2001, for their alleged involvement in
terrorism, according to an April 2011 statement. Under Nayef,
the ministry set up a 35,000-strong unit to protect energy
infrastructure and oil reserves, which were the world’s largest.  After the announcement of Nayef’s death yesterday, Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell as much as 2.7 percent to
6,565.82, the lowest intraday level since Jan. 31. The benchmark
was up 0.2 percent to 6,735.89 at 11:54 a.m. in Riyadh.  “Saudi institutions are well established to ensure the
continuity of economic policies,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief
economist at the Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank , said by
phone. “The key strategic goals are widely shared and well
anchored.”  Regional Rivalry  OPEC’s June 14 decision to keep its output quota unchanged
puts the onus on Saudi Arabia to cut supply should crude prices
extend their drop below $100 a barrel. Increased production from
Saudi Arabia has been blamed for plunging prices by members
including Shiite-led  Iran , a regional rival whose exports will
be subject to a European Union embargo starting July 1.  Saudi Arabia will make sure there is enough supply in the
global crude market, Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said at
last week’s OPEC meeting. Crude for July delivery rose 12 cents
to $84.03 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange June 15.  The kingdom’s economy expanded 6.8 percent last year as it
benefited from additional government spending of 224 billion
riyals ($60 billion) and  oil prices  that averaged $95 a barrel,
up from $80 in 2010. Economy Minister Muhammad al-Jasser said on
May 22 that he hopes the kingdom’s real gross domestic product
growth will be about 6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  