-- Suu Kyi Says Myanmar Struggle Is Starting to Bear Fruit
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-06-16T13:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/suu-kyi-says-struggle-is-bearing-fruit-as-prisoners-remain.html
Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of
Myanmar’s opposition, said the struggle for democracy and human
rights is beginning to show results as she demanded the release
of remaining prisoners of conscience in the South Asian nation.  “Over the past year, there have been signs that the
endeavours of those who believe in democracy and human rights
are beginning to bear fruit in  Burma ,” Suu Kyi said at the
Nobel Peace Prize lecture in Oslo today. “There have been
changes in a positive direction; steps towards democratization
have been taken.”  The 66-year-old said she was optimistic about the continued
struggle, while warning against “blind faith” and calling for
the “earliest, unconditional release” of prisoners of
conscience. Her lecture comes 21 years after she received the
award. She was detained by Myanmar’s military junta after
winning elections in 1990 and was unable to collect the prize.  Suu Kyi, who was released in 2010, said today that the
prize helped break her isolation while in house arrest, drew her
back into the world and restored a sense of reality. The award
made sure the struggle was not forgotten, she said.  Nobel Committee Chairman Thorbjoern Jagland said that
 Norway  had never forgotten about her, also mentioning other
laureates who have been unable to receive their prizes,
including Chinese dissident  Liu Xiaobo  in 2010.  King Harald and Queen Sonja, as well as Burmese citizens
who wore traditional folk dress, attended the lecture.
Performances included a Norwegian violinist and a Burmese
harpist. Outside, Burmese artists were giving performances and
an exhibit in her honor is staged.  The Wait  “We have been waiting for you for a very long time,”
Jagland said at Oslo City Hall, the traditional site for Nobel
Peace lectures. “We hope that Liu Xiaobo will not have to wait
as long as she has had to before he can come to Oslo.”  Annual prizes for peace, physics, chemistry, medicine, and
literature were established in the will of  Alfred Nobel , the
Swedish inventor of dynamite who died in 1896, and they were
first awarded in 1901. The peace prize is handed out in Oslo and
the others in  Stockholm , including one for economics that was
established by  Sweden ’s central bank. Past peace laureates
include U.S. civil rights leader  Martin Luther King Jr .,
President  Barack Obama  and Mother Teresa.  Nationwide Election  Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party won 43 of 44
by-election seats it contested on April 1, giving it
representation in the 664-member parliament still dominated by
President Thein Sein and the military. The next nationwide
election is scheduled for 2015.  “I stand ready and willing to play any role in the process
of national reconciliation,” Suu Kyi said in her lecture. The
reforms put in motion by the government “can be sustained only
with the intelligent cooperation of all internal forces: the
military, our ethnic nationalities, political parties, the
media, civil society organizations, the business community and,
most important of all, the general public.”  Many of the Burmese draped her in scarves and gave her
flowers as she exited.  Clashes in western Myanmar involving Muslim Rohingyas near
the Bangladesh border claimed dozens of lives this month and
highlighted the plight of Rohingyas who are denied citizenship
in Myanmar and restricted from traveling freely. Calm has
returned to Myanmar’s Rakhine state, where an emergency was
declared after six days of violence killed 50 people and
displaced more than 30,000, the  Associated Press  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo at 
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  