-- U.K. Gilts Outperform Bunds on BOE Stimulus Bets
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-16T06:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/u-k-gilts-outperform-bunds-on-boe-stimulus-bets.html
U.K. two-year note yields fell for a
second week on speculation the  Bank of England  will buy more
government debt to support the economy.  Ten-year bonds  outperformed German bunds, narrowing the
spread between the securities to the lowest in more than three
months, on concern  Greece  will be pushed toward an exit from the
euro after tomorrow’s election. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  presented joint steps with the Treasury to increase the
flow of credit to U.K. banks and said the case for more stimulus
is “growing.” The pound gained against most of its peers.  King’s “announcement highlights the bias is for further
easing in U.K.,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Investec
Bank Plc in London. “The U.K. is also benefiting from being
outside the euro zone. There is definitely some concern over how
much it will all cost Germany.”  Two-year yields slid two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, this week to 0.22 percent at 4:28 p.m.  London  time
yesterday. The 2.25 percent security due March 2014 traded at
103.49 percent of face value. The 10-year  gilt yield  rose four
basis points to 1.67 percent.  German 10-year yields  rose 12 basis points to 1.45 percent,
narrowing the  spread with gilts  to 22 basis points, the smallest
gap since Feb. 28, according to closing prices.  Liquidity Plan  The Bank of England’s liquidity plan will see it inject at
least 5 billion pounds a month into the financial system. A
separate program will allow lenders to swap assets with the
central bank in return for money to be loaned to companies and
households.  U.K. policy makers held the bond-purchase program at 325
billion pounds and kept their benchmark rate at a record-low 0.5
percent on June 7. Minutes of the meeting, showing how officials
voted, will be published on June 20.  Greece’s second election in two months hinges on whether
the nation accepts austerity to stay in the euro or rejects the
conditions of bailouts and risks becoming the first to exit the
17-member currency.  George Osborne , U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer, warned
against the dangers of a disorderly Greek exit from the euro
area and backed  deposit insurance  for the currency bloc’s banks.  “The worst thing for the world would be a Greek exit
without a plan to deal with the contagion, because that would be
like letting  Lehman Brothers  go and not having a plan for the
day after,” Osborne said in excerpts of a CBS Evening News
interview scheduled for broadcast late yesterday. Osborne spoke
two days before Greek voters go to the polls in an election that
may decide whether the nation leaves the 17-nation euro area.  Pound Gains  The pound rose 0.2 percent to 80.74 pence per euro and
strengthened 1.2 percent to $1.5655. It gained against most of
its 16 major peers this week.  The U.K. is due to sell 3.25 billion pounds of 10-year
gilts the next day.  Sterling slid 2.5 percent in the past month, the worst
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. currency fell
0.2 percent and the euro dropped 1 percent.  Gilts have returned 1.4 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies as of June 14. German bunds rose
2.6 percent, and U.S. Treasuries gained 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  