-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Falls Almost to Record on Haven Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-16T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/u-s-10-year-yield-falls-almost-to-record-on-haven-demand.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell to
within a quarter-percentage point of the record low reached two
weeks ago as investors sought safety amid Europe’s debt crisis
and signs U.S. economic growth is slowing.  U.S. government securities rallied as drops in industrial
production and consumer prices boosted bets the  Federal Reserve 
will add more stimulus to sustain economic growth. Volatility
climbed to the highest since December as investors await the
Greek election tomorrow amid speculation central banks will take
steps to provide liquidity to financial markets.  “Europe is still a mess, there has been relatively
disappointing U.S. data and there is increasing chatter about
the possibility of the Fed doing some sort of further easing,”
said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in  Milwaukee . “There are a lot of wild cards and a
lot of uncertainty domestically and abroad, and until something
changes, Treasuries can stay near these levels.”  The benchmark  10-year note  yield decreased six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.58 percent yesterday in
New York, from 1.64 percent a week earlier, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It fell to a record 1.44 percent on
June 1. The 1.75 percent security due in May 2022 rose 17/32, or
$5.31 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 18/32.  Thirty-year yields dropped six basis points to 2.68
percent, from 2.75 percent on June 8. They touched a record low
2.51 percent on June 1.  Treasuries returned 3.3 percent this quarter through
yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master index
showed. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks lost 7.1 percent
including reinvested dividends.  Rising Volatility  Volatility increased yesterday to 95.4 basis points, the
highest since Dec. 12, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s MOVE index. The gauge measures Treasury price swings
based on options. The one-year average is 88.2 basis points.  Treasuries fell last week, pushing  10-year yields  up the
most in almost three months, as speculation European leaders
would make progress stemming their debt crisis damped haven
demand. Bonds dropped on June 14 as traders speculated whether
global central banks would coordinate assistance if the Greek
election increases financial-market turmoil.  “The market’s on eggshells here,”  Brian Edmonds ,  New York- 
based head of interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, said on
June 14. “It doesn’t take much to move the market either way.”
The firm is one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Production, Sales  Ten-year yields fell to the lowest in a week yesterday,
1.5620 percent, as Fed data showed U.S. industrial production
unexpectedly fell last month, declining 0.1 percent after a
revised 1 percent gain in April, according to Fed data. A
Commerce Department report on June 13 showed retail sales fell
in May for a second month, prompting economists to cut forecasts
for economic growth.  The  consumer price index  declined 0.3 percent in May, the
biggest drop since December 2008, Labor Department data showed
on June 14. With inflation cooling, Fed policy makers have more
flexibility to take further action to bolster economic growth.  The  gap  in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, which represents traders’
expectations for inflation over the life of the debt, touched
2.09 percentage points, down from a 2012 high of 2.45 percentage
points in March.  The Fed opens a two-day policy meeting on June 19. The
central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of bonds from December 2008
to June 2011 in two rounds of a tactic called quantitative
easing to stimulate the economy. It has kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Record Lows  The Treasury sold $66 billion of notes and bonds this week,
drawing record low yields at auctions of 10- and 30-year debt. A
$21 billion sale of  10-year notes  on June 13 yielded 1.622
percent, and a $13 billion offering of  long bonds  the next day
yielded 2.720 percent.  “The relentless purchasing of Treasuries astounds me,”
Paul Montaquila, head of fixed-income trading at Bank of The
West in  San Ramon ,  California , said on June 14. “The
uncertainty in  Europe  is an ever-lingering backdrop.”  Greece ’s election will turn on whether voters in the
nation, which is in a fifth year of recession, accept open-ended
austerity to stay in the euro or reject the conditions of a
bailout and risk the turmoil of becoming the first to exit the
17-member currency.  Central banks intensified warnings that Europe’s failure to
tame its sovereign-debt crisis threatens to roil the world’s
financial markets. Monetary policy makers from the U.K. to Japan
and  Canada  sounded the alert about potential fallout. They spoke
as Group of 20 leaders prepare for a summit in Mexico next week
amid the weakest international economy since the 2009 recession  Investors Disappointed  Major central banks are preparing for coordinated action to
increase liquidity in financial markets if needed, Reuters
reported on June 14, citing officials linked to the G-20.  “Investors are disappointed with what they are seeing out
of Europe, and because of that we have low rates,” said Wilmer Stith, a portfolio manager at Wilmington Trust Investment
Managers in Baltimore. “We are not talking about weeks, we are
talking about years without anyone making any of the long-term
changes that need to be made to get them out of the situation
they are in.”  The U.K. and  France  each increased their holdings of
Treasuries by more than 26 percent in April amid the euro bloc’s
crisis. Britain’s holdings rose 26.5 percent to $154.2 billion,
while France’s increased 29.4 percent to $59.4 billion, the
Treasury Department said yesterday.  China remained the largest international buyer of
Treasuries, with its holdings rising $1.5 billion to $1.15
trillion, the data showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  