-- Violence in Syria Causes Suspension of UN Mission
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-16T23:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/un-suspends-observer-mission-in-syria-over-escalating-violence.html
The  United Nations  said its observer
mission in Syria has been suspended because the increasing
violence poses “significant risks” to its staff.  “UN observers will not be conducting patrols and will stay
in their locations until further notice,” Major General Robert Mood, head of the UN mission, said at a televised news
conference yesterday. He said the suspension will be reviewed
“on a daily basis,” adding that “a return to normal
operations remains our objective.”  Efforts by President Bashar al-Assad to suppress what
started as a peaceful opposition movement has pushed Syria into
sectarian violence pitting the majority Sunnis against the
Alawite leadership. More than 10,000 Syrians have died since the
start of an uprising against the four-decade rule of Assad’s
family.  The UN has 291 unarmed military observers and 89 civilian
monitors in Syria to oversee a cease-fire plan crafted by UN
special envoy  Kofi Annan . The UN Security Council established
the observer mission in April.  “There has been an intensification of armed violence
across Syria over the past 10 days,” Mood said in a statement.  Civilian Deaths  “The lack of willingness of the parties to seek a
peaceful transition, and the push towards advancing military
positions is increasing the losses on both sides: innocent
civilians, men women and children are being killed every day,”
the statement said. “It is also posing significant risks to our
observers.”  Syrian security forces killed 63 people across country
yesterday, Al Jazeera reported, citing activists. At least 20
Syrians were executed in public in Damascus suburb of Saqba by
’shabiha’ militia loyal to Assad,  Al Jazeera  said.  Insurgents, deploying guerrilla tactics such as ambushes
and targeting army generals for assassination, are grabbing
control of territory and relying on Persian Gulf nations for
weapons. Pro-government forces are retaliating with increasing
brutality, as shown in the massacres of Sunni civilians around
Houla and in the village of Qubeir.  Syria will be part of the agenda at the Group of 20 meeting
in Los Cabos, Mexico, that begins tomorrow. Russia, an ally
which is selling weapons to Assad and has protected him in the
UN Security Council, is under renewed pressure from Western
leaders led by the U.S., U.K. and France to use its influence to
bring about a political transition.  Russian Response  Russia  has responded by suggesting that  Iran , another
country with some sway over Assad, should join the negotiations
at a conference to be held at the end of this month. UN envoy
Kofi Annan has proposed that the meeting should take place in
Geneva on June 30, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  told
reporters in Moscow July 15.  Russian arms exporter Rosoboronexport is sending advanced
defensive missile systems to Syria that could be used to shoot
down airplanes or sink ships if the nation is attacked, the  New
York  Times reported, citing an interview June 15 with Anatoly P.
Isaykin, the general director of the company. The U.S. State
Department had no immediate comment on the report.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  will discuss the issue on the sidelines of the summit,
according to  Ben Rhodes , deputy U.S. national security adviser.  “At this critical juncture, we are consulting with our
international partners regarding next steps toward a Syrian-led
political transition,” White House spokesman Tommy Vietor said
yesterday in a statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  