-- Winslet, Branagh, Carphone’s Dunstone Lead Queen’s Honors
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-06-16T12:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/winslet-branagh-carphone-s-dunstone-lead-queen-s-honors-1-.html
Actors Kate Winslet and  Kenneth Branagh  led the list of U.K. honors handed out today by  Queen Elizabeth II .  Carphone Warehouse (CPW)  Group Plc Chairman Charles Dunstone and Walt Disney International Chairman Andy Bird also
won recognition in the awards to mark the queen’s birthday.  “Titanic” star Winslet became a Commander of the Order of
the British Empire, or CBE, while Branagh, who made his name
bringing Shakespeare to the big screen, was knighted, allowing
him to put “Sir” in front of his name. Dunstone, who founded
 Carphone Warehouse , Europe’s largest mobile-phone retailer, in
1989, also got a knighthood.  Awards to people working in industry and the economy
accounted for 12 percent of the total, according to a breakdown
published by the Cabinet Office in London. The honors are
bestowed in the name of the queen and are recommended by an
independent panel, which considers suggestions from government
departments and political parties as well as from the public.  “I feel immensely proud and flattered to receive this
remarkable honour,” Dunstone said in an e-mailed statement
today. “It’s been 23 years since I first started selling mobile
phones out of a flat in Marylebone and whilst I’ve been
fortunate and privileged to have experienced success and
recognition during that time, I cannot think of a more thrilling
and humbling experience than this.”  Same Award  Stuart Fraser, chairman of the Policy and Resources
Committee of the City of London Corporation, became a CBE, with
Disney’s Bird and  Mulberry Group Plc (MUL)  Creative Director  Emma Hill 
receiving the same award. Colin Skellett, chairman and chief
executive officer of Wessex Water Plc, was made an Officer of
the Order of the British Empire, or OBE, while Brian Winterflood, founder of Winterflood Securities Ltd., became a
Member of the Order, or MBE.  Anthony Nightingale, the former managing director of
 Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd. (JM) , and  Ian Robertson , a member of
the management board of  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and former
chairman of Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd., became companions of
the Order of St. Michael and  St. George .  Mary Archer, wife of the Conservative lawmaker and novelist
Jeffrey Archer, who was jailed for perjury in 2001, was made a
Dame -- the female equivalent of a knight. She was honored for
services to the  National Health Service  in her work as head of
the Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.  Lucy Neville-Rolfe, Tesco Plc’s director of corporate and
legal affairs, was also named a dame.  Budget  Armando Iannucci, the satirist and broadcaster behind the
BBC television show “The Thick Of It,” HBO’s “Veep” and the
Oscar-nominated film “In The Loop,” was given an OBE. The
award came weeks after “omnishambles,” a word coined by
Iannucci, was used across the U.K. media and by opposition
leaders in the House of Commons to describe Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government in the wake of the March 21 budget that was
unpopular with voters and led to several policy U-turns.  There was also a knighthood for Paul Jenkins, a government
lawyer who Cameron cited on June 14 as backing his decision to
ask Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  to rule on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s bid
for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   In written evidence to a media-ethics inquiry currently
examining the bid, Jenkins said he’d been consulted about the
2010 decision by phone during a vacation and had advised that
Hunt’s previous public comments in favor of the bid weren’t a
bar. Cameron’s office said yesterday that Jenkins’s award was a
matter for the Cabinet Office.  Children’s Literature  Children’s author Judith Kerr, who wrote “When Hitler
Stole Pink Rabbit,” the Mog books and the “Tiger Who Came to
Tea,” was awarded the OBE for services to children’s literature
and holocaust education.  Actress  Jenny Agutter  was granted an OBE, as was Take That
songwriter Gary Barlow, who campaigned for Cameron’s
Conservative Party in the 2010 general election and helped
organize the Diamond Jubilee concert for the queen outside
Buckingham Palace earlier this month.  Richard Stilgoe, who wrote the lyrics for the stage musical
“Starlight Express” and co-wrote those for “The Phantom of
the Opera,” was knighted for his charitable work. Author Susan
Hill, whose works include “The Woman in Black,” which was made
into a film released this year, was named a CBE.  In sports, golfer Luke Donald and former England goalkeeper
David James became MBEs, while former Chelsea player Paul
Elliott, who has spearheaded campaigns against racism in soccer,
became a CBE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  