-- Yankees Win Seventh Straight Game in 7-2 Victory Over Nationals
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-16/yankees-win-seventh-straight-game-in-7-2-victory-over-nationals.html
Phil Hughes  allowed one run and
struck out nine in six innings as the  New York Yankees  won their
seventh straight game with a 7-2 victory over the Washington
Nationals in a Major League Baseball contest.  The Yankees (38-25) are holding on to the top spot in the
American League East, while the Washington Nationals (38-24)
remain atop the National League East.  Hughes, who gave up six hits, had “good command of his
fastball and expanded with his breaking ball,” Yankee manager
Joe Girardi said. “That’s the key for him. He’s done a good job
of that, got some strikeouts when he needed to. For the most
part, he executed his pitches.”  Derek Jeter  reached base on an infield single to shortstop
Ian Desmond whose throw passed first baseman Adam LaRoche in the
seventh inning at Nationals Park in Washington D.C. DeWayne Wise
scored the go-ahead run followed by Russell Martin to give the
Yankees a 4-1 lead.  “We opened the door for them,” Nationals manager  Davey
Johnson  said.  Alex Rodriguez  and Nick Swisher each hit run-scoring
singles in the third inning and  Curtis Granderson  blasted a two-
run double in the seventh and followed with his 20th home run of
the season in the ninth.  Rodriguez recorded his 1,924th career run-batted-in to tie
Hall of Famer Jimmie Foxx for sixth-most on the all-time list.  Stephen Lombardozzi scored on Michael Morse’s single in the
third inning and Morse got a run on Danny Espinosa’s groundout
in the ninth.  Hughes (7-5) gave up six hits for the Yankees. Gio Gonzalez
(8-3) surrendered three runs on five hits and struck out eight
in six innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  