-- ‘Plain Language’ Mortgage Forms Released by Consumer Bureau
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-07-09T22:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/-plain-language-mortgage-documents-released-by-consumer-bureau.html
U.S. mortgage lenders would be
required to give prospective borrowers “plain language”
information on loan costs and risks under simplified disclosure
forms released by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The agency is seeking public comment on “loan estimate”
and “closing disclosure” forms that would replace two
overlapping federal documents that “can be confusing to
consumers and industry,” according to a statement released
today. The changes are required under the Dodd-Frank Act of
2010, which created the consumer bureau.  The forms, described in an 1,100-page  proposal , would
change the way the annual percentage rate is calculated to
include certain fees that are now excluded, such as those
charged for title searches, credit reports, and appraisals. The
documents highlight loan costs and spell out how they could
change over time.  “Our proposed redesign of the federal mortgage forms
provides much-needed transparency in the mortgage market and
gives consumers greater power over the exciting and daunting
process of buying a home,” Consumer Bureau Director  Richard Cordray  said in the agency’s statement.  First Steps  The proposals, which will be open for public comment before
being completed, mark the first in a series of steps the bureau
is taking to reshape mortgage lending for banks such as  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Subsequent rules will outline the responsibilities of lenders in
underwriting, securitization and servicing.  The bureau separately  suggested  a new definition for
“high-cost” loans subject to protections from fees and risky
terms. The proposal would prohibit balloon payments, prepayment
penalties and modification fees, which typically have high
 interest rates  and other costs.  The mortgage-form proposal stems from a Dodd-Frank mandate
to break a decades-old stalemate in federal mortgage policy.  Harmonizing Forms  The Truth in Lending Act, administered by the  Federal
Reserve , and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, overseen
by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, required
separate forms for getting a mortgage estimate and for closing.
Repeated efforts to harmonize the forms failed, so Congress
charged the consumer agency with the task.  The proposed change to the APR calculation would modify
current rules under the Truth in Lending Law.  The APR uses the mortgage interest rate and associated loan
fees to give the consumer a single metric to assess loan cost.
The Truth in Lending Act excludes some potentially costly fees,
such as charges for title searches and insurance.  Consumer advocates said the suggested changes to the APR
and the way it is disclosed could end up being more confusing
for borrowers.  ‘Big Picture’  “The disclosures overall, the big picture of the changes,
they will be better, they will be easier for people to
understand,” said Andrew Pizor, a staff attorney at the
National Consumer Law Center. “But because of what they’re
doing with the APR, people are going to have to spend a long
time looking at the numbers and trying to do math in their
head.”  Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the  Cato Institute , a research organization that promotes free
markets, said that crafted correctly, the new mortgage forms
could cut down on lawsuits.  “You get better consumer documents and you get less
litigation,” he said. “I see that as a win-win.”  Comments on the high-cost loan  proposal  and some portions
of the mortgage form  proposal  are due Sept. 7. Comments on the
majority of the mortgage-form proposal are due Nov. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  