-- Labco Said Set for Sale by 3i as Blackstone Circles Firm
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-10T11:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/labco-said-set-for-sale-by-3i-as-blackstone-circles-firm.html
Labco SAS, a medical-diagnostics
company whose investors include  3i Group Plc (III) , is seeking buyers
after it was approached by private equity firms including
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said people with knowledge with the
situation.  3i, Britain’s oldest private-equity firm, decided to
organize a formal process beginning in September to sell Labco
after being approached by a bidder a few weeks ago, the people
said. Private equity firms including EQT Partners AB, Bain
Capital LLC and TowerBrook Capital Partners LP may also be
interested in Labco, people said.  Labco may be valued at about 1 billion euros ($1.23
billion), two of the people said. Labco has annual earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or
Ebitda, of about 130 million euros, one of the people said. The
company’s first-quarter earnings rose 19 percent to 31 million
euros compared to 26 million euros for the same period a year
before, according to a financial statement.  Labco, based in Paris, operates more than 250 laboratories
in six European countries, according to its  website . The company
provides a range of more than 2,500 tests, such as blood
analyses, thyroid tests, microbiology cultures and HIV tests, as
well as specialty tests such as oncology and paternity testing.
It employs about 4,500 people, including 500 pathologists, its
website says.  Unsolicited Approaches  The company in 2011 sold 500 million euros of 8.5 percent
notes maturing in 2018, which include a change of control
clause, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Labco confirmed
on June 27 it had received unsolicited approaches.  Fitch Ratings 
said two days later that bids probably came from private equity
firms, and that it would consider a rating action on Labco’s
bonds if the offers become more binding.  Caroline Sueur, a Labco spokeswoman in Paris, said the
company won’t make any additional comment beyond what it said in
its June 27 statement.  Officials at 3i, Blackstone and TowerBrook declined to
comment. Officials at EQT and Bain did not respond to requests
for comment.  3i, which invested 130 million euros in Labco in several
tranches since July 2008 and syndicated 15 million euros, owns
close to 20 percent of the company, according to the 3i  website .
Labco’s management and laboratory doctors are also major
shareholders, according to the company’s website.  Ownership Structure  At the end of March, financial investors including 3i owned
42 percent of Labco,  while laboratory doctors held 20 percent,
according to a financial statement. Other shareholders such as
management held 19 percent and the the company’s founders held
18 percent.  Founded in Paris in 2002, Labco has made 80 acquisitions
since 2008, according to 3i.  Started just after World War II, 3i was one of the first
private-equity firms in  Europe . After going public in  London  in
1994, it expanded in  Asia  and targeted bigger transactions. The
2008 credit crisis halted the firm’s expansion. 3i said last
month it plans to cut more than a third of its workforce and
shut offices in  Hong Kong  and  Shanghai  in an attempt to revive
profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  