-- U.K. Tories Dismiss Labour Demand for Apology on Libor Remarks
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-10T08:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/labour-piles-pressure-on-osborne-over-libor-rigging-allegations.html
British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  dismissed a demand by the opposition  Labour Party  for an
apology after Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
suggested it had been involved in the Libor rate-rigging scandal
while in government.  “Parliament is a lively place and it should be, it’s a
free parliament,” Hague told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program.
“The chancellor said there are questions to answer. There
remain questions to answer and I see no reason why he should
apologize for that.”  Labour’s top Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , yesterday said
testimony by Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  that he
was in contact with officials rather than politicians over Libor
rates in 2008 erased doubts about the previous government’s
involvement.  “It is now absolutely clear that the chancellor’s
allegations last week were totally false and completely without
foundation,” Balls said in an e-mailed statement. “ George
Osborne  should now publicly withdraw these false allegations and
apologize.”  The dispute adds to the pressure on Osborne, who has come
under attack since his March budget for a series of policy U-
turns, and raises questions over his judgment by trying to use
the Libor scandal to attack his opponents. With the economy
mired in its second recession since the start of the financial
crisis, Osborne is also facing ever louder calls to rethink his
austerity plan, which Labour says is weighing on growth.  Osborne ‘Mistake’  Osborne told the Spectator magazine last week that people
close to former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  “were clearly
involved” in the Libor affair and that Balls was one of those
with questions to answer. The comments sparked angry exchanges
between Balls and Osborne in the House of Commons.  Andrea Leadsom, a lawmaker from Osborne’s  Conservative
Party  and a member of the committee that questioned Tucker
yesterday, told BBC radio today that the chancellor had “made a
mistake” and “should apologize.”  Tucker said no government minister or official pressured
him to instruct  Barclays Plc (BARC)  or any other U.K. commercial bank
to understate its Libor submissions during the financial crisis.  “Absolutely not,” Tucker told lawmakers, when asked if
anybody from the civil service or the Labour government leaned
on him. He said some of a memo written by former Barclays Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  after an Oct. 29, 2008, phone
call between the two on the issue gave “the wrong impression.”  Tucker, who was the central bank’s markets director at the
time, said he spoke to Diamond as there were worries Barclays
was “next in line” after  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  had accepted government bailouts in
2008.  Diamond Memo  According to the memo, Tucker had received calls from
“senior” government figures on Barclays’ Libor pricing.
Diamond said Tucker stated “that while he was certain we did
not need advice, that it did not always need to be the case that
we appeared as high as we have recently.”  Osborne seized on the memo last week and suggested Balls
was one of the officials. Tucker said he was passing on concerns
that had been expressed by government officials and that he had
most contact during the crisis period with civil servants Jeremy Heywood, Tom Scholar, Jon Cunliffe and, to a lesser extent,
Nicholas Macpherson, the top such official at the Treasury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  