-- Malaysian Air Speeds Boeing Exodus as A330 Revamp Appeals
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   J a s p e r
-- 2012-07-10T09:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/malaysian-air-speeds-boeing-exodus-as-airbus-a330-revamp-appeals.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  will
accelerate the exit of  Boeing Co. (BA)  wide-body jets from its fleet
and look at ordering the upgraded A330 model announced by Airbus
SAS yesterday, Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said.  The carrier’s nine remaining Boeing 747 jumbos are likely
to be stood down by the end of November rather than in March as
planned earlier, while its 777-200s will be gone within three
years, Ahmad Jauhari said in an interview at the Farnborough air
show.  Malaysian Air will standardize its twin-aisle fleet on
Airbus’s A380 and the smaller A330, with an upgraded version of
the latter having sufficient range for a network where the
longest route -- Kuala Lumpur-London -- is only 12.5 flying
hours, Ahmad Jauhari said. The carrier has 15 A330s on order,
about half of which have been delivered, and options for 10 more
which could be converted as upgraded models, he said.  “We’ll be looking at  Airbus (EAD) ’s announcement to see if it
can do the job of the 777s,” Ahmad Jauhari said. “We’d love to
have new models like the 787 or the A350, and maybe one day we
will, but right now we need to simplify the fleet and operate
four types of plane instead of maybe six or seven.”  Adding 400 nautical miles of range to the A330 will allow
it to fly around 6,000 miles, allowing nonstop service on routes
such as London to  Tokyo ,  Shanghai  and  Hong Kong . Whereas Airbus
once had to strengthen the wing to boost maximum takeoff weight,
making a plane heavier, it can now use the fly-by-wire computer
system to adjust the wing for higher loads.  Route Plan  Malaysian Air closed 1.8 percent lower at 1.11 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur trading today. It’s dropped 15 percent this year,
underperforming a 6 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index.  The carrier’s 747s will be displaced from routes to  London 
and  Australia  as it takes the first of six A380s.  One superjumbo is already in service to the U.K. capital
and the second, displaying this week at the Farnborough show,
will join it in mid-August to offer daily flights, Ahmad Jauhari
said. Aircraft three and four will operate to Sydney and
Melbourne in October and November and the fifth will be deployed
to Tokyo.  The double-deckers are fitted out with 420 seats in economy
class, 66 in business and eight in first. The CEO said that on
reflection another 20 or so seats could probably have been
accommodated and that this may be addressed in any future refit.
The first-class cabin may also be moved to the top deck to avoid
premium clients having to exit with coach passengers.  ‘Serious Collaboration’  Malaysian Air will join the  Oneworld alliance  that includes
British Airways and  American Airlines  in November or early
December after it completes final preparations, Ahmad Jauhari
said. BA owner  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  was
formed as a holding company to facilitate future mergers, and
the Malaysia CEO said he, too, views closer integration with
other carriers as desirable.  “We are open to ideas,” the executive said. “Long-haul
carriers will have to start looking at serious collaboration. We
see consolidation in  Europe  right now and there is really only
one set of economic rules that every needs to follow.”  The parent company of Malaysian Air unwound a share-swap
plan with the owner of discount carrier  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  in May amid
complaints from unions, while talks on a planned partnership
with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  of Australia failed in March.  Ahmad Jauhari said that Malaysian Air wants to complete a 9
billion ringgit ($2.8 billion) refinancing plan in the next few
months. The company issued an Islamic bond in June and benefited
from a government issue via a commercial special purpose vehicle,
with remaining funds to be raised from conventional borrowing.  The carrier is also reviewing its cargo and engineering
units, which must become profit centers to survive, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  