-- Alcoa Beats Estimates as Carmakers Buy More Aluminum
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-07-10T20:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/alcoa-profit-beats-estimates-after-automakers-buy-more-aluminum.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, reported second-quarter earnings and revenue
that beat analysts’ estimates after an increase in orders from
the auto and aerospace industries.  Profit was 6 cents a share, exceeding the 5-cent average of
19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg, Alcoa said yesterday in a
statement. That excludes charges related to a proposed
settlement of a lawsuit brought by  Aluminium Bahrain BSC (ALBH)  and
other items. Sales fell 9.4 percent to $5.96 billion, beating
the $5.81 billion average of 11 estimates.  Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  reiterated Alcoa’s
forecast for global aluminum demand to rise 7 percent this year
and exceed supply. The company’s units that make the metal for
customers such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Ford Motor Co. have seen higher
profitability, helping to counter the weaker performance of its
aluminum-smelting business. The primary metals unit posted an
after-tax operating loss of $3 million after prices declined.  “Alcoa is still holding the line and keeping their head
above water,”  Jorge Beristain , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based
analyst with Deutsche Bank AG who has a  hold  rating on the
stock, said yesterday by telephone. “The pilot light has kind
of gone out on aluminum prices.”  Lighter Vehicles  Alcoa had a second-quarter net loss of $2 million, or break
even on a per share basis, compared with net income of $322
million, or 28 cents, a year earlier.  The shares slid 4.1 percent to $8.40 in  New York , the
biggest decline on the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . The
company, which is typically the first in the DJIA to report
results, has fallen 49 percent in the past year, the worst
performance on the  index .  Car and truck manufacturers are building lighter vehicles
and planemakers face record backlogs as airlines refurbish aging
fleets. Global aluminum demand in the  auto industry  will
increase 4 percent to 8 percent this year, with U.S. consumption
rising as much as 14 percent, Kleinfeld said yesterday on a
conference call with analysts and investors. That’s higher than
growth of 3 percent to 7 percent projected three months earlier.  Alcoa also said it will gain from demand growth of 3
percent to 5 percent for blades used in gas turbines and  jet
engines  this year. That compares with an estimate made in the
first-quarter for expansion of as much as 2 percent.  Downstream Growth  Downstream operations are a focus for Alcoa. The company is
spending $300 million to expand auto-parts output in  Iowa . In
May it reported the start of a $90 million expansion of a plant
in  Indiana  to produce aluminum-lithium alloys used in aircraft.  “In their downstream business and midstream business,
those two pieces we are seeing margin expansion,” Brian Yu, a
San Francisco-based analyst at Citigroup Inc. who recommends
holding Alcoa’s shares, said in a July 6 interview. “It’s a
sign that, yes, the company is doing some things right.”  Aluminum prices have declined over the past year amid a
supply surplus. Aluminum for delivery in three months on the
London Metal Exchange averaged $2,019 a metric ton in the
quarter, 23 percent less than a year earlier.  Global output rose 4.1 percent to 14.9 million tons in the
first four months of 2012, beating usage by 623,703 tons,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Output Cuts  Still, for the whole year, there will be a deficit of
515,000 tons, Kleinfeld said, wider than Alcoa’s April forecast
for a 435,000-ton shortfall. Deutsche Bank’s Beristain and Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia ,
estimate there will be a surplus this year.  Alcoa said in January that it would cut production capacity
by 12 percent. Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest producer,
said yesterday it reduced output by 15 percent at a plant in  New
Zealand  after prices fell. Norway’s  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) , the fifth-
biggest producer, said last month it would shut 120,000 tons of
capacity in  Australia  because of weaker demand and oversupply.  “The market is working and we do see that the people are
moving forward with curtailing or responding by slower build-
out” of new smelting capacity, Kleinfeld said on the call.  Alcoa has faced claims from Aluminium Bahrain, the producer
known as Alba, that it bribed officials in the kingdom and
caused Alba to pay almost $500 million more than it should have
for alumina, the main raw material in aluminum. Alcoa said it
proposed to settle the suit, brought in the U.S., by offering a
$45 million cash payment, and also offered Alba a contract for
alumina supply.  Future Charges  Alcoa took a $45 million charge for the quarter in relation
to the settlement and said it may take a further charge of $75
million. Potential settlements with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the  U.S. Department of Justice  may also result in
future charges, the company said.  U.S. prosecutors -- who have been investigating the
allegations since 2008 to determine whether Alcoa or anyone else
violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act -- last month
dropped objections to the pretrial gathering of evidence in the
lawsuit by state-owned Alba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  