-- Alcoa Profit Seen Plunging 84% in Eighth Year of Surplus
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-07-09T13:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/alcoa-profit-seen-plunging-81-in-eighth-year-of-surplus.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, may report an 84 percent decline in second-quarter
earnings as the eighth straight year of surplus global
production drives down the price of the metal.  Profit excluding one-time items will be 5 cents a share,
according to the  average  of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts have lowered their projections by 44 percent
in the past 30 days as aluminum traded near a two-year low on
the London Metal Exchange.  While its downstream fabricating business that supplies
components to customers such as Ford Motor Co. and  Boeing Co. (BA)  is
profitable, Alcoa’s aluminum-smelting unit is struggling because
of lower metal prices. The New York-based company announced in
January production-capacity cuts of 12 percent. The primary
metals unit will post an $86 million after-tax operating loss,
said Brian Yu, a Citigroup Inc. analyst.  “There’s not much they can do on the upstream,” Yu, who’s
based in  San Francisco  and recommends holding the shares, said
in a July 6 interview. “The company continues to talk about
their productivity gains, and I think it’s an important and
notable effort on their side to lower cash cost, but not enough
to offset the sharper drop in aluminum prices.”  Typically the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to report earnings, Alcoa is scheduled to publish its
results after the close of trading today. The shares fell 1.1
percent to $8.63 at 9:01 a.m. in New York before the start of
regular trading. They have dropped 47 percent in the last 12
months, the worst performance on the  index .  Auto Demand  Worldwide aluminum production rose 4.1 percent to 14.9
million metric tons in the first four months of 2012, beating
consumption by 623,703 tons, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Output has exceeded usage each year since 2005, the
data show.  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange averaged $2,019 a ton in the second quarter, 23 percent
less than a year earlier. The metal rose 0.9 percent to
$1,913.25 a ton as of 2:04 p.m. in  London .  To be sure, Alcoa is seeing rising demand from automakers,
who are increasingly compelled by regulation to make lighter
vehicles. Aircraft manufacturers face a record backlog as
airlines hurry to refurbish aging fleets.  The U.S. aluminum industry will ship 16 percent more
aluminum to automakers this year versus 2011 as car output
climbs 11 percent, according to Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at
Davenport & Co. in Richmond, Virginia. The average amount of the
metal in each vehicle will rise 3 percent, he said in a June 26
note. Heavy-truck producers will buy 19 percent more aluminum
and plane makers an extra 20 percent, he said.  Iowa Investment  Global aluminum use will rise 7 percent this year, Alcoa
Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said during an April 10
conference call to discuss first-quarter earnings. His company
is spending $300 million to expand auto-parts fabricating
capacity at its Davenport plant in  Iowa . Alcoa said in May it
began a $90 million expansion of a plant in Lafayette,  Indiana ,
to produce of aluminum-lithium alloys used in aircraft.  Libby Archell, an Alcoa spokeswoman, declined to comment.  “Have they done a good job with the downstream business?
Yes,” David Lipschitz, an analyst with Credit Agricole
Securities USA Inc. in New York, said in a July 3 interview.
“The problem is you still have significant earnings from the
upstream business. Until that changes, the story is still the
aluminum price.”  Rio Cutback  Alcoa’s quarterly earnings haven’t recovered since
commodity prices tumbled after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
filed for bankruptcy at the height of the financial crisis in
September 2008. Alcoa has posted four quarterly per-share losses
since then and hasn’t recorded net income of more than 32 cents
a share.  The company’s competitors are also suffering from the
decline in aluminum prices. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-
largest producer, said today it reduced output by 15 percent at
a smelter in  New Zealand  after prices fell.  Russia’s United Co. Rusal, the largest producer, saw first-
quarter profit slump 90 percent. Oslo-based  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) , the
fifth-biggest, also posted a 90 percent decline and said last
month it would shut 120,000 tons of capacity at its Kurri Kurri
smelter in  Australia , citing weaker demand and oversupply.  Prices aren’t likely to rebound soon. Aluminum will average
$2,188 a ton in the third quarter, according to the average of
21 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The fourth-quarter
price will be $2,275, the data show.  Hanging over the market is 4.83 million tons of aluminum
stored in warehouses tracked by the LME, equal to about 10
percent of global production. About 70 percent of the stockpiles
are tied up in financing deals, making them unavailable for
immediate delivery, according to Citigroup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  