-- Alibaba Said to Boost Revenue to More Than $1.8 Billion
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/alibaba-said-to-boost-revenue-to-more-than-1-8-billion.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s
biggest e-commerce company, boosted half-year revenue at least
60 percent to more than $1.8 billion, as growth of its websites
improved profitability, a person familiar with the matter said.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization as a percentage of revenue widened to 40 percent in
the six months ended June 30, compared with 35 percent a year
earlier, according to the person, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. The  Internet company  is
part-owned by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Softbank Corp. (9984)   Alibaba is generating more revenue from increased
advertising on its Taobao online marketplace and boosting
subscription and commission income from its Tmall site, as
Chinese consumers increase their purchases on the Internet. In
May, Alibaba agreed to buy back a $7.1 billion stake in itself
from Yahoo in a transaction that values the closely held Chinese
company at at least $35 billion.  John Spelich, a spokesman at Alibaba in Hong Kong, and
Makiko Ariyama, a spokeswoman at Tokyo-based Softbank, declined
to comment. Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman at Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo, also declined to comment.  Under the deal agreed in May, Yahoo will sell about 20
percent holding in Alibaba, halving its stake in the Chinese
company. Softbank,  Japan ’s third-biggest mobile phone company,
owns about 30 percent in Hangzhou, China-based Alibaba.  Alibaba increased its revenue in the three months ended
Dec. 31 by 88 percent to $1.02 billion, Yahoo reported in a
filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission in May. In the
year ended Sept. 30, 2011, Alibaba’s sales rose 81 percent to
$2.35 billion, Yahoo reported in February.  Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, and Russia’s Digital Sky Technologies are also among
investors in Alibaba Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net 
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net 
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  