-- America Movil Running Low on Options for Mexico TV Permit
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-07-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/america-movil-running-low-on-options-for-mexico-tv-permit.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s legal
setback last week in pursuing a long-sought license for  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) ’s Telmex unit to offer pay-TV service in Mexico may
leave him with few options left, a government lawyer said.  An appeals court ruled on July 5 that the  Communications
and Transportation Ministry  had the authority to reject Telmex’s
petition for a license. As a result of that ruling, the Supreme
Court may decide against reviewing a separate case over whether
the ministry erred in denying the license, said Gerardo Sanchez
Henkel, the ministry’s legal director.  “Even if the Supreme Court did take up the case, we’d go
to the court and show that we’ve complied perfectly with the
law,” Sanchez Henkel said in a phone interview on July 6. The
 Supreme Court  will probably decide by early August whether to
review the case, he said.  America Movil , based in Mexico City, is seeking to add
video service to its Internet-and-phone packages to compete with
cable carriers controlled by Grupo Televisa SAB. Slim’s company
had 14.6 million phone land-lines at the end of March, down 6.3
percent from a year earlier, as more users in the country shift
to mobile devices.  Telmex, which had  operating income  of 26.6 billion pesos
last year, has been asking for a TV license since 2006.  The ministry isn’t aware of any other legal proceeding
related to Telmex’s pursuit of a TV license, Sanchez Henkel
said.  Supreme Court  The Supreme Court has no deadline for its decision on
whether to take the Telmex case and the process could take
months, a spokeswoman, who asked not to be named under the
agency’s policy, said by telephone.  Aside from the Supreme Court reviewing the case, Telmex can
reapply for a TV license, though it will have to meet the same
conditions that the ministry set for its previous application,
Sanchez Henkel said.  That includes signing a government-proposed accord
regulating how phone carriers connect their networks to each
other, known as the Interconnection Framework Agreement.  The agreement is currently under review by  Mexico ’s
Regulatory Improvement Commission. Telmex filed  comments  on the
commission’s website last week criticizing the agreement, saying
it doesn’t account for about 1.2 billion pesos ($89 million) in
costs Telmex would incur to fulfill its obligations.  A Telmex official who asked not to be named under company
policy declined to comment.  Telmex’s formal name is Telefonos de Mexico SAB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  