-- Hamptons Scene: Soros, MC Hammer, Johan Lindeberg, Kravis
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-07-09T14:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/hamptons-scene-soros-mc-hammer-johan-lindeberg-kravis.html
George Soros , the billionaire
investor, was auction bait Saturday night.  “See my dad in shorts,” said Alexander Soros, 26, as he
solicited bids for a membership at Manhattan’s Sitaras Gym,
where he and his father exercise.  He sounded like any guy making a joke at Dad’s expense --
although the vague promise of proximity in this case entailed a
sweaty legend of finance and philanthropy.  The occasion was a party in Bridgehampton,  New York ,
organized by the son under the auspices of his Alexander Soros
Foundation, which underwrote the event’s costs. The beneficiary
was Global Witness, whose staff of 65 investigates corruption
and human-rights abuses related to natural resources. George
Soros’s  Open Society Foundations  is a major funder of the
organization, which is based in London with an office in
 Washington .  The younger Soros and his co-host, writer and director
Edward Zwick, sold the gym package for $2,500. A lunch for four
including economist  Nouriel Roubini  at Daniel Boulud’s DGBG also
went for $2,500. A backstage visit with Justin Bieber commanded
$10,000.  George Soros, 81, dressed in a plaid shirt and slacks, sat
through the proceedings almost unnoticed. His son, wearing a
crisp white Yves Saint Laurent suit, was the one guests knew or
wanted to meet.  Models, Promoters  Many of the 340 or so people at the party were in their 20s
and identified themselves as models, publicists, students or
nightclub promoters. Also attending were actor  Jeffrey Wright ,
founder of a mining company in  Sierra Leone ; Alex Karpovsky, of
the HBO show “Girls” and the movie “Rubberneck”; economist
Dambisa Moyo and designer Johan Lindeberg.  Down the road from a farm stand, on a field overlooking
Mecox Bay, under a tent carpeted with black Astroturf, Alexander
Soros talked about party planning.  “Cutting corners really annoys me,” he said. So he
insisted on three courses and after-dinner treats. The menu
included gazpacho, macaroni and cheese and Enlightened ice-cream
pops made by Michael Shoretz, a former trainer at Sitaras
Fitness.  On the day of the event, Soros fils skipped his workout and
French practice while he fretted over who was coming and where
they’d sit. Three years into a Ph.D. in late-modern European and
intellectual history at the  University of California  Berkeley,
he is considering a thesis about “Jews and Germans and nature
in the long 19th century,” he said.  Private Equity  He’s striving not to be egg headed, making  private-equity 
investments in Latin America overseen by a portfolio manager at
Soros Brothers Investments LLC.  “The goal is just to be able to understand markets
better,” he said.  He’s already pretty good at public speaking. A touching
moment came when he introduced honoree Silas Siakor, who helped
bring down despot  Charles Taylor  in Liberia.  Only when MC Hammer and a crew of dancers began performing
his early 1990s hits -- including “Pray” and “Can’t Touch
This” -- did Alexander Soros fade into the crowd.  On the dance floor, he ran into his mother, Susan Weber,
founder and director of the  Bard Graduate Center : Decorative
Arts, Design History, Material Culture.  “I’m very proud of him,” she had said earlier. “I’m a
bit amazed.”  Kravis, Paris  KKR (KKR)  & Co.’s Henry Kravis and his wife, economist Marie- Josee Kravis, had lunch at Pierre’s in Bridgehampton on
Saturday, where the menu offered cold pea soup with mint for
$16.  Sitting at the table by the front window, he wore a pink
button-down with white stripes and navy shorts. She wore a long
white blouse and ruffle-shaped, copper-colored earrings.  Henry Kravis  had dropped her off in front of the restaurant
before parking the car. On her way in, she said they had
recently celebrated a grandson’s sixth birthday and had dinner
with the artist  Cindy Sherman .  Earlier in the day, Tom Tuft of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  stopped in at
the Starbucks down the street before a golf game.  Bridgehampton’s literary hot spot is located between
Pierre’s and Starbucks, at the public library. Journalist and
author  Kati Marton , widow of statesman  Richard Holbrooke , will
be there Aug. 17 to speak about her new book, “Paris: A Love
Story.”  ‘Our Escape’  “It’s a journal I kept January to January after Richard’s
death,” Marton said at an event at the Brooklyn Academy of
Music. “It’s not a grief book. It’s about life after loss.”  They would meet in Paris “when he was in Afghanistan and
 Pakistan ,” she said.  “It was really our escape. We walked, sat in cafes. We
lived in a part of Paris where we’d never see anybody from
here.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 