-- Lance Armstrong Sues Anti-Doping Agency to Stop Sanctions
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-09T21:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/lance-armstrong-sues-agency-to-prevent-getting-sanctioned.html
Lance Armstrong , the seven-time Tour
de France champion, sued the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency to block
its effort to strip him of his cycling titles and impose a
lifetime ban from the sport.  The organization is requiring Armstrong to decide by July
14 whether to accept sanctions or participate in an arbitration
proceeding that he called “rigged” in papers filed today in
federal court in Austin,  Texas .  U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks, ruling that Armstrong’s
complaint failed to comply with federal rules, dismissed the
lawsuit on procedural grounds while allowing him to refile it
within 20 days.  Mark Levinstein , an attorney for Armstrong, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail or phone call seeking comment
about how Armstrong will proceed.  Armstrong had asked for a court order to stop the U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency from imposing any sanctions and to stay the
requirement that he decide about the arbitration by July 14,
according to court papers. Armstrong’s attorneys said he is
facing “permanent loss of his livelihood” due to the
organization’s actions without a single positive drug test.  ‘Unlawful Choice’  “Defendants have presented Mr. Armstrong with an
impossible and unlawful choice: either accept a lifetime ban and
the loss of his competitive achievements or endure a rigged
process where he would be certain to lose,” they said in court
papers.  The  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency  is the national anti-doping
organization for Olympic, Pan American and Paralympic sport in
the U.S. In June, it accused Armstrong and five others of
engaging in a conspiracy to use and traffic prohibited
substances, according to Armstrong’s court filing.  The organization said in a statement that Armstrong’s
complaint is without merit.  “We are confident the courts will continue to uphold the
established rules which provide full constitutional due process
and are designed to protect the rights of clean athletes and the
integrity of sport,” it said.  In his ruling, Sparks said Armstrong’s filing includes
allegations that are irrelevant to his claims and were probably
included to increase media coverage and “incite public opinion
against” the anti-doping agency and Travis Tygart, its chief
executive officer.  “This court is not inclined to indulge Armstrong’s desire
for publicity, self-aggrandizement, or vilification of
defendants, by sifting through eighty mostly unnecessary pages
in search of the few kernels of factual material relevant to his
claims,” the judge wrote.  The case is Armstrong v. U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, 12-00606,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  