-- Mancini Spots ‘Enormous’ Opportunity After Signing New City Deal
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-10T01:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/manchester-city-manager-mancini-agrees-on-new-five-year-contract.html
Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  signed a new five-year contract with the team he led to
the Premier League soccer title last season.  Mancini replaced  Mark Hughes  in 2009 and guided City to
F.A. Cup victory in 2011. Twelve months later, the club secured
its first English league championship in 44 years as two injury-
time goals in the last match of the season enabled City to
finish ahead of  Manchester United  on goal difference.  “The opportunity which exists to build on our recent
success is enormous,” Mancini, 47, said yesterday in a
statement on City’s website. “I am very much looking forward to
the challenges and excitement ahead.”  Mancini’s new contract, which runs until the summer of
2017, comes after the Italian had been linked with the job of
Russia manager following the departure of Dick Advocaat after
the European Championship.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed by City in the statement
announcing the agreement. The Sun newspaper  reported  today that
Mancini will be paid 7.5 million pounds a year, making him
English soccer’s highest-paid manager.  City will open the defense of its Premier League title Aug.
19 at home to Southampton. The team owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan will start its second campaign in
 Europe ’s elite  Champions League  in September after failing to
advance out of its group last season.  European Honors  “This new agreement allows Roberto to focus on the
challenge of guiding a team which is capable not only of
defending the Premier League title, but one which can compete
for European honors,” John MacBeath, City’s interim chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Mancini joined City in December 2009 after leading  Inter
Milan  to three consecutive Italian Serie A titles. City’s F.A.
Cup victory in 2011 was its first trophy in 35 years.  City beat Queens Park Rangers 3-2 at its Etihad Stadium on
May 13, just as United appeared set to nose out its cross-town
rival and seal a record-extending 20th league title.  City was a perennial underachiever in English soccer, even
dropping into the third-tier in 1998. Since Sheikh Mansour
bought the team in 2008, he’s spent about $1 billion to lift the
club from under the shadow of United.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  