-- Annan Holds ‘Candid’ Talks With Assad on Ending Violence
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-07-09T15:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/annan-holds-candid-talks-with-assad-on-ending-violence-1-.html
United Nations special envoy Kofi Annan said he held “very candid” talks with Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad on reviving his three-month old cease-fire.  “We discussed the need to end the violence and ways and
means of doing so,” Annan told journalists in Damascus,
according to an e-mailed copy today of his remarks. “We agreed
on an approach which I will share with the armed opposition.”  After the meeting, Annan travelled to  Iran , his spokesman,
 Ahmad Fawzi , said in an e-mailed statement. He is expected to
meet Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  and other officials,
Iran’s state-run Mehr news agency said. Annan said in a July 7
interview with Le Monde that Shiite Iran can’t be ignored as an
influential ally of Syria. The Syrian National Council, the main
opposition group, rejected Annan’s call for an Iranian role,
describing Tehran as an accomplice in the aggression.  The Syrian uprising that began peacefully 16 months ago has
evolved into a deadly confrontation that has confounded the
international community, which disagrees on the strategy needed
to persuade the Syrian president, whose family has held power
for four decades, to leave.  The violence has claimed more than 17,000 lives since the
conflict began in March 2011, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , said in a telephone
interview from Coventry,  England . He said the casualties include
4,348 members of Assad’s security forces. About 4,000 Syrians
have been killed since Annan took on the peacemaking mission in
February, according to the Local Coordination Committees, an
activist group. At least 30 people died today, the group said in
an e-mail.  Suspended Mission  The UN observer mission overseeing Annan’s cease-fire was
suspended last month amid the growing violence.  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has recommended reducing
the approximately 300 monitors in Syria, and having the smaller
mission based in Damascus. The  Security Council  will vote this
week on a resolution based on Ban’s recommendations.  Annan told Le Monde that the UN has so far not been able to
find a political solution to escalating violence in the country.  Assad said in an interview with the German broadcaster ARD
aired yesterday that Annan’s effort’s “shouldn’t fail and  Kofi Annan  is doing -- so far, difficult -- but a good job. We know,
he had many obstacles but it shouldn’t fail.”  Step Aside  When asked whether he would step aside if it would help
bring peace, Assad said: “The president shouldn’t run away from
challenge and we have a national challenge now in Syria. If I
don’t have a support in public, how could I stay in this
position?”  World powers adopted a plan for a Syrian transition
government on June 30, altering a draft agreement proposed by
Annan after Russia objected to language that would have
prohibited members of Assad’s inner circle from joining a
transitional government.  More than 70 percent of Syria’s population is  Sunni Muslim .
Assad and much of the ruling elite are members of the Alawite
community, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  Assad has blamed much of the fighting on foreigners and
extremists.  In the interview, Assad said the U.S.,  Turkey ,  Saudi Arabia 
and Qatar were giving logistical and political support to the
rebels. He said the U.S. government is “part of the conflict.”  Asked if he feared meeting the same fate as former Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak , who was toppled and sentenced to life
in prison, or Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , who was overthrown
and killed last year, Assad said he had nothing in common with
them.  “You cannot feel scared -- maybe feel sorry or a pity,
whatever,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  