-- Marc Dreier’s Son Tells Jury Former Roommate Defamed Him
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-09T23:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/marc-dreier-s-son-tells-jury-former-roommate-defamed-him.html
Spencer Dreier, whose father Marc is
serving 20 years in prison for defrauding  hedge funds , accused
his ex-college roommate in court today of using “hateful
insults and lies” to defame him and of assaulting him.  Spencer Dreier sued Ben Clorite in May 2009 for emotional
distress, battery and defamation after a physical altercation
early one morning in their dorm room at Schenectady,  New York- 
based Union College. Dreier claims Clorite retaliated against
him for reporting the incident by posting comments on a blog
accusing Dreier of attempting to obstruct a government
investigation into his father’s activities.  “The defendant seized on this personal crisis of mine to
become even more of a threat,” Dreier told a jury in his
opening statement in federal court in  Manhattan . He is
representing himself without a lawyer at the trial.  Marc Dreier  pleaded guilty in May 2009 to  money laundering ,
conspiracy,  securities fraud  and wire fraud charges. He admitted
selling at least $400 million in phony notes to hedge funds to
pay for his lavish lifestyle and prop up his now-defunct 250-
lawyer New York firm, Dreier LLP.  Dreier’s Allegations  Spencer Dreier alleges that when he returned to school
after his father’s arrest in December 2008, his already rocky
relationship with Clorite deterioriated further until the two
fought and Clorite punched Dreier. Clorite alleges Dreier
provoked him, and that Clorite merely shoved his roommate in
self-defense.  After the altercation in the dorm room, Clorite posted a
comment on the Wall Street Journal’s Law Blog accusing Dreier of
trying to destroy evidence against his father and protect the
elder Dreier’s assets. Spencer Dreier denies any wrongdoing.  “The defendant’s whole case seems to rest on the
assumption that he can call me a criminal online because my
father is a criminal,” Dreier told the jurors.  Clorite has since filed a countersuit against Dreier for
assault and defamation, accusing Dreier of lying to Union
College officials to have Clorite expelled. Both men left Union
College after the 2009 incident.  Jerome Coleman, a lawyer representing Clorite, said in his
opening statement that Dreier isn’t a trustworthy person.  “Nobody took his word for anything -- this is a
credibility issue,” Coleman said, adding that his client has
been the victim of “a terrible injustice.”  Coleman said it became “Spencer’s mission” during
freshman year to get Clorite expelled and that the January 2009
fight was “the golden opportunity created by Dreier to make
good on his threats.”  Dreier and Coleman both declined to comment on the court
proceedings.  The case is Dreier v. Clorite, 09-cv-7553, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  