-- Asian Stocks Drop Most in Month on Global Growth Concerns
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-09T07:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/asia-stocks-drop-as-u-s-japan-data-fuels-growth-concern.html
Asian stocks fell, with the regional
benchmark index headed for the biggest slide in a month, after
Premier Wen Jiabao said China’s economy faces “relatively
large” downward pressure and Japanese machinery orders fell the
most in a decade.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, slid
1.9 percent as metals prices dropped following a U.S. jobs
report that showed hiring isn’t increasing fast enough to lower
the unemployment rate.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688)  led
declines among Chinese developers traded in Hong Kong after Wen
pledged to prevent home prices rebounding.  Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU) 
tumbled 24 percent after the world’s biggest zircon producer cut
its sales forecast for the mineral by as much as 50 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1.4 percent to 116.89 as
of 4:09 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for its largest drop since June
4. Almost four stocks dropped for each that rose. The gauge slid
July 6 as interest-rate cuts in Europe and China failed to allay
concern that global economic growth is slowing amid a spreading
sovereign-debt crisis.  “Long-term growth issues remain,” said Masahiko Ejiri, a
senior  fund manager  in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co.,
which oversees $39 billion. “I’m negative on the macro-economic
environment and I’m staying defensively positioned. There needs
to be more stimulus from authorities to address slowing
growth.”  Relative Value  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 8 percent from this
year’s highest level in February through the end of last week
amid concern economies in China and the U.S. are slowing as
Europe’s debt crisis deepens. Stocks in the Asian benchmark were
valued at 12 times estimated earnings on average on July 6,
compared with 13 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
10.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan’s Nikkei 255 Stock Average slid 1.4 percent and the
broader Topix Index lost 1 percent.  Trading volume  in Topix
stocks was the lowest since January 5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea’s Kospi declined 1.2 percent and Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 1 percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index fell 1.2 percent, snapping
an eight-day advance that was the longest winning run since
April last year.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 1.7 percent, the most in a
month, and China’s Shanghai Composite slid 2.4 percent.  Gauges of equity volatility increased as stocks declined.
The Nikkei Volatility index rose 0.7 percent, a third day of
gains. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  surged 8.1 percent in Hong Kong,
the most since June 4, while a measure of options prices on the
Kospi 200 index climbed for a third day.  Monetary Easing  China’s  consumer-price index  eased to a 29-month low in
June, giving Wen Jiabao more room to relax economic policies
after the second  interest-rate  cut in a month. The consumer
price index rose 2.2 percent from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing. That compares with
the 2.3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 32
analysts.  Wen said downward pressure on the economy is still
“relatively large.” The government will intensify fine-tuning
of policies even as measures taken since April are helping to
stabilize a slowdown, he said, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday.  “We must unswervingly continue to implement all manner of
controls in the  property market  to allow prices to return to
reasonable levels,” the report quoted Wen as saying.  “We
cannot allow prices to rebound.”  Machinery Orders  Japanese machinery orders, an indicator of  capital
spending , fell 14.8 percent in May from the previous month, the
Cabinet Office said. That’s the biggest drop since 2001,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Economists expected a
2.6 percent decline, according to the median estimate of 29
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  fell 0.4 percent today. The
gauge slid 0.6 percent last week. American employers hired fewer
workers than forecast in June and the  unemployment rate  held at
8.2 percent, a July 6 report showed.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  is due to posts results today, the first Dow
Jones Industrial Average company in the U.S. to release
earnings. Analysts project a 1.8 percent decline in profits for
S&P 500 companies in the April-June period, which would mark the
first year-over-year decrease since 2009.  China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068)  sank 9.8 percent to HK$6.39 in
Hong Kong after the meat-product supplier replaced its chief
executive officer for the second time in four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  