-- Stocks Retreat as Spanish 10-Year Bond Yield Exceeds 7%
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-07-09T21:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/asian-stocks-gold-fall-on-u-s-japan-data-euro-drops.html
U.S. stocks fell for a third day as
Spain’s 10-year debt yield topped 7 percent, fueling concern the
debt crisis is worsening, and investors awaited the start of the
earnings season. Corn and soybeans surged on forecasts for more
dry U.S. weather. Treasuries rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent at 4
p.m. in  New York  and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.4
percent. Ten-year Spanish yields jumped 11 basis points to 7.06
percent after rising as high as 7.108 percent. The euro climbed
0.2 percent to $1.2319, rebounding from a two-year low of
$1.2251. Corn rose as much as 5.8 percent and soybeans jumped to
a four-year high. Oil added 1.8 percent to $85.99 a barrel and
natural gas rallied as a strike threatened supplies from  Norway .  European finance ministers were gathering to work out
crisis measures after leaders agreed last month to ease banks’
access to bailout funds. France and Germany sold six-month debt
at negative yields amid demand for assets considered safe.  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  began the second-quarter U.S. earnings season after markets
closed in New York, with analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
predicting the first year-over-year profit decline for S&P 500
companies since 2009.  “It’s very concerning,” Jeff Savage, regional chief
investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank in  Portland ,
 Oregon , said in a telephone interview. His firm manages $169
billion. “Seven percent is not a sustainable level of  interest
rates  for Spain. That’s scary stuff. We can’t have one of our
best trading partners going through terrible economic times and
not having an effect on U.S. corporate earnings.”  Profit Drop  The S&P 500 dropped for a  third day , the longest streak in
more than a month, and closed at its lowest level since June 28.
Alcoa, the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, rose 0.4 percent in
the regular session and climbed another 0.3 percent in extended
trading after the largest aluminum producer reported earnings
and revenue that beat estimates following an increase in orders
from the auto and aerospace industries.  Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg project a 1.8
percent decline in profit for  S&P 500  companies in the second
quarter, which would be the first year-over-year decrease since
2009. Revenue is projected to have increased 2.5 percent.  Earnings pessimism is reaching levels last seen during the
global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, based on company
forecasts. Forty-four corporations issued profit projections
that  trailed  analyst estimates during the 20 days through July
6, or 3.1 times the number of those that exceeded them. The
ratio has been greater than 3 for five straight days and 17 of
the last 20, the most in three years. It was at least that high
the majority of the time between October 2008 and April 2009,
climbing to 11.5 in December 2008, the data show.  Market Leaders  DuPont Co., Exxon Mobil Corp., Caterpillar Inc. and Bank of
America Corp. fell at least 1.3 percent to lead losses in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average. (INDU)  Commodity and consumer-
discretionary companies fell at least 0.5 percent to lead
declines in eight of the 10  main industry groups  in the S&P 500.
Navistar International Corp., the maker of International brand
trucks, fell 3.1 percent after Bloomberg Industries said
truckmakers will need to reduce production in the second half of
the year.  Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc. fell at least 1.3 percent
after being downgraded at UBS AG.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the biggest
company by market value, rose 1.3 percent amid optimism about
its smaller iPad tablet’s sales.  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  surged 38
percent after  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest U.S. health
plan, agreed to buy the company for $92 a share.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields slipped four basis points to
1.51 percent. Thirty-year rates lost four basis points to 2.62
percent.  European Markets  More than two shares fell for each that advanced in the
 Stoxx 600 (SXXP) , which retreated for a fourth day. Metro AG, Germany’s
biggest retailer, sank 6.3 percent to a three-year low as Chief
Executive Officer Olaf Koch said restrained spending will have a
“significant impact” on business. Michael Page International
Plc lost 3.8 percent after the U.K. recruitment company reported
a decline in gross profit. Hays Plc, the recruiter that finds
workers for Siemens AG, sank 2.7 percent.  The euro recovered from its lows of the day after the
European Commission said any future direct recapitalizations of
banks by the European Stability Mechanism would not require
guarantees by governments in countries that receive the aid.  The world’s most-accurate foreign-exchange strategists say
the worst is over for the euro this year, putting them at odds
with traders who see more pain.  Led by Wells Fargo & Co. and Westpac Banking Corp. -- which
correctly called the euro’s weakness last quarter -- the five
best firms as measured by Bloomberg expect Europe’s 17-nation
common currency to end the year at about $1.26. That’s above the
$1.24 median estimate in a survey of 55 strategists by Bloomberg
News.  ‘All Eyes’  A draft document to be discussed by finance ministers today
showed that Spain will get an extra year to bring its  budget
deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic product, according to a
Europa Press report. The deficit target for 2012 will be eased
to 6.3 percent, Europa Press reported, with a target of 4.5
percent for 2013 and 2.8 percent in 2014.  Germany dismissed a rapid move toward direct bank
recapitalization by the European rescue fund, limiting the tools
for shoring up Spain’s banks as the euro-area debt crisis
simmers. Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble dismissed “false
expectations” raised by euro leaders last month that the
economically troubled  euro zone  would act quickly to unify the
oversight of its banking system.  ‘It’s Complicated’  “It will take time, it’s complicated, it isn’t easy to
do,” Schaeuble told reporters before the finance ministers
meeting.  “All eyes will be on the meeting of European finance
ministers today to put a halt to the one-step-forward, two-step-
backward discussions on the European sovereign debt crisis,”
Jeroen van den Broek, a credit strategist at ING Bank NV in
Amsterdam, wrote today in a report. “To distract investors a
bit, Alcoa will kick off the second-quarter earnings season
today. It is doubtful that earnings will give positive
impetus.”  Yield Spread  The difference in yield investors demand to own Spanish 10-
year bonds over benchmark German bunds climbed 11 basis points
to 574 basis points, within 15 basis points of the June 18th
record. Spanish 30-year bond yields increased three basis points
to 7.29 percent, after rising to a euro-era record 7.327
percent.  German  two-year note yields  were at minus 0.003 percent
from minus 0.010 percent on July 6. The government sold 3.29
billion euros ($4.04 billion) of six-month bills at a record-low
yield of minus 0.0344 percent, according to a statement from the
Bundesbank today.  France’s two-year rate increased five basis points to 0.25
percent. France sold 1.99 billion euros of six-month bills at a
yield of minus 0.006 percent, the first time the nation agreed
to a negative yield on the securities since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1999.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments climbed for a fourth day, rising
1.4 basis points to 285.  Limit Up  Corn surged as much as the 40-cent limit on the Chicago
Board of Trade, advancing 5.8 percent to $7.33 a bushel, the
highest since September. Soybean futures for November delivery
increased 2.8 percent to $15.4775 a bushel and reached $15.7125,
the highest since July 2008, amid the worst U.S. drought since
 Ronald Reagan  was president.  The U.S. drought is withering the world’s largest corn
crop, and the speed of the damage may spur the government to
make a record cut in its July estimate for domestic inventories.  Tumbling yields will combine with the greatest-ever global
demand to leave U.S. stockpiles on Sept. 1, 2013, at 1.216
billion bushels (30.89 million metric tons), according to the
average of 31 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 35
percent below the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s June 12
forecast, implying the biggest reduction since at least 1973.  In Asia, Chinese Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  said the
nation’s economy faces “relatively large” downward pressure.
China’s inflation eased to a 29-month low, with the  consumer
price index  rising 2.2 percent in June from a year earlier.
Japan’s May machinery orders fell the most since 2001, while
 Hong Kong  and Vietnam signaled growth may fall short of official
forecasts.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 1.1 percent, declining
for a fourth day. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 2.4
percent. Benchmark gauges in  South Korea , the Philippines,
Thailand, Indonesia and Brazil dropped more than 1 percent.
Egypt’s EGX 30 Index slumped 4.2 percent as President Mohamed
Mursi reinstated parliament, reversing the military’s decision
last month after a court ruling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  