-- Last Amateur Bannister Is No LeBron Chasing Olympic Ideal
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-07-10T01:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/last-amateur-is-bannister-no-lebron-chasing-olympic-ideal.html
Britain was still reeling from World
War II in the early 1950s. Then came the coronation of a new
queen, the conquest of Mt. Everest and, in May 1954, the
breaking of the four-minute mile by Roger Bannister.  Bannister and his epic run helped rally the nation. His
record, along with the 1966 World Cup victory, ranks among the
U.K.’s greatest sports triumphs. While he never won an Olympic
medal, Bannister, 83, will carry the torch today in Oxford and
he is one of the favorites to light the cauldron when the  London 
games open July 27.  The U.K. is already awash in patriotism and nostalgia
following the June observance of Queen Elizabeth II’s 60-year
reign. Bannister represents an idealized vision of Britain’s
past, when athletes were driven by the pursuit of excellence and
the nation could join together in celebration, said  Max Jones , a
historian at the  University of Manchester .  “Bannister is in that tradition of English understated
sportsmen,” Jones said. “We find these stories tremendously
appealing. In this commercial world, there is a yearning for
people willing to do things not just for money.”  Bannister’s record run was “a reassuring story of national
greatness” in the postwar era when the U.K. was worried about
its place in the world, Jones said.  An Oxford University graduate, Bannister was a medical
student and “one of the last pure amateurs,” said Neal
Bascomb, whose 2004 book “ The Perfect Mile ” documented
Bannister’s duel with Australian rival John Landy at the 1954
 British Empire & Commonwealth Games .  Self-Coached  Bannister was self-coached and trained during his lunch
breaks. He said he even had to give back some of his trophies,
to avoid violating the rules of amateurism. He quit at 25, in
his prime, in order to become a medical resident.  “Athletes often don’t know the right moment to stop,”
Bannister said in an interview at his home in Oxford, two miles
from the track where he broke the record. “Inevitably there
comes a point where they start to deteriorate and it seems
unwise ever to risk reaching that point.”  Bannister’s reputation was further burnished by his career
following his retirement as a runner. He became a neurologist,
served as chairman of the U.K. Sports Council and became master
of Pembroke College at Oxford. He was knighted in 1975.  “Roger is an icon in British life,” said Andrew Hamilton,
the vice chancellor of Oxford. “Roger Bannister represents the
epitome of the scholar athlete. As a young man he hit the very
highest levels of athletic achievement, but then went on to a
glittering career as a neurologist and as a public servant.”  ‘Professional’ Olympians  The contrast between Bannister and contemporary athletes is
stark, said Jake Oldershaw, who co-wrote a  play  about the race
that was performed at Oxford’s track.  Today’s Olympians are professional athletes in many sports.
This year’s entrants will include basketball players such as
 LeBron James , who makes about $53 million a year in salary and
endorsements, according to Forbes magazine.  Bannister “quite obviously loved what he did and loved
running, pure and simple,” Oldershaw said. “You may find it
with many athletes today, but the entire merry-go-round of
professional sports can really hamper the elan they feel.”  Even altered by professionalism and marred by drug
scandals, the Olympic ideal is still noble and worth preserving,
Bannister said.  “I know all about the things that are wrong,” he said.
“I still, despite everything, think there’s something
worthwhile about the Olympics.”  ‘Own Master’  Born in 1929 in Harrow, outside London, Bannister spent
some of his childhood in Bath, where the family moved to flee
the German bombardment that began in 1940.  Bannister’s father was the youngest of 11 children and grew
up eager to escape the poverty of Lancashire. He took an exam to
become a civil servant at age 15, cutting short his education,
Bannister said. His parents stressed the importance of education
and Bannister entered Oxford at 17.  He said he chose running partly because it gave him the
freedom to pursue his studies.  “I had chosen a sport in which I was my own master,” he
said. “If I had chosen hockey or rugby or rowing, I would have
been at the mercy of the team. Running was the only sporting
career that gave a chance of reaching world level and it not
being destructive of the rest of my life.”  Bannister passed up a chance to compete in the  1948
Olympics in London , judging himself not yet ready. He aimed for
the 1,500 meters in the 1952 games in Helsinki, saying his plan
was to win the gold and then quit running.  1952 Olympics  Instead, he finished fourth, undone by a scheduling change
that added an extra round of heats.  That race is memorialized in a multimedia sculpture by
artist Mel Brimfield that the U.K. government commissioned for
the 2012 Olympics.  After Helsinki, Bannister decided to delay his retirement
and focused on breaking the four-minute mile and winning the
Empire Games and European championships in 1954.  “I felt so confident, despite not having won in Helsinki,
that my sort of training would go on improving, that the four-
minute mile then fell within my compass,” he said. “I
postponed everything for two years but I wouldn’t have postponed
it any longer.”  In December 1952, Landy ran 4:02, announcing his intention
to break the record. Throughout 1953, Bannister, Landy and Wes
Santee of the U.S. tried and failed to break the record as the
quest garnered global media attention.  Blustery Day  Bannister chose to make his first try of 1954 at a May 6
meet at Oxford. The day was cold and blustery and he had to be
talked into running. He said he was motivated by the fact that
Landy would soon be making his own attempt.  Part of the fascination with the four-minute mile is the
elegance of the problem, said Oldershaw, the playwright.  “It presents a kind a symmetrical, mathematical conundrum,
four laps of a track, a minute of every lap, and you’re there,”
he said. “It all coincided with being this numerical
equation.”  With two training partners acting as pacesetters, Bannister
ran the first quarter-mile lap in 57.5 seconds and the half mile
in 1:58. He slowed in the third lap before pouring it on to run
the last lap in 59 seconds and collapsing at the finish in
3:59.4.  The mark was front-page news around the world. The  New York 
Times devoted nine separate stories to the feat, which it called
“ one of man’s hitherto unattainable goals .”  46 Days  Bannister held the world record for 46 days before it fell
to Landy. The two faced off that summer at the Empire Games in
 Vancouver , British Columbia, with Bannister edging his rival.
Both finished in less than four minutes. Later that month,
Bannister won the 1,500 in the European Championships and
retired, turning to his medical career.  He said he never looked back, nor regretted not taking part
in the 1956 Olympics in  Melbourne .  “I was transferring the intensity I had in my athletic
career to medicine,” he said.  Bannister was  Sports Illustrated’s  first Sportsman of the
Year, wrote a book and became a correspondent for the Sunday
Times, covering track and field for the newspaper.  Since Bannister’s historic run, 13 other runners have held
the world record in the mile and more than 1,100 men have broken
four minutes. The current holder, Hicham El Guerrouj of  Morocco ,
ran 3:43.13 in 1999.  U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc gave  3-to-1 odds  that
Bannister will light the Olympic cauldron, trailing only Steve Redgrave, a rower who won five Olympic gold medals.  At Oxford, Bannister remains a celebrity, and his name and
image are used to raise money for the university.  “He is part of sporting royalty,” said Andrew Thomas,
head of fundraising for sports at Oxford. “We would be really
foolish not to trade on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  