-- Aussie Dollar Nears One-Week Low as China’s Imports Slow
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-07-10T06:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/aussie-dollar-trades-near-one-week-low-before-chinese-trade-data.html
Australia ’s dollar fell toward a
one-week low after data showed imports rose less than forecast
in  China , the nation’s biggest trading partner.  The so-called Aussie slid for a third day against the yen
ahead of a report economists said will show French industrial
production shrank, adding to signs Europe’s debt crisis is
hurting the economy. New Zealand’s dollar declined versus 15 of
its 16 major counterparts as losses in Asian stocks sapped
demand for higher-yielding currencies.  “The concern is that slower Chinese growth is going to be
a negative factor for Australia,” said  Todd Elmer , head of
Group-of-10 currency strategy for Asia excluding Japan at
Citigroup Inc. in Singapore. “Imports came in below
expectations, which I think is why the Aussie is selling off.”  The Australian currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.0180 as
of 4:07 p.m. in Sydney from the close in New York yesterday,
when it touched $1.0155, the lowest since June 29. The Aussie
slid as much as 0.5 percent to 80.77 yen, the weakest since June
29, before trading at 80.93.  New Zealand’s dollar slid 0.3 percent to 79.44 U.S. cents
and fetched 63.16 yen, 0.3 percent below yesterday’s close.  Australian  government bonds  were little changed, with the
yield on benchmark 10-year debt at 3 percent.  New Zealand ’s two-
year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates,
was unchanged at 2.7 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.4 percent.  Chinese Imports  China’s inbound  shipments  rose 6.3 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said in a statement today in
Beijing, compared with the 11 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. Exports climbed 11.3 percent.  The world’s second largest economy is predicted to report a
slowdown in the second quarter when it releases gross domestic
product data on July 13. The country lowered  interest rates  on
July 5 for the second time in a month to stimulate the economy.  “China is still slowing,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist
in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest
lender. “Probably, more stimulus will be required.”  Speizer predicts the Australian dollar will drop below 99
U.S. cents over the next couple of months.  In France, the euro area’s second-biggest economy, output
from factories, mines and  power plants  may have declined 1
percent in May from April, when it rose 1.5 percent, according
to a poll of economists ahead of today’s data.  Business Confidence  Australian  business confidence  fell to a 10-month low in
June amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis and a slowdown in
China will cool global demand for commodities.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s  confidence index , based on a
survey of more than 300 companies, fell to minus 3 last month
from minus 2 in May, according to a report released today. The
business conditions gauge, a measure of hiring, sales and
profits, improved to minus 1 from minus 4.  Losses in New Zealand’s dollar were limited after data
showed the country’s  house prices  climbed to a record last month
and card spending increased.  House prices in New Zealand gained 0.3 percent in June from
the previous month, when they increased 1.7 percent, according
to an index published by the  Real Estate Institute of New
Zealand  today. Spending on debit, credit and store cards also
increased by 0.4 percent, another report showed, adding to signs
of a recovery in domestic demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  