-- Australian Job Ads Decline for Third Straight Month, ANZ Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-09T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/australian-job-ads-decline-for-third-straight-month-anz-says.html
Australian job notices declined for a
third straight month in June as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis
discouraged companies from hiring, a private report showed.  Jobs advertised  in newspapers and on the Internet dropped
1.2 percent from May, when they fell a revised 2.6 percent,
according to an  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
report released in  Melbourne  today.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 3.5 percent this month
after lowering borrowing costs by a total of 75 basis points in
May and June. Data in the past week showed retail sales advanced
more than economists forecast in May, home building permits
jumped by a record and the trade deficit was narrower than
expected, signaling a stronger economy.  “Recent communication from the RBA suggests that the
official cash rate will remain unchanged for some time, while
the bank gauges the effect of prior monetary easing on the
economy,” Justin Fabo, senior economist at ANZ Bank, said in
the statement. “Job advertisements have historically been a
good leading indicator of changes in the official cash rate.”  Traders are pricing in a 71 percent chance of a quarter
percentage point cut to 3.25 percent at the central bank’s next
meeting on Aug. 7, Bloomberg data based on swaps trading show.  National vacancies advertised in newspapers dropped 3.3
percent in June, and Internet notices fell 1.1 percent, today’s
report showed.  “There has been a mild softening in labor demand in
Australia after it had strengthened somewhat in the early part
of the year,” Fabo said. “In part, this likely reflects
hesitation among some firms to hire additional staff in the face
of heightened uncertainty about the global economy again in
recent months, particularly in Europe.”  Australia’s  unemployment rate  likely rose to 5.2 percent in
June from 5.1 percent a month earlier, according to the median
of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before a government
report scheduled to be released July 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  