-- Austrian Banks Must Boost Capital to Level With Peers
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-07-09T14:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/austrian-banks-must-boost-capital-to-level-with-peers.html
Austria ’s central bank told the
nation’s biggest lenders they should raise more capital to repay
state aid, satisfy new banking rules and catch up with their
better-capitalized rivals in eastern Europe.  Other risks include Swiss franc-denominated loans and a
high level of bad debt in the region, the central bank said in
its biannual Financial Stability Report released today. Austrian
banks must tackle coming challenges, including new rules by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , from an
“unsatisfactory” starting point, it said.  “Banks should build up further capital because of Basel
III, because of the repayment of state participation capital, as
well as because peers are still better capitalized,” central
bank director  Andreas Ittner  told reporters in Vienna.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria unit are among the biggest lenders
to eastern Europe, a market that witnessed rapid growth before
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Increasing bad
debt subsequently crimped earnings in the region and exposed
capital shortfalls at Austrian banks.  Austrian banks are falling behind on raising capital
compared with a peer group of 12 other banks active in the
former communist part of Europe, the central bank said. The
difference in  capital ratios  between the Austrian banks and the
benchmark group including  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  and
OTP Bank Nyrt, rose to 1.4 percentage points by the end of last
year, from 0.9 percentage points at the end of 2009, because
they were were slower in raising capital, it said.  Eastern Exposure  In addition, Austrian taxpayers contributed 47 percent, or
8.1 billion euros ($10 billion), to the banks’ capital increases
since 2008, according to the report. Erste and Raiffeisen both
requested state aid in 2009 and will eventually have to payback
capital as it becomes more expensive from 2014. Austria
nationalized, funded and wrote off bad debt at Hypo Alpe-Adria-
Bank International AG, Kommunalkredit Austria AG and
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)   Austrian banks’ direct support of subsidiaries in eastern
Europe, where deposits don’t cover loans in countries other than
the Czech and Slovak republics and  Russia , declined 5 percent
last year to 42 billion euros, the central bank said. Lowering
the level of liquidity infusions is a main goal of new rules
introduced by the central bank this year.  Stress Tests  The 216 billion euros lent by Austrian banks in eastern
Europe by the end of last year was the most by any national
banking system, according to the report. Higher risk on loans in
eastern Europe makes the business more profitable than credit
given at home.  About 84 billion euros of loans in eastern European
countries such as Croatia, Hungary and Romania, along with an
additional 50.9 billion euros in Austria, are denominated in
foreign currencies, mostly Swiss francs, the bank said.  Austrian banks’ performance was nevertheless “solid” in a
central bank simulation of adverse economic developments in
eastern  Europe , Ittner said. The five biggest banks’ core Tier 1
capital ratio would decline to 7.7 percent by 2014 in an adverse
economic stress scenario, from 9.5 percent now,  the central bank
said . The ratio, calculated according to European Banking
Authority rules, assumes an economic contraction in Austria and
eastern Europe.  In the test’s baseline scenario, which assumes Austria and
eastern Europe will grow in line with average forecasts, the
ratio would rise to 10.3 percent for the top five banks. The
capital ratio of the entire banking system would decline to 8.5
percent from 9.9 percent under stress, compared with an increase
to 10.5 percent in the baseline scenario.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  