-- Barclays Deputy Chairman Says No One Sees Culture Issue at Bank
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-09T17:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/barclays-deputy-chairman-says-no-one-sees-culture-issue-at-bank.html
Michael Rake, the deputy chairman of
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , said no one sees a cultural problem among senior
staff at the bank, which has just lost its top three leaders to
a scandal over rigging  interest rates .  “I just don’t think that anyone believes there is a
problem in the culture at the top of Barclays, either in its
executive or non-executive ranks,” Rake said in an interview
after testifying to a House of Lords committee. “It is a bigger
discussion than that.”  Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier resigned July 3, the day
after chairman Marcus Agius quit, amid the uproar that followed
the bank’s admission that it manipulated the London interbank
offered rate.  Diamond told a parliamentary committee last week that the
behavior of traders trying to fix the rate had been
“reprehensible.” Defending a decision by Del Missier, of which
he said he wasn’t aware, to alter Barclays’ Libor submissions in
2008, Diamond said the bank had feared it was going to be
nationalized, and that executives had believed the  Bank of
England  approved the strategy. Bank of England Deputy Governor
Paul Tucker today denied he’d given such a message.  Rake had been attending a hearing on gender equity on
corporate boards.  “It would be better as a matter of diversity and overall
effectiveness of boards if we can get more qualified women onto
boards of banks,” he said in the interview. He added that
requirements that board members should have banking
qualifications made that more difficult. “We need to ensure
that within that process we allow some diversity of board
membership,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  