-- BayernLB, EU Commission Reach Accord on State-Aid Investigation
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-07-09T16:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/bayernlb-eu-commission-reach-accord-on-state-aid-investigation.html
European Union regulators reached an
agreement on Bayerische Landesbank’s bailout during the
financial crisis, the last outstanding state-aid investigation
of a German lender.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters
in Brussels today that he agreed to the final details with
German authorities that would allow EU regulators to approve a
German bailout for Munich-based BayernLB, the country’s second-
biggest state-owned lender.  Under the agreement, BayernLB will sell its mortgage-
lending unit,  LBS Bayern , to the Bavarian savings banks, which
will also increase their stake in BayernLB by converting a
silent participation. The savings banks owned half of the lender
before the bailout in 2008, in which they didn’t participate.  “We have reached an agreement on a restructuring plan that
will reduce the scope of the business model of BayernLB but will
give strength to this business model and to the bank,” Almunia
said. “My intention is, building on this agreement, to adopt a
formal decision on July 25.”  BayernLB, led by Chief Executive Officer Gerd Haeusler and
majority owned by the German state of Bavaria, is the last of
the country’s state-owned lenders, the so-called Landesbanken,
that awaited a verdict from the  European Commission  on
conditions for its bailout. The lender received 10 billion euros
($12.3 billion) in capital and a 4.8 billion-euro risk shield
from the Bavarian government, as well as 15 billion euros in
loans from  Germany ’s bank-rescue fund to save it from a collapse
in 2008.  Capital Conversion  The Bavarian savings banks will contribute 1.65 billion
euros by converting capital and by the takeover of LBS Bayern,
they said in a separate statement.  EU regulators must approve large government subsidies to
avoid harm to rivals and customers. They may require banks to
sell off assets as a condition for receiving the aid. The
commission wanted BayernLB to dispose of assets given that it
accepted state aid, and that the Bavarian savings banks, which
owned a 50 percent stake before the bailout, didn’t participate
in the lender’s recapitalization.  Other German lenders that had their state aid examined by
the commission included Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, WestLB AG
and HSH Nordbank AG.  Real Estate Units  EU regulators are “at the end” of their investigation,
Almunia said in Brussels on May 8.  As part of its revamp, BayernLB this year agreed to sell
its DKB Immobilien AG real estate unit to Hamburg-based  TAG
Immobilien AG (TEG)  for 160 million euros in cash. The company has
also said it will sell its  GBW AG  real estate unit, of which it
holds 92 percent. GBW owns about 32,000 homes in the southern
German state of Bavaria, according to its  website .  BayernLB announced plans in 2008 to refocus its business
and reduce the workforce by 2013. While the lender’s online
venture, DKB Deutsche Kreditbank, is an “indispensable” part
of the business, Budapest-based subsidiary MKB Bank may be sold
at some point, the company has said.  BayernLB said in March it plans to pay back 5 billion euros
in capital over the next five to seven years to Bavaria, which
 owns  94 percent of the bank following the bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  