-- Berkley Faces Ethics Probe During Nevada Senate Campaign
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-09T22:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/berkley-faces-ethics-probe-during-nevada-senate-campaign.html
The U.S. House Ethics Committee said
it opened an  investigation  into allegations that Representative
Shelley Berkley of Nevada used her position to aid  kidney
dialysis  clinics run by her husband’s medical practice.  The panel’s decision to convene an investigative
subcommittee comes as Berkley, a Democrat, is running for the
 U.S. Senate . She is serving her seventh term in the House.  The  New York Times (NYT)  reported in September 2011 that Berkley,
61, led an effort to reverse government regulators’ decision to
close a kidney transplant program at a Nevada hospital where her
husband’s medical practice had a $738,000 contract. The Times
reported that Berkley pressured regulators to reverse a plan to
cut Medicare reimbursement rates for kidney dialysis, a service
provided by a dozen clinics operated by a medical practice that
includes her husband, Dr. Larry Lehrner.  The Nevada Republican Party filed an ethics complaint
against Berkley, who is challenging U.S. Senator  Dean Heller , a
Republican. Heller, a former House member, was appointed to the
seat last year following the resignation of Republican Senator
 John Ensign , who was the subject of a Senate Ethics Committee
inquiry stemming from an extramarital affair.  Jessica Meckler, manager of Berkley’s Senate campaign, said
in a statement that the campaign was “confident” the panel
would make “clear that Congressman Berkley’s one and only
concern was for the health and well-being of Nevada’s
patients.”  Meckler said “that’s why” Berkley joined Heller, then a
Republican House member, “to prevent Nevada’s only kidney
transplant program from being shut down by Washington
bureaucrats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  