-- Boeing’s Air-Show Revival Leaves Airbus Nursing Neo Hangover
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-07-10T11:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/boeing-s-air-show-revival-leaves-airbus-nursing-a320neo-hangover.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , bruised at the annual
air show last year by the success of the Airbus SAS A320neo, is
punching back with its 737 Max as the competing plane fails to
win major contracts.  Boeing picked up an order for 75 aircraft valued at $7.2
billion from Steven Udvar-Hazy’s  Air Lease Corp. (AL)  on the first
day of the Farnborough air show, while Airbus won one accord for
four aircraft valued at about $453 million. The U.S.
manufacturer is set to sweep the event, with one deal already
done today and more to come.  The reversal of fortunes highlights how Boeing regained its
footing after the defeat in Paris, where Airbus outmaneuvered
its U.S. competitor with a product that Boeing couldn’t match at
the time. While Airbus remains ahead with the A320neo by total
orders to date, Boeing Commercial Aircraft President Ray Conner
said he’s hopeful of closing the gap again.  “Boeing rescued a bad situation,” said  Richard Aboulafia ,
vice president of Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based aviation
advisory firm. “The  Paris air show  was a heart-attack moment
and thankfully they got out the defibrillator and have come back
to life. But this remains a game of catch-up.”  Godfather’s Endorsement  At the Farnborough show near  London , the 737 Max won the
endorsement of Udvar-Hazy, the self-proclaimed godfather of the
jet leasing industry. Udvar-Hazy credited Boeing with advancing
the aircraft to a point that it became an attractive proposition
for his company. He bought 36 A320neos in Paris  last year.  Airbus Chief Executive Officer Fabrice Bregier predicted a
“good show” for his company, and that Airbus would achieve its
annual target for about 650 additional orders, according to an
interview at the Farnborough show.  Boeing is set to secure an order this week from  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  for 100 of the 737 jets in a
transaction valued at about $8.4 billion, people familiar with
the matter said yesterday.  The company announced an agreement today with  General
Electric Co. (GE) ’s jet-leasing unit for 100 737s, including 75 of
the Max model. That commitment will be converted into a firm
order once details are worked out, Boeing said.  And Grupo Aeromexico SAB is close to the purchase of about
70 mainly single-aisle jets, though that sale probably won’t be
done during the expo, people familiar with those talks said. The
carrier said yesterday that it’s in negotiations to
acquire new narrow- and wide-body aircraft, without giving
details.  A320 Success  The 737 Max seeks to replicate the success of the A320neo,
which has become the fastest-selling plane in aviation history
since Airbus introduced the model at the end of 2010. Still,
Boeing may struggle to match the order intake for the Neo at
last year’s show in Paris, as a flagging global economy is
causing plane buyers to be more cautious.  “Last year’s plane environment was much more robust than
this year’s,” said Carter Copeland, an analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
in  New York . “If the show ends and all they have is the 75 from
 Air Lease , the perception will be that they’re trailing.”  The Max is winning over customers because of its ability to
save fuel, Conner said yesterday in Farnborough. The plane will
have a fuel-burn advantage of 13 percent over the current 737
aircraft, he said.  “We are very, very pleased with where we are on the Max,”
Conner said. “The demand continues to grow.”  A350-1000 Order  Airbus rallied today with the first order for its A350-1000
wide-body jet since 2008, as  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  agreed
to convert 16 orders for the A350-900 model into the largest
variant of the plane. Cathay Pacific also said it will add 10
A350-1000s.  The European planemaker’s lone first-day order was from
Israeli carrier Arkia Israeli Airlines Ltd. for four A321neo
aircraft, which have a list price of $113.3 million. Carriers
typically get discounts.  That performance is reminiscent of last year’s debut in
Paris. Airbus opened the show by racking up 90 single-aisle
orders, while Boeing didn’t secure any firm orders for the 737,
other than a two-plane deal from Mongolian Airlines announced in
 Washington .  The tally at the show also mirrors the ranking in orders
this year. Airbus’s 230 net orders trail Chicago-based Boeing’s
287 in the first half.  “This is clearly the year of the Max,” said David Baxt,
head of global aerospace and defense investment banking at
Jefferies & Co., who attended the show. “This will be the first
year since 2006 that Boeing has won more orders.”  First Move  Airbus had the advantage of first move on its plane, while
Boeing still pondered its response, meaning the U.S. company
didn’t have a new single-aisle plane to market in Paris.  The rout that ensued, coupled with Airbus winning over all-
Boeing customer  American Airlines  for the A320neo, led Boeing to
unveil the Max even before directors had signed off on building
it. The plane is set for first flight in 2016 and first delivery
in 2017, almost two years later than the A320neo.  “This time of waiting a year gave them the opportunity to
optimise the airplane, so I think we’ll have a very competitive
product between the 737 Max and the A320neo,” Udvar-Hazy said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Farnborough. “I
think both will do very well.”  Healthier Portfolio  Airbus isn’t sitting still. The company said it plans to
set up a final assembly line in  Alabama , ending Boeing’s
monopoly of building large commercial aircraft in  North America .
The line would build mainly A320neo aircraft from 2015 as Airbus
seeks to gain a greater foothold in North America.  “The U.S. market is the largest one, we have around 20 to
25 percent market share, and there is no reason why we will not
reach 50 percent, thanks to this industrial manufacturing
capacity,” Bregier said at the show yesterday.  Boeing’s portfolio at this year’s show is healthier than a
year ago in Paris, when it had no upgraded 737, and neither the
787 Dreamliner nor the 747-8 had entered commercial service.
Airbus, by contrast, has had to grapple with manufacturing
faults on its A380 super jumbo and customers criticizing the
design of the A350-1000 as insufficient to battle Boeing’s 777.  Even if Airbus leaves Farnborough with only few a deals for
the A320neo, the manufacturer has more than 3,000 orders still
pending delivery, giving the company years of work. Both
airframe makers are increasing output to work through the
backlog, with Airbus targeting 42 a month by the end of the
year, a target that Boeing is also seeking to attain by 2013.  “The battle in the duopoly continues, and with both these
aircraft a significant improvement on their predecessor, I think
we’ll continue to see significant orders,” said Jefferies’s
Baxt. “Fuel costs have risen from 14 percent of the total to 31
percent in nine years and that gives a tremendous impetus to
take delivery of more fuel-efficient planes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in London at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  