-- Boeing Wins $7.2 Billion Order for 737s From Hazy
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-09T21:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/boeing-wins-7-2-billion-order-from-hazy-as-air-show-kicks-off.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  opened the Farnborough air
show with a $7.2 billion order from Steven Udvar-Hazy’s  Air
Lease Corp. (AL) , the first purchase by a lessor for the planemaker’s
new, fuel-efficient 737 MAX.  The 75-plane firm order is for 60 of the Max 8 version and
15 of the Max 9, Chicago-based Boeing said today in a statement
at the show outside London. Boeing’s recent tweaks to the Max,
including winglets to help save fuel, helped win over Air Lease,
Udvar-Hazy said.  “The airplane we looked at last year and the first few
months of this year is now a totally different plane,” Udvar-
Hazy said in an interview.  Boeing is seeking to replicate Airbus SAS’s success with
its A320neo at last year’s show in Paris, where the French
manufacturer dominated the order book. That rout unfolded as
Boeing pondered its next single-aisle move and then rushed to
unveil the Max before directors had signed off on building it.  The U.S. manufacturer is headed toward more orders for the
Max at the show, with  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s jet-leasing unit
poised to purchase 100 737s, two people with knowledge of the
transaction said.  Gecas Deal  GE Capital Aviation Services’ purchase includes 75 737 Max
planes, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to discuss the deal. The list value would
be $9.25 billion based on prices for the 737-800, the current
jet’s most-popular model, and its Max equivalent. GE and Boeing
spokesmen declined to comment.  The Max has a 13 percent fuel-burn improvement over current
models, according to Boeing, making it attractive to airlines in
an industry whose largest expense typically is jet kerosene. It
is scheduled for a 2017 commercial debut and has amassed more
than 1,000 orders and commitments.  Air Lease ’s order includes reconfirmation rights for 25
additional aircraft, Udvar-Hazy said.  Boeing rose 0.5 percent to $74.03 at the close in  New
York ., while Air Lease fell 0.4 percent to $19.15.  In reaching an agreement with Air Lease’s chief executive
officer, Boeing is renewing longstanding ties to the man known
as the godfather of the leasing industry.  Lessor Founder  Udvar-Hazy founded International Lease Finance Corp. in
1973 and built it into the world’s biggest such lessor before
selling to  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 1990, making him
a billionaire. He left in 2010 and founded Air Lease months
later. By his count, he has bought about 2,100 jets in his
career.  Lessors are attractive buyers because they place jets with
multiple airlines, broadening the base for the Max. While
lessors represent about 35 percent of the installed airliner
base, they account for only about 20 percent of planemakers’
current backlog, said  Yan Derocles , an Oddo Securities analyst
in Paris.  The Max will be powered exclusively by new engines from  CFM
International , a joint venture between Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE and Paris-based  Safran SA. (SAF)   Grupo Aeromexico SAB (AEROMEX*)  is close to the purchase of about 70
mainly single-aisle aircraft, three people familiar with the
talks said, though that deal may not be completed during this
year’s Farnborough show.  Mexico ’s largest airline is considering A320neos and some
A350 wide-body jets, as well as the Max and the 787-9
Dreamliner, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Boeing has the upper
hand after its commercial airplanes chief, Ray Conner, sent a
sales team to Mexico to secure the order, two of the people
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Farnborough, England, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  