-- Boots Were Made for Talking, About Who We Are
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-07-09T22:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/boots-were-made-for-talking-about-who-we-are.html
If you have been reading newspapers
or websites, listening to the radio or watching TV over the past
few weeks, you have probably  heard the news : “You CAN judge a
person by his shoes.” Beginning in mid-June, word of a
psychology article titled “Shoes as a source of first
impressions” began circling the globe.  Describing an  experiment  by researchers from the University
of  Kansas  and  Wellesley College , many reports declared that
shoes alone reveal just everything about the wearer’s
personality. “Overly aggressive people wear ankle boots,”
 proclaimed  a Los Angeles National Public Radio host.  What psychologist Omri Gillath and his team actually found
was more modest. Without the cues of facial expressions and
context, college students could guess basic demographic
characteristics from looking at photos of other college
students’ footwear: gender, age and income. They could also
detect the personality trait known as agreeableness, as well as
something called attachment anxiety, which is connected to fear
of rejection and was correlated with dull-colored shoes. That
was all: not political affiliation, not how extroverted the
wearers were, not whether they were overly aggressive.  The study made a solid contribution to research on first
impressions, but it was hardly earthshaking. By getting so much
attention, however, it demonstrated a sociological truth: People
love to talk about shoes. Even those who dismissed the research
as silly often felt compelled to call  radio stations  or  comment
on websites , providing details about their own choices. Why this
fascination with footwear?  Stylish Mobility  Like cars, shoes combine function and aesthetics, the
promise of mobility and the pleasures of style. As apparel, they
offer not only protection but transformation; as autonomous
objects, they serve as “bursts of beauty that defy the
mundane,”  writes  Rachelle Bergstein in “Women From the Ankle
Down: The Story of Shoes and How They Define Us.” Unlike cars,
shoes are also inexpensive enough to permit people to build
diverse wardrobes, changing footwear with season, circumstances
and mood.  Whether Jimmy Choos, Pumas or Toms, shoes let us stand out
as individuals while fitting into similarly shod social groups.
The complex relationship between the social and the personal is
why it’s so hard to tell much about a shoe’s owner from a
photograph alone -- and why shoes are so interesting. Their
meanings require, and sometimes reveal, broader cultural
context. Bergstein tells the story of a Texas high school that
in 1993 punished students for wearing Doc Martens, falsely
assuming that the boots signaled white racism when in fact they
merely reflected students’ musical taste. A shoe, says Elizabeth
Semmelhack, the senior curator at the  Bata Shoe Museum  in
Toronto, “is an accessory that can carry a lot of cultural
meaning.”  Shoes have, for instance, long defined the border between
luxury and necessity. Too many or too expensive, and they invite
condemnation as an indulgence; too few, or the wrong kind, and
they symbolize poverty and shame. Think of  Imelda Marcos  -- or
the current divorce dispute between hedge-fund honcho Daniel Shak and his poker-playing ex-wife Beth Shak over her  1,200
pairs of designer shoes  -- versus “barefoot and pregnant.”
Tracing the shifts in footwear norms reveals patterns in
economic development, class structure, manufacturing technology,
sex roles, even international relations.  “Custom,”  wrote  Adam Smith  in “The Wealth of Nations,”
“has rendered leather shoes a necessary of life in  England . The
poorest creditable person of either sex would be ashamed to
appear in public without them. In  Scotland , custom has rendered
them a necessary of life to the lowest order of men; but not to
the same order of women, who may, without any discredit, walk
about barefooted. In  France  they are necessaries neither to men
nor to women, the lowest rank of both sexes appearing there
publicly, without any discredit, sometimes in wooden shoes, and
sometimes barefooted.”  Shoe Signals  Up until about 1860, American women generally wore delicate
slippers, even outdoors on the frontier, in an egalitarian but
impractical imitation of French aristocrats. The French were
American allies, while the British, who wore sturdier footwear,
were not.  Our contemporary footwear fascination may date to Spike Lee’s Mars Blackmon commercials for Nike Inc.’s Air Jordans in
the late 1980s. (“It’s gotta be the shoes.”) But it has
intensified in recent years. In the lyrics to last year’s
hipster anthem  “Pumped Up Kicks,”  status-symbol shoes inspire
an alienated teenager’s fantasies of shooting down his
classmates. A 2007 episode of  HBO ’s “Entourage” revolved
around a character’s quest for limited-edition sneakers. The USA
Network’s spy show “Covert Affairs,” which starts its third
season this week, prominently features its protagonist’s
Christian Louboutin pumps.  In a content analysis of 48 hours on Britain’s Channel 4,
 Alexandra Sherlock , a sociologist at the University of
Sheffield, found 170 references to shoes. They showed up in
everything from yogurt commercials to the movie “Get Rich or
Die Tryin”’ -- often without the audience even noticing them.
Movies often use shoes to signal a character’s true identity.
This pop-culture trope, Sherlock suggested in an e-mail, may
explain why people assume shoes by themselves can reveal more
about personality than they actually do.  One reason for shoes’ current cultural prominence is the
sheer number of pairs people own today. Americans bought  seven
pairs per person  last year, according to the American Apparel
and Footwear Association. That’s down from a peak of slightly
more than eight pairs in 2006 but still high by historical
standards.  Shoes Galore  Sherlock’s University of Sheffield colleague Jenny Hockey,
who heads a  project on footwear and identity , notes that “when
we were shown round people’s current shoe ‘wardrobes’ many of
them were surprised to find how very many pairs they had -- 10
or 20, sometimes more.” I got similar results with an  informal
blog and Facebook poll  asking people to  estimate  how many shoes
they have and then tally the actual number. “Thought I had
12,” wrote one respondent. “I have...22. There goes my concept
of myself as someone who really doesn’t care about shoes.” (The
average American owns 11 pairs, according to a  2009 Kelton
Research surve y, though most respondents probably guessed
without counting.) This abundance reflects a long-term increase
in  living standards  that often goes unnoticed; such inventories,
whether of shoes, clothes or other reusable goods, have reduced
the hardship of the current recession,  particularly compared
with the Great Depression .  Today’s usual hardship isn’t going without shoes, or
putting cardboard in the ones you have to make them last. It’s
longing for shoes you’ll rarely wear or can’t afford. Thanks to
Internet shopping, you don’t even have to leave home, or live in
a big city,  to face temptation .  The Internet also fosters communities of shoe geeks. The
sneaker site  SoleCollector  claims more than 315,000 forum
members. Commenting on  Manolo’s Shoe Blog , a respected
conservative journalist can, without fear of ridicule, admit to
owning 200 pairs of shoes.  Sherlock suggests that “Sex and the City” had a similar
effect, making it safe for previously reticent women to
acknowledge their interest in shoes. “I do not believe that the
series has ‘told’ people to love shoes,” she cautions.
“Rather, it has appealed to viewers’ own personal
experiences.”  Her distinction between media manipulation and personal
meaning hints at the bigger issues at stake in all this talk
about shoes: How do we understand life in a commercial,
consumer-oriented society? Academic traditionalists and hard-
headed advocates of “practical” research often dismiss
scholarship on material culture, including shoes, as frivolous
nonsense. So they leave thinking about questions like why people
buy shoes and what they mean in people’s lives to Marxists,
Freudians and others who decry commercial culture, treat
consumers as powerless dupes or, at best, reduce every
“unnecessary” purchase to some form of status competition.  The result is a desiccated understanding of history and
culture. In an  academic article , Sherlock decries “the
postmodern tendency to fetishise the shoe, both in the Marxian
(commodity fetish) and Freudian (psycho-sexual) sense, for what
it ‘stands’ for rather than what it is.” Even when they contain
an element of truth, such theories are as simplistic and
misleading as the claim that ankle boots indicate an overly
aggressive personality. Commercial culture -- our culture --
deserves better.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on combating  drug-resistant
tuberculosis  and rethinking  capital controls ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on why Romney should  choose Chris Christie ; William Pesek on the
 Fukushima meltdown report ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  finds  no silver lining 
in the health-care ruling; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers 
wonder why the Fed doesn’t  ease more aggressively ;  David Crane 
on reining in  state health-care liabilities .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  