-- Borrowing Shows No Sign of Impeding July Win Streak: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-07-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/borrowing-shows-no-sign-of-impeding-july-win-streak-muni-credit.html
Borrowing by U.S. states and cities
is about to leap 80-fold this week. If history is any guide, the
jump in  supply  probably won’t derail the longest rally for the
$3.7 trillion municipal  bond market  since 2007.  Local-government returns have been positive in every July
dating to 2006, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
The gains have been fueled by investors who receive bond
payments and lower borrowing costs for most states as they enact
budgets for the fiscal year, according to a Citigroup Inc.
report.  Bondholders will receive about $41 billion in coupon and
principal payments in July, the biggest monthly total this year,
according to Chris Mauro at  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York .
Investors may begin pumping some of that cash back into munis
this week as issuance increases to $8.2 billion from $104
million during the Independence Day week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “With all the reinvestment money coming back into the
market, people will be looking to put that to work,” said Lyle Fitterer, managing director at Wells Capital Management, which
oversees about $30 billion in municipal securities.  The municipal market had its sixth-straight quarterly gain
in the three months ended June 30, the longest streak since
2007, Bank of America data show. The July rally is poised to
continue as government finances improve following the 18-month
recession that began in December 2007.  Credit ‘Improving’  State tax collections have increased for nine consecutive
quarters, the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government in
 Albany , New York, reported. That helped every state adopt a
budget on time for fiscal 2013. In the past four years, states
failed to enact budgets by their deadlines 13 times, according
to Moody’s Investors Service.  “The credit situation is improving,” Fitterer said from
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin . “We’re nowhere near out of the
woods, but the fact that fundamentals are getting better means
spreads should be getting tighter, and they are.”  The  extra yield  over top-rated bonds that investors demand
to hold BBB general-obligation debt declined to 1.27 percentage
points on July 5, the least since October 2009, according to a
Bloomberg Fair Value index.  Such penalties for lower-rated municipalities usually
narrow most after they enact budgets, said  George Friedlander ,
senior municipal strategist at Citigroup in New York.  Minnesota Rally  Minnesota , the only state to not pass an on-time budget for
fiscal 2012, saw its municipal debt rally in July 2011 after
lawmakers came to an agreement to end a government shutdown.  The  difference  between Minnesota state and local general-
obligation debt and top-rated bonds increased to 0.28 percentage
point on July 5, 2011, the widest since October 2008, according
to Bloomberg Fair Value index data. On July 21, the day after
the shutdown ended, the securities were yielding 0.02 percentage
point less than the AAA index.  The amount of local-government debt scheduled for sale in
the next  30 days  is about $9.3 billion, after falling to $4.5
billion on July 2, the lowest since January, Bloomberg data
show. Issuers sold about $46 billion of debt in June, the most
for a month since October 2009, the  data  show.  Even with “a pretty healthy week of supply,” yields will
probably fall, said Justin Hoogendoorn, managing director at BMO
Capital Markets in  Chicago .  NYC Borrows  The calendar swelled this week, in part from anticipation
of the New York City Transitional Finance Authority’s sale of
$850 million in bonds, New York State’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  borrowing $500 million and Columbus,
 Ohio , issuing about $447 million, according to Bloomberg data.  The deals will be met by the biggest inflow of cash into
municipal-bond mutual funds in three years, Lipper US Fund Flows
data show. The funds added $15.7 billion through July 4, the
most for the period since 2009.  “Certainly through at least the middle of July, there’s no
reason for the market to back off,” Friedlander said. “The
amount of cash in investors’ hands has been really strong.”  Following are pending sales:  ILLINOIS plans to issue about $1.5 billion in revenue bonds
for its unemployment-insurance fund as soon as next week,
according to an offering document. The proceeds will repay
federal government advances.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the debt
AA, its third-highest grade. (Added July 9)  THE STATE OF  WASHINGTON  will sell $573 million in general-
obligation debt as soon as July 18, according to Moody’s. About
$119 million is federally taxable, with the rest tax-exempt.
Proceeds will be used for transportation projects and other
capital improvements. Moody’s rates the bonds Aa1, second-
highest. (Added July 9)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  