-- Bridgepoint Plunges as Ashford's Accreditation Denied
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-07-09T20:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/bridgepoint-slides-as-ashford-accreditation-turned-down.html
Bridgepoint Education Inc. (BPI) , the for-
profit college company that owns Ashford University, lost a
third of its value in  New York  trading after Ashford’s
accreditation application was denied by a regional accreditor.  Bridgepoint slid 34 percent to $14.25 at the close, its
biggest decline since April 2009. The shares have slumped 38
percent this year.  Ashford didn’t comply with “multiple aspects” of the
accreditor’s standards in areas related to student retention,
maintaining a core of full-time faculty and having an
independent governing board, the Western Association of Schools
and Colleges said in a  letter  posted on its website today.  Ashford, which has a campus in  Iowa , has grown 10-fold
since Bridgepoint purchased it in 2005 and became primarily an
online university, according to the association. The rapid
expansion has led to large numbers of students dropping out,
with 128,000 leaving in the past five years compared with new
enrollment of 240,000, WASC said.  “This level of attrition is, on its face, not
acceptable,” according to WASC’s letter. “Serious concerns
also exist about the rigor of the coursework.”  Ashford will appeal the WASC report and reapply for
accreditation, San Diego-based Bridgepoint said today in a
statement.  Ashford applied to WASC after its regional accrediting
agency, the  Higher Learning Commission  of the North Central
Association of Schools and Colleges, said that the school has
until Dec. 1 to prove it has a “substantial presence” in HLC’s
19-state region, according to Bridgepoint. Ashford applied to
the WASC for accreditation because much of its student body is
now online and supported from outside HLC’s region, Bridgepoint
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  