-- Bulls Lift Wagers by Most in Two Years After Rally: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-10T20:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/bulls-lift-wagers-by-most-in-two-years-after-rally-commodities.html
Speculators increased bullish
commodity bets by the most in two years as prices rebounded from
a  bear market , boosted by a crop-damaging drought in the U.S.
and moves by  China  and  Europe  to spur economic growth.  Money managers raised their net-long  positions  across 18
U.S. futures and options by 33 percent to 963,447 contracts in
the week ended July 3, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. While the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
fell 0.3 percent since then, the measure has rallied 10 percent
since reaching a bear market on June 21. Gains were led by corn,
which climbed 33 percent, and wheat, which surged 22 percent.  The worst Midwest drought since the 1980s is wilting the
U.S. corn crop, the world’s biggest, prompting Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to cut its forecast for yields. European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi yesterday signaled policy makers may be
open to another interest-rate cut after lowering the benchmark
rate to a record last week. Chinese officials will intensify
their response to an economic slowdown, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported July 8.  “We’re still locked in a risk-on, risk-off battle,” said
Dan Denbow, a  fund manager  at the $1.8 billion  USAA Precious
Metals and Minerals Fund (USAGX)  in  San Antonio . “It’s back and forth
until there’s clarity on where the economy goes.”  July Rally  The S&P GSCI index climbed 1.1 percent this month as the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities dropped 1.2 percent and
the U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against six trading partners,
advanced 2.2 percent. Treasuries returned 0.8 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. gauge shows.  China’s inflation eased to a 29-month low in June, giving
policy makers room to take additional steps to spur growth. The
Asian country’s government lowered benchmark  interest rates  on
July 5 for the second time in a month. Wen said the nation will
“implement a proactive fiscal policy,” Xinhua reported.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President Charles Evans
yesterday said the U.S. central bank should move more forcefully
to lower the  unemployment rate . Speaking at the same conference
in Bangkok, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said another
round of asset purchases is possible to spur growth.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing and held borrowing
costs at a record low from December 2008 through June 2011,
spurring a 92 percent jump in the GSCI commodity index.  ‘Too Excited’  Investors may be getting “too excited” about the attempts
by central bankers to shore up economies, said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based fund manager at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $115 billion of
assets. “A re-acceleration of global economic growth in the
coming months is a delusion.”  More than $3.6 trillion has been wiped from the value of
world equity markets since March 31 as Europe’s debt crisis
worsened and U.S. unemployment stayed above 8 percent. U.S.
employers added fewer jobs than forecast last month and the
growth in private payrolls was the weakest in 10 months, the
Labor Department said July 6. French business confidence dropped
to the lowest in almost three years in June, the Bank of France
said yesterday.  Money managers pulled $179 million from commodity funds in
the week ended July 4, said  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows. Gold and precious-metals funds outflows
totaled $16 million, he said.  ‘Problematic’  Prospects for raw-materials markets are “problematic”
because “we remain unconvinced that a meaningful solution for
the problems in the  euro zone  will be forthcoming,” analysts at
Deutsche Bank AG said in a report on July 4.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators raised
bullish wagers in agricultural commodities by 28 percent to
679,849 contracts, the biggest gain since January.  Hedge funds 
boosted bets on higher corn prices by 60 percent to 173,183
contracts, the most since April 10.  As of July 3, about 25 percent of the Midwest was in
“severe”  drought , according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. The
condition of the U.S. corn crop, the world’s biggest, declined
for a fifth consecutive week, the government said yesterday,
citing data through July 8.  Extreme Heat  The lack of rain and extreme heat have created a “wicked
combination,” said Kelly Wiesbrock, who helps manage $1.3
billion for San Francisco-based hedge fund Harvest Capital
Strategies. Supplies “are going to be much tighter than people
thought,” he said. “If we don’t get some rain in the next
couple weeks, we could be see a lot higher prices.”  Investors decreased bets that copper prices would fall. As
of July 3, net-short positions totaled 1,749 contracts, compared
with 13,770 a week earlier. The metal is up 4.9 percent since
reaching this year’s low on June 4.  Goldman Sachs said copper usage probably will keep climbing
in China, the world’s top metals consumer.  A 50 percent jump in June property sales in eastern
provinces of China compared with a year earlier will support
metals demand, Goldman said in a report yesterday. The Copper
Development Association says construction accounts for about 40
percent of demand.  “In a multitude of commodities, you have long term,
supply-demand constraints,” said  Michael Cuggino , who manages
about $17 billion at San Francisco-based Pacific Heights Asset
Management. “A lot of this negative sentiment is already priced
in, which from our standpoint would argue for a long-term buying
opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  