-- Busta Rhymes Headlines Brooklyn’s Annual Hip-Hop Festival
-- B y   A n d r e w   B o r y g a
-- 2012-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/busta-rhymes-headlines-brooklyn-s-annual-hip-hop-festival.html
The eighth annual  Brooklyn Hip-Hop
Festival  opens tonight across the borough, culminating Saturday
with a performance by hip-hop superstar Busta Rhymes and some
promised, but unnamed, friends.  Last year’s festival closer was rapper/producer Q-Tip; one
of the friends who joined him was  Kanye West .  “They’re absolute monsters,” said Wes Jackson, who
founded the festival and is its director. Monsters, just to be
clear, are good.  Some 20,000 people attended one or more shows during the
weeklong run in 2011. The festival takes over venues from
Williamsburg to Dumbo. Tonight’s concert, a battle of emcees
featuring a number of hip-hop performers, is at the  Brooklyn
Bowl , a bowling alley doubling as a music spot and restaurant.  Other events include a symposium focusing on intellectual
analysis of hip-hop and the genre’s growth; a tribute to some of
hip-hop’s most influential DJ’s; a film festival screening new
and old films touching on hip-hop culture; and a block party
recalling hip-hop’s earliest days.  Cultural Impact  Jackson envisioned the celebration as hip-hop’s version of
the  New Orleans Jazz Festival , which he attended in 2004. Moved
by the energy and the cultural impact he witnessed there, he
concluded that hip-hop needed, and deserved, a similar event.  According to Jackson, the Brooklyn Hip-Hop Festival is an
opportunity for the “the uninformed and the super nerd to
appreciate different aspects of hip-hop culture.” His main
goal, he said, is to push the art form forward.  To do so, Jackson and his team -- mostly volunteers at the
mom-and-pop marketing hub known as the Brooklyn Bodega -- make
it a goal every year to keep ticket prices as low as possible.
This allows greater access to all the events, distinguishing the
week from what Jackson calls “monochromatic” hip-hop festivals
with tickets priced upwards of $100 for one or two days of
events.  That same $100 gets you into every event at the Brooklyn
festival. (Tickets for the Busta Rhymes concert are $30.)  Jackson, 38, grew up in the South Bronx and still recalls
the time when hip-hop was performed outdoors, in parks, where
everyone could enjoy it. The festival’s success led to bigger
audiences and higher-profile artists, challenging the team to
find innovative ways to keep prices low.  A  Kickstarter  campaign was launched on June 5 to close a
$15,000 deficit. The money was raised in just over two weeks.  Jackson credits the quick success of the campaign to a core
hip-hop community within what he calls hip-hop’s current
“hyper-capitalism” age.  “There still exist people who support something natural,”
he added, “and that’s awesome.”  The Brooklyn Hip-Hop Festival begins tonight. Information:
 http://www.bkhiphopfestival.com .  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Richard
Vines  on food.  To contact the writer of this column:
Andrew Boryga at  aboryga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 