-- California’s Brown Wins Tax Measure Ballot Order Fight
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-09T21:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/california-s-brown-wins-tax-measure-ballot-order-fight.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  won a
court ruling allowing his income tax initiative to be listed on
the state’s November ballot above a rival measure sponsored by a
group headed by civil rights attorney Molly Munger.  State court Judge Michael Kenny in  Sacramento  today
rejected the suit by Munger’s group, Our Children, Our Future,
that sought to derail legislation aimed at giving Brown’s
initiative an upper hand at the polls.  California lawmakers included language in a June budget
bill requiring bond measures and constitutional amendments to
get top billing on statewide ballot pamphlets. That legislation,
and Kenny’s ruling today, pushes Brown’s tax proposal above
Munger’s, according to an e-mailed statement from Nathan Ballard, a spokesman for Munger’s group.  “No matter where we end up on the ballot, the fact remains
that our measure will reboot California’s public schools by
sending $10 billion a year into a separate  trust fund  for
education that can’t be touched by the governor or the
Legislature,” Ballard said in the statement. He said Munger’s
group won’t appeal today’s court ruling.  ‘An Abuse’  Molly Munger , the daughter of  Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/A)  Inc. Vice
Chairman Charles Munger, sued in June to block the ballot
ordering provision, calling it “an abuse of the political
process and legislative power.” The change pushed Brown’s tax
proposal to the top of the pamphlet from ninth.  Brown, a Democrat, and a teachers’ union collected
signatures asking voters in November to temporarily raise the
state sales tax and income taxes on the wealthy to erase a $15.7
billion deficit and eliminate a recurring shortfall that has
plagued the most populous U.S. state for the last decade. The
revenue already is calculated into the fiscal 2013 budget. If
voters say no, it would trigger a $5.5 billion cut from schools,
the equivalent to three weeks off the academic year.  Brown said at a news conference today in Oakland that his
measure is “so important that it deserves the dignity of being
ranked with other constitutional measures and bond issues” on
the ballot.  “We’re going forward and I think we’re on the right
track,” he said. “Ultimately the people will choose.”  A bill passed this month removes an $11 billion water-bond
proposition from the November ballot on concern that too many
high-cost measures might jeopardize Brown’s proposed tax
increase.  Joe Arellano, another spokesman for Munger’s group, said in
an e-mail that the precise positioning of propositions won’t be
known until Secretary of State Debra Bowen assigns ballot
numbers and releases the order later this week.  Shannan Velayas, a spokeswoman for Bowen, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is Our Children, Our Future v. Bowen,
2012-80001194, California Superior Court (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  