-- California Bullet-Train Spending Arms Brown’s Opponents
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/california-bullet-train-spending-arms-brown-s-opponents.html
Opponents of California Governor
 Jerry Brown ’s proposed tax increase say they were handed more
ammunition by the Legislature’s vote to start funding his $68
billion high-speed rail project.  The Democratic governor, whose party controls both the
Senate and Assembly, received authorization to spend $4.75
billion from bonds to begin construction of a bullet train in
the most indebted U.S. state.  The vote follows adoption of a budget that will chop three
weeks off the school year for 6 million public-school students
if voters reject Brown’s tax initiative. At the same time, the
74-year-old governor and fellow Democrats are at an impasse on
lowering public-employee pension costs, while polls show waning
support for the rail project.  “It’s incredibly tone-deaf to reject something voters
want, like pension reform, while approving something they don’t
want, like high-speed rail,” said  Aaron McLear , a spokesman for
the anti-tax campaign. “Enacting billions of dollars in
unpopular spending while dismissing popular reform is not the
way to sell” a tax increase.  One in three likely voters, including one in five who back
Brown’s initiative, said they’d be less inclined to support the
tax increase if lawmakers funded the rail project, according to
a  Field Poll  released July 5.  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains running as fast as 220 miles an hour (354 kilometers an
hour), after Congress cut off 2012 funds for such projects.
Construction on the system, to link  San Francisco  with Los
Angeles, is to begin with a 130-mile stretch of rail down
 California ’s Central Valley.  Cost, Route  Republicans and some Democrats in the Legislature
criticized the plan for its cost, the initial route through the
less-populated valley, and the wisdom of spending on high-speed
rail when deficits have cut funds for schools and the poor.  Democrats said they needed to move forward with the
spending to capture $3.3 billion of promised federal funds.
Brown and his supporters also said jobs created by the project
will lower unemployment, which reached a rate of 10.8 percent in
May, above the national rate of 8.2 percent.  “In 2008, the voters passed the high-speed rail
initiative,” approving bonds for the project, said Senate
President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento .
“Now I know that polls wax and wane, but four years after a
voter-approved initiative, the people expect us to get going.”  Voter Surveys  Voter surveys are on Democrats’ minds because Brown and a
teacher’s union have put a measure on the November ballot asking
to temporarily raise taxes. The sales levy, already the highest
in the U.S., would go to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent. Income
tax rates would rise on earnings over $250,000 a year. Those
making $1 million or more, now paying 10.3 percent, would be
assessed at 13.3 percent.  If the higher taxes are rejected by voters, $6.1 billion
will be automatically cut from state spending -- $5.5 billion
coming from schools, enough to pay for 15 days of classes.  “We’re cutting the school year, releasing violent felons
early, and the governor wants to increase taxes on every
Californian while spending billions we don’t have on a project
citizens don’t want,” said Senator Doug LaMalfa, a Richvale
Republican. “Voters simply aren’t buying the line that we need
to cut education and public safety but have ample money for
high-speed rail, and they’re right not to.”  Democrats respond that funds from bonds sold for the high-
speed rail project can’t be put to other uses.  While 53 percent of voters approved a  bond issue  for the
project in 2008, a USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times poll published
June 3 found that 59 percent would oppose it if given another
chance to decide.  Tax Merits  “The voters in November will judge us on whether we get
pension-reform done, and whether or not we continue on what thus
far has been a very productive session and very productive
year,” Steinberg said. “They will judge the tax measure on its
merits.”  To broaden popular support for the rail plan, the
California High-Speed Rail Authority in April chopped $30
billion off a price tag that had ballooned to $98.5 billion.
When voters approved the bonds in 2008, the state was estimating
the cost at $43 billion.  The initial route runs from Merced, about 120 miles south
of Sacramento, the capital, to the San Fernando Valley, north of
 Los Angeles . To connect with the population centers of Los
Angeles and San Francisco, the bill authorizes $2 billion of
bond funds to upgrade existing commuter and freight lines to
handle high-speed traffic.  State Future  Brown endorsed the project in January, saying California’s
future hinges on spending billions to link its cities with
bullet trains and on other big public-works projects.  “In 2008, California voters decided to create jobs and
modernize our state’s rail transportation system with a major
investment in high-speed rail and key local projects in Northern
and  Southern California ,” Brown said in a statement after the
Senate vote.  He praised lawmakers for their “bold action” that puts
Californians “back to work and puts California out in front
once again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  