-- Camco Appoints Marren as CFO After Shares Drop 76%
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-07-09T16:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/camco-appoints-marren-as-cfo-after-shares-drop-76-.html
Camco International Ltd. (CAO) , a London-
based developer of clean-energy and carbon-offset projects,
appointed Jonathan Marren as chief financial officer and board
member starting today, after the  company’s shares dropped  76
percent in the past year.  Marren, 37, was deputy head of corporate finance at Singer
Capital Markets and before that a director in the corporate
department of Peel Hunt LLP, and he had been advising Camco in
those roles since 2006, he said today.  “Carbon is a difficult asset class,” Marren said in a
phone interview. “Investors need to spend a lot of time to
understand it.”  Camco has diversified away from United-Nations-overseen
carbon credits by investing in energy-efficiency and renewable-
power projects. The company lost 29.2 million euros ($36
million) in 2011 after writing down the value of its credits by
21.7 million euros.  Credits plunged 63 percent in the past year, as Camco
received a record delivery of offsets of about 12.8 million
metric tons, up 58 percent, according to the annual report
published last month. The resulting loss prompted  Scott McGregor , chief executive officer, to waive his bonus and long-
term incentive entitlement for 2011.  The shares closed unchanged today at 5.13 pence in London,
valuing the company at 9.7 million pounds ($15 million). “I see
the value of the business being substantially above where it
currently is” in the equity market, Marren said.  The start next year of  California ’s carbon market may help
boost investor sentiment, McGregor said in the same interview.  A three-judge panel of the state’s appeals court ruled June
19 that a study performed before choosing cap and trade as a way
to curb emissions complied with California’s global-warming act.
The ruling upheld a lower court’s dismissal of a lawsuit filed
by the Association of Irritated Residents and other groups.  “The last court case being thrown out was a big step”
because it indicates there are fewer potential roadblocks left
to prevent the market’s beginning on Jan. 1, McGregor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  