-- Campbell to Buy Bolthouse for $1.55 Billion to Add Juices
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-07-09T21:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/campbell-agrees-to-buy-bolthouse-for-1-55-billion-to-add-juices.html
Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , world’s largest
soupmaker, agreed to buy Bolthouse Farms for about $1.55 billion
in cash to bolster its juice business.  Bolthouse had sales of $689 million and earnings before
interest and taxes of $79 million in its fiscal year ended March
31, Camden, New Jersey-based Campbell said today in a statement.
Bakersfield, California-based Bolthouse is being bought from
private-equity fund Madison Dearborn Partners LLC. The purchase
price includes no debt.  Buying Bolthouse will strengthen Campbell’s U.S. beverage
division, which makes the V8 brand of juice and accounted for
about 10 percent of sales in the year ended July 31. That unit
was Campbell’s fastest-growing last quarter, generating $208
million in revenue, while sales in its soup unit have slowed.  “While it’s encouraging that they’re growing out their
faster-growing healthy beverage business, the addition of
Bolthouse doesn’t address the challenges that Campbell’s still
faces in its domestic soup business,” Erin Lash, a Chicago-
based analyst with Morningstar Inc., said today in an interview.  Campbell fell 0.8 percent to $32.72 at the close in  New
York . The shares have fallen 1.6 percent this year.  Campbell’s U.S. beverage business boosted sales 2 percent
to $593 million through the nine months ended April 29. Sales in
its U.S. Simple Meals business, which includes soup, have
declined 2 percent to about $2.3 billion in the same nine
months.  Soups Focus  The company won’t lose focus on the North American soups
business, Chief Executive Officer Denise Morrison said today in
a conference call. The Bolthouse purchase also won’t get in the
way of opportunities to expand outside  North America , Morrison
said.  “This is an area in which have done extensive work in the
past year and we are continuing our vigorous pursuit of
attractive acquisitions and partnerships in international,” she
said.  Previous management at Campbell had considered bids for
Bolthouse and passed, a person familiar with the matter said
last week. Morrison, who took over last year, was more
interested than predecessor Doug Conant, said the person.  Private-equity firms such as Ares Management LLC and Advent
International Corp. also explored bids for Bolthouse, a person
familiar with the matter said last week.  Deal Valuation  At $1.55 billion, Campbell’s purchase of Bolthouse would be
about 19.6 times Bolthouse’s $79 million of Ebit in the 12
months through March 31 and about 16.8 times its $92 million of
adjusted Ebit, which excludes costs to close some plants. In a
survey of almost 150 similar deals in the past decade, the
median price buyers paid was 13.5 times earnings before interest
and taxes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It does look like it’s slightly rich,” Lash said.  The deal is valued at about 9.5 times Bolthouse’s fiscal
2012 adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, which takes into account the present value of
estimated tax benefits, Chief Financial Officer Craig Owens said
on the call.  Bolthouse’s roots date back almost a century, when the
family of the same name began commercial vegetable farming in
 Michigan , according to the company’s website. Bolthouse, which
employs about 2,100 people, now sells fresh carrots, beverages
and salad dressings as well as private-label products.  Madison Dearborn, founded 20 years ago in  Chicago , acquired
Bolthouse in 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
buyout firm’s other investments have included pay-as-you-go
wireless carrier MetroPCS Communications Inc. and LA Fitness
International LLC, a North American chain of gyms.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was financial adviser to Campbell, and Davis
Polk & Wardwell served as legal counsel. Bolthouse Farms was
advised by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
with Kirkland & Ellis LLP acting as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  