-- Canadian Dollar Falls Against Major Peers as Risk Demand Wanes
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-09T21:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/canadian-dollar-falls-to-lowest-in-a-week-as-risk-demand-wanes.html
Canada’s dollar fell versus a
majority of its most-traded counterparts, dropping to the lowest
level in more than a week against its U.S. peer, as  risk
aversion  damped demand.  The currency fell along with its commodity-linked peers of
 Australia  and  New Zealand  against havens such as the yen and
Swiss franc as regional finance ministers gathered in Brussels
to discuss crisis-fighting measures. Spanish and Italian bonds
fell amid concern ministers will fail to stem the euro area’s
woes.  “Concern over Spanish bond yields is causing the market to
take a bit of risk off the table,” said Blake Jespersen,
managing director of institutional foreign exchange sales in
Toronto at Bank of Montreal, in a telephone interview. “I’d
expect the Canadian dollar to weaken off against the U.S. dollar
over the course of the week.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is sometimes known,
weakened as much as 0.3 percent to C$1.0221 per  U.S. dollar , the
lowest since June 29, before trading little changed at 5 p.m. in
Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 98.11 cents.  Jespersen predicted the loonie may drop to C$1.03 this week
against the greenback.  The Canadian dollar may fall against its U.S. peer after a
“bullish outside bar” confirmed technical chart patterns,
according to MacNeil Curry at Bank of America Corp.  The currency, dubbed the loonie, may drop to C$1.05 per
U.S. dollar, Curry, head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates
technical strategy in  New York  at Bank of America, wrote in a
note to clients today. Chart patterns show a “three wave
decline” into the 200-day moving average at C$1.0114.  “What we’ve seen over the last five weeks is just a
classic counter-trend correction” in a larger downward trend
for commodities and their tied currencies, Curry said in a
telephone interview.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (MXWD)  declined 0.2 percent. The
MSCI All-Country World Index fell 0.5 percent. Italian 10-year
debt yields rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 6.07 percent, while Spanish 10-year yields added 11 basis
points to 6.98 percent.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback increased for the first day in five,
rising to 7.65 percent, after falling to 6.59 percent on April
30, the lowest this year. The five-year average is 12 percent.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Government  bonds  advanced for a second day, pushing the
yield on the benchmark 10-year bond lower by three basis points
to 1.66 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent security maturing
in June 2022 rose 26 cents to C$109.93.  “Risk-seeking still seems hesitant,” Brian Kim, a
currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said by e-mail. “The Canadian dollar could
struggle against the U.S. dollar. But it has a clearer relative
fundamental advantage versus the crosses.”  Canada ’s dollar reached the highest in more than two years
against the euro after the  European Central Bank  cut its key
 interest rate  last week. The Bank of Canada will hold its policy
rate unchanged at 1 percent through year-end, according to the
median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Swaps Data  Trading in overnight index swaps showed odds of no change
in the central bank’s target rate at its July 17 policy meeting
were about 97 percent, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The euro dropped as much as 0.5 percent to C$1.2466 today,
the lowest since June 10, 2010.  “Our bias towards a lower euro versus the Canadian dollar
continues to be vindicated,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London , wrote
in a note to clients today. “We would regard rallies back to
C$1.2595 as being worth fading.”  The loonie has gained 1.8 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies in Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes, with the U.S. dollar adding 1.6 percent. The leading
decliner is the euro, dropping 4 percent.  The  New Zealand dollar , up 4.5 percent in 2012, is the top
performer in the Bloomberg indexes. The Australian dollar is up
1.6 percent.  Commodity Currencies  “It’s time for commodity currencies to catch up to the
downside,” said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European currency
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., by phone from London. “I
definitely would think about buying” the U.S. dollar versus the
Canadian dollar.  Canadian businesses are less optimistic about their future
sales on concern about the global economy, according to a  Bank
of Canada  survey that also shows companies’ hiring intentions
matching a record high.  The balance of opinion for sales during the next year fell
to 15 percentage points in the central bank’s survey of about
100 executives. The prior balance of 35 points was the highest
since the first quarter of 2010.  “Businesses generally remain positive about the outlook,
but are mindful of renewed uncertainty regarding the global
economic environment,” the Ottawa-based bank said today in its
survey of about 100 executives taken May 22 to June 14.  Canadian housing starts fell to 205,000 last month,
compared with 211,400 in May, according to the median of 20
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Canada Mortgage and Housing
Corp. is due to report the data tomorrow in Ottawa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  