-- Chelsea’s Terry Racially Abused Ferdinand, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-09T13:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/chelsea-captain-john-terry-faces-racism-charge-at-london-trial.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry  shouted
racial abuse at Queens Park Rangers player  Anton Ferdinand 
during an Oct. 23 Premier League soccer match, prosecutors said.  Terry called Ferdinand a “f---ing black c---,” prosecutor
Duncan Penny told a judge at a trial in London today. Terry’s
lawyer said the Chelsea captain only used the epithet after
Ferdinand accused him of racial abuse during the match.  “The behavior was intended to be abusive and insulting,”
Penny said on the first day of the magistrates court trial. The
comment was “demonstrating hostility to Mr. Ferdinand’s
membership of a racial group.”  The 31-year-old Terry was charged in December with a
racially-aggravated public order offense for using threatening,
abusive or insulting words or behavior against Ferdinand, a
defender for Queens Park Rangers. Terry was stripped of the
captaincy of the England national football team until the case
was resolved.  Penny told the judge that Terry’s defense will be that the
comments were sarcastic, and not meant to be abusive. Chelsea
lost 1-0 to QPR in the game at Loftus Road. Terry said afterward
that he had spoken with Ferdinand and that “it was all a
misunderstanding.” Chelsea has said it would support Terry.  Ferdinand testified that he didn’t hear Terry make the
racial comment during the game and didn’t know about it until
his girlfriend showed him the video clip in the players’ lounge
after the game.  Just Banter  Ferdinand said Terry asked to speak with him after the game
and they both agreed it was just banter. Ferdinand hadn’t seen
the video at that point.  He said that if he knew what Terry had said, “he would’ve
been very hurt.” Cursing is just banter, but “when someone
puts your color into it, it takes it to another level.”
Ferdinand testified if he knew what Terry said, “there would’ve
been an altercation” after the game.  On cross-examination, Terry lawyer George Carter-Stephenson
said Terry used the racial epithet only after Ferdinand accused
the Chelsea captain of racially abusing his client during the
match.  Property Purchases  Ferdinand denied Carter-Stephenson’s suggestion that the
two men had resolved their differences enough that they
discussed property purchases.  Terry was captain of the England soccer team until Feb. 3,
when the Football Association stripped him of the role until the
racism charge was resolved. Chelsea won the  Champions League 
final against  Bayern Munich  in May. England manager  Roy Hodgson ,
who was appointed in May, selected Terry to play in the Euro
2012 Championships in Poland and Ukraine.  Terry has lost the England captaincy once before. Then-
England manager  Fabio Capello  stripped him of the role in
February 2010 over allegations of marital infidelity with the
ex-girlfriend of former teammate  Wayne Bridge . He was then
reinstated in March 2011 during Euro 2012 qualifying.  Ferdinand told the court today that the exchange followed
the two players barging into each other going for the ball.
Terry then sought a penalty from the referee, Ferdinand said.  The men exchanged profanities and then Ferdinand said he
gestured at Terry, cursed again, and referenced the affair.  “You shagged your teammate’s missus,” Ferdinand recounted
saying to the court.  Terry faces a maximum fine of 2,500 pounds ($3,900) if
convicted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 