-- Chelsea’s Terry Told Police Racial Insult Was Sarcastic Response
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-09T23:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/chelsea-s-terry-told-police-racial-insult-was-sarcastic-response.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry  told
police that he used a racial insult during a soccer game with
Queens Park Rangers, although he said he was only sarcastically
repeating an accusation from opposing player Anton Ferdinand.  Terry, the former skipper of the England national team,
said he heard Ferdinand “say something which ended with the
words ‘Calling me a black c---,’” prosecutor Duncan Penny told
the court yesterday on the first day of a trial in  London . The
defender said he was reacting to Ferdinand’s allegation that he
was calling him a “black c---” and he repeated the phrase back
sarcastically, according to prosecutors.  Terry, 31, whose team two months ago won its first European
Cup title, and who earns as much as 150,000 pounds ($233,000) a
week, appeared in court wearing a gray suit and pink tie. His
lawyer, George Carter-Stephenson, accused Ferdinand of making up
the allegations after earlier attempts to “wind up” Terry by
referring to an extramarital affair he had with the ex-
girlfriend of former teammate  Wayne Bridge  failed.  The trial, which highlights interaction between players in
the world’s richest soccer league, comes after the incident
created turmoil in the English game. National team coach Fabio Capello quit after the Football Association stripped Terry of
the England captaincy for the second time when Chelsea asked to
delay the trial, arguing the case would disrupt its season.  Ferdinand, 27, was the first witness called to give
evidence against Terry, who is accused of a racially-aggravated
public order offense for using threatening, abusive or insulting
words or behavior against the QPR player. If convicted, Terry
could be fined as much as 2,500 pounds and may face sanctions
from English soccer’s governing body.  Lip-Reading  Testimony from Ferdinand and lip-reading experts and
several video replays were used to illustrate the confrontation,
which took place late in the Oct. 23 game at QPR’s Loftus Road.  “The behavior was intended to be abusive and insulting,”
Penny said. The comment was “demonstrating hostility to Mr.
Ferdinand’s membership of a racial group.”  Terry called Ferdinand a “f---ing black c---” in response
to provocative comments and gestures made by the QPR player,
prosecutors said.  The exchange followed the two players barging into each
other going for the ball, and turned into an argument after
Ferdinand felt Terry had tried to cheat to win a penalty. The
men exchanged profanities and then Ferdinand said he gestured at
Terry, cursed again, and referenced the affair.  “You shagged your teammate’s missus,” Ferdinand recounted
as saying while a video replays showing him and Terry exchanging
words were shown to the court several times at different speeds
and from several angles.  Videos  Ferdinand said he hadn’t realized Terry had racially abused
him during the game or when Chelsea defender  Ashley Cole  called
him to speak with Terry in the away locker room after the match.
He said he’d agreed with Terry that a racial epithet wasn’t
directed at him because he hadn’t heard or seen it until a
former girlfriend showed it to him on her Blackberry mobile
phone after the match, and after he’d spoken with Terry.  Lip-reading expert Susan Whitewood agreed bad language had
been used before conceding under questioning that lip-reading
couldn’t always be accurate.  In more than an hour of cross examination, Carter-
Stephenson and Ferdinand raised their voices, with Ferdinand
frequently glancing at family members in the public gallery.  Ferdinand didn’t make the initial complaint about racial
abuse to the police. He made a statement to the police after
deciding he wouldn’t, thinking the matter would be dealt with by
soccer authorities. Carter-Stephenson said Ferdinand only did so
after being made to by his public relations agent.  Changed Mind  “I changed my mind,” Ferdinand said. “Nobody can change
my mind.”  Ferdinand said had he actually heard the words Terry is
alleged to have spoken there would have been an “altercation.”
Asked to clarify what he meant, he said a “fight.”  Cursing is just banter, but “when someone puts your color
into it, it takes it to another level,” Ferdinand said.  Terry lost the England captaincy in February. He missed
Chelsea’s Champions League final against  Bayern Munich  in May
after being sent off in the semifinal, although he joined
teammate  Frank Lampard  in collecting the trophy at the end of
the game. He played every minute of England’s run to the
quarterfinal of the European Championship.  Terry had been stripped of the captaincy by Capello in
February 2010 over the allegations of marital infidelity. He was
reinstated in March 2011 during Euro 2012 qualifying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 