-- Chelsea’s $24.5 Million Schurrle Bid Is Rebuffed: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-09T08:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/chelsea-s-24-5-million-schurrle-bid-is-rebuffed-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bid Rebuffed  Chelsea had a bid of about 20 million euros ($24.5 million)
for  Germany  forward Andre Schurrle rejected by  Bayer Leverkusen ,
the  Sun reported .  “Both clubs shoved figures back and forth but we opted to
hold on to Andre,” the Sun cited Leverkusen Chief Executive
Officer Wolfgang Holzhauser as saying. “He’s too important for
us on the pitch.”  Carroll Loan  AC Milan is considering a loan move for Liverpool striker
Andy Carroll after his name came up when the clubs were
discussing midfielder  Alberto Aquilani ’s return to Anfield
following a year in Milan, the  Daily Mail reported .  Separately, Liverpool had a bid rejected for Real Madrid
midfielder Esteban Granero, the  same newspaper reported .  Mancini’s Contract  Roberto Mancini  is close to signing a new Manchester City
contract even though the Russian Football Union is lining up an
offer worth 6.5 million pounds ($10 million) a year for him to
coach the Russia national team, the  Sun reported .  Mancini’s lawyers are going through the small-print on a
new four-year agreement with the Premier League champion before
the Italian signs it, the Sun added.  Guatemalan Winger  Wigan manager  Roberto Martinez  wants Chicago Fire winger
Marco Pappa to replace Victor Moses should he leave for Chelsea,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Guatemalan is set to agree to a pre-contract with
Wigan, and could become the first player from his country to
play in the Premier League if he can get a work permit.  Chamakh Bid  Italian club Fiorentina made a bid for Arsenal striker
Marouane Chamakh, who scored one goal for the Gunners last
season, the  Mail reported .  Chamakh had been linked with a move to former club
Bordeaux, although a deal didn’t happen, the Mail added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  