-- Chile Peso Shorts Fall to Seven-Week Low With Offshore Investors
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-09T18:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/chile-peso-shorts-fall-to-six-week-low-among-offshore-investors.html
International investors in the
Chilean peso forwards market reduced their bets against the
currency to the smallest in seven weeks as the strength of the
domestic economy blunts concern about slowing global growth.  Traders outside of  Chile  had a $9 billion short peso
position on July 5, the smallest since May 18, according to
central bank data published today.  The peso is the best-performing Latin American currency in
the past five trading days, appreciating 1.2 percent as  Brazil ’s
real depreciated 2.4 percent. Chile’s economy grew 5.3 percent
in the 12 months through May and last month the country posted
its third trade surplus of at least $1 billion in four months,
beating the $700 million estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Chile’s 5 percent benchmark  interest rate  means that
holders of the peso can benefit from the differential between
peso and dollar rates.  “There is downward pressure on the dollar in Chile because
although we had low inflation, economic activity indexes are
strong,” said Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards at
EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA. “It’s expensive to stay
long dollars, but if you go long pesos you get paid every day.”  The peso gained 0.8 percent to an eight-week high of 494.44
from 498.45 on July 6. Local investors, led by pension funds and
excluding banks and brokers, had a $16.9 billion long peso
position, down from $17.5 billion a day earlier.  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency strategist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , says the Chilean peso
may outperform the dollar and the Colombian peso because of the
resilience of Chile’s economy. Chinese inflation at a 29-month
low may make it easier for authorities to stimulate growth in
the biggest buyer of Chilean copper, Cattan-Naslausky said.  Investors willing to add risk should take small positions
in the Chilean and Mexican pesos against the dollar, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  