-- China Yurun Food Declines After Management Change
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-09T05:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/china-yurun-food-declines-after-management-change.html
China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068) , the
nation’s second-largest meat-product supplier, fell to a more
than five-year low in Hong Kong trading after its chairman and
founder Zhu Yicai left active management of the company.  China Yurun declined 9.2 percent to HK$6.43 as of the mid-
day break, headed for its lowest price since October 2006. The
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  dropped 1.4 percent.  The company appointed Chief Executive Officer Yu Zhangli as
chairman and named Li Shibao as his replacement, the change
coming less than ten days after it rejected allegations of
accounting irregularities and contaminated products as
“groundless.” Yu was named CEO in March after the company said
first-quarter earnings suffered from a 2011 news report about
illegal additives in some of its meat.  “We are cautious about its recovery progress and the
impact on both fundamentals and sentiment of the leadership
reshuffle,” said Jessie Guo, an analyst at Jefferies Hong Kong
Ltd., who today cut her price target on the stock to HK$7.80
from HK$9, in a note to clients. “Regaining market confidence
will still take time.”  Yu now becomes chairman, replacing Zhu Yicai, who also quit
as an  executive director  and was appointed honorary chairman and
senior adviser, Yurun said in a July 6 statement.  Stock Plunge  On June 28, the Nanjing-based meat processor fell 13
percent in Hong Kong trading to HK$6.51, the lowest since
October 2006, amid speculation about its use of cash and loans.
Yurun’s “large amount of cash on hand” raises questions
because it also has low interest income and a high level of
loans, Sean Zhang, an analyst at SWS Research Co., wrote in a
note that day.  Yurun’s 2011 profit dropped 34 percent to HK$1.8 billion
($232 million), the company said on March 9. That missed the
median estimate of HK$1.94 billion from 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The company, which publishes earnings semi-
annually, doesn’t provide quarterly numbers.  “The company failed to clear investors’ doubts in many
aspects,” said Forrest Chan, an analyst at CCB International
Securities in a phone interview today. “Yurun didn’t give any
operational sales updates to us which makes it very hard for us
to properly analyze the company.”  Zhu, who founded Yurun in 1993, stepped down as chairman
because of “engagements and commitments in serving the
community and his personal investments, which require more of
his dedication,” Yurun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  