-- China’s Stocks Drop Most in Month on Economy, Deflation Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-09T08:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/china-s-stock-futures-fall-on-concerns-about-economy-property.html
China’s stocks  fell by the most in a
month, after a drop in producer prices fueled concern deflation
may spread to other parts of the economy and Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said the economy faces “relatively large” downward pressure.  PetroChina Co., the biggest energy producer, dropped 2.7
percent to a record low before a report later this week that may
show economic growth slowed to 7.7 percent in the second
quarter.  Angang Steel Co. (000898)  paced declines for steelmakers after
saying it expects to swing to a loss in the first half. Data
today showed consumer prices rose 2.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, compared with the 2.3 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, while producer prices slid 2.1 percent.  “A lower inflation figure actually implies the economy is
slowing down more than expected,” said Cao Xuefeng, an analyst
at Huaxi Securities. “Investors are quite worried that other
data this month will be below expectations.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 52.77 points, or 2.4
percent, to 2,170.81 at the close, the biggest decline since
June 4. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 2.3 percent to 2,416.04. The
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
companies in  New York  lost 0.1 percent last week, after sinking
1.5 percent on July 6.  China ’s benchmark stock index fell last week on concern the
government isn’t doing enough to stem an economic slowdown that
will hurt company earnings. The Shanghai gauge, which has lost 1
percent this year, trades at 9.6 times estimated profit,
compared with the average of 17.6 since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 2006.  Commodity Stocks  Wen said the government will intensify fine-tuning of
policies even as measures taken since April are helping
stabilize a slowdown. The People’s Bank of China lowered the
benchmark one-year lending rate by 0.31 percentage point on July
5, the second rate cut in a month.  Wen’s comments were made during a tour of Jiangsu province,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The premier
also pledged to “unswervingly” continue property controls and
prevent prices from rebounding, Xinhua said.  Gauges of energy and material stocks in the CSI 300 fell
4.1 percent and 2.8 percent respectively. Jiangxi Copper, the
largest producer of the metal, slid 2 percent to 23.71  yuan .
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. slumped 3.9 percent to 5.89 yuan.
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. declined 3.9 percent to 18.50 yuan.
PetroChina lost 2.7 percent to 8.86 yuan, the lowest close since
its listing in November 2007.  Deflation Risks  China’s benchmark price for power-station coal fell for a
ninth week, the longest period of losses since at least 2008, as
slowing economic growth and increased use of hydropower crimped
electricity demand.  Angang Steel declined 2.9 percent to 3.74 yuan. The company
said it expects to swing to a loss in the first half after
prices plunged. Weakening exports and China’s curbs on property
have eroded steel demand and prices. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.,
the listed unit of China’s second-biggest steelmaker, slumped
2.6 percent to 4.17 yuan.  China’s consumer-price inflation eased to a 29-month low in
June, giving Wen more room to relax economic policies. The
 consumer price index  rose 2.2 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing. Producer
prices dropped 2.1 percent, versus the median forecast for a 2
percent fall.  Deflation may become a bigger concern than inflation,
Xianfang Ren, China economist at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a
report. The deflationary spiral looks to have started in some
industrial sectors and the last time China saw such a long slide
in producer prices was during the global financial crisis, Ren
said.  Growth Concerns  Exports from the world’s second-largest economy probably
climbed 10.6 percent in June, after a 15.3 percent increase in
May, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey ahead of official data tomorrow.  A government report on July 13 is expected to show the
economy expanded at the slowest pace in three years, according
to the median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months, the
fifth quarterly slowdown.  Chinese economists’ forecasts for second-quarter growth are
“too optimistic,” according to Lu Ting, China economist at
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Bank of America estimates growth of 7.5 percent in the
second quarter though it may be as low as 7.3 percent to 7.4
percent, Lu said in a Bloomberg Television interview today from
 Hong Kong . He predicts two more rate cuts by the end of this
year and three more reductions in lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios. The central bank has cut reserve ratios three times
since November in an effort to spur lending to small companies.  Appliance Stocks  GD Midea Holding Co. (000527) , China’s second-biggest publicly
traded appliance maker, plunged 9.8 percent to 9.90 yuan.
Qingdao Haier Co. fell 4 percent to 11.40 yuan.  Some Chinese home appliance manufacturers have been
improperly receiving energy-saving appliance subsidies for
products that aren’t qualified, the state-run China National
Radio reported, citing its own investigation.  Guoguang Electric Co., which makes home-theater speakers,
slumped 6.8 percent to 4.14 yuan. First-half profit may have
dropped as much as 90 percent, compared with an earlier
projection of as much as 50 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at   wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  