-- China Inflation May Let Wen Intensify Growth Efforts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-09T07:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/china-inflation-eases-to-29-month-low-in-june.html
China ’s  inflation  eased to a 29-month
low and Premier Wen Jiabao said the government will intensify
its response to the economy’s slowdown as growth wanes in Asian
neighbors from Japan to  Vietnam .  The consumer price  index (MXAP)  rose 2.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, the government said today in Beijing. Japan’s May
machinery orders fell the most since 2001, while  Hong Kong  and
Vietnam signaled growth may fall short of official forecasts.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said China will boost public
investment and Credit Agricole CIB forecast cuts in taxes and
banks’ reserve requirements after Wen was reported as saying
downward pressure on the economy is still “relatively large.”
Asian nations are becoming increasingly dependent on China to
drive growth as Europe’s deepening debt turmoil crimps exports
and the U.S. labor market slows.  “Inflation is dead and growth is by far the main concern
in Asia,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING
Financial Markets in Singapore, who previously worked at the
 World Bank .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell 1.4 percent at
4:14 p.m. in Tokyo, set for the biggest drop in a month. The
gauge has declined about 15 percent in the past year. China’s
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index dropped 2.4 percent, the
largest decline since June 4.  China’s inflation compared with the 2.3 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 32 analysts. Producer
 prices  dropped 2.1 percent, versus the median forecast for a 2
percent fall. Consumer-price gains have now stayed below Wen’s 4
percent target for five months.  Rate Reduction  The government lowered benchmark  interest rates  on July 5
for the second time in a month, adding to the first reduction
since 2008 and three cuts in banks’ reserve requirements
starting in November. At the same time, Wen said officials will
“unswervingly” continue property controls and prevent  home
prices  from rebounding, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday.  China will probably make one more quarter-point cut in
interest rates this year and two more half-point reductions in
the reserve-requirement ratio, according to median estimates in
Bloomberg News surveys conducted July 5-9.  Japan today reported a current-account surplus that was the
smallest for the month of May since at least 1985, while
machinery orders, an indicator of  capital spending , fell 14.8
percent in May from the previous month.  Forecast Revision  Hong Kong may revise its 2012 economic forecast next month,
Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said on July 7. In Vietnam,
Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van Ninh said the country may miss its
growth target and the central bank told lenders to cut borrowing
costs on existing loans to help businesses.  The latest reading on the  U.S. economy  will come via
consumer credit data to be released today. German exports
rebounded more than economists forecast in May, helping Europe’s
largest economy to weather the sovereign debt crisis.  China’s economy  may have expanded 7.7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, down from 8.1 percent in the prior
three months, analysts  estimated  ahead of government data due
July 13.  Today’s reports showed the CPI in June fell 0.6 percent
from May, the biggest drop in two years, while producer prices
declined 0.7 percent from the previous month.  The data “show that deflation could become a larger
concern for China than inflation,”  Ren Xianfang , a Beijing-
based economist with IHS Global Insight Ltd., said in a research
note. “While an economy-wide generalized deflation is yet to be
seen, the deflationary spiral looks to have started in some
industrial sectors, attesting to considerable stress with the
economy.”  Food Disinflation  Food, which accounts for about a third of the consumer-
price basket, rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier, the least in
2 1/2 years and down from 14.8 percent in July 2011.  The inflation slowdown reflects in part a decline in
commodity prices. The S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
has dropped about 11 percent in the past year.  The last time consumer-price increases slowed to this level
in 2008, the People’s Bank of China was in the midst of five
lending-rate cuts totaling 216 basis points.  Today’s report “should provide room for another rate cut”
later in the quarter if the government wants to, said  Wang Tao ,
chief China economist for UBS AG in Hong Kong.  Last week’s action by the central bank reduced the one-year
lending rate by 31 basis points to 6 percent and one-year
deposit rate by 25 basis points to 3 percent. The nation moved
in tandem with the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England ,
which also boosted monetary stimulus to support growth.  Wider Discount  The PBOC also allowed banks to offer loans at as much as 30
percent less than the benchmark rate, the second widening of the
range in a month.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the Hartford, Connecticut-based
maker of Otis elevators, has seen “significant slowdowns” in
China, mainly in the Otis business, in part because of the
government’s efforts to restrain the  property market , Chief
Financial Officer Greg Hayes said at a conference on June 14,
according to a transcript.  Prices in eastern provinces are down about 20 percent in
the residential market and residential property accounts for
about two-thirds of Otis’s market in China, he said.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  and  PetroChina Co. (857) , the
nation’s biggest refiners, face more losses from processing
crude after the government cut fuel prices last month by the
most since 2008 as global oil costs tumbled.  Separate data today showed China’s benchmark price for
power-station coal fell for a ninth week, the longest period of
losses since at least 2008, as slowing economic growth and
increased use of hydropower crimped electricity demand.  --Zheng Lifei, Zhou Xin. With assistance from Nerys Avery and
Baizhen Chua in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  