-- China Developers Rise as CPI Raises Easing Hope: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-09T02:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/china-developers-rise-as-cpi-raises-easing-hope-shanghai-mover.html
China ’s property shares rose to the
highest in a year after inflation eased to a 29-month low,
prompting investor optimism that Premier  Wen Jiabao  will relax
economic policies to boost growth.  The  gauge  tracking developers on the Shanghai Composite
Index rose for a third consecutive day, adding 0.6 percent to
the highest since July 2011 as of 10:52 a.m. local time, the
only industry group to gain among five on the benchmark.  China
Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest listed developer on the mainland, climbed
1.7 percent to 9.81  yuan  in Shenzhen, set for the highest since
November 2010.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the second largest,
added 2.2 percent to 13.1 yuan, the highest in 2 1/2 years.  China’s  consumer price index  slowed in June, raising
expectations of further policy easing after the central bank cut
its benchmark  interest rates  last week for the second time in a
month. Wen said over the weekend that downward pressure on the
economy is still “relatively large” and the government will
intensify fine-tuning of policies even as measures taken since
April are helping stabilize a slowdown.  “The slower inflation actually gives the government more
room to ease policies,” said Tu Lilei, a Shanghai-based
property analyst at Haitong Securities Co. “The premier said
what he had to say about controlling property prices, but he
actually didn’t indicate he will issue new curbs. This is not
bad news for developers.”  Wen’s weekend remarks came after China’s new home prices
rose for the first time in 10 months in June, according to
SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real estate website
owner. Local governments that loosened property curbs or covered
up the loosening of measures on residential real estate must be
stopped, while restricting speculative demand and investment in
property must be made a long-term policy, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday Wen as saying during an
inspection tour of eastern Jiangsu province.  Developers last week reported rising sales in June. China
Vanke said contracted sales were 13.3 billion yuan ($2.1
billion), a 24 percent jump from May.  Longfor Properties Co. (960) 
reported that June sales rose 36 percent from May.  “We do not expect the government to introduce tougher
property policies unless  home prices  see a meaningful rally,”
wrote Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK
Securities Research, in a note to clients today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  