-- Clinton Stresses Economic Engagement on Southeast Asia Trip
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-09T07:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/clinton-to-stress-economic-engagement-during-southeast-asia-trip.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
began a swing through  Mongolia  and  Southeast Asia  to promote
democracy and greater U.S. economic engagement with the region.  “The United States is making substantially increased
investments -- diplomatic, economic, strategic, and otherwise --
in this part of the world,” Clinton said today in a speech to
the Women’s Leadership Forum in the Mongolian capitol of  Ulan
Bator . “The heart of our strategy, the piece that brings
everything together, is our support for democracy and human
rights.”  Clinton will give another speech today detailing plans to
ease sanctions on Myanmar that will give American companies
greater opportunities in the former military dictatorship. She
will then travel to Vietnam, Cambodia and  Laos , becoming the
first U.S. secretary of state to visit that country in 57 years.  Her trip will combine events underscoring the importance of
democracy to economic growth, highlighting the contrast to
 China ’s approach. And she will stress the strong U.S. commitment
to the region, despite pressing issues in the Middle East and
Afghanistan.  The tour will emphasize the need to increase U.S. exports,
part of a broader administration effort, according to a State
Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record.  Clinton met with Mongolian President Tsakhia Elbegdorj in
his presidential yurt, a decorated version of the traditional
circular tents. Mongolia has the fastest growth rate in the
world, making it a magnet for U.S. investment.  ‘Ultimately Unsustainable’  Clinton praised Mongolia for its transition from one-party
communist rule to a pluralistic political system, as well as its
campaign to increase women’s political participation. She also
outlined the benefits and importance of democracy for economic
growth, stressing that one without the other can’t last.  Such an approach is “short-sighted and ultimately
unsustainable,” she said. “You can’t have economic
liberalization without political liberalization eventually.”  In Cambodia, Clinton will attend a meeting of the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  and discuss tensions over
the oil-rich  South China Sea . She will urge China and Asean
nations to build upon a  code of conduct  adopted last year to
deal with disputed territorial claims in the area and will offer
specific suggestions as to what she would like to see included,
the official said.  Clinton stops in Laos on July 11 to meet with its leaders
on her way to Phnom Penh, Cambodia, where she will co-chair the
Asean meeting and attend events for other multilateral groups,
including the Lower Mekong Initiative, over two days.  Clinton arrived in Mongolia from Tokyo and will continue on
to the Middle East once she leaves  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  