-- CLS to Face Patent Claims Over Risk Reduction, U.S. Court Says
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-09T16:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/cls-to-face-patent-claims-over-risk-reduction-u-s-court-says.html
CLS Bank International  must face
infringement claims filed by an Australian patent owner over
ways to minimize risk in certain computerized trading platforms,
a U.S. appeals court ruled today.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington   said  a judge was wrong to rule that patents owned by
Alice Corp. were invalid because they covered an abstract idea
rather than an actual invention.  London-based CLS, which settles about $4.5 trillion in
foreign-exchange transactions daily, had sued in 2007 to
invalidate the patents, and Alice responded by saying CLS
infringed the patents.  In a 2-1 ruling, the court said two recent Supreme Court
decisions, including a March case that limited patents for
diagnostic medical tests, don’t preclude obtaining patents
unless it is “manifestly evident” that they cover abstract
ideas. CLS can challenge the patents on other grounds, such as
whether they are new or obvious variations of others’ work.  “The abstractness of the ‘abstract ideas’ test to patent
eligibility has become a serious problem, leading to great
uncertainty and to devaluing of inventions of practical utility
and economic potential,” Circuit Judge Richard Linn wrote for
the majority.  Circuit Judge Sharon Prost disagreed, saying the high-court
rulings were “hinting (not so tacitly) that our subject matter
patentability test is not sufficiently exacting.”  Melbourne-based Alice is jointly owned by  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and Alice Ventures Pty, according to its
 website .  The case is CLS Bank v. Alice Corporation, 11-1301, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower-court case is CLS Bank International v. Alice Corp.,
07cv974, U.S. District Court for the  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  