-- College Kids Aim to Make 52 Apps a Year in South Carolina
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/college-kids-aim-to-make-52-apps-a-year-in-south-carolina.html
Mobile software startup  52apps  has an
ambitious goal: create a new application for the iPhone or iPad
every week. Just as ambitious: do it with college students in
 South Carolina , far from the engineering hotbeds of Silicon
Valley, New York or Austin,  Texas .  The company, based at the  University of South Carolina  in
Columbia, can create an app in five days with “premade
programming Lego blocks,” said Chief Executive Officer Steve Leicht, one of three non-students at the company who work for
free. That means a chunk of code can quickly add GPS features or
the ability to share content on  Facebook  or  Twitter , helping the
small team compete with experienced developers.  “What they are doing is very cool,” said  Vivek Wadhwa , an
entrepreneurship and public-policy lecturer who has  academic
roles  at Stanford, Duke and Emory universities. “The startup
scene in South Carolina is very small, but there are sparks of
light, and this is one of them.”  The company highlights how the app era has allowed
innovation to thrive in new and unexpected locales. With
simplified development tools, just about anyone with mid-level
programming skills can build mobile applications.  About one in three apps are made by individuals or
companies with fewer than five employees, according to App
Annie, a company that helps publishers track their own  app store 
metrics.  Fertile Ground  Colleges and universities, with their legions of
smartphone-toting students, offer particularly fertile ground.
Student efforts are often spurred by school policies that
encourage professors and students to create companies. At least
36 colleges across the U.S. have business incubators that make
mobile apps, according to the National Business Incubator
Association.  “App development has become very much popular among
college students,” said  Agata Chydzinski , Director of
Operations at the  USC/Columbia Technology Incubator , who has
worked with business incubators for 10 years. “It starts in
high schools.”  “When you find a student who has ideas, or skills, or who
can design, and other students who are in business school, it
could make a hugely successful company,” Chydzinski said.  The technology incubator offers workspace and mentorship
opportunities to dozens of companies, including 52apps. The
University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill  has offered to fund
the development of a mobile application that uses university
research.  Austin Incubator  An incubator at the  University of Texas  at Austin is home
to mobile apps including Next One’s on Me, which allows users to
treat their friends to coffee or lunch, and Drivve, which
facilitates document management on smartphones. And at
 Northwestern University  near  Chicago , a startup incubator is
currently home to 18 companies, including mobile app maker
SweetPerk, which developed an app that enables merchants to
advertise more effectively.  Of course, colleges have long been fountains of Internet
innovation.  Mark Zuckerberg  started Facebook out of his dorm at
Harvard. Aaron Levie founded Box, a cloud storage company, at
the University of  Southern California . Silicon Valley investor
 Peter Thiel  even pays student entrepreneurs as much as $100,000
to drop out of college and pursue their ventures full-time.  Today’s crop of students have it easier than ever,
especially when it comes to mobile apps. Tutorials for learning
how to code and make applications are readily accessible online
and you need little more than a computer and an Internet
connection to get started.  Weekly Celebration  In Columbia, the 52apps team meets in its offices each
Monday to choose that week’s application. Programmers start
coding before lunchtime, and by Thursday, a beta version is
tested. On Friday, the software is sent to  Apple Inc.’s App
Store .  “Every Friday when an app goes out, the whole group hangs
out and celebrates,” said Christopher Thibault, who co-founded
the company with former high-school classmate Brendan Lee. Both
will be seniors this fall.  The 21-year-olds introduced six apps on Apple’s store
before the company was started. Since 52apps opened its offices
on June 1, the team has submitted six apps to Apple. Two of
those are available now: TapNotes, which lets users easily play
back selected segments of recorded lectures or interviews, and
PDF Recombinator, for making PDFs from images, documents or
photos. The others are awaiting approval by Apple.  SmartNote Success  The pair’s most successful app is a note-taking package
called  SmartNote , which has been downloaded more than a half
million times. The $3.99 program consistently ranks in Apple’s
top-50 list for productivity tools, and about 250,000 people use
it on a daily basis, according to Leicht. The profits have
helped Lee and Thibault pay their tuition.  52apps is looking beyond the college campus for
inspiration. The company’s website includes a link where
visitors can offer ideas for new applications. Last month, the
group held a forum called App Idea Day, where outsiders were
invited to pitch ideas--no programming skills required.  52apps plans to hold about one App Idea Day per month.
People who pitch an idea that gets developed into an app receive
royalties of 5 percent to 10 percent of sales, Leicht says. So
far, the company has received more than 100 ideas, and expects
to use at least 10 of them.  Caroline Boineau, 25, came to the first Idea Day from
 Myrtle Beach , South Carolina, to pitch an app that could
schedule the delivery of  text messages  in advance, such as a
happy-birthday text. She heard about 52apps from a friend on
Facebook.  Texting Idea  “I would describe myself as a lazy texter, and if I had
this app, it would be a lot easier for me,” Boineau said.
“They positioned it as, make a good idea, and they’ll make the
app for you.”  The company plans to make apps for all the major platforms,
including Google Inc.’s  Android  and Microsoft Corp.’s new
 Surface  tablet. The team also is building a content-management
system to sell to universities to simplify distance learning and
administrative tasks. Three universities, including the
University of South Carolina, will test it next year.  52apps is focusing on software that can be used to help
people be more efficient, either in academics or the workplace.  “I see them doing things that make the iPad much less of a
plaything and much more of a real tool we can use,” said
 Anthony Ambler , dean of the University of South Carolina’s
engineering college, which helps support 52apps.  Getting Started  52apps’ co-founders first met in science class at their
Arkansas high school. After teaching themselves to code on TI-83
calculators, they started collaborating on iPhone apps. Their
first app was designed to help them solve math homework problems
and reduce the number of books they needed to bring to class.  Leicht, 36, said he expects the company to be profitable
this month, though he declined to provide financial details. All
of the students on staff at 52apps are paid, and there’s enough
revenue already to fund the company for three years, he said.  And while South Carolina’s technology culture doesn’t share
the same willingness for risk taking as Silicon Valley, there
are other advantages to having a startup company here, Lee said.  “You get a lot of attention,” he said. “On the West
Coast, everyone has a company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  