-- Colombian Central Bank Chief Forecasts Slower Growth in 2012
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-07-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/colombian-central-bank-chief-forecasts-slower-growth-in-2012.html
Colombia ’s central bank will “very
probably” cut its forecast for 2012 economic expansion as a
slowing global economy cuts demand for the Andean nation’s
exports, bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said.  Banco de la Republica currently forecast gross domestic
product growth of 4 percent to 6 percent this year. Uribe
declined to say what the new forecast will be.  “The data for the behavior of exports and of the
industrial sector will very probably lead the central bank’s
forecasters to lower the estimate,” Uribe said in a July 6
interview in Cartagena. “This is happening everywhere. In
 emerging markets , there is an impact on exports which
particularly affects the manufacturing sector.”  Colombia held its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at 5.25
percent for a fourth straight meeting last month, and at least
one member of the central bank’s seven-man policy committee
voted for a cut. Traders are betting that the bank will reduce
borrowing costs within the next three months, trading in
 interest-rate  swaps shows.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 3.20 percent in June, a lower
number than predicted by all 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
whose median forecast was 3.32 percent. Uribe said inflation
will continue to slow this year, and will end 2012 close to the
mid-point of the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target
range.  Uribe said the Nino weather phenomenon is unlikely to have
an effect on inflation this year.  Rate Cut  The yield on three-month  interest-rate swaps  fell 24 basis
points, or 0.24 percentage point, since March 23 to 5.01
percent. The drop indicates traders expect an interest rate cut
within the next three months.  Colombia’s economy grew 4.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, its slowest pace since 2010, as a currency
rally hurt farmers and manufacturers, while spending on public
works slumped. Exports grew 4 percent in April from a year
earlier, down from 16.1 percent in March, while industrial
output had its biggest year-on-year contraction since 2009.  The peso has strengthened 8.6 percent to 1785 per dollar
this year, the biggest appreciation of 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, even as the central bank has intervened in the
foreign exchange market to try to slow its rise.  “We would like a more devalued peso,” Uribe said. “For
us to intervene, we have the criteria that there must be a
possible misalignment in the  exchange rate , and when the economy
grows it’s appropriate to have more international reserves.”  Dollar Purchases  The central bank could increase dollar purchases from the
current daily minimum of $20 million, or extend the program of
dollar purchases beyond the current planned end date in
November, Uribe said.  The daily dollar purchases, which the central bank
announced in the first week of February, may have prevented the
peso from strengthening even further, Uribe said.  “The currency has remained for almost the whole period at
a level weaker than it was when we started to buy the daily $20
million,” he said. “And it had a strong tendency to
appreciate, so you can’t say it hasn’t been effective.”  Policy makers believe the measures taken by President Dilma Rousseff’s government in  Brazil , such as taxes on foreign loans,
which contributed to an 8 percent weakening in the real this
year, wouldn’t be effective in Colombia, Uribe said.  Raising Rates  Colombia raised its benchmark interest rate 9 times in the
year through February, bucking a global trend for lower
borrowing costs. Uribe said the rate increases were to fend off
“the possibility of an overheated economy financed by excessive
 consumer credit .” Credit growth has since slowed “a bit,”
partly due to the rate increases, Uribe said.  Uribe said Colombia’s traditional “very prudent” anti-
inflation stance may be traceable to a bout of hyperinflation
more than a century ago, triggered by a civil war that began in
1899. The out-of-control price increases that followed the War
of a Thousand Days may have caused a lasting change on Colombian
economic policy similar to the effect that hyperinflation during
the  Weimar Republic  had on  Germany ’s, Uribe said.  In the late 20th century, “Colombia didn’t have the high
levels of inflation that the rest of  Latin America  had, partly
for this reason,” Uribe said. “This is same argument that
people make for Germany after World War I, that they had
hyperinflation, and after that they had discipline. You can make
the same argument for Colombia 20 years earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  