-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Rises by $17.1 Billion, Fed Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-09T20:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/consumer-credit-in-u-s-jumped-by-17-1-billion-in-may-fed-says.html
Consumer credit climbed more than
forecast in May, led by the biggest jump in credit-card debt in
almost five years that may signal Americans are struggling to
make ends meet.  The $17.1 billion  increase , exceeding the highest estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the largest this
year, followed a $9.95 billion gain the previous month that was
more than previously estimated, the  Federal Reserve  said today
in  Washington . Revolving credit, which includes credit card
spending, rose by $8 billion, the most since November 2007.  A pickup in borrowing coincides with a slowdown in hiring
and declines in  consumer confidence  that indicate the job market
is failing to spur enough gains in wages to cover expenses.
Employers added fewer workers to payrolls than forecast in June
while the jobless rate stayed at 8.2 percent.  “When the economy’s not doing well, that’s when you want
the consumer to spend, and if it means borrowing to do that,
then that certainly would be encouraged,” said  Millan Mulraine ,
a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in  New York , who
projected credit would rise by $15 billion.  Stocks fell today, giving benchmark indexes the longest
slump in more than a month, after a rally in Spanish bond yields
above 7 percent intensified concern about  Europe ’s crisis. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,352.46 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.51 percent from 1.55 percent late on
July 6.  Survey Results  The  median  forecast of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for an $8.5 billion increase in consumer credit.
Estimates ranged from gains of $4 billion to $15.6 billion.  Non-revolving debt, including educational loans and loans
for motor vehicles and mobile homes, increased by $9.1 billion
in May, today’s report showed.  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, climbed by $6.2 billion before adjusting for
seasonal variations, as students tried to beat a looming surge
in borrowing costs.  President  Barack Obama  last week signed into law a bill
providing a one-year extension on student-loan  interest rates ,
in order to avoid a doubling to 6.8 percent that would have
taken effect July 1. The rate affects about 7.4 million
students, according to the White House.  Mortgage Debt  The consumer credit report doesn’t track debt secured by
real estate, such as home equity lines of credit and home
mortgages.  Gains in credit may also indicate that banks are more
willing to lend, representing a thawing that may bolster
spending.  It’s “indicative of credit channels finally being slowly
unclogged,” said TD Securities Mulraine. “So this is certainly
good news for the recovery.”  The recovery continues to be held back by a soft job
market. Payrolls grew by 80,000 workers in June, below the
median estimate of 100,000 in a Bloomberg survey of economists
and down from this year’s high of 275,000 in January, the Labor
Department reported on July 6.  Unemployment held steady at 8.2 percent, marking 41
consecutive months the jobless rate has been stuck above 8
percent. The stretch is the longest of such elevated levels in
the post-World War II era.  Consumer spending  was little changed in May as incomes rose
0.2 percent, according to Commerce Department data.  Household confidence dropped in June for a fourth
consecutive month on mounting concern over jobs and incomes.  Demand for automobiles is one part of the economy that is
holding up. Cars and light trucks sold in June at a 14.1 million
annual rate, up from May’s 13.7 million pace, according to
Ward’s Automotive Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  