-- Copper Climbs on Bets More China Stimulus to Boost Demand
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-07-09T17:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/copper-climbs-on-bets-more-china-stimulus-to-boost-demand.html
Copper rose for the first time in
three sessions on speculation that China will take more steps to
spur its economy, bolstering the outlook for metals demand.  Chinese officials will intensify their response to a
slowdown in the country’s economy, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said. He
spoke as government figures showed inflation reached a 29-month
low. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said copper usage probably will
keep climbing in the Asian nation, the world’s top metals
consumer.  “Any indication that China may ease is encouraging,”
 William O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle
River , New Jersey, said in a telephone interview. “Chinese
inflation numbers were a bit on the low side, and that’s a plus
for the market because it allows for accommodation” in monetary
policy, he said.  Copper futures for September delivery gained 0.6 percent to
settle at $3.4315 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
On July 6, the metal slumped 2.4 percent, the most in two weeks,
after a report showed the U.S. added fewer jobs last month than
economists had forecast.  A 50 percent jump in June property sales in eastern
provinces of  China  compared with a year earlier will support
metals demand, according to Goldman Sachs. The Copper
Development Association says construction accounts for about 40
percent of demand.  Orders to remove supplies from warehouses monitored by the
 London  Metal Exchange jumped 27 percent to 44,400 metric tons,
the highest since May 14, on gains in South Korea and New
Orleans, daily exchange figures showed. Stockpiles declined for
the fifth time in six sessions to 253,350 tons.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months climbed 0.4
percent to $7,560 a ton ($3.43 a pound).  Nickel, aluminum, lead, zinc and tin also gained in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  