-- Dealers Declining Bernanke Twist Invitation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-09T19:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/dealers-decline-bernanke-twist-bids.html
Wall Street banks are increasingly
choosing to hoard their U.S. bonds rather than sell them to the
 Federal Reserve  as speculation grows that a slowing economy and
global financial turmoil will only make them more dear.  The world’s biggest bond dealers  offered  an average of $7.2
billion in Treasuries a day to the central bank in June, down
40.5 percent from a high of $12.1 billion in October, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The amount tendered has fallen even
as the dealers almost doubled their  holdings  of the securities.  While the amount of marketable  U.S. government debt 
outstanding has risen to more than $10.5 trillion, Treasuries
are proving scarce in a world where five nations in Europe have
sought bailouts, the  U.S. economy  is slowing again and China is
weakening. That means  interest rates  on everything from
mortgages to corporate bonds should remain at about record lows.  “People are not willing to sell Treasuries,” said Thanos Bardas, a managing director in Chicago at Neuberger Berman LLC,
which oversees about $89 billion in fixed-income assets, in a
June 28 telephone interview. “The data in the U.S. doesn’t look
as good. The labor market has lost momentum. There will be more
upside left in Treasuries despite the low levels of rates.”  Concern that the economy is losing momentum came July 6,
when a Labor Department report showed American employers added
fewer workers to payrolls in June than forecast and the  jobless
rate  stayed at 8.2 percent.  IMF’s Warning  The  International Monetary Fund  will reduce its 3.5 percent
estimate for global growth this year on weakness in investment,
jobs and manufacturing in Europe, the U.S., Brazil, India and
China, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “The global growth outlook will be somewhat less than we
anticipated just three months ago,” Lagarde said earlier in a
July 6 speech in Tokyo. “And even that lower projection will
depend on the right policy actions being taken.”  Treasuries rose last week, pushing 10-year  yields  down 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 1.55 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The benchmark 1.75
percent note rose 28/32, or $8.75 per $1,000 face value, to 101
26/32 in New York.  The 10-year note yield dropped four basis points today to
1.51 percent at 2:44 p.m. New York time, the lowest in more than
a month.  The yield has fallen from this year’s high of 2.4 percent
on March 20, and has averaged 3.8 percent the past decade.  U.S.
debt  has returned 2.3 percent this year, including reinvested
interest, led by a 6.3 percent gain in 30-year bonds.  ‘Crowding Out’  Treasuries trail the  Standard & Poor’s  500  index (CRY)  of stocks,
which has  returned  9 percent with reinvested dividends, while
beating the 6 percent loss posted by the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials.  “There is a reach for quality in the market,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government and agency
debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “The Fed and investors are
elbowing each other out of the way, and that process is feeding
on itself. We are seeing a crowding out effect as there remains
a ton of demand for safe assets.”  The Fed under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  bought $2.3 trillion
of Treasury and mortgage-related debt to stimulate the economy.
It decided in June to extend a policy known as  Operation Twist 
where it sells short-term securities and uses the proceeds to
buy longer-term debt to $667 billion from $400 billion.  Primary dealers submitted offers equaling 2.32 times the
$1.0804 billion of securities bought by the Fed today, down from
an average ratio of 2.93 since the central bank began the
program in October.  Bond Stockpiles  At the same time the Fed is trying to obtain Treasuries,
the 21 primary dealers have boosted their holdings to $109.2
billion from a net short position as recently as September,
according to the central bank. Stockpiles touched a record
$136.4 billion on June 6.  As a result the central bank is paying more for less.
Dealers pared their offers to sell in each month since March,
when they submitted 3.16 times the securities bought by the Fed.
The ratio fell to 2.92 in April, 2.82 in May and 2.48 in June.  At the end of May, the Fed was paying 31 cents per $1,000
face amount above intra-day market prices, compared with about
94 cents below in March, according to primary dealer Credit
Suisse Group AG. That translates into an extra $312,500 on the
purchase of $1 billion of eight to 10-year notes.  Most Expensive  By some measures Treasuries are about the most expensive
levels ever. The term premium, a model created by economists at
the Fed, touched negative 0.947 percent July 6, surpassing the
most expensive level ever of negative 0.94 percent set on June
1. A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  “The Fed is taking a fair amount out of the market,”  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut, said in an interview July 3. “With the
amount that they are holding, as it gets closer to the end of
Twist, it will be difficult to argue that that won’t distort the
overall ability for those securities to trade without seeing
some type of impact.”  Top-rated securities are in short supply worldwide. The
U.S., Germany, Switzerland, Sweden and the U.K. are the only
Group-of-10 nations with credit-default swaps trading at less
than 100 basis points, the cheapest to insure against default,
according to Bloomberg data.  New debt for sale is being snapped up. Bidders offered a
record $3.16 for each dollar of the $1.075 trillion of notes and
bonds auctioned by the Treasury Department in the first half of
the year, a record high, even as yields on 10-year notes fell to
all-time  lows  of 1.4387 percent on June 1.  Falling Yields  Average yields on investment and speculative-grade
corporate bonds declined to 4.04 percent last week from about
10.5 percent in early 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. The average rate for a 30-year mortgage dropped to
3.62 percent on July 5 from more than 5.5 percent in 2009,
according to  Freddie Mac .  Investors don’t see yields moving higher anytime soon. A
measure of market expectations of interest rate changes, the
Merrill Option Volatility Estimate, or MOVE, index fell to 70.2
basis points on June 28 after peaking at 264.6 basis points in
October 2008. It touched 56.7 on May 7, the lowest since 2007.  ‘Most Dangerous’  Demand for bonds has surprised even the most successful
investors.  Warren Buffett  the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., in February said in his annual shareholder letter
that debt securities and other holdings tied to currencies “are
among the most dangerous of assets.”  Leon Cooperman , founder of
equity hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc., also said in February in
a Bloomberg Television interview that bonds will be the worst
place for investors to put their money for the next three years.  Many investors failed to anticipate the sluggish recovery.
President  Barack Obama  said the creation of 80,000 jobs in June
was “a step in the right direction” though the economy has to
grow “even faster.” Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  called it “another kick in the gut.”  Amid fears of a global slowdown, policy makers at major
central banks boosted stimulus measures on July 5 to strengthen
their economies.  The  European Central Bank  lowered its refinancing benchmark
to a record low 0.75 percent, while the People’s Bank of China
reduced its one-year rate for lending by 0.31 percentage point.
The  Bank of England  raised its asset purchase program by 50
billion pounds ($78 billion), to 375 billion pounds.  Biggest Owner  After cutting its target rate for overnight loans between
banks in 2008 to a range of zero to 0.25 percent, the Fed has
focused on buying bonds to inject cash into the economy. This
has left the central bank as the biggest owner of Treasuries,
with $1.67 trillion as of June 27, ahead of China’s $1.15
trillion at the end of the first quarter.  “If the Fed is going to keep this up they will be forced
to buy more expensive issues,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of
U.S. interest rate strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York,
a primary dealer, in a telephone interview July 3. “If you
think the Fed is going to have to buy some issues very
aggressively it makes it difficult to be short, so you are very
reluctant to sell a large block of that to anyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  