-- Putin Orders Probe as Death Toll From Flooding Grows to 171
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-07-09T13:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/death-toll-from-russian-flooding-reaches-171-ministry-says.html
President  Vladimir Putin  ordered a
probe of emergency systems after Russia’s worst flooding in at
least a decade that left thousands homeless and killed 171
people, costing two local officials their jobs.  Flash floods in the southern Krasnodar region near the
Black Sea affected 22,000 people, leaving 18,700 without
shelter, the Emergency Ministry  said  on its website today.
Transport links in the area were severed, halting rail shipments
to OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port’s terminal because of a
flood-damaged bridge.  The heads of the town of Krymsk and the surrounding
district, which suffered the brunt of the damage from torrential
rains, were fired by Alexander Tkachev, governor of the
Krasnodar region, according to a  statement  published on the
local government’s website. While “natural causes” were behind
the catastrophe, local officials failed to issue timely
warnings, according to Tkachev.  The fallout from the disaster will test Putin’s standing
two months after he returned to the Kremlin following the
biggest anti-government protests in his 12 years in power. The
Russian leader, who rushed to  tour  the flooded area on July 7,
demanded the “most thorough” investigation into the
functioning of agencies and  emergency services  during the
catastrophe and asked for the probe results by the end of the
week.  Failed Warning  Authorities failed to deliver warnings to local residents
even after officials received information about the impending
threat at least three hours before the flooding, Krasnodar’s
governor, Tkachev, said at a meeting today, which has been
declared a national day of mourning.  The Investigative Committee was questioning local officials
and recovering technical documents as part of a criminal probe,
the law-enforcement agency  said  on its website.  Russia’s last flooding on a similar scale in June and July
2002 killed 114 people and affected more than 380,000 people
after rain-swollen rivers burst their banks in the south of the
country, according to the  Kommersant  newspaper. Another 62
people died the following month as a result of flooding near
Novorossiysk.  Crop Damage  Farm officials from Krasnodar, the country’s largest grain-
growing region, are visiting fields to assess damage from the
floods. Ministry specialists will estimate possible damage to
crops after field visits, Yekaterina Melnik, a spokeswoman for
the regional ministry in Krasnodar, said by phone today. The
region harvested 11.4 million metric tons of grains last year,
or 12 percent of the national crop, government statistics show.  Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port resumed operations after
halting activities for about four hours on July 7. The  Black Sea 
terminal is drying equipment that was flooded and will be ready
to load a ship with grains later this week, Mikhail Sidorov, the
port’s deputy director general, said by phone.  Grain transportation to the port was disrupted after rains
damaged the rail connection with Krymsk, he said. After carrying
out repairs, OAO Russian Railways halted freight traffic
temporarily to give priority to passenger trains, according to
Sidorov. The port will use grain from its silo to load ships for
now, he said.  The port, which also gets fuel oil and gasoil by railcars,
will export products stored in tanks at the site until rail
shipments resume tomorrow or on July 11, according to Sidorov.  Russian Railways closed transportation to Novorossiysk
because of a flood-damaged bridge and began to move grain cars
to Tuapse instead, Dmitry Pertsev, a spokesman for the state
railway monopoly, said by phone from Moscow. Bridge repairs
should be finished later today and transportation will be
restored with passenger trains given priority, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  