-- Dendreon, Prostate Drug Maker, Sued Over 2011 Stock Drop
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-09T20:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/dendreon-prostate-drug-maker-sued-over-2011-stock-drop-1-.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , the maker of the
prostate-cancer medicine Provenge, was sued by an investor
claiming the company withheld information about sales that led
to a 2011  share price drop .  Company officers and directors misused proprietary
information about Provenge, which costs $93,000 per therapy
cycle, by not revealing that doctors were reluctant to prescribe
it because they had to pay up front and may have trouble getting
reimbursed from Medicaid or private insurers, Investor Herbert
Silverberg claims.  The reimbursement issue was “a consistent topic of concern
internally,” while officials “touted lofty goals” for the
drug, according to the Delaware Chancery Court complaint filed
today in Wilmington.  Provenge was approved in the U.S. in 2010 as the first
therapy designed to train the body’s immune system to attack
cancer cells as if they were a virus.  The following year, the company “acknowledged that
acceptance of Provenge would be a much more gradual process,”
than first thought, according to the complaint. Dendreon shares
fell 67 percent, from $35.84 on Aug. 3 to $11.69 the next day,
plaintiff’s lawyers contend.  In the so-called derivative lawsuit, Silverberg asks a
judge to award damages from officials to the company,
“disgorgement of all profits” from wrongdoing and positive
corporate governance provisions to protect shareholders in the
future.  “While it is our practice not to comment on litigation, we
believe this suit is baseless and without merit,” Lindsay
Rocco, a spokeswoman for Dendreon, said in an e-mailed message.  Seattle-based Dendreon fell 22 cents, or 3.2 percent, to
$6.77 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading today.  The case is Silverberg v. Gold, CA7646, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  