-- Dish Network Loses Court Bid to Dismiss L.A. Ad-Skip Case
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/dish-network-loses-court-bid-to-dismiss-l-a-ad-skip-case.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the third-
largest U.S. pay-television company, failed to persuade a
federal judge in New York to stop broadcast networks from
pursuing lawsuits in  California  over a Dish service allowing ad-
free TV viewing.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan  ruled
the copyright-infringement lawsuits will be tried in Los
Angeles, where three major TV networks sued, and not in New
York, where Dish filed its own complaint. Breach of contract
claims between Dish and the networks will be heard in New York,
she said.  “Dish’s filing was motivated by a fear of imminent legal
action by the networks and was, thus, improperly anticipatory,”
Swain said in her opinion yesterday. She said it was
inappropriate to consolidate the cases in New York “because
three of the sets of parties claiming injury have chosen another
forum for their claims.”  TV networks including  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox sued Dish in May, claiming its new Auto Hop
digital video-recording feature, which allows viewers to
automatically skip through commercials on recorded programs,
infringes their copyrights and breaches Dish’s contracts. They
said Dish’s service “will ultimately destroy the advertiser-
supported ecosystem” that networks depend on for revenue and
seek a court order shutting down the service.  Network Contracts  Dish said New York was the proper venue for the litigation
because its contracts with the networks call for any disputes to
be tried there. The company also said it filed its complaint,
seeking a ruling that its ad-skipping feature didn’t violate
contracts or copyrights, 29 minutes before any of the networks
sued to challenge it.  Dish sued in  New York  less than 24 hours after  The
Hollywood Reporter  published an article, citing unidentified
sources, stating that the networks were planning to sue, Swain
said.  The networks are trying to stifle innovation, Dish said in
its complaint. Auto Hop “complies with Dish’s bargained-for
contractual rights,” it said. Dish said it pays the networks
“hundreds of millions of dollars per year in retransmission
fees, collected from its subscriber base, for the right to
rebroadcast these signals.”  ‘Remote Control’  “Regardless of the venue, we look forward to proceeding
with this case,” R. Stanton Dodge, Dish’s general counsel, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Dish will stand behind consumers and
their right to skip commercials, something they have been doing
since the invention of the remote control.”  Dish , based in Englewood,  Colorado , introduced its new DVR,
the Hopper, in March. It can record all the major networks’
primetime shows and store them for eight days after their
initial broadcast. Auto Hop, introduced in May, allows viewers,
with the touch of a button, to skip all the ads on recorded
shows automatically, without having to manually fast-forward
through them.  Fox said in its complaint that the Hopper is a “bootleg”
video-on-demand service and that its contracts for such services
with Dish “include prohibiting fast-forwarding through
commercials.”  “We are pleased that the court has determined that Fox, as
the true victim and plaintiff here, should have the right to
proceed in its chosen forum,”  Scott Grogin , a Fox spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Breaching License’  “ Dish Network  has created and marketed a product with the
clear goal of breaching its license with Fox, violating
copyrights and destroying the fundamental underpinnings of the
broadcast television business,” Grogin said.  Shannon Jacobs, a CBS spokeswoman, and John McKay, an NBC
spokesman, said their networks won’t comment on the ruling.  The fourth major  broadcast network ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,
didn’t sue in Los Angeles. It’s a defendant in Dish’s complaint
in New York. News Corp. and CBS are based in New York, Disney in
Burbank, California, and Comcast in Philadelphia.  Karen Hobson, a spokeswoman for Disney, declined to comment
on the decision.  Under the judge’s several-pronged ruling yesterday,
copyright claims by CBS, Fox and NBC against Dish will be heard
in California. The CBS and NBC contract claims and all ABC
claims will be heard in New York.  Comcast, also a cable operator, and  DirecTV (DTV) , a satellite TV
company, are the largest U.S. pay-TV providers.  The networks’ cases are Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network
LLC, 12-4529; NBC Studios LLC v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4536;
and CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4551, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).
The Dish case is Dish Network LLC v. American Broadcasting Cos.,
12-04155, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  