-- North Korea’s Kim Enjoys Minnie Mouse Without Disney’s Blessing
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-10T03:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/disney-didn-t-authorize-north-korea-s-use-of-minnie-mouse.html
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is a
fan of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Minnie Mouse and “Beauty and the
Beast.” The feeling isn’t mutual.  Kim and a crew of clapping generals watched a performance
on July 6 by a band whose members dressed as Winnie the Pooh,
Tigger, Minnie Mouse and other characters, according to footage
shown on KRT, the country’s state-run television. Women in
strapless gowns and black dresses performed while clips of
movies such as “Beauty and the Beast” and “Dumbo” played on
a paneled backdrop for the show in the capital of Pyongyang.  Disney didn’t authorize or license the totalitarian state’s
use of company characters for the concert, Michelle Bergman, a
spokeswoman for the Burbank, California-based company said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Since succeeding his late father  Kim Jong Il  in December,
Kim further isolated his impoverished country by launching a
long-range rocket in April that squelched a deal for U.S. food
aid. Thought to be under 30, the new leader has worked to
bolster his image through visits to military units and by
rebuking officials over their management of an amusement park.  Kim has ignored U.S. and South Korean appeals to abandon
his country’s nuclear program. His regime is building a new
launchpad in the northwest to fire larger long-range rockets and
has resumed construction of a light-water atomic reactor,
 according  to the U.S.- Korea  Institute at the Johns Hopkins
School of Advanced International Studies in  Washington .  ‘Grandiose Plan’  The state-run Korean Central News Agency made no mention of
the Disney films or characters, saying only that the concert by
the band, called Moranbong, included the traditional folk tune
“Arirang” and upbeat foreign songs.  Kim “organized the Moranbong band as required by the new
century, prompted by a grandiose plan to bring about a dramatic
turn in the field of literature and arts this year,” KCNA said
in its account of the concert. “The performers showed well the
indomitable spirit and mental power of the servicepersons and
people of the DPRK dashing ahead for the final victory in the
drive to build a thriving nation under the guidance of Kim Jong
Un.”  DPRK refers to the country’s official name, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  