-- Draghi Signals ECB May Consider Another Rate Cut If Needed
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-09T16:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/draghi-signals-ecb-may-consider-another-rate-cut-if-data-worsen.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled policy makers may be open to another interest-
rate cut if the economic outlook warrants it.  “We have to look at what the situation is, the data and
the developments, and then we will make up our minds on the
Governing Council what to do,” Draghi told lawmakers in
Brussels today when asked if the central bank could cut rates
again. While the ECB never pre-commits, it will “do everything
to maintain  price stability  -- from both sides -- in the euro
area,” he said.  The ECB last week cut its main  interest rates  by 25 basis
points, taking the  benchmark  to a record low of 0.75 percent and
the deposit rate to zero. Policy makers next decide on rates on
Aug. 2. With the sovereign debt crisis threatening to tip the
17-nation euro economy into recession, some economists say the
ECB may have to resort to unorthodox methods to stimulate
growth.  “It would take a negative deposit rate, or the start of
quantitative easing, to provide fresh stimulus,” said  Nick Kounis , chief European economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “Both are areas where the ECB might not be willing
to go at this stage.”  ECB staff are “searching for actions that could attenuate
the current crisis,” as long as they don’t breach the central
bank’s inflation-fighting mandate, Draghi said.  Risks ‘Materialized’  He said last week’s rate cut “took account of further
dampening of inflationary pressures, as some of the previously
identified downside risks to economic activity materialized.”  “Indicators for the second quarter of 2012 point to a
weakening of growth and heightened uncertainty,” Draghi said.
“But looking ahead, we continue to expect the euro-area economy
to recover gradually, albeit with dampened momentum.”  Draghi was asked about plans to allow the permanent bailout
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, to directly recapitalize
troubled banks without adding to governments’ debt burdens. He
said it won’t be a problem if the ESM isn’t able to do that this
year because markets will understand that any recapitalizations
in the meantime will only temporarily impose a cost on
sovereigns.  “It would be perceived as a temporary blip,” Draghi said.
Markets “would know that as soon as the ESM enters into force,
it would replace public debt with ESM money.”  ‘Here to Stay’  Draghi said “the euro is here to stay” and identified
four main building blocks that are required to put the monetary
union on a sound footing in the longer term.  The first is a financial market union that elevates
responsibility for supervision of banks to the euro-area level.
The second is a fiscal union that reinforces oversight of
budgetary policies at the euro-area level “and also provides
some fiscal capacity to support the functioning of the currency
area,” Draghi said.  The third is an economic union with sufficient mechanisms
to ensure that countries can achieve sustained prosperity
without excessive imbalances. “And finally, a political union
that strengthens the legitimacy” of the currency union among
citizens “and deepens its political foundations,” he said.  To achieve this, it’s “essential” that euro-area
governments give up some sovereignty, Draghi said, adding that
common euro bonds “come at the end of this process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  