-- Dubai Group $10 Billion Talks Said to Lose RBS Support
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-09-13T11:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/dubai-group-10-billion-talks-said-to-lose-rbs-support.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Commerzbank AG and  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  mounted a legal
challenge against Dubai Group LLC after the lenders abandoned
talks to restructure $6 billion of bank debt.  No viable solution has yet been reached with Dubai Group,
an  investment company  owned by the emirate’s ruler, forcing the
banks to seek legal recourse available under the loan
documentation, the banks said in a joint statement e-mailed
yesterday. The banks want “an agreement without formal legal
proceedings and we therefore remain open to such an outcome if
an acceptable commercial resolution is forthcoming,” they said.
“To date, no satisfactory proposal has been put forward.”  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the emirate seeking to restructure loans
that were arranged before property prices slumped and credit
markets froze with the onset of the 2008 global credit crisis.
Dubai World, one of the sheikhdom’s three main state-controlled
holding companies, reached a deal in March 2011 with about 80
banks to alter the terms on $25 billion of debt.  “Even if one of the lenders gets a U.K. court to grant a
judgment against Dubai Group, getting that enforced in this
jurisdiction is likely to be far from straightforward,” Chavan Bhogaita, head of the markets strategy group at  National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank, said by phone
today. “Ultimately, taking an entity owned by the ruling family
or the government to court is unlikely to be positive in terms
of your future prospects of winning further business from these
or any other government related entities.”  ‘Consensual Agreement’  Dubai Group is working with more than 35 banks and expects
it “can reach a consensual agreement,” according to a
statement yesterday. “A global term sheet is now being
considered by bank credit committees, a number of which have
indicated their support,” Dubai Group said. “We continue to
believe that this deal is in the best interests of all
parties.”  Dubai Group invests in financial services and owns property
in the U.S., according to its website. Its holdings include
stakes in EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded
Arab investment bank, Dubai-based investment bank Shuaa Capital
PSC and  BankMuscat SAOG (BKMB) , Oman’s biggest lender.  RBS, Commerzbank and  Standard Bank  walked away from the
debt talks in July because they were dissatisfied with the
progress.  Immediate Repayment  The Financial Times reported yesterday that the lenders are
calling for the immediate repayment of the loans and are seeking
private arbitration. In their statement, the banks didn’t
specify what type of legal recourse they’re pursuing.  In 2011, Dubai Group appointed eight banks to two
committees representing creditors. Paris-based Natixis SA’s
Nexgen unit and  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  of Dubai make up the committee
of secured lenders. RBS and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  were leading the
group of partially secured and unsecured lenders.  Dubai Group’s creditors are seeking an option to be repaid
early under the 10-year debt restructuring, with an exit clause
that can be exercised after five years, three people familiar
with the talks said in July. Banks were also seeking a guarantee
that Dubai Group will have the cash to repay in case it can’t
raise funds by selling assets, some of which are considered
indivisible, the people said.  “If they receive a favorable judgment in  London  there is
the prospect they may be able to attach some of Dubai Group’s
international assets” Ahmad Alanani, a Dubai-based director for
the  Middle East  at investment bank Exotix Ltd., said in an e-
mail today. “This may ultimately be an exercise in futility on
the part of these banks but it certainly puts the Dubai
restructuring story back in the spotlight and brings some
unwanted attention. I think Dubai Group is better served
bringing these banks back to the negotiating table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  