-- Healey Rules $400 Billion Empire With Stakes in 28 Funds
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-07-09T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/healey-rules-400-billion-empire-with-stakes-in-28-funds.html
One of the things Sean Healey missed
most when he left  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in 1995 was his
business card. Flashing it was a surefire way to convince people
of his credentials.  “People would say, ‘Oh, you must be a genius,’” Healey, 51, 
jokes.  Then he moved to Boston to work for a three-person startup
with a bland name and a big idea.  Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG) 
set out to buy stakes in equities money-management companies,
including  hedge funds , and share their investment fees. In
return, the owners got cash for the companies they had built.  Healey’s AMG card didn’t have the same mojo as the one from
Goldman, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August issue.
And Healey handed it out often because he was cold-calling money
managers, trying to convince them to sell.  The demographics of the fund management business worked in
his favor. Baby-boom-era managers who started their funds in the
1970s were ready to sell as they prepared for retirement. Still,
the Goldman alum usually got the brushoff.  “They treated you like dirt,” Healey says.  A varsity wrestler when he was an undergrad at  Harvard
University , Healey kept fighting. AMG has since locked up chunks
of mutual fund companies Yacktman Asset Management Co.; Tweedy,
Browne Co.; Friess Associates LLC (manager of the  Brandywine
Fund (BRWIX) ); and Cliff Asness’s hedge fund AQR Capital Management LLC.  Healey has found a way to make money -- lots of it -- by
choosing managers who in turn pick good stocks. And he favors
 equities , not bonds.  Stocks Rule  To profit in the current environment, “investors will have
to take risk,” he says. “Over the long term, the best return
for investors will be in equities.”  AMG’s 28 affiliated fund managers -- plus one wealth
adviser -- controlled $392 billion as of March 31. The fees
earned by the 27 fund firms in which AMG held stakes in 2011
totaled $1.7 billion, up 25 percent from $1.36 billion in 2010.
AMG’s share was $553.4 million in 2011 and $489.2 million in
2010.  The firm’s stock has risen more than sixfold since the
company’s  initial public offering  in November 1997. It’s up 12.5
percent this year as of yesterday.  AMG succeeds because it buys top-performing funds and
doesn’t get in the way of independent-minded managers, Healey
says. Asness, for one, is an outspoken libertarian who has a
tattoo of Captain America’s shield on his left arm.  ‘Secret Sauce’  “We have wild personalities in the money management
business,” says Don Putnam, co-founder of Grail Partners LLC, a
San Francisco-based firm that invests in money managers. “AMG
has a secret sauce.”  The ingredients, says Healey: Identify skilled managers and
put them in social situations -- dinner, golf -- to make sure
the prospective partners will get along. He never buys 100
percent of a firm, since managers need to have skin in the game
to stay motivated. Healey also requires sellers to sign a 10-
year employment contract, just to be safe.  Then he leaves them alone.  AMG’s funds are attracting cash while others lose it.
Investors have pulled $502 billion out of U.S. stock mutual
funds since 2007, according to the  Investment Company Institute 
in Washington. The money has gone to bond managers, who have
vacuumed up $1 trillion, the institute says.  ‘Deliberate Design’  AMG, by contrast, had positive flows for the eight quarters
ended on March 31, taking in $40 billion. AMG owns just one bond
manager.  “It’s deliberate design,” Healey says.  Bond funds charge low fees, so you need substantial assets
to make them pay, he says. AMG couldn’t compete with  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages $1.77
trillion.  More important, Healey thinks the flight to safety in bonds
is about to end. The stampede drove the yield on the 10-year
U.S. Treasury note to a record low 1.44 percent on June 1.
Nobody can retire on that, he says, and losses will be huge when
 interest rates  rise.  “Many of the investments that people, especially retail
investors, are making now will end badly,” Healey says.  These days, AMG is looking mostly for hedge funds and
emerging-markets managers because they’re harder to replicate
with low-cost index funds, another threat to AMG’s business.  In March, Healey went further afield and agreed to buy
 Veritable LP , a firm that manages the financial affairs of 200
wealthy families.  Yacktman Purchase  Healey returned to plain-vanilla mutual funds in April when
he agreed to buy most of Yacktman, based in Austin, Texas. The
 Yacktman Fund (YACKX)  returned 7.3 percent last year, more than triple
the 2.1 percent return on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. For
the past three years, the firm’s two funds have been among the
best performers in Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking of mutual
funds.  Healey wrestled at 158 pounds (72 kilograms) at Harvard. He
remains trim and compact, with graying hair cut short. He exudes
a cheery confidence that either comes with having good luck --or
brings it. In a 2009 fishing tournament, he pulled a 94-pound
white marlin onto his 77-foot (23-meter) yacht, Orion, off Ocean
City, Maryland. It was the biggest white marlin caught since
1980, and it won him prize money of $903,000. It was, in short,
a million-dollar fish.  Updike Country  Healey and a majority of his 120 employees make their deals
from a hilltop mansion in Prides Crossing, Massachusetts, near
the North Shore haunt of the late novelist John Updike. AMG’s
90-acre (36-hectare) spread once belonged to William Loeb III,
the late publisher of the conservative Union Leader newspaper in
Manchester, New Hampshire. Healey kept the tennis court when he
rebuilt the place.  Healey, the son of a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Marine
Corps, shares some of the former owner’s politics. His wife,
Kerry, was lieutenant governor of Massachusetts under Mitt Romney from 2003 to 2007. Now, she’s foreign policy coordinator
on Romney’s campaign for president. Former AMG Chief Financial
Officer Darrell Crate moonlighted as treasurer for Romney’s
failed campaign in 2008. He left AMG in February 2011 to do the
same job again, and to run private-equity firm Easterly Capital.  Healey is a reluctant New Englander. Born in San Rafael,
California, north of  San Francisco , he recently paid $17 million
for a house in Florida’s Palm Beach, where he goes to get away
from Massachusetts weather -- and Massachusetts politics.  During Kerry Healey’s term as lieutenant governor, news
helicopters routinely hovered over their house, Healey says, and
the Boston Globe once referred to AMG’s offices as the “state
Republican Party headquarters.”  After closing one deal, Healey headed to the porch to smoke
a cigar. A helicopter approached and hovered outside. A photo
appeared on the front page of the Globe that Sunday.  ‘Blood Sport’  “There is no other place like this,” Healey says, shaking
his head. “Politics is a blood sport.”  He’d rather talk about money management. Even during rough
patches like the current one, the industry is attractive because
profit margins are so high. Baltimore-based  T. Rowe Price (TROW)  Group
Inc., for example, had net income of $773 million on revenue of
$2.75 billion in 2011, giving it a profit margin of 28 percent.  Margins tend to stay high even in down periods. Most costs
are compensation, and that falls along with revenue because
managers are paid mostly for their results, says Grail Partners’
Putnam. And once retail investors put money into a mutual fund,
they leave it there.  “You can’t kill these companies,” Putnam says.  Asset Drain  Many are injured now, though.  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , home to
stock picker  Bill Miller , who beat the  S&P 500  for a record 15
years through 2005, has been hemorrhaging assets. They fell to
$627 billion in May from a peak of $1 trillion in 2007. Legg
Mason shares have lost two-thirds of their value in that period.  Healey says the gloom makes for good angling. Few others
are buying these days, he says. Banks, once serial fund
acquirers, are selling assets to repair balance sheets. In 2010,
AMG teamed up with managers at Artemis Investment Management
Ltd. to buy the mutual fund company from Brussels-based Fortis
Bank SA/NV, which was rescued by the Belgian government.  Shrewd purchases have helped Healey outdo his old employer.
In 2007, Goldman started an AMG look-alike called the Petershill
fund, run by Jonathan Sorrell, son of  Martin Sorrell , CEO of WPP
Plc, the world’s biggest advertising agency. Jonathan had the
Goldman business card, and connections.  It wasn’t enough. The fund invested in Level Global
Investors LP in April 2010. Level closed a year later after the
FBI raided its offices looking for evidence of  insider trading .
Co-founder Anthony Chiasson pleaded not guilty to insider
trading charges in February.  Shumway Exit  Goldman got another bad break when it took an 8 percent
stake in hedge fund Shumway Capital Partners LLC in late 2009. A
year later, in November 2010, founder Chris Shumway said he
would no longer serve as chief investment officer. Investors
yanked $3 billion from the fund.  Then Shumway returned all of his investors’ money,
depriving Goldman of the fees it had expected to collect. The
firm now manages money just for Shumway and his employees.  Goldman is trying to sell Petershill, according to two
people familiar with the situation. Goldman spokeswoman Andrea Raphael declined to comment.  Healey had a Shumway-type problem early on. The founder of
Systematic Financial Management LP left a year after AMG paid
$20 million for a piece of the firm. Assets plummeted to $200
million from $1.4 billion. Healey’s solution was the 10-year
employment contract.  Leave, and you forfeit your ownership.  AQR Signs  Asness and AQR co-founder David Kabiller signed their 10-
year commitment in 2004.  “You show that to a lawyer, and they say, ‘You’ve got to
be kidding me,’” Kabiller says. He and Asness agreed to the
terms to diversify their personal investments.  “No matter how good an investor you are, you always have
tough moments,” he says.  The demographics of fund management are going AMG’s way.
Many managers are nearing  retirement age , yet cashing out is
difficult because few fund firms are publicly traded. That’s
where Healey comes in.  Don Yacktman is 70 and has been running his namesake
company since 1992. He co-manages the firm’s two funds with his
son Stephen. They’ve beaten 99 percent of rivals during the past
five years.  “I have seven children; one works here and six don’t,”
Yacktman says. The sale to AMG will help him implement a
succession plan for a company that has grown beyond its family
roots, he says.  Go East  Healey took a winding path to money management. For three
generations, the Healeys went to  Stanford University  or the
 University of California , Berkeley. He went east to Harvard,
graduating in 1983 with a degree in history and literature. He
then got a master’s degree in philosophy at University College
Dublin and enrolled at Harvard Law School, intending to be a law
professor.  He veered away from that idea while working at the Harvard
Law Review alongside future Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan.
He found the Review to be highly political.  “I could tell that these were the kinds of people who
would be on a law faculty,” Healey says, and he wasn’t
interested.  Goldman Recruits  During his second year, a friend went to a recruiting
session for summer associates at Goldman Sachs. Healey decided
to check it out.  He got the summer job and then returned full time after law
school. Three and a half years later, he was promoted to work
for J.  Christopher Flowers , the buyout specialist, in the unit
that did  investment banking  for financial firms.  In 1994, Healey got a call from Bill Nutt, former president
of the Boston Company. Nutt had just started AMG with backing
from TA Associates, a Boston-based buyout firm.  TA wanted AMG to mimic United Asset Management Corp.,
which, starting in 1980, made a business of acquiring money
managers. At its peak, the Boston-based company had stakes in
some 50 firms that managed $200 billion. Unlike AMG, UAM
typically acquired 100 percent of its affiliates.  Nutt needed a detail-oriented deputy who could do deals,
and he picked Healey.  Leaving Goldman was tough, Healey says. The firm was a
partnership in those days, and Healey expected to become one.
The hours were long, however, and he had two young children. So
he decamped to Boston and went to work with Nutt and Nathaniel Dalton, a young lawyer whom TA had retained. Dalton is now AMG’s
president and chief operating officer.  Tweedy Deal  Soon after, they did the deal that made the firm, Healey
says. It was May 1997, and an old friend from Goldman, Don Truesdale, called. Tweedy Browne, a value investor founded in
1920 and boasting superior returns, was looking to do a deal.  Tweedy had $5 billion then, and its owners agreed to sell
70 percent of the firm for $300 million, Healey says, or about
10 times Tweedy’s earnings of $30 million. AMG had paid as
little as eight times earnings on the four deals it had done
before then, so Tweedy was expensive.  “To me, it was a no-brainer,” Healey says. Tweedy was a
marquee name that would double profits at AMG.  Yet AMG had no money. Nutt and Healey borrowed from banks
to get Tweedy, betting they could sell AMG shares to the public
and repay the loans. They hired Goldman to manage the offering,
and in November 1997 sold 7.5 million shares at $23.50 each,
raising $176 million.  Friess, Whitman  Loaded with cash, AMG got busy buying big names. Foster Friess sold a majority stake in Friess Associates to AMG in
2001. Martin Whitman sold most of Third Avenue Management LLC to
them in 2002. Whitman was 77 at the time and still owned most of
the company.  “Every first, second or third question from investors was,
‘What are you going to do when Marty Whitman retires?’” Third
Avenue’s current CEO, David Barse, recalls. Whitman sold to AMG
because it promised the manager autonomy, Barse says. He also
met with UAM in 2001, passing on a deal because UAM wanted 100
percent of the firm, taking away, in Healey’s view, the
managers’ incentive to perform.  UAM had faltered in the late 1990s as investors pulled
money from the firm for three straight years. In 2000, Old
Mutual Plc, South Africa’s biggest insurer, bought it for $2.2
billion.  Healey says he’ll dodge UAM’s mistakes. After his 17 years
in business, fund managers know who he is. His business card is
worth something again.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net ; Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at
   sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ; Christian
Baumgaertel at   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 