-- Mechel Leads Commodity Retreat on China Growth: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-07-09T22:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/mechel-leads-commodity-retreat-on-china-growth-russia-overnight.html
Russian stocks traded in  New York 
posted the longest stretch of declines in a month, led by
commodities producers, on concern the economic slowdown in  China 
will erode demand for metals.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. fell for a third straight day for
the first time since June 1. OAO Mechel, the country’s biggest
maker of coking coal, dropped for a third day, while  OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel (NILSY) ,  Russia ’s largest mining company, tumbled to the
lowest in two weeks. Futures expiring in September on Moscow’s
dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 0.2 percent to 134,765.  Russia, the world’s biggest exporter of nickel and
palladium, said China accounted for about 10 percent of the
country’s foreign trade in the first four months of 2012.
Economists forecast the Asian nation’s gross domestic product
expanded at the slowest pace in three years during the second
quarter. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the world’s second-largest
economy faces “relatively large” downward pressure, the state-
owned Xinhua News Agency reported on July 8.  “China is a price-defining factor when it comes to
commodities,” Andrey Tretelnikov, an analyst at Rye MAN & Gor
Securities, said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “Chinese
demand is crucial for commodities overall and for Russian mining
stocks in particular.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, fell 0.3 percent
to $26.07, dropping for a third consecutive session to the
lowest since June 28. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, rose 0.1 percent to 32.03.  ‘Appetite Diminishes’  Russia’s trade with china reached $27.4 billion in the
January-to-April period, nearly 10 percent of the $269.5 billion
in exports and imports, according to Russia’s Federal Service of
State Statistics.  The Chinese economy may have expanded 7.7 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, analysts estimated ahead of
government data scheduled for July 13. That would be the slowest
pace in three years.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Index declined 0.6 percent to 88.49
yesterday in New York.  “Russia is being sold as investors’ risk appetite
diminishes following the poor economic data,” Ilya Kravets, a
research analyst at ED Capital in New York, said by e-mail
yesterday.  Mechel (MTL) ’s American depositary receipts slumped 2.3 percent
to $6.08 yesterday, settling at a 1.1 percent discount to the
company’s Moscow-listed shares. The company’s Moscow  stock  fell
2.4 percent to 202.70 rubles, or $6.15.  ‘Less Optimistic’  Otkritie Financial Corp. reduced its recommendation on the
ADRs to hold from buy and lowered its price estimate to $6.40
from $16.60, citing “less optimistic commodity price
assumptions,” Denis Gabrielik, a Moscow-based analyst wrote in
an e-mailed report on July 9.  Deutsche Bank reiterated cut its target price on the shares
to $7.80 per ADR from $9.  American depositary receipts of Norilsk, the world’s
largest producer of nickel and palladium, fell 1.3 percent to
$16.12, the lowest since June 25. The company’s Moscow-listed
 stock  retreated 0.7 percent to 5,314 rubles, or $161.33. Ten
ADRs equal one common share.  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s largest natural gas producer,
declined for a third day, losing 1.2 percent to $9.35. The  stock 
fell 0.6 percent to 154.43 rubles, or $4.69, on the Micex
yesterday. One Gazprom ADR is equal to two ordinary shares.  ‘Fundamentally Bearish’  Morgan Stanley is “fundamentally bearish” on natural gas
in the near term and expects “natural gas prices to remain
under pressure until the market works through this excess
supply,” according to a July 9 e-mailed report.  Oil for August delivery rose 1.8 percent to $85.99 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, rising for the
first time in three days as a labor strike threatened to halt
all offshore oil and gas production in  Norway , Western Europe’s
biggest exporter.  “RTS futures are gaining along with  oil prices , which are
being propelled by the possibility of a stoppage of Norwegian
off-shore oil production,” Ed Capital’s Kravets said.  Brent for August settlement added 2.2 percent to $100.32 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
crude increased 1.2 percent to $99.33 per barrel yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ; 