-- Technology Crossover Said to Seek $2.5 Billion for Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-07-09T22:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/technology-crossover-said-to-seek-2-5-billion-for-fund.html
Technology Crossover Ventures, the
investment firm that backed Go Daddy Group Inc. and Netflix
Inc., is seeking $2.5 billion for its next fund, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  TCV VIII LP is targeting less than the $3 billion the
firm’s previous fund raised in 2007, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Venture firms are marketing funds even after  Facebook
Inc. (FB) ’s poorly received initial public offering and the  European
debt crisis  disrupted the best string of Internet IPOs in more
than a decade. Institutional Venture Partners raised $1 billion
for its latest venture capital fund, the firm said in June,
shortly after Madrona Venture Group amassed a $300 million fund.  Rebecca Hurst, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-
based TCV, declined to comment. Park Hill Group, the placement-
agent arm of Blackstone Group LP, is helping to market the fund.  TCV makes late-stage investments in such areas of
technology as Internet, financial services, infrastructure,
communications and software. It also backs public companies. The
firm is able to invest $20 million to $200 million in companies,
according to its website.  As it pitches its next fund, the firm can point to recent
exits. It backed ExactTarget Inc., the e-mail  marketing company 
that counts Microsoft Corp. and Groupon Inc. as customers, which
went public in March. The firm scored a gain last year on the
IPO of HomeAway Inc., a vacation-rental website. TCV agreed to
sell its stake in FX Alliance Inc., a provider of electronic
foreign-exchange services, to Thomson Reuters Corp., the
companies said today.  Fund Returns  The firm’s prior fund, TCV VII, was generating 1.2 times
capital and a 14 percent internal rate of return as of March 31,
the people said. The firm has produced a 1.4 multiple and 15
percent net internal rate of return since it was founded in 1995
by Jay Hoag and Rick Kimball.  In July 2011, it teamed with Silver Lake Management LLC and
KKR & Co. to purchase a majority stake in Go Daddy, a website
registration and hosting company. The firm in November agreed to
buy $200 million in zero-coupon senior convertible notes due in
2018 from Netflix, the video-streaming and DVD subscription
service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  