-- Ecopetrol Beats Top Global Oil Companies as Rebels Loom
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-07-10T20:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/ecopetrol-beats-top-global-oil-companies-as-rebels-loom.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  is the best-performing
major  oil company  after turning decades-old fields in areas once
overrun by guerrillas into drivers of double-digit output
growth. The success is putting it back on the rebels’ radar.  Colombia ’s state-owned producer has returned 35 percent in
U.S. dollar terms in 2012, the best performance worldwide by  oil
companies  with a market value of more than $50 billion. The
performance makes Ecopetrol the seventh most valuable producer
at $115 billion, overtaking Total SA and  China  Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. and on the heels of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s $125 billion value.  Bets Ecopetrol will meet targets to almost double
production in 2020, combined with an emerging-market beating
rally by the Colombian peso, have fueled gains in the stock.
Record annual output also makes the company a high-profile
target for cocaine-funded rebels who have increased attacks on
pipelines and oil fields in a fifth-decade of armed conflict.  “Ecopetrol has built an image of a prosperous and
efficient state-run company,” said Alfredo Rangel, a former
member of Colombia’s  Security Council . “Undermining and
sabotaging that image is in the political and economic interest
of the Colombian guerrilla movement. There’s a big increase in
attacks.”  Rebels killed five oil workers at an Ecopetrol well in
southern Colombia and blasted pipelines in the past week,
slowing production that rose more than 17 percent annually in
the last three years. Chief Executive Officer Javier Gutierrez
said June 15 the company will reach its target of a record
800,000 barrels a day from 724,100 barrels a day in 2011.  ‘Deplorable’ Killings  Rising profit at oil companies have made them a target for
extortion and kidnapping as guerrillas seek new revenue sources
after a government crackdown on cocaine production, Rangel said.
Colombia is the largest supplier of the drug to the U.S.  The “deplorable” killings at Ecopetrol’s field won’t
derail nationwide oil production targets that fund government
social programs, Mines and Energy Minister  Mauricio Cardenas ,
who is on Ecopetrol’s board, said last week in speech.  Ecopetrol will coordinate plans with the military to
increase security for a $4.2 billion pipeline project to avert
terrorist sabotage and construction setbacks, Cardenas said
today in an e-mailed statement. Guerrillas in February took
workers hostage near the pipeline site in eastern Colombia,
contributing to delays in the first stage of the project.  Rebels have set explosives along Ecopetrol’s 771-kilometer
(479-mile) Cano Limon-Covenas pipeline in eastern Colombia,
where engineers are finishing repairs after an attack last week.
Guerrillas also have blasted the company’s southern Transandino
and OSO pipelines, which is being secured by the military after
an assault on July 8.  Pipeline Attack  Incidents of sabotage nearly tripled to 37 in the first
four months of the year from 13 in the same period last year,
according to government statistics. Attacks on pipelines, energy
towers, roads and bridges jumped last year in Colombia for the
first time since 2008.  “A pipeline attack can brake the company’s production,”
said Santiago Melo, an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Alianza
Valores SA. “Something that takes days to repair can push back
output for the quarter.”  Ecopetrol is sticking with its production goal after
structuring plans with the military and defense ministry to
protect infrastructure, the company said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. Ecopetrol has “very good” response times to
ensure the return of normal operations after infrastructure
incidents, according to the e-mail.  Investment Plan  Ecopetrol’s $80 billion investment plan through 2020 drove
an 18 percent gain in production last year and in 2010, in part
by tapping fields discovered decades ago. Those include
Ecopetrol’s Castilla, discovered in 1969, Casabe, found in 1941,
and Rubiales, Colombia’s largest oil field, first uncovered in
the 1980s. Ecopetrol owns 60 percent of Rubiales, while  Pacific
Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  owns the remainder and operates it.  Rubiales has increased output in eastern Colombia’s Meta
province, where a lack of security once deterred investment.
Since the government began to increase  strikes  against rebels
and crack down further on cocaine production to cut the
movement’s funding, attacks on infrastructure have fallen to 196
last year from 917 in 2002, according to government figures.
Kidnapping for the purpose of extortion declined to 208 from
1,708 over the same period.  Rising output of crude and natural gas has buoyed
Ecopetrol’s share return, which surpassed the return of China’s
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the second-best performer among oil companies in
dollar terms this year with a 14 percent return. China Petroleum
& Chemical, or Sinopec, and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , or
Petrobras, are the worst investments among major oil companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Profit  Ecopetrol trades at 12.2 times reported earnings, costlier
than Petrobras, which trades at 7.9, and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
world’s largest oil producer by market value, which fetches 10.1
times profit, the data show.  Profit at Ecopetrol climbed to a record 15.5 trillion pesos
($8.7 billion) in 2011, when production rose to an all-time
high. Earnings per share will rise 25 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Renewed guerrilla attacks this year are endangering
Ecopetrol’s production target, said Juan David Pineros, an
analyst at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s largest brokerage. It will
be tougher for Ecopetrol to meet its goal of 1 million barrels a
day of equivalent oil and natural gas in 2015, also as delays in
Colombian environmental permits slow output, Pineros said.  ’Catch Up’  “The company will have to push to catch up,” he said.  Shares of Ecopetrol slid 0.4 percent to close at 4,970
pesos as Colombia’s benchmark IGBC index declined 1.1 percent.  The attacks should prompt action by the government, which
owns 88.5 percent of Ecopetrol, said Rodrigo Nieto, who helps
manage about $50 million in mutual funds at Cia. de
Profesionales de Bolsa SA in Bogota.  “It’s a state-run company so you expect the government to
get out and protect it,” he said.  Rising oil revenue and exports helped Colombia garner an
investment-grade  credit rating  last year. The country was raised
to Baa3 from Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, while  Standard &
Poor’s  increased Colombia to BBB-. The Colombian peso has
rallied 8.3 percent this year, the largest gain among 25
currencies in  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  