-- Ecuador ‘Working Hard’ to Return to Debt Markets, Delgado Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-07-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/ecuador-working-hard-to-return-to-debt-markets-delgado-says.html
Ecuador  will return to international
credit markets “when the moment is opportune” after defaulting
on $3.2 billion of debt in 2008 and 2009, central bank President
Pedro Delgado said.  “We are working very hard on this, and various groups from
our economic teams have been visiting investors, investment
banks and  ratings agencies ,” Delgado said in a July 7 interview
in Cartagena,  Colombia . “We are in this process and we’ll do it
when the moment is opportune.”  Ecuador, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
smallest member, has tapped its public pension fund and relied
on Chinese loans to help finance its budget since the default.
The central bank will also repatriate $1.1 billion of reserves
now held overseas to fund projects such as infrastructure,
President  Rafael Correa  said July 7.  Ecuador is “very advanced” in the process of negotiating
a new loan from  China , Delgado said. The government also sought
a $515 million loan from the  Latin American Reserve Fund  to
cover increased costs for fuel imports that are set to rise when
the nation’s biggest refinery goes offline for repairs later
this year.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuador’s dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 872 basis points on July 6, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. That’s the third-highest spread among 15
 emerging markets  tracked by JPMorgan, after Argentina and
Venezuela.  An international crisis could affect Ecuador through a fall
in remittances and reduced demand for the Andean nation’s
exports, Delgado said. Since the country doesn’t have its own
currency, it needs to manage its supply of dollars carefully, he
added.  “The Ecuadorean economy functions to the extent that there
are dollars,” Delgado said. “What could happen is a problem of
the stock of money, so we have to control precisely the
liquidity of the stock of dollars that we have in the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  