-- Medicare Cost-Saving Groups Sign Up for Coordination Bid
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-09T16:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/medicare-cost-saving-groups-sign-up-for-coordination-bid.html
The groups of U.S. hospitals and
physician agreeing to coordinate care for Medicare patients has
almost tripled this year to 154 as the organizations seek a
share of $1.9 billion in additional government payments.  Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly, signed up
89 new accountable care organizations this year as of July 1,
including Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, the  Department of
Health  and Human Services said in a  statement  today. About 2.4
million of Medicare’s 49 million beneficiaries get care from the
groups, which promise to harmonize services and reduce waste in
exchange for a share of savings they produce for the government.  At least 32 of the groups, including Presbyterian Medical
Services and Banner Health Systems, have agreed to change the
way Medicare pays them within three years. The groups will
abandon the traditional fee-for-service practice in favor of a
fixed-rate system for some Medicare beneficiaries.  None of the publicly traded hospital chains, such as  HCA
Holdings Inc. (HCA)  or  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , are
participating in the program. Some of the nation’s highest-
profile nonprofit health systems, such as the Cleveland Clinic,
Mayo Clinic, and Kaiser Permanente, also have opted out.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has estimated that
accountable-care groups will save Medicare as much as $4.9
billion through 2019. Medicare’s own actuaries predict a maximum
of $940 million in savings for the government, while
participating hospitals and physician groups may earn as much as
$1.9 billion.  “Better coordinated care is good for patients and it saves
money,” Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  