-- Mediobanca Securities Names New Head, Strengthens London Team
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-07-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/mediobanca-securities-names-new-head-strengthens-london-team.html
Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,  Italy ’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, named a new head of its
brokerage unit as the company strengthens its European equity
coverage in London at a time when lower trading volumes and
commissions are prompting closures at competitors.  The Milan-based bank named Paolo Cuniberti, 48, currently
chief of Capital Market Solutions since the London branch’s
opening in July 2008, as head of Mediobanca Securities,
replacing Matteo Maralla, according to an e-mailed statement
sent to Bloomberg News. Maralla, 46, was appointed head of
Equity Capital Markets Syndicate.  The broker plans to expand its European equity coverage in
September by adding a research team for insurers, which will be
led by Marc Thiele, former head of the insurance research team
at UBS AG, according to the statement. Mediobanca Securities set
up its European banking research team in  London  in 2010 under
the leadership of Antonio Guglielmi, head of equity research.  Mediobanca was voted the second-best brokerage firm in
Italy in the 2012 Thomson Extel survey. UniCredit closed its
equity brokerage in western  Europe  in November, cutting jobs in
London and Milan, and hired Kepler Capital Markets SA to provide
the research related to the region. Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc said in January it would pull out of equities and mergers
advice globally, while Credit Agricole SA is weighing options
for its CA Cheuvreux brokerage unit.  Guglielmi’s forecast last year that French and Italian bank
shares would plummet made him one of the world’s top 20
financial stock pickers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Markets for its annual ranking of analysts and their firms.  The company also said it named Dominic Bidwell as head of
sales trading and cash equity trading. Bidwell recently joined
Mediobanca Securities in London from Evolution Securities Ltd.
Patrick Peris, who has previously worked for Merrill Lynch & Co.
and Morgan Stanley and recently joined Mediobanca’s Paris
branch, will be responsible for distributing Mediobanca services
in  France .  Mediobanca Securities has more than 200 institutional
clients that operate on a constant basis, according to the
company’s  website . About 60 percent of revenue of the
brokerage’s top 50 clients comes from the U.K., the U.S.,
France,  Germany  and  Switzerland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  