-- Egypt Stocks, Bonds Retreat as President Challenges Military
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-07-09T14:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/egypt-stocks-bonds-retreat-as-president-challenges-military.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stock index dropped
the most in three weeks and dollar bonds fell after President
Mohamed Mursi reinstated parliament, reversing the military’s
decision.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  slumped 4.2 percent, the most since June
19, to 4,698.52 at the close in Cairo. The gauge had fallen as
much as 5.5 percent before Parliament Speaker Saad El-Katatni
called the legislature to convene tomorrow. The nation’s 5.75
percent dollar bonds due April 2020 fell for the first time in
seven days, sending the yield five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, higher to 6.25 percent at 4:36 p.m. in Cairo.  Mursi’s decree, which also called for a fresh parliamentary
vote within 60 days after the approval of a new constitution in
a public referendum, came after the military last month
dissolved the assembly and assumed legislative authority. The
military’s move followed a decision by the high court that the
law that governed voting for the Islamist-controlled chamber was
unconstitutional. Until his election last month, Mursi was the
chairman of the Freedom and Justice Party, the political arm of
the Muslim Brotherhood.  “The drop is a little stronger than we expected,” said
Teymour El-Derini, Cairo-based director of  Middle East  and North
Africa sales trading at Naeem Brokerage. “Parliament may be
reinstated but it will be powerless. This is round one between
the Brotherhood and the military, and it will likely continue to
have a negative effect on the market.”  Pound Forwards  The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which took over
executive powers from the ousted  Hosni Mubarak  until Mursi’s
election, convened an emergency meeting last night to discuss
Mursi’s decree, the official Middle East  News Agency  reported.
Members of parliament were allowed into the legislature’s
building today, the agency said separately.  Real-estate developer  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding (TMGH) ,
plunged 9.3 percent, the most since March last year, to 3.99
pounds.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, fell 5.1 percent to 27.55
pounds.  The Egyptian pound, subject to managed float, weakened 0.1
percent to 6.0614 a dollar, extending its losses since the start
of last year’s uprising to about 4 percent. One-year non-
deliverable forwards were unchanged at 7.45 a dollar, indicating
investors expect the pound to plunge 19 percent within 12
months.  The country met its 3 billion-pound ($495 million)
fundraising target at an auction of treasury bonds today as
yields were little changed. The country sold five-year notes at
yields ranging from 16.52 percent to 16.61 percent, according to
central bank data on Bloomberg. It sold 1 billion pounds of 10-
year securities at yields between 16.95 percent and 17.05
percent, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  