-- Egypt’s Parliament to Convene as President Mursi Challeng
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-07-10T07:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/egypt-s-parliament-to-convene-as-president-mursi-challeng.html
(Corrects date in second paragraph to July 8.)  Egypt ’s parliament speaker Saad El-
Katatni called on the assembly to reconvene today after
President Mohamed Mursi overturned a decision by the country’s
top generals and judges to dissolve the legislative body.  Mursi’s decree, issued July 8, also says parliamentary
elections will be held within 60 days of the approval of a new
constitution in a referendum. The charter has yet to be drafted.
The  benchmark stock index  tumbled 4.2 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since June 19, at the close in Cairo yesterday.  The president’s move comes after the military council last
month decided to retain legislative powers following a high
court ruling that the law governing voting for the Islamist-
controlled parliament was unconstitutional.  Egypt’s constitutional court said yesterday its rulings
which led to the dissolving of parliament are final and binding,
after meeting to examine appeals filed to stop Mursi’s order. In
addition, the military leaders said in a statement yesterday
that they are confident that “all state institutions” will
respect the court’s ruling, according to the state-run Middle
East  News Agency .  The power struggle between the president, an Islamist
politician, and the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, known
as SCAF, threatens to deepen divisions in a country struggling
to recover from the unrest that followed last year’s uprising
against  Hosni Mubarak .  Military Power  “What we’re seeing is yet another round inside the country
about how to restructure power in a major way,” Brian Katulis,
a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress in
 Washington , said yesterday. “I don’t know what Mursi’s legal
authority is to reinstate the parliament, but the military has
had a great deal of autonomy and that will likely decline over
time.”  A confrontation between Mursi and the military “is an
illusion,” Essam El-Erian, deputy chairman of the Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  The Freedom and Justice Party won almost half of the seats
in the legislature in elections this year. Together with the
Salafi Nour Party, Islamists controlled more than two-thirds of
the assembly. Mursi won a narrow majority of votes in a
presidential runoff last month.  Potential Confrontation  “You’ve got a president with a slim popular mandate but a
potential for confrontation with the army and the courts,”
Richard Odumodu, London-based portfolio manager at Silk Invest
Ltd., said by phone. “The courts can say one thing, the
president can say another thing and SCAF can say another thing,
but it’s how these things are perceived, most importantly by the
Egyptian people and international investors, that’s adding to
the pressure.”  Egypt’s troubled transition after Mubarak’s ouster has
prompted international investors, including Silk Invest, to sell
their holdings of  government securities , causing borrowing costs
to surge to record levels.  Economists at HSBC Holdings Plc, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and Standard Chartered Plc had predicted that the power
struggle may further delay a $3.2 billion loan agreement with
the  International Monetary Fund  needed to unlock external
financing to lower record government borrowing costs and help
foreign reserves recover from the worst decline in seven years.  Net international reserves were little changed  in June at
$15.5 billion after an increase in gold holdings made up for a
drop in foreign currencies, according to central bank data
released yesterday.  Obama Meeting  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is likely to “encounter”
Mursi in  New York  during the September meeting of the  United
Nations General Assembly , White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said
yesterday in Washington. No formal meeting has been scheduled at
this time, he said.  The Egyptian leader met yesterday in Cairo with U.S. Deputy
Secretary of State  William Burns .  Burns had a “very constructive meeting” with Mursi,
during which he “underscored the U.S. commitment to building a
new partnership with a new, democratic Egypt,” according to an
e-mailed statement from the State Department. “In his meetings,
he also stressed the U.S. commitment to tangible initiatives to
help Egypt meet its pressing economic concerns, including
creating jobs and encouraging investment.”  He also stressed the importance of Mursi and the new
government taking an inclusive approach going forward, upholding
respect for the rights of women and Egyptians of all faiths,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  