-- El Nino May Widen Indian Rain Deficit as U.S. Flood Risk Gains
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-07-09T05:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/el-nino-may-widen-indian-rain-deficit-as-u-s-flood-risk-gains.html
A moderate El Nino may widen a
monsoon deficit in  India , while bringing excessive rains to the
driest parts of the U.S., threatening floods in a region that’s
been hit by a heat wave, according to a United Nations adviser.  “Within a month or so, we’ll probably see a major
turnaround,” Roger Stone, a program manager at the UN’s  World
Meteorological Organization , said in an interview in Singapore.
Grains in India are at risk as the deficit will persist from
August through to February, said Stone, who’s advised the UN
agency since 1996 and has been tracking weather since 1972.  El Ninos, caused by a warming of the  Pacific Ocean , can
parch parts of  Asia  while bringing cooler weather to the U.S. A
heat wave in the U.S. Midwest is threatening the corn crop in
the world’s largest exporter and producer, driving prices in
 Chicago  to the highest level since September. Excessive rains
may also affect parts of  Russia , Stone said on July 6.  “The El Nino is developing for 2012, but I think it may
still take some time to exert significant positive effects on
the U.S. corn crop,” said Michael Ferrari, director of climate
informatics at  Falls Church , Virgina-based CSC, which tracks
weather patterns using satellite data. “The crop really needs a
good moisture pattern.”  Corn advanced to $7.1625 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade today, extending last week’s 9.2 percent rally. Wheat,
trading at $8.23 a bushel, touched the highest level since April
2011 on July 5. Soybeans have gained 27 percent this year.  Flood Risk  While wet weather in the driest areas of the U.S., China,
Europe and former  Soviet Union  may improve soil moisture, “too
much rain, too soon, could just run off,” Stone said. In
Krasnodar, Russia’s biggest wheat-exporting region, heavy rains
caused floods over the weekend, state television Rossiya 24 said.  Signs of a shift to El Nino are already showing. The
monthly Southern Oscillation Index was at minus 10.4 in June,
and the moving 30-day reading declined to minus 11.8 as of July
1, “within the values indicative of an El Nino,” the
Australian Bureau of Meteorology said July 3. Sustained readings
of minus 8 may indicate an El Nino event, it said.  Sea-surface temperatures, another indicator, showed
increasing anomalies evident in the eastern Pacific in the past
30 days, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center said July 2. The
above-average sea-surface temperatures  expanded  westward into
the eastern half of the equatorial Pacific, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  