-- Embraer Seeks Regional-Jet Orders in U.S. to Maintain Backlog
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/embraer-looks-to-u-s-for-regional-jet-orders-to-keep-backlog.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3)  seeks to win regional-jet
orders in the U.S. this year as the Brazilian aircraft maker
works to maintain a backlog at least as large as 2011’s, Chief
Executive Officer Frederico Curado said.  The company is in talks with U.S. carriers such as AMR
Corp.’s  American Airlines  and Delta Air Lines Inc. about its
E175 model, and “there could be some decisions before year-
end,” he said in an interview yesterday at the air show in
Farnborough, U.K. Any deal would be “sizable,” Curado said,
without elaborating.  Embraer is counting more on the U.S. as regional-jet demand
slows, a situation Curado said is mainly the result of  Europe ’s
economic slump and declining growth rates in some  emerging
markets . Some labor agreements in the U.S. also have been eased
to allow more use of larger regional jets, helping spur talks
with airlines there, he said.  “Without a success in the U.S., I think it will be very
challenging for us to have a 1-to-1 book-to-bill ratio,” Curado
said. The ratio is an indicator of demand, measuring orders
received against units shipped. Embraer delivered 204 aircraft
of all types in 2011 and had a firm-order backlog of 240 as of
March 31, according to  its website .  Embraer’s latest 20-year forecast shows  North America  as
the largest market for regional-jet deliveries, representing 32
percent of the 6,795 aircraft the company sees handed over
through 2031 in the 30-to-120-seat segment. The majority of the
global deliveries will be planes with 91 to 120 seats, according
to  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil-based Embraer.  Production Outlook  Embraer last year considered boosting production of
regional aircraft before holding off on concern that the market
was weakening. Curado said the company now plans to keep output
little changed for 2013 as well, and will conduct a reassessment
toward the end of this year that may lead to a slower rate.  Brazil and  China  still are showing potential for growth,
Curado said. Embraer  said yesterday  that China’s Hebei Airlines
bought five more E190 jets, in a transaction valued at $226
million based on list prices. The airline now operates two
E190s, Embraer said.  Embraer is continuing discussions with airlines about how
to configure regional jets due to enter service about 2018 to
replace current models, Curado said. The aircraft will feature
new engines and probably a new wing, he said. Embraer will set
the configuration by year-end and begin the program about
mid-2013, Curado said.  The company is still exploring different sizes for the
regional-jet aircraft family, including whether the smallest
model will be larger than the current E175. The revised
regional-aircraft lineup won’t include the E170.  While the E195 replacement will be larger than the current
version, Curado said the seat count hasn’t been locked in.  Embraer is discussing whether one type of engine can be
used for the entire aircraft family or whether two will be
needed, as is now the case. Curado said he expects a decision on
an engine supplier and power levels by about year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  