-- Emerging Stocks Drop Most in 2 Weeks on China Concerns
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-07-09T22:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/emerging-stocks-drop-to-one-week-low-on-china-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled the
most in two weeks after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
world’s second-largest economy faces “relatively large”
downward pressure.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  Index lost 1.1 percent to
935.66 by the close in  New York , the steepest drop since June
25. Technology companies led the retreat with  HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s
second-largest smartphone maker, sliding to a two-year low after
profit declined. Power company OAO E. On  Russia  slumped 2.8
percent in Moscow while OAO Magnit, Russia’s largest food
retailer by market value, surged the most in a week. Brazilian
markets were closed for a holiday.  China ’s Wen said the government will intensify fine-tuning
of policies, the state-owned Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. The nation’s  inflation  eased to a 29-month low in
June, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing.
Spanish 10-year debt yields topped 7 percent. U.S. employers
added fewer workers to payrolls than forecast in June, a July 6
report showed.  “The disappointing U.S. jobs data, which is key for
consumption, and lower price gains in China all point to slowing
growth,” Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan
BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees about $28
billion, said by phone today. “It’s inevitable some  developing
countries  that highly depend on exports will feel the pinch.”  The MSCI Emerging Market gauge, which has been declining
for four days, is headed for its longest losing streak in a
month. The measure has added 2.1 percent in 2012 and trades at a
multiple of 10.1 times estimated earnings, compared with 12.2
for the MSCI World Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, The index of developed nations has added 3.5 percent
this year.  Higher Volatility  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.4
percent to $38.63.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF (EEM) 
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, gained 1.6 percent to 27.32.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 371, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Ten-year Spanish yields jumped 11 basis points to 7.06
percent, above the 7 percent threshold that prompted full
bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . France and  Germany 
sold six-month debt at negative yields amid demand for assets
considered safe.  Asian Indexes Sink  Russia’s Micex Index was little changed in Moscow. OAO
Magnit soared 2.4 percent to lead the advice while OAO E. On
Russia dropped the most since June 21.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong sank 2.4 percent, the most since June 4,
while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  also lost 2.4 percent to a
six-month low. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index dropped 1.8
percent and the Philippine peso weakened 0.4 percent versus the
dollar after the government tightened rules on capital inflows.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index fell the most in three weeks after
President Mohamed Mursi reinstated parliament, reversing the
military’s decision.  The index dropped 4.2 percent, the biggest slump since June
19. Mursi’s decree, which also called for a fresh parliamentary
vote within 60 days after the approval of a new constitution in
a public referendum, came after the military last month
dissolved the assembly and assumed legislative authority.  The PX gauge of Prague-listed companies tumbled 0.9 percent
as the Czech market reopened after two public holidays.  Technology Shares  The BSE India Sensitive Index dropped 0.7 percent, the
largest slide since June 18, as lower-than-average monsoon rains
threaten the nation’s efforts to tame inflation and spur
economic growth.  All  industry groups  on the MSCI developing-markets index
fell today, with industrial stocks the second-biggest decliners.  E Ink Holdings Inc. (8069)  sank the most in seven months after the
supplier to Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle slumped 7 percent on June
sales that plunged 71 percent from a year earlier.  HTC retreated 5.6 percent in Taipei to its lowest since
March 2010 after saying second-quarter net income declined 58
percent from a year earlier to NT$7.4 billion ($247 million).
That compares with the NT$7.59 billion average estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  A report later this week may show China’s economic growth
slowed to 7.7 percent in the second quarter. The People’s Bank
of China lowered the benchmark one-year lending rate by 0.31
percentage point on July 5, the second rate cut in a month.  Chinese economists’ forecasts for second-quarter growth are
“too optimistic,” Lu Ting, China economist at Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today from  Hong Kong . He predicts two more interest-
rate cuts by the end of this year and three more reductions in
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  