-- Energy Week Ahead: House Republicans Push ‘No More Solyndras’
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-07-09T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/energy-week-ahead-house-republicans-push-no-more-solyndras-.html
The House Energy and Commerce
Committee this week takes up the “No More Solyndras Act” -- a
measure presumably designed to keep the U.S. from wasting money,
especially on shaky start-ups based outside Republican
congressional districts.  The bill, which hasn’t been released, will reflect lessons
learned from an oversight subcommittee’s 17-month investigation
into why Solyndra LLC received a $535 million U.S. loan
guarantee. It went bankrupt two years later.  The measure signals the approaching end to a saga that has
included at least five congressional hearings, more than 10
closed-door interviews and several ruined Friday evenings for
reporters assigned to pore over “document dumps” that became a
hallmark of the investigation. The panel ultimately collected
tens of thousands of pages of e-mails and other communications
from the administration and investors relating to Solyndra.  Democrats say the trove hasn’t backed up suggestions made
by Representative  Cliff Stearns  of  Florida , the subcommittee’s
Republican chairman, that Solyndra won its award because of
political connections. A foundation funded by  George Kaiser , an
Oklahoma billionaire and bundler for President  Barack Obama ’s
2008 campaign, was the leading investor in the company.  In an interview with committee staff, Kaiser said he never
lobbied for Solyndra. Representative  Diana DeGette  of  Colorado ,
Stearns’ Democratic counterpart on the oversight panel, said
Republicans have spent a lot of time and effort to show that
some companies fail and some succeed. Democrats also have
pointed out that a number of Republicans had urged support for
loans to projects in their districts, prior to Solyndra’s
collapse.  Stearns and Energy Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a
Michigan Republican, have said the documents showed a cozy
relationship between the administration and investors, and that
early “red flags” about the Fremont, California-based company
were ignored.  David Kreutzer, a research fellow in energy and climate-
change economics at the  Heritage Foundation  who is scheduled to
testify at Thursday’s hearing, said the committee has collected
more evidence that guarantees by the U.S. are “bad policy” and
he hoped the investigation has discouraged their use.  “The government is substituting for the market, which has
sufficient incentive to seek out projects that are going to make
money,” Kreutzer said in an interview.  The measure to be taken up is called a discussion draft,
meaning it’s subject to change and doesn’t yet have an official
number.  Stearns has said Republicans may seek to prohibit allowing
taxpayers to take a back seat to private investors in case of
liquidation, as happened in a last-ditch Energy Department
effort to save the flagging company.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  RENEWABLE FRAUD: The House Energy and Commerce Committee’s
oversight panel also has a hearing Thursday to examine
allegations of fraud in a renewable-fuels credit-trading
program. Some companies have been accused of selling fraudulent
certificates refiners can purchase to meet annual biodiesel
production targets.  TARGETING REGULATIONS: The House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee also gets in on the act, with two on-location hearings
to review “unnecessary and burdensome regulations.” The first,
on Friday, takes place on the campus of the  University of
Central Oklahoma  in Edmond. The next day (a Saturday!) committee
members are scheduled to travel to North Dakota State University
in Fargo to continue the conversation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  