-- Hengdeli Says China Luxury Watch Sales Slowing on Economy
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-09T11:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/hengdeli-says-china-luxury-watch-sales-slowing-on-economy.html
Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) , the retail
partner of  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  in China, said demand for its luxury
watches is slowing amid weaker economic growth in the world’s
most populous nation.  Sales growth for high-end watches has slowed to “single
digits in recent months,” Vice President Tan Li said in a phone
interview today. Sales of mid- to low-end watches are still
growing “double digits” and Hengdeli may consider more share
 buybacks  after last month’s repurchases, she said.  Hengdeli, which sells luxury brands such as Breguet and
Cartier, joins other Chinese retail companies in reporting a
consumer pullback.  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) , the
world’s biggest listed jewelry retailer, last month said Chinese
shoppers are spending less per transaction.  “If consumers are uncertain about the future, they may put
off purchases of big ticket items,” Tan said today.  The world’s second-largest economy expanded 8.1 percent in
the first three months of this year, the fifth quarterly
deceleration.  Chinese shoppers are also buying more high-end goods on
visits to  Europe  amid a decline in the euro against the Chinese
 yuan , she said. The euro has dropped about 4 percent against the
Chinese currency this year.  Hengdeli fell 7.1 percent to HK$2.21 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong. The stock has declined 13 percent this
year, lagging the benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 5.4 percent gain.  The company on June 22 repurchased 692,000 shares for
HK$1.6 million ($206,000).  It plans to add 40 to 60 new stores in China this year,
mostly in second- and third-tier cities.  “We have not scaled back our expansion at this point,”
Tan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  