-- EU Agriculture Commissioner Says Sugar Beet Industry Not Favored
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-09T06:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/eu-agriculture-commissioner-says-sugar-beet-industry-not-favored.html
European Union rules for the sugar
market don’t favor beet producers over refiners of cane raw
sugar, according to EU Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Ciolos.  Ciolos doesn’t agree that measures taken to reduce
shortages in the bloc favored one industry over the other,
according to his comments in a letter that was provided by  Roger
Waite , a spokesman for the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm. The letter was sent to some members of the
European Parliament and provided the basis of his comments to
some members at a meeting in Strasbourg last week, Waite said.  Some members of the European Parliament from  Finland ,
 Portugal ,  Italy  and  Bulgaria  wrote to Ciolos on May 24 saying EU
rules on the sugar market were making refining in the EU
“unviable.” They met with Ciolos on July 4, Waite said.  The European Commission allowed local beet producers to
sell an additional 650,000 metric tons of sugar in the domestic
market to improve supplies in the 2011-12 season that started in
October. The duty on the first 400,000 tons was 85 euros ($104)
a ton and the levy on the next 250,000 tons was 211 euros a ton,
according to Waite in Brussels. Imports of 399,010 tons were
also allowed at a reduced duty, which reached 312 euros a ton
for raw sugar at the last import tender on June 7, data from the
commission showed.  “I do not agree that this approach produces a system
skewed in favor of the sugar beet sector,” Ciolos said in the
letter. “These measures are intended to meet the needs of
different operators, including refiners, who will thereby have
the opportunity to participate in tenders, according to their
needs and competitiveness.”  60% of Capacity  Cane-sugar refiners in the bloc say the EU’s measures are
unfair and make them compete against each other in tenders to
import the sweetener, according to Joao Pereira, the president
of the Brussels-based European Sugar Refiners’ Association. The
bloc’s refineries are currently running at 60 percent of their
total capacity due to a lack of raw material, he said on July 4.  Some 4,500 jobs may be at risk at 18 cane sugar refineries
in  Europe  unless the EU takes steps to allow for more imports,
EU Parliament member Marina Yannakoudakis said last week.  Tate &
Lyle (TATE)  Sugars, owned by American Sugar Refining Inc., has already
cut 27 jobs in its London refinery, said Gerald Mason, vice
president of EU Affairs and Strategy at the company. The
refinery still employs 850 people.  Ciolos Letter  “It is not for the European Commission to judge if this or
that refiner is obtaining sufficient raw cane sugar, because
this is a function of business strategy decisions made by those
companies,” Ciolos said in the letter given by Waite after a
request by Bloomberg News. “The only point for the commission
is to ensure that, in a system which is still not fully
liberalized and where public policy tools do still affect
volumes, the EU market is sufficiently sourced.”  Imports of raw sugar incur a duty of 339 euros a ton,
according to the commission. Sugar from a group of least
developed nations and some members of the Africa, Caribbean and
Pacific group of states do not incur any levy. Supplies from
these nations have lagged behind demand, leaving the EU in a
shortage and forcing the bloc to allow imports at a reduced duty
under a tender system and more sales in the domestic market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  