-- EU to Propose Single Supervisor for All Banks, Barnier Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-09T19:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/eu-to-propose-single-supervisor-for-all-banks-barnier-says.html
A single supervisor for banks called
for by euro-area leaders last month should oversee all lenders
in the bloc, not only those deemed to be systemically important,
 Michel Barnier  said.  The new supervisory mechanism should be in place by the end
of the year as part of plans for a banking union to help tame
the euro debt crisis, Barnier, the EU’s internal market
commissioner, said at a hearing in Brussels today. The body
should, at a minimum, supervise banks in all 17 countries that
use the single currency, he said.  “I think it will need to cover all banks, of course,”
Barnier told lawmakers in the European Parliament’s economic and
monetary affairs committee. Responsibilities could be delegated
to national regulators through decentralization, he said.  Euro  leaders said  on June 29 that it’s “imperative to
break the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns.” To this
end, they said that once a single supervisor, involving the
 European Central Bank , is established, the euro area’s permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, could
recapitalize banks directly.  Leaders called on the European Commission to present
proposals for a single bank supervisor “shortly.” Barnier said
the commission will unveil its plan in September.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  has said the banking union
should also include pooling of national bank-deposit guarantee
programs and mutualizing funds to stabilize failing lenders.  The commission will seek to deliver this in part by
amending existing legislative proposals, Barnier has said. The
commission is also reflecting on the best way to empower a
single authority to manage failing banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  