-- Euribor Banks Willing to Revise Supervision, Banking Group Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-09T20:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/euribor-banks-willing-to-revise-supervision-banking-group-says.html
Banking groups that set the euro
interbank lending rate are willing to revise supervision and
volunteer full disclosure to authorities on how they calculate
the rate, the European Banking Federation said.  Euribor-EBF, which produces the benchmark rate using
information provided by banks, is “willing to take any step
necessary to further ensure the transparency and accountability
of the process,” the group said in a  statement  on its website
today, adding that it “strongly condemns any attempt at
manipulating the calculation of interbank rates.”  Brussels-based Euribor-EBF responded to revelations that
banks deliberately lowballed submissions to Euribor at the
request of derivatives traders by saying the rate was supposed
to reflect cash lending and was “never meant to be used by
derivatives market practitioners.” The organization’s members
are national banking groups, including the British Banking
Association.  Confidence in the euro and London interbank offered rates,
benchmarks for trillions of dollars’ worth of financial products
worldwide, has been dented following  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s admission
that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who resigned as
Barclays’s chief executive officer after the bank was fined 290
million pounds ($449.8 million), told British lawmakers last
week that other banks also lowballed their Libor submissions.  The three-month Euribor dropped to an all-time low of 0.531
percent today, compared with 0.549 percent the previous session
on July 6, the EBF said earlier.  45 Banks  While Euribor-EBF supports public oversight for the lending
rate, the group says the exact conditions and nature of a
supervisor would have to be carefully assessed. It said it
volunteered full disclosure to authorities on the way the rate
is calculated.  “We believe any actual manipulation of the rate would have
been extremely difficult to achieve considering that the panel
involves 45 banks which are based in different locations and
operate very different activities,” said Euribor-EBF Chief
Executive Guido Ravoet.  Euribor reflects the cost for each of the banks on the
panel to borrow from others for various periods of time. The six
highest and lowest contributions are stripped out from the daily
calculations.  European Union antitrust regulators in October raided banks
that offer financial derivatives linked to the Euribor rates,
saying they were investigating possible collusion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  