-- Euro Area’s Lack of Trust Hampering Crisis Fix, De Grauwe Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-09T14:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/euro-area-s-lack-of-trust-hampering-crisis-fix-de-grauwe-says.html
A lack of trust among euro-area
members is preventing leaders from implementing a durable
solution to the sovereign debt crisis, said Paul De Grauwe, a
professor at the  London School of Economics .  “The Germans don’t trust the southerners, the southerners
don’t trust the Germans,” De Grauwe said in an interview with
 Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg Surveillance”
today. “As long as there is distrust there is also no
willingness to allow others to decide about your fate. You can
only do that if you trust each other, and that unfortunately is
lacking in Europe.”  Euro-area finance ministers meet today in Brussels after
leaders agreed at a June 28-29 summit to ease the way to direct
recapitalization of banks from bailout funds and to start work
on Europe-wide bank supervision. Former U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman Paul Volcker today urged Europe’s leaders to forge
closer economic union by overcoming nationalistic concerns.  De Grauwe said the  European Central Bank  is partly to
blame as it has “waited so long” to intervene that “a lot of
damage has been done.”  “The problem is indeed that sovereign governments in the
 euro zone  don’t rely or cannot rely on the printing press like
the U.S. government can, so as a result they can really run out
of cash,” he said. They end up “pushed into a liquidity crisis
that can degenerate into a solvency crisis and somebody must
stop that, otherwise these countries go down the drain.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB last week  cut its main interest
rates  by 25 basis points, taking the benchmark to a new record
low of 0.75 percent and the deposit rate to zero. President
 Mario Draghi  said the cuts may have only a “muted” economic
impact.  “It’s going to be difficult,” said De Grauwe. “Of course
it’s only the ECB that can do it. The European Stability
Mechanism doesn’t have the resources to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  