-- Euro-Split Case Drives Danish Krone Appeal in Binary Bet
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-10T19:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/euro-split-case-drives-danish-krone-appeal-in-binary-bet.html
The appeal of the Danish krone is
growing as securities denominated in the Nordic nation’s
currency offer a hedge against the risk of a euro-area breakup
that even German assets can’t provide.  “For an international investor with euro-zone exposure,
buying Danish assets can be a hedge against the extreme scenario
of the euro breaking up,”  Ian Stannard , chief European currency
strategist at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a phone
interview. “In that scenario, the Danish asset may appreciate
and work as a hedge against the drop in the euro-zone asset.”  The calculation helps explain why investors are willing to
pay the Danish government to hold its two-year debt, and why the
minus 0.2 percent the central bank has offered since a July 5
rate cut still attracted 147 billion kroner ($24 billion) in
deposits as of yesterday. The krone bet is making it harder for
Denmark, which defends a peg to the euro, to fight off a capital
influx as investors flee the euro zone’s deepening debt crisis.  In the event of a breakup, “you will know what you own if
you have a Danish asset,” Stannard said. “Whereas you don’t
really know what you’re left with if you own a euro-zone, and
even a German, asset.”  The yield on Denmark’s two-year note dropped to a record
low of minus 0.225 percent in Copenhagen. The 2 percent November
2014 note yielded 23 basis points less than similar-maturity
German bunds, the biggest negative difference on record,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Never Imagined  “What’s happening in Denmark is an indication of just how
severe the euro crisis is,”  Paul Krugman , the Nobel laureate
and Princeton University professor, wrote today in his  New York 
Times  column . The crisis is “so severe that people are willing
to pay to have their money stored somewhere else,” he said.  While the risk of a euro-area breakup remains remote,
according to Morgan Stanley, economists are growing more
accustomed to watching unlikely scenarios play out in reality.
Danish central bank Governor Nils Bernstein said last week he
never imagined he’d need to cut rates below zero.  The bank is now navigating “uncharted territory,”
Bernstein said in a July 5 interview. “I hadn’t expected that.
It’s the first time in this institution’s nearly 200-year
history, so obviously I hadn’t expected it.”  Not Unthinkable  The krone, which fell to the weakest since November
immediately after the July 5 interest rate reductions, has since
strengthened and is almost back at the same level as before the
central bank’s cuts. The currency strengthened to 7.4368 against
the euro today at 8:42 p.m. local time, compared with 7.4367 on
July 4, according to prices available on Bloomberg.  Now that negative rates are a reality, investors and
economists are wondering what’s next.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the
country’s biggest lender, said last month it’s started a risk
scenario that envisages Denmark abandoning its peg should the
cost of fighting currency appreciation grow too high. Though the
bank doesn’t view this as a likely outcome, it’s no longer
unthinkable.  According to  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London, Denmark is one of a
small group of havens left in which investors feel safe. That
may put unprecedented pressure on the currency peg as more
investors pile in.  “If you’re holding cash and fearing a break-up of the
euro-zone it makes good sense to park your money in Denmark,
even at negative rates,” Jones said in a phone interview.  Debt Dynamics  There is a 53.5 percent risk that a country using the euro
will leave the monetary union before the end of 2013, according
to Dublin-based Intrade.com. Wagers on a euro exit by the end of
this year indicate a 27.3 percent chance, according to
yesterday’s odds.  Denmark ’s government debt will reach about 41 percent of
gross domestic product this year, or less than half the euro-
area average, the European Commission said on May 11. The
government in May cut its budget deficit estimate for this year,
and said the shortfall will shrink to 1.7 percent of GDP next
year, within the European Union’s 3 percent threshold.  The central bank’s debt management department, which
handles bond issuance on behalf of the government, last month
raised its 2012 debt sale target by 33 percent to 100 billion
kroner to take advantage of falling yields. The extra liquidity
may make the krone-bond market more appealing to investors.  Krone Swings  At the moment, “there’s a limit to the number of assets
that can be used for such a hedge,” Stannard said.  Denmark, which posted a record current account surplus in
May, has an agreement with the  European Central Bank  to let the
krone swing no more than 2.25 percent from central rate of
7.46038, though it maintains a tighter band in practice.  Denmark’s  foreign reserves  climbed to an all-time high of
511.6 billion kroner in June amid record interventions. That was
followed on July 5 by unprecedented rate cuts that brought the
deposit rate below zero and the benchmark lending rate to 0.2
percent.  “The global market is running out of havens that can
guarantee investors getting their money back,” Jones at Mizuho
said. “That makes the pressure on the havens that do exist even
greater, escalating the situation. A euro-zone breakup would
only extend that safe haven trade.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  