-- Europe Automakers Brace for No Recovery From Crisis
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/europe-automakers-brace-for-no-recovery-from-crisis.html
Manuel Cervantes used to enjoy
taking friends to the beaches of southern  Spain  in his Seat Leon
before the slowing economy cost him his job three years ago.  After sending out more than 200 applications without luck,
the 27-year-old from Cartagena may switch to his bike or the bus
to conserve cash. While he longs to replace his nine-year-old
hatchback, the former bank salesman doesn’t have the money with
the economy hobbled by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  High unemployment, especially among young people like
Cervantes, has pushed many consumers out of the car market,
making the slowdown stickier than if it were caused by shaky
confidence. Sales in the European Union will probably fall to
12.2 million vehicles this year, the lowest level since 1995 and
21 percent below the 2007 peak, according to European  auto
industry  group ACEA. A recovery to pre-crisis levels in the
region isn’t likely until after the end of the decade, according
to consulting company AlixPartners.  “The situation here is very difficult,” said Cervantes,
who aspires to own an Audi or BMW but can’t afford to move out
of his parents’ home. “Many of my friends are in the same
situation. If it doesn’t improve soon or I don’t find a job by
let’s say the end of the year, I will have to make more drastic
decisions.”  In  France , 22.5 percent of people under 25 are out of work,
compared with 36 percent in  Italy . In Spain, the rate for youth
unemployment is 52 percent. With a generation of drivers lost,
Europe-focused carmakers like  Fiat SpA (F) ,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and
 Renault SA (RNO)  face a struggle to stem losses in the region. Those
three companies have lost more than 9 billion euros ($11.3
billion) in combined market value over the past 12 months.  Aggressive Action  “Young people in  Greece  or Spain can’t afford to buy a
car,” said Peter Fuss, an auto analyst at Ernst & Young in
 Germany . “We all have to understand that sales volumes going
forward will be in some way flat.”  With prospects for a recovery dim, carmakers are becoming
more aggressive in their efforts to reduce costs. Peugeot plans
to cut as much as 10 percent of its French workforce this year,
lifting its previous job-cut target in response to falling
sales, a French union official said.  Fiat, which cut investment in Europe by 500 million euros
this year because of the dim prospects for a second-half
recovery in demand, will extend temporary layoffs for about
5,000 workers at its headquarters in Turin, according to an
Italian union official. Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said he may have to close another factory in Italy
because of the plummeting sales in Europe.  Tumbling Sales  The epicenter of the crisis is in the Mediterranean region,
including Italy and France. Car sales in those so-called Club
Med countries have dropped more than 15 percent through May,
according to the ACEA trade group. In Greece, demand in the
first five months of 2012 tumbled 41 percent, while deliveries
in Spain, where sales are less than half their peak level, were
down 7 percent. ACEA will release June figures next week.  “We are facing a de-motorization of Italy as a consequence
of the crisis,” said Romano Valente, general manager of Italian
auto industry group Unrae. “For the first time ever, the number
of cars on the road in Italy is falling.”  Marcello Traversin is part of that trend. The 39-year-old
switched to a second-hand bicycle for transportation in the
coastal region near  Venice , Italy, because he didn’t have money
to pay for fuel and repairs for his Seat Ibiza from  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  after losing his job earlier this year.  “I can’t afford a new car and all the related taxes since
I don’t have a job,” said the former purchasing manager at a
food supplement company. “I’ll keep riding my bike.”  Government Aid  The decline has led to calls for political intervention to
boost sales and help the industry restructure. Fiat CEO
Marchionne, who is also president of ACEA, has urged the
European Union to support industry efforts to trim overcapacity.  AlixPartners estimates that 40 percent of the region’s auto
factories aren’t using enough of their capacity to be
profitable, with the lowest utilization rates in France, Italy
and Spain.  Francisco Garcia Sanz, VW’s head of purchasing and
president of the Spanish carmakers’ association, asked Spain’s
Premier Mariano Rajoy for measures “to improve purchases” of
new cars, even though “room for action of the government is
limited” because of the crisis, he said last month in  Madrid .  French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault pledged in a July 3
speech to parliament to come up with a plan by the end of the
month to help the auto industry. More countries may feel
pressure to follow suit.  Spreading Slump  The slump in sales in southern Europe “is spreading” to
the rest of the region,  Stefan Jacoby , chief executive officer
of Volvo Car Corp., said in a June interview. “Uncertainty will
be the new era globally” in the auto industry, he said.  Signs of a contagion are mounting. Sales in Germany,
Europe’s biggest market, are forecast to decline to about 3.1
million vehicles this year from 3.17 million in 2011, the
country’s auto association VDA said July 3.  “You see the numbers,”  Carlos Tavares , Renault’s chief
operating officer, said at an auto conference in  Monaco  last
month. “There is a point in time when you should recognize that
if it continues to go down, it will be a problem for
everybody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  