-- European Stocks Fall for Fourth Day; Metro Leads Losses
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-09T16:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/european-stock-futures-little-changed-asian-shares-fall.html
European stocks  declined for a fourth
day as Japanese machinery orders tumbled the most in a decade
and Spanish bonds dropped before euro-area finance ministers
meet in Brussels.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, sank to a three-year
low as Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch said restrained
spending will have a “significant impact” on business.
Telecommunications companies rallied as Nomura Holdings Inc.
upgraded the industry.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.4 percent to 253.46 at
the close of trading as the yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds
climbed to more than 7 percent. The equity gauge has risen for
five straight weeks, the longest winning streak since January,
as the region’s policy makers eased repayment rules for Spanish
banks and relaxed conditions for possible aid to  Italy .  “The main themes on the market remain the debt crisis and
where southern European rates are heading,” said Michael Borre,
the chief equity analyst at Nordea Private Banking in
Copenhagen. “That’s why we continue to expect markets to stay
nervous and volatile this week.”  Euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels today to
follow up on the crisis-fighting measures adopted by leaders of
the 17 euro countries last month. The Stoxx 600 briefly erased
losses after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
the central bank will do what is needed and is open to “all
ideas” to help tackle the crisis, as long as it does not breach
its mandate to keep prices stable.  Spanish Yield       National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 18 western-
European markets. Germany’s DAX and France’s CAC 40 declined 0.4
percent each. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.6 percent.  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 11 basis
points to 7.06 percent at 5:53 p.m. in  Madrid . That’s above the
7 percent threshold that prompted full bailouts of Greece,
Ireland and Portugal.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the third-biggest Spanish lender, dropped 1.8
percent to 83.4 euro cents to lead declines among Iberian banks.
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  fell
1.7 percent to 4.82 euros and 1.4 percent to 5.11 euros,
respectively.  Japanese  machinery orders , an indicator of  capital
spending , fell 14.8 percent in May from the previous month, the
Cabinet Office said, the biggest drop since 2001. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had expected a 2.6 percent decline.  Earnings Season  In the U.S., Alcoa Inc., the biggest American aluminum
producer, is scheduled to unofficially start the second-quarter
earnings season when it releases results after the close of
trading today.  Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg project a 1.8
percent decline in profits for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies in the April-June period, which would mark the first
year-over-year decrease since 2009. Analysts still predict
profit growth of 7.2 percent for the full year.  “Excitement about the imminent U.S. earnings season is in
short supply,” said Ben Critchley, a sales trader at IG Index
in  London . “Markets expect it to reveal how damaging the euro-
zone crisis has been to the global economy as a whole.”  Metro lost 6.3 percent to 20.43 euros, the lowest since
March 2009. The owner of Cash & Carry outlets, Kaufhof
department stores and the Saturn electronics chain sees a
“small increase at best” in German consumption this year, CEO
Koch said in an interview with Bild am Sonntag published
yesterday. Ruediger Stahlschmidt, a spokesman for the company,
declined to comment further on the report.  Telecom Rally  A gauge of telecommunications shares had the biggest gain
of 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600, rising 0.5 percent, as
Nomura upgraded the sector to neutral from underweight.  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  rallied 3.9 percent to 75.35 euro cents and  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  advanced 0.9 percent to 10.27 euros.  Vestas (VWS)  Wind Systems A/S slid 2.4 percent to 27.85 kroner in
Copenhagen. The wind-turbine maker needs to sell stock to raise
capital for its “expensive” restructuring, newspaper Jyllands-
Posten reported, citing Michael Friis Jorgensen, an analyst from
Alm Brand A/S.  Vestas earlier jumped as much as 6.9 percent as Caixin
reported that Ming Yang Wind Power Group Ltd. may buy the
company. The shares erased those gains as Ming Yang said it’s
not in acquisition talks with Vestas.  JJB Sinks  JJB Sports Plc (JJB)  plunged 25 percent to 7.38 pence after
saying sales fell “materially short of expectations,” as this
year’s European soccer championships did not provide the same
stimulus to revenue as previous tournaments.  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  dropped 3.8 percent to 350.9
pence. The U.K. recruitment company said gross profit declined
6.6 percent in the second quarter from the same period a year
earlier and forecast the third quarter will be “challenging.”
Rival  Hays Plc (HAS)  fell 2.7 percent to 70.9 pence.  BAE Systems Plc, the biggest British arms company, rose 1.4
percent to 296.9 pence as defense equipment minister  Peter Luff 
said the U.K. plans to make spending announcements on military
equipment in the coming year, ruling out further cuts to
programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  