-- Texas Photo-ID Law Vetted for Voter Bias in U.S. Trial
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-09T18:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/texas-photo-id-law-vetted-for-voter-bias-in-u-s-trial.html
The Obama administration’s claim that
Texas’s voter identification law will keep blacks and Hispanics
away from the polls this November will be tested in a week-long
federal trial that started today in  Washington .  Texas, one of eight states that passed laws last year
requiring photo identification in order to vote, is seeking
court approval of the measure, arguing it’s needed to prevent
electoral fraud. The  Justice Department  says Texas’s rules are
harsher than any other state and place a “new and substantial
burden” on minorities’ ability to cast a ballot.  “At least 1.4 million registered voters in Texas lack any
state-issued voter identification,” Elizabeth Westfall, a
lawyer in the Justice Department’s voting section, told a three-
judge panel today in a four-minute opening statement. “These
voters are disproportionately Hispanic and black.”  Since 2004, six elections for the Texas House of
Representatives have been won by less than 50 votes, the state
said in a July 1 filing. In the 2010 general election, the
victor in a state house district west of Austin was decided by
12 votes, according to the state.  The case marks the first time a federal court will weigh in
on the Obama administration’s effort to use the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 to block a state from requiring photo ID to vote.  ‘Political Stakes  “Clearly there is a sense that the political stakes are
high,”  Christopher Elmendorf , a professor of election law at
the University of California Davis School of Law, said in an
interview. “There’s a belief that in close elections these laws
could make a difference.”  Texas is one of 16 states or jurisdictions with a history
of voting rights violations that need permission from the
Justice Department or a federal court in Washington to change
election procedures.  Texas opted to go to court on the photo ID rule, suing
Attorney General Eric Holder on Jan. 24.  Under the law Republican Governor  Rick Perry  signed last
year, voters who arrive at the polls lacking one of seven
acceptable forms of photo IDs issued by the state or federal
government, which include permits to carry a concealed handgun,
would be given a provisional ballot, according to the Texas
Secretary of State’s website. College or university IDs aren’t
among the authorized documents.  Approved ID  Those ballots would count only if voters bring an approved
ID to the registrar’s office within six days of the election.  The law exempts mail-in ballots and voters with significant
disabilities or religious objections to being photographed.  The requirements “entail minor inconveniences on
exercising the right to vote,” Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said in his initial court filing.  The Justice Department, which in December stopped a similar
statute in  South Carolina , claims the law would increase the
burden of casting a ballot in person for more than a million
Texas voters.  Hispanic registered voters in Texas are from 47 percent
to 120 percent more likely to lack the required identification
than non-Hispanic voters, the Justice Department said in a
letter to the state in March. Texas has 2.81 million Hispanics
among the state’s 13 million registered voters.  ‘One Indictment’  “There were 13 million combined votes cast in all Texas
elections in 2008 and 2010,” Trey Martinez Fischer, chairman of
the Texas Legislature’s Mexican American Legislative Caucus,
which opposed the law, said in an interview before the trial
began. “There has been only one indictment for voter
impersonation in that time, so what’s the big public policy
issue that requires sacrificing 700,000 voters?”  In an hour-long presentation today, Adam Mortara, a lawyer
for Texas, called the Justice Department’s number of affected
voters “highly-inflated” and accused the department of relying
on a database analysis that didn’t examine whether its list of
voters without identification included people who were dead or
had moved out of state.  He said the Justice Department never analyzed whether these
potential voters had acceptable federally issued identification
such as passports or military or citizenship records.  “The database analysis is so irretrievably flawed it
doesn’t show anything,” said Mortara, a lawyer at Bartlit Beck
Herman Palenchar & Scott LLP in  Chicago .  Valid License  Brian Ingram, director of the Texas Secretary of State’s
election division, testified that he and his wife twice found
themselves on the Justice Department’s list of voters without
identification. Each of them has a valid driver’s license, he
said.  Since 2002, Texas conducted 308 investigations of voter
fraud, filing criminal charges against at least four people,
according to a state filing. At least three cases involved
alleged voting by noncitizens.  Ingram testified that 239 votes were cast in the state’s
May 29 election by people suspected of using the identities of
dead people. He said the allegations will be turned over to the
Texas attorney general for investigation.  Texas  Assistant Attorney General Patrick Sweeten said in a
July 1 filing that the Justice Department hasn’t identified “a
single eligible, registered Texas voter who lacks a required
form of ID and will not be able to obtain an election
identification certificate.”  Expert Witness  Texas also points out that Stephen Ansolabehere, the
Justice Department’s expert witness to assess the effect of the
law, found in 2008 that 70 percent of Hispanics and blacks
support identification requirements.  Groups that intervened in the case say they have found such
would-be voters, including those who don’t have transportation,
can’t locate documents, aren’t allowed to take time off from
jobs or lack funds to pay for a new state ID.  Under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, the burden is on
Texas to show that its law wouldn’t have a “retrogressive
effect” on minorities or was enacted without a discriminatory
purpose.  “It’s not clear the Justice Department has to show that
the law will actually prevent anyone who is dead set on
intending to vote from voting,” Elmendorf said. “All they have
to show is the burden isn’t trivial to the cognitive process
voters go through when they decide they should vote or not
vote.”  The three judges hearing the case, Circuit Judge David Tatel and district judges Rosemary Collyer and Robert Wilkins,
have said they’ll try to rule before the end of August.  The case is Texas v. Holder, 12-00128, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 