-- Mexican Central Bank Board Member Sees Years of Peso Volatility
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2012-07-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/mexican-central-bank-board-member-sees-years-of-peso-volatility.html
Mexico’s peso may remain volatile for
years as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis roils international
markets, central bank Deputy Governor Manuel Ramos Francia said.  “We are going to be facing this volatility for some
time,” Ramos Francia said in an interview in Cartagena,
 Colombia  on July 6. When asked if that meant years rather than
months, he said that it did.  The peso has lost 3 percent over the last three months to
13.317 against the  U.S. dollar , the third biggest decline among
major Latin American currencies. One-month historical peso
volatility, a measure of fluctuations over the period, is 14
percent, the second-highest among major Latin American
currencies after the Brazilian real, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  While volatility will persist in line with European
weakness, Mexico’s fundamentals didn’t support a peso weaker
than 14 per dollar, Ramos Francia said. The currency dipped past
that threshold briefly in early June and late May.  “Given some of these periods of high volatility and
uncertainty, at some point some currencies -- and you have seen
this pattern all over the emerging market economies -- overshoot
in terms of adjustment,” he said. “In that sense, sooner or
later they come back to reflect fundamentals.”  The  European Central Bank  on July 5 reduced its benchmark
rate to a record low of 0.75 percent and took its deposit rate
to zero, with President  Mario Draghi  saying the cuts may have
only a “muted” economic impact. With Europe’s debt crisis
curbing growth across the continent and damping the outlook for
the world economy, the ECB was under pressure to ease policy.  ‘Underlying Problems’  There are “underlying problems not solved in Europe,”
Ramos Francia said. “In particular the core problems of
competitiveness in the periphery. While those are not solved,
the world economy is going to be in a complicated situation.”  The euro-region economy will contract 0.4 percent this
year, according to 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Economic
growth in the U.S., which receives about 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports, will be 2.2 percent, according to 70 economists’
forecasts.  Mexico’s gross domestic product will probably grow 3.5
percent to 4 percent this year, Ramos Francia said. The central
bank’s official 2012 forecast in May was for GDP expansion of
3.25 percent to 4.25 percent.  Mexican  inflation  is “gradually converging” to its 3
percent target as slack in the labor market curbs wage growth,
and credit expands at a sustainable pace, Ramos Francia said.  Inflation Conditions  “We have not only 30-year bonds, but we have even longer
maturity bonds. That reflects precisely the core expectations
that inflation is low and stable in Mexico,” he said. “Given
that the domestic inflationary conditions are so well anchored,
gradually general inflation is going to be absorbing these
shocks to commodities prices and gradually converging to the 3
percent target.”  Prices jumped 4.3 percent in the 12 months through mid-
June, leading economists to raise their year-end inflation
forecast to 3.81 percent in a survey by the central bank
published July 2. A month earlier analysts were forecasting
inflation of 3.65 percent. The central bank targets inflation of
3 percent, plus or minus 1 percentage point.  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in an interview
on July 4 he expects annual inflation to dip into the target
range this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Roeder in  Mexico  City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  