-- Mexico CPI Rate Jumps for Second Month as Growth Accelerates
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-07-09T16:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/mexico-cpi-rate-jumps-for-second-month-as-growth-accelerates-2-.html
Mexico ’s annual inflation rate rose
for a second month in June, breaching the upper limit of the
central bank’s target range and reinforcing forecasts that
policy makers will refrain from cutting  interest rates .  Inflation accelerated to 4.34 percent from 3.85 percent the
month before, the national statistics institute said on its
website today. Prices climbed 0.46 percent from the month
before. The median forecast from 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for prices to rise 4.3 percent in the year. The
central bank targets inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent.  Mexico’s economy grew  4.6 percent  in the first three months
of 2012 from a year earlier, the fastest pace in six quarters,
helping fuel a consumer price increase of 4.3 percent in the 12
months through mid-June.  “Inflation will remain above the central bank range in the
coming months,” said  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Banco
Santander SA in Mexico City. “On the other hand,  core inflation 
is relatively stable. Our base scenario continues to be that the
central bank will maintain its rate of 4.5 percent probably
until the end of next year.”  Food, Energy  Core prices, which exclude food and energy costs, gained
0.22 percent from the month before, in line with the 0.21
percent median estimate from 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Mexico’s central bank kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged for the 27th straight meeting on June 8 as a weaker
global economic outlook led it to downplay the risks to
inflation.  “We consider that the balance of risks to growth of the
Mexican economy has deteriorated, reflecting the intensification
of the downside risks to the global economy,” the bank said in
a statement accompanying the decision. “The balance of
inflation risks remains unchanged.”  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens predicted in a July
4 interview that inflation will slow this quarter to within
policy makers’ targeted range and said 2012 economic growth
probably will fall short of the high end of the bank’s
projection.  Consumer price increases probably will slow to an annual
rate of less than 4 percent this quarter after rains ended a
drought that had caused a spike in agricultural prices, Carstens
said. While a bird flu outbreak detected in western Mexico may
cause a “blip” in egg prices, the rise won’t last, he said.  The pace of gross domestic product growth in  Latin
America ’s second-largest economy this year “depends mostly on
the  U.S. economy ” and probably will be 3.5 percent to 4
percent, Carstens said. He added it appears “less likely” GDP
expansion will reach the 4.25 percent that is the upper limit of
the central bank’s May forecast.  No Concerns  Mexico’s Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said in a July
3 interview that his government has no concerns about inflation
“whatsoever.”  Mexico’s gross domestic product will expand 3.7 percent
this year and 3.5 percent in 2013, according to the median
estimate in a survey of economists by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex
unit released in an e-mail on July 5. Annual inflation will end
this year at 3.81 percent and is expected to end 2013 at 3.69
percent, according to the survey. Economists see the Mexican
peso closing 2012 at 12.98 per  U.S. dollar , the survey showed.  The peso depreciated 0.3 percent to 13.4265 per U.S. dollar
at 8:09 a.m. in Mexico City, paring its gain this year to 3.8
percent. Yields on Mexican local currency bonds tied to
inflation due in December 2013 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 0.12 percent.  The central bank announces its next interest rate decision
on July 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 