-- Facebook Gets Ireland Audit Over Changes After Privacy Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-07-09T12:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/facebook-gets-ireland-audit-over-changes-after-privacy-probe.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the biggest
social-networking site, faces a formal review this week from
data-protection officials over changes regulators sought after a
probe into how the social network handles personal data.  Facebook’s progress in making “a wide range of best-
practice improvements” will be reviewed as part of this week’s
on-site audit by the Irish Office of the Data Protection
Commissioner. An agency  report  in December urged Facebook to
increase “transparency and controls for the use of personal
data for advertising purposes” and to delete “data held from
user interactions with the site much sooner.”  These and “any other current or ongoing issues will be
discussed with Facebook during our on-site re-audit,”  Gary
Davis , Ireland’s deputy data protection commissioner, said in an
e-mail today.  Facebook Ireland provides service to the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company’s users outside the U.S. and  Canada ,
according to the agency. The agency began reviewing Facebook’s
compliance with Irish and European Union data-protection rules
in 2011.  Facebook said in an e-mailed statement that it has kept in
contact with regulators in recent months on “our progress in
implementing the recommendations outlined in their audit report
from December.”  The agency “will conduct an on-site audit meeting with
Facebook Ireland in mid-July,” the company said. “We look
forward to the meeting.”  Deleted Content  Facebook has agreed to enhance  the information  users get
about their deleted and removed content and to simplify
explanations of its privacy policies. The Irish agency will
issue a second report later this year.  A Germany data protection regulator last month suspended
its probe of Facebook’s facial-recognition features pending the
Irish audit.  For companies that don’t comply with its recommendations,
the Irish agency may pursue summary proceedings that can result
in a maximum fine of 3,000 euros ($3,690). If convicted of
serious breaches of data policy, a court may fine a company as
much as 100,000 euros.  Data protection is currently policed by separate regulators
across the 27-nation EU. The EU’s executive body wants to
simplify the system so companies deal with only one data-
protection regulator in the zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  