-- Fairstein Tackles DSK Sex Scandal, Slams ’50 Shades’
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fairstein-tackles-dsk-sex-scandal-slams-50-shades-.html
When New York police pulled  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the powerful managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , off an airplane and arrested him
for sexually assaulting a hotel maid, Linda Fairstein took note.  Before quitting to write fiction full-time, she’d led the
Manhattan District Attorney’s sex crimes unit, prosecuting such
high-profile defendants as Robert Chambers, the “Preppie
Killer.”  In “Night Watch,” her 14th novel featuring Alex Cooper,
Fairstein takes us behind the scenes as vexed prosecutors deal
with a case very similar to the DSK-maid imbroglio. Of course,
she adds some provocative spins of her own.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in New York.  Lundborg: What intrigued you about the Dominique Strauss-
Kahn case?  Fairstein: It was my jurisdiction had I still been in the
DA’s office, so I was watching it very closely.  I didn’t think I would write about it, and then I found
that no matter where I went and what I did, that was the first
question everybody asked me.  Crying Rape  Lundborg: Why did the prosecutors drop the case?  Fairstein: The woman said she’d been raped in  Guinea  when
in fact she later admitted she wasn’t. That’s the most critical
part when you’re charging someone with a rape now.  So the inability to know from this woman when she was
telling the truth and when she wasn’t is the thing that made it
impossible for anybody to go into court.  Lundborg: There was seminal fluid on her shirt that matched
his DNA, so something sexual occurred?  Fairstein: I get a lot of outrage from people who think he
obviously raped her, and just as much outrage from those who
think they had sex for money.  Lundborg: No one will ever know what really happened aside
from the two of them?  Fairstein: Probably not. Even rabid feminists may have
questions about the fact that it’s quite unusual for a guy to be
58 -- he’s a pig, granted he’s done everything inappropriate
sexually -- to come out of the bathroom, and, for the first
time, use physical force against a stranger.  Plus she’s bigger than he, it’s a huge hotel room, there
were no signs of struggle, so what kept her there?  Lundborg: You said it’s like a Rorschach test -- someone in
the book says the guy is married to a supermodel, so why would
he want to have sex with someone who takes out the trash?  Unattractive Victims  Fairstein: Do you know it was one of the most common
arguments in trials that I did starting from the 1970s until I
left -- the physical appearance of the victim.  You would get the snide comments and the jokes and bad
attitude if the victims were not attractive. You know -- who’d
want to rape her?  Lundborg: Why did you change the race of your DSK figure,
making him an accomplished, powerful African? And the maid is
from war-torn Guatemala?  Fairstein: At one point in my book, the woman explains that
she would never have consented to any sexual act because she
would never put her mouth on a black man.  I wanted to give the dynamics of race and power and class a
different spin.  S&M Book  Lundborg: What do you think of the current popularity among
women of the sado-masochistic “Fifty Shades of Grey?”  Fairstein: It’s totally false hype about the book being
harmless and fun, completely wrong.  I think it is dangerous for women. I can’t even go near
these books because of the work we did with S&M victims over the
years.  In my professional capacity I did not meet the girls who
successfully set the limit. I met the girls who thought they
were setting the limit but who were with somebody who wasn’t
there for the limit.  Lundborg: But shouldn’t consenting adults be allowed to do
as they please in the bedroom?  Fairstein: In  New York  you can consent to sexual activity,
but you cannot consent when you are about to be assaulted.  One girl went to the hospital with no skin left because the
whipping didn’t stop. She could say “I agreed to do this,” but
the law let us prosecute.  No Consent  Lundborg: Why do women agree?  Fairstein: For most of the women I saw engaging in this
conduct it usually started against their will. But some of the
most pathetic cases involved women who were very vulnerable and
usually mentally ill.  One woman was 5-feet, 8-inches tall and maybe weighed 87
pounds by the time I met her. She was scarred on every part of
her body.  Lundborg: What happened to her?  Fairstein: She would make a report and then she would
withdraw it and be back with the man shortly thereafter.  We finally arrested the guy and found he’d made a little
sound-proof torture chamber in his apartment. He was convicted
and sent to jail. She wound up in a mental institution.  Lundborg: What’s your next book about?  Fairstein: I’m currently intrigued by places in Central
Park -- did you know there was an African-American community
called Seneca Village that was taken over?  And there were also caves built in the 1860s and 70s with
open fronts, but when bad things began to happen the caves were
covered.  Last summer, someone excavated one of the caves and there
were odd things inside, so my imagination is running wild.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  art  and  wine  reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 