-- Fannie Mae Survey Shows Increasing Confidence in Housing Market
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-07-09T22:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fannie-mae-survey-shows-increasing-confidence-in-housing-market.html
Confidence in the U.S. housing market
is increasing among Americans at the same time that most believe
the country’s economy is on the wrong track, according to  Fannie
Mae (FNMA) ’s June 2012 National Housing Survey.  Americans expect  home prices  to rise 2 percent on average
in the next year, the highest estimate since the government-
sponsored mortgage company began its monthly survey in June
2010. In the May survey, respondents predicted a 1.4 percent
price increase.  The survey found that 48 percent of respondents believe
home prices will stay the same over the next year. Rising prices
were predicted by 35 percent, the highest portion to answer
optimistically since the survey was first conducted.  “Although this positive trend may be short-lived if the
general economy falters, one might ask whether consumers are
increasingly seeing the current environment as a unique
opportunity to buy a home while home prices remain depressed,
rental costs are increasing, and  interest rates  are near
historic lows,” Doug Duncan,  Fannie Mae ’s Senior Vice President
and Chief Economist, said in a news release.  Of the nationwide survey’s 1,001 adult respondents, 57
percent said they believe the economy is on the wrong track and
36 said they believe it is on the right track. Those responses
have changed little since the survey was conducted in February.  “We’re seeing several signs of optimism right now, but
this is optimism compared to a very low bottom,” said  Jed Kolko , chief economist and head of analytics for Trulia Inc., a
company that runs a real estate information website.
“Improvement is not the same as back to normal.”  ‘Tight’ Inventory  While 73 percent of respondents said it is a good time to
buy a house, 15 percent said it is a good time to sell. This gap
is “very telling” and indicates that housing inventory will
remain “very tight,” said Kolko.  The portion of respondents who said they would buy a house
if they were going to move grew from 63 percent in May to 69
percent in June, the highest level ever recorded in the survey.
The number of respondents who said they would rent if they were
going to move was the lowest to date at 27 percent, down from 32
percent in May.  Respondents who said they believe  mortgage rates  will rise
in the next year decreased from 41 percent in May to 37 percent
in June.  Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  was up
53.3 percent year to date this afternoon, compared to the S&P
500’s 7.5 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  