-- FBI Says Cartel Used Bank of America to Launder Money
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-09T04:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fbi-says-cartel-used-bank-of-america-to-launder-money.html
The brother of the alleged leader of
a Mexican cocaine-trafficking cartel used  Bank of America Corp. 
accounts to invest the organization’s drug proceeds in U.S.
racehorses, a FBI agent said.  Jose Trevino-Morales, one of 14 people indicted by a
federal grand jury in  Texas  on June 12, used a personal account
and a business account under the name of Tremor Enterprises LLC
to buy and sell horses using money generated from cocaine
trafficking, extortion and bribery, Jason Preece, a special
agent with the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, said in a June
11 sworn statement filed in federal court in  Dallas .  “The ultimate goal of this money laundering operation was
to provide Jose Trevino with apparent legitimate assets
purchased and maintained by illegally obtained money,” Preece
said. Bank of America isn’t accused of any wrongdoing in the
agent’s statement.  Details of the transactions were revealed in a probe of the
Los Zetas drug cartel, which according to the filing, funnels
thousands of kilograms of cocaine into the U.S. each year. Los
Zetas is the biggest drug cartel in  Mexico , in geographical
presence, and controls 11 states in the country, generating
millions of dollars of revenue, Preece said in the statement
filed in a bid to gain a search warrant for Trevino’s property.  Strong Procedures  “We have strong anti-money-laundering procedures and work
closely with the authorities when suspicious activity is
discovered,” Larry Di Rita, a spokesman at  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said in a phone interview today.  The bank doesn’t comment on any specific legal and customer
cases, he said.  Preece filed the statement to support his request for court
permission to search Trevino’s property in Balch Springs, Texas,
a Dallas suburb, where he said investigators were likely to find
horse ownership records, bank statements and cellular phones
used to communicate with Los Zetas.  Trevino, who earned $29,000 in 2009 from Texas Stone and
Tile LLC, had expenses of $200,000 a month the following year to
support his horses, according to an FBI informant who isn’t
named in the filing. The drug cartel had bought at least $4.2
million worth of quarter horses, which are used in short-
distance races, over a four-year period, according to the
indictment.  The two most well-known horses Trevino had were Tempting
Dash and Mr. Piloto, according to the filing.  Mr. Piloto won the All American Futurity race in 2010 at
Ruidoso Downs Race Track, with Tremor Enterprises’ bank account
being credited with $968,440 as a result, Preece said.  Miguel Angel Trevino Morales, 38, leader of the Los Zetas
drug cartel, and his brother Oscar Omar Trevino Morales were
also indicted by the grand jury.  The defendants are charged in the May 30 indictment with
conspiracy to launder monetary instruments. The crime carries a
maximum penalty of 20 years in prison.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Morales, A-12-cr-210-SS,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas ( San Antonio ).
The application and affidavit for search warrant is 3:12-mj-255,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  