-- Fed’s Lacker Sees ‘Tepid’ U.S. Growth, Not Recession Risk
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H a y s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-09T18:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fed-s-lacker-sees-tepid-u-s-growth-not-recession-risk.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said that “some of the slowdown is
real” for the  U.S. economy  though the reduction in growth isn’t
severe enough to tip the economy back into a recession.  “The numbers have been pretty tepid, we’re definitely
experiencing a slowdown,” Lacker said today in a Bloomberg
radio interview on “The Hays Advantage” with Kathleen Hays and
Vonnie Quinn. “I don’t think this is fatal. I don’t think this
is pushing us back into a recession right now.”  Lacker, who has dissented from all four Federal Open Market
Committee decisions this year, is at odds with colleagues on
what the Fed should do to boost the economy. He said in a June
22 statement that he opposed the FOMC’s $267 billion extension
of its Operation Twist program because it may spur inflation and
won’t give the economy a significant boost.  “We’re just in a situation where growth is going to
fluctuate between somewhat satisfactory and disappointing,”
Lacker, 56, said in today’s interview.  Lacker has said the Fed will probably have to raise rates
in mid-2013, contradicting the FOMC’s statements this year that
economic conditions will probably warrant “exceptionally low”
levels of the federal funds rate at least through late 2014.
U.S. central bankers cut the benchmark lending rate to a record-
low range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008.  A weaker-than-forecast June jobs gain in the U.S. will lead
the Fed to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at almost zero until
the middle of 2015, according to reports from Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp., two of the 21 primary
dealers that trade directly with the central bank.  First Hike  Lacker said the Fed’s late-2014 projection “is a
forecast,” and not a promise.  “If I had to choose today, I’d say it may be late 2013,”
Lacker said. “It’s more likely we’re going to need to move a
little later in 2013, but it could come sooner.”  Fed officials on June 20 lowered their forecasts for growth
and employment while noting “significant downside risks” to
the economy. Policy makers reduced their so-called central
tendency estimate for 2012 gross domestic product growth to 1.9
percent to 2.4 percent from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in April.
 Estimates  for 2013 centered around 2.2 percent to 2.8 percent,
compared with 2.7 percent to 3.1 percent in the previous
forecast.  The central tendency forecast excludes the three highest
and three lowest estimates.  Growth Accelerates  The district bank chief said in an April 4 Bloomberg
Television interview that growth will probably accelerate to
above 3 percent next year, warranting a boost in the benchmark
interest rate. Economists estimate that GDP will increase by 2.2
percent this year and 2.4 percent next year, according to the
median of 70 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  American employers added fewer workers to payrolls than
forecast in June, and the jobless rate stayed at 8.2 percent as
the economic outlook dimmed.  The Fed releases minutes of the June meeting on July 11.
The next FOMC meeting is set for Aug. 1 in  Washington .  Lacker has been president of the Richmond Fed since 2004
and is the second-longest serving among all 12 regional bank
presidents after  Cleveland ’s  Sandra Pianalto . He votes on
monetary policy in 2012 as part of the rotation among Fed bank
presidents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Hays  in  New York  at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  