-- Fed Weighs Revamped Monetary Report as Guide to Policy
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-07-09T20:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fed-weighs-revamped-monetary-report-as-guide-to-policy-economy.html
Federal Reserve officials are
discussing whether to start a quarterly monetary policy report
to provide a clearer guide to their economic outlook and the
likely course for policy.  “We are talking a lot about it,” Philadelphia Federal
Reserve Bank President  Charles Plosser  said in an interview on
July 5. “The question is, can we put it together in a way that
is coherent and makes sense and improves our communications?”  Plosser serves on a committee created by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to consider how to better explain its decisions and
policies to the public. Bernanke, who is scheduled to deliver
his semi-annual testimony to U.S. lawmakers next week, has
established an explicit inflation target and has started giving
press conferences in a push to improve transparency.  “They have come a long way, and they need to complete the
process,” said  Frederic Mishkin , a Columbia Business School
professor who served on the Fed board from September 2006 until
August 2008. “You want to achieve accountability, but also have
markets understand why you are doing what you are doing.”  In another Bernanke innovation, Fed officials publish their
forecasts for inflation, growth and unemployment four times a
year, as well as their outlook for their key  interest rate ,
albeit anonymously. For all their efforts, investors still have
to guess how Fed policies will evolve as new data show the
economy moving closer or further from their goals, Mishkin said.  Individual Forecasts  “We provide a great deal of information, but it is
essentially disaggregated in the sense that it’s forecasts of
individuals,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said in
response to a question last month.  It would be useful if there was “a greater sense about how
the committee would react as opposed to individuals,” Lockhart
said. “I think that would be progress if we could do that.”  Starting a quarterly report is a “distinct possibility,”
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in response to a
reporter’s question on June 29 after a speech in  Little Rock ,
 Arkansas . “There is interest in the Fed in producing something
like this.”  U.S. stocks fell today, giving benchmark indexes the
longest slump in more than a month, after a jump in Spanish bond
yields above 7 percent intensified concern about Europe’s
crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.2 percent to
1,352.45 at 4 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.51 percent from 1.55 percent late last
week.  Other reports showed German exports rebounded more than
forecast in May, helping Europe’s largest economy to weather the
crisis, and China’s inflation eased to a 29-month low.  Main Tool  The Fed’s main tool for communicating changes in policy is
the statement, usually less than two pages long, issued by the
 Federal Open Market Committee  immediately after its eight
regular meetings each year.  Last month, the Fed eased policy by extending its Operation
Twist program to lengthen the maturities of assets on its
balance sheet. The program is intended to boost growth by
pushing down long-term borrowing costs.  The statement tied “further action” to “sustained
improvement in labor market conditions in a context of  price
stability .”  Such qualitative language communicates the committee’s
priorities without specifying the triggers for action, said
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Illusion of Rigor  “What they are trying to do is create the illusion of
quantitative rigor, but the reality is there is a lot of
judgment that goes into it,” Stanley said.  Since the June 20 statement, government data showed that
inflation slowed and job growth lagged behind economists’
forecasts -- suggesting that the economy may be moving further
away from the Fed’s goals.  Prices rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier in May, as
measured by the personal consumption expenditures price index,
and employers added 80,000 workers to payrolls in June.  “It is very hard to give as rich a sense of that systemic
approach to policy in brief statements we issue at the end of
each meeting,” Plosser said. A detailed monetary policy report
would be a “logical next step” for the FOMC to convey its
strategy, he said.  One Fed publication that’s a candidate for an overhaul is
the monetary policy report Bernanke presents to Congress twice a
year, said Joe Gagnon, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in  Washington .  Little on Outlook  That report is mostly retrospective and says little new
about the outlook for monetary policy. Congress is due to get
the report next week.  “It was not meant to create much news,” said Gagnon, who
was an associate director at the Fed’s Division of International
Finance from 1999 to 2008. “What I would personally love to see
is some discussion of how their policies are going to achieve
their objectives.”  Mishkin called the report “really terrible” at the Oct.
24-25, 2006 meeting of the FOMC, according to transcripts.
“It’s dull, it’s sex made boring,” he said. “The markets pay
very little attention.”  The central banks of  Canada ,  England  and  Norway  are among
those that issue regular reports aimed at updating the public on
the outlook and risks to the economy. One of the most detailed
is produced by Norway’s Norges Bank, which includes forecasts of
the policy rate under different economic scenarios.  Single Goal  Many of these banks have a single goal of hitting an
inflation target over time, unlike the Fed, which has a dual
mandate to keep inflation low and stable and maximize
employment. They also have policy-making committees that are
smaller than the Fed’s 12-member FOMC, making it easier to
achieve consensus on the route to that goal.  Fed policy makers in January declared a long-run inflation
goal of 2 percent for the first time, a step in forging a
consensus on steering policy toward a target.  The Federal Reserve Act is ambiguous on how soon the
central bank needs to achieve its goals or how it should balance
them. That’s left an opening for an array of opinions from Fed
officials.  Describing how the committee plans to get to full
employment and stable prices could be “very tricky from a
governance standpoint” Mishkin said in an interview. That
doesn’t mean the Fed shouldn’t try, he said, adding:
“Committees have to make decisions.”  Lacker’s Dissent  One example of how policy makers may emphasize one goal
over another was Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker ’s dissent
against the committee’s June decision to provide more stimulus.
His statement following the meeting shows he puts more weight on
inflation risks.  “Impediments to stronger growth appear to be beyond the
capacity of monetary policy to offset,” Lacker said.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , by contrast, has
stressed jobs. He has suggested that the committee refrain from
raising rates until unemployment falls below 7 percent or
inflation rises above 3 percent “over the medium term.”  Economists, including Bernanke, have long argued that
central bank transparency improves public trust, and helps rid
the economy of costly volatility arising from discretionary,
unpredictable policies.  An agreement on how the FOMC would respond to the risks
could go a long way toward making the Fed more transparent and
its policies more effective, said  Mark Gertler , a New York
University economist and research co-author with Bernanke.  “We should not lose sight of the fact that the primary
challenge for policy makers is to get the recovery going,” said
Gertler. “A well-done inflation report could even be a bit
helpful for this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  