-- Fed Harms Itself by Missing Goals
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-07-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fed-harms-itself-by-missing-goals-stevenson-and-wolfers.html
Ben S. Bernanke  has made
transparency one of the defining themes of his time at the helm
of the  Federal Reserve . The virtue of this transparency is that
it’s easy to evaluate how well the Fed is conducting monetary
policy. And it has become transparently clear that the central
bank has failed to take the actions its own principles demand.  Bernanke is the first Fed chairman to clearly state a set
of principles to guide monetary policy. They recognize the dual
mandate set down by Congress -- that the Fed must try to balance
low inflation and unemployment -- and articulate goals for each.
The Fed is targeting a 2 percent inflation rate and plans to
keep  unemployment  near its longer-run normal rate, which it
currently judges to be between 5 percent and 6 percent. By
announcing these goals, Bernanke hopes to reduce uncertainty and
anchor the expectations of consumers and companies.  But actions speak louder than words, and the Fed’s actions
have been too timid. Right now, the Fed’s preferred measure of
inflation -- the deflator on personal consumption expenditures -
- is less than 2 percent, with the most recent estimate showing
an annual increase of 1.5 percent. And unemployment remains at
8.2 percent. If monetary policy had been used more aggressively
to combat the recession, then unemployment would be lower and
inflation would be closer to its target. Even if you believe
monetary policy is largely ineffective at lowering unemployment,
a more expansionary policy would still have pushed inflation
closer to its target.  Predicting Failure  One Fed defense may be that its recent policy choices were
appropriate given the imperfect information available at the
time. If this is the explanation, then Fed policy needs to
adjust, given current information. The Fed’s latest projections
show that it expects inflation to remain below target, and
unemployment to stay above target, at least through 2014. The
only reason we can’t judge the Fed beyond that horizon is
because it hasn’t yet issued forecasts for 2015. Moreover, these
projections come with a warning that there are “significant
downside risks.”  So the Fed expects to fail, and to continue failing for the
next 2 1/2 years, and there’s a significant risk that it may
fail by a lot.  Worse, these projections are based on an expectation of
“appropriate monetary policy.” That is, the Fed thinks it’s
appropriate to run policy in a way that it expects to fail to
meet its stated goals for the next few years for no discernible
reason. Beyond the macroeconomic failings, the Fed has also
botched its goal of being  transparent in explaining  what is
driving its policy decisions.  It’s not hard to do better. A more accommodative monetary
policy -- which could be achieved by quantitative easing, a
promise to keep  interest rates  low, or attempting to raise
inflationary expectations -- would probably nudge inflation
toward its target and lower unemployment toward normal rates.
Indeed, the Fed’s stated principles seem to demand such a
choice.  The point is that the Fed’s usual excuse -- that it’s hard
to nail two goals with just one instrument -- doesn’t apply. In
normal times, the debate over monetary policy is between
“hawks” who want the Fed to emphasize its inflation target,
and “doves” who want it to focus on lowering unemployment. But
there’s no debate here -- more accommodative monetary policy
would help achieve the goals for both inflation and
unemployment.  Another common line of debate is between those who want the
Fed to take exceptional actions in exceptional times, and those
who want it to follow clearly articulated policy rules. But
again, both the exceptionally high  unemployment rate  and the
Fed’s clearly articulated policy principles point to easier
monetary policy.  Possible Asymmetry  What then explains the Fed’s behavior? One possibility is
that it is asymmetrically willing to risk undershooting, but not
overshooting, its inflation target. Certainly, Bernanke’s Fed
has shown no willingness to tolerate inflation above a 2 percent
ceiling. While the chairman has explicitly denied that there’s
any element of asymmetry in the inflation target, the Fed’s
choices suggest otherwise.  Setting an inflation target, rather than a ceiling, is the
right approach. The reason is that failing to hit the target on
either side creates economic risks. Just as the Fed needs to be
vigilant against the possibility of inflation sparking a wage-
price spiral, it needs to be vigilant in protecting against the
possibility of deflation. A clear commitment to keeping
inflation near the target, and not just below it, is our best
defense against deflation taking hold.  The other possibility is that the Fed is out of ammunition,
and while it might prefer to push inflation higher and
unemployment lower, it can’t. Again, Bernanke has explicitly
denied this, and we think he’s right. An announcement by the Fed
that it’s prepared to tolerate a higher inflation rate in order
to generate lower unemployment, as Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  has suggested, would surely boost the willingness of
companies to invest, knowing that the Fed won’t choke off the
incipient recovery.  There are real costs to the Fed’s failures. Millions remain
unemployed in the service of keeping inflation below its target
level. We risk the possibility they may not work again as their
skills atrophy and they lose hope. The Fed’s confused
communications have undermined its own effectiveness and harmed
its institutional prestige.  In the long run, a Fed whose word we don’t believe, and
whose principles it views as optional, is a Fed that will be
less able to influence the expectations of consumers and
investors, rendering it less effective at pulling us out of the
next economic decline.  (Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers , both visiting
professors at  Princeton University , are Bloomberg View
columnists. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on combating  drug-resistant
tuberculosis  and rethinking  capital controls ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on why Romney should  choose Chris Christie ; William Pesek on the
 Fukushima meltdown report ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  finds  no silver lining 
in the health-care ruling; Virginia Postrel on what our  many
pairs of shoes  say about us;  David Crane  on reining in  state
health-care liabilities .  To contact the writers of this article:
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu 
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  