-- Fed’s Lacker Says U.S. May Be Close to Maximum Employment
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H a y s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-09T20:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fed-s-lacker-says-u-s-may-be-close-to-maximum-employment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the U.S. may already be close to
maximum employment from a monetary policy standpoint and that
policy makers can’t do much more to cut the jobless rate.  “Given what’s happened to this economy, I think we’re
pretty close to maximum  employment  right now,” Lacker said
today in a Bloomberg radio interview on “The Hays Advantage”
with  Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn. “That might be shocking.
That might be surprising.”  Fed policy makers believe the U.S. central bank has limited
control over the jobless rate because the employment level is
driven by “non-monetary factors that affect the structure and
dynamics of the labor market,” according to the January
statement from the  Federal Open Market Committee . The jobless
rate was unchanged at 8.2 percent in June.  Lacker, who has dissented from all four FOMC decisions this
year, is at odds with colleagues on what the Fed should do to
boost the economy. He said in a June 22 statement that he
opposed the FOMC’s $267 billion extension of its Operation Twist
program because it may spur inflation and won’t give the economy
a significant boost.  San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said today the
U.S. central bank must maintain “extraordinary vigilance” to
see if the slowing economy requires additional monetary
stimulus. “If further action is called for, the most effective
tool would be additional purchases of longer-maturity
securities, including agency mortgage-backed securities,”
Williams said in a speech in Coeur D’Alene,  Idaho .  ‘Ideal World’  “From the point of view of monetary policy, employment is
close to maximum right now,” Lacker said in the Bloomberg radio
interview. “Is it an ideal world? Should we be happy with it?
No. But I don’t think there’s much that monetary policy ought to
be thought of as doing about it.”  Fed officials in June  forecast  the jobless rate will
average 8 percent to 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter of this
year. The unemployment forecasts centered around 7.5 percent to
8 percent in the fourth quarter of next year and 7 percent to
7.7 percent in late 2014.  The reserve bank chief also said that “some of the
slowdown is real” for the  U.S. economy  though the reduction in
growth isn’t severe enough to tip the economy back into a
recession. “We’re just in a situation where growth is going to
fluctuate between somewhat satisfactory and disappointing,”
Lacker, 56, said in today’s interview.  ‘Pretty Tepid’  “The numbers have been pretty tepid, we’re definitely
experiencing a slowdown,” Lacker said. “I don’t think this is
fatal. I don’t think this is pushing us back into a recession
right now.”  Lacker has said the Fed will probably have to raise rates
in mid-2013, contradicting the FOMC’s statements this year that
economic conditions will probably warrant “exceptionally low”
levels of the federal funds rate at least through late 2014.
U.S. central bankers cut the benchmark lending rate to a record-
low range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008.  A weaker-than-forecast June jobs gain in the U.S. will lead
the Fed to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at almost zero until
the middle of 2015, according to reports from Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp., two of the 21 primary
dealers that trade directly with the central bank.  2014 Projection  Lacker said the Fed’s late-2014 projection “is a
forecast,” and not a promise.  “If I had to choose today, I’d say it may be late 2013,”
Lacker said. “It’s more likely we’re going to need to move a
little later in 2013, but it could come sooner.”  Fed officials on June 20 lowered their forecasts for growth
and employment while noting “significant downside risks” to
the economy. Policy makers reduced their so-called central
tendency estimate for 2012 gross domestic product growth to 1.9
percent to 2.4 percent from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in April.
 Estimates  for 2013 centered around 2.2 percent to 2.8 percent,
compared with 2.7 percent to 3.1 percent in the previous
forecast.  The central tendency forecasts exclude the three highest
and three lowest estimates.  Lacker said in an April 4 Bloomberg Television interview
that growth will probably accelerate to above 3 percent next
year, warranting a boost in the benchmark interest rate.
Economists estimate that GDP will increase by 2.2 percent this
year and 2.4 percent next year, according to the median of 70
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Fewer Workers  American employers added fewer workers to payrolls than
forecast in June, and the jobless rate stayed at 8.2 percent as
the economic outlook dimmed.  The Fed releases minutes of the June meeting on July 11.
The next FOMC meeting is set for Aug. 1 in  Washington .  Lacker has been president of the Richmond Fed since 2004
and is the second-longest serving among all 12 regional bank
presidents after  Cleveland ’s  Sandra Pianalto . He votes on
monetary policy in 2012 as part of the rotation among Fed bank
presidents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hays in  New York  at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  