-- Fed’s Evans Urges Stronger Action to Boost U.S. Labor Market
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-07-09T08:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fed-s-evans-urges-stronger-action-to-boost-u-s-labor-market.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the U.S. central bank should move
more forcefully to lower the  unemployment rate , warning of long-
term economic damage should high joblessness persist.  “Failure to act aggressively now will lower the capacity
of the economy for many years to come,” Evans said in the text
of remarks today in Bangkok. “I support using our balance sheet
to provide additional accommodation.”  Recent reports have signaled the U.S. recovery is
weakening, with figures showing last week that employers added
fewer workers to payrolls than economists forecast and the
unemployment rate stayed at 8.2 percent. Evans and Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren , who spoke earlier at the same
conference in the Thai capital, indicated in their prepared
remarks little optimism hiring will accelerate soon.  “I expect that we will face unemployment well above
sustainable levels for some time to come,” Evans said. Fed
policy makers consider a jobless rate of 5.25 percent to 6
percent to be consistent with a fully employed  labor market  over
the long term, he said.  Rosengren said employment growth has “slowed fairly
noticeably,” citing “significant excess capacity.”  QE3 Outlook  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, known as QE1 and
QE2, from 2008 to 2011 to support the economy. Speaking to
reporters after his speech, Rosengren called the June job
figures “disappointing” and said a third round of easing,
known as QE3, is possible depending on economic data.  The Fed’s policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee last
month expanded a program intended to lower longer-term borrowing
costs, adding that it’s prepared to act further to promote
sustained employment gains.  “Our action in June that continued our Maturity Extension
Program was useful,” the Chicago Fed chief said at the Sasin
Bangkok Forum. “But I would have preferred an even stronger
step, such as the purchase of more mortgage-backed securities.”  Evans repeated his call for the Fed to commit to low
 interest rates  until the unemployment rate falls below 7 percent
or inflation rises above 3 percent. He added that targeting the
level of nominal income would be “an appropriate policy
choice,” while adding that he recognizes the “difficult
nature” of such an approach.  Asset Purchases  The FOMC expanded a program known as Operation Twist by
$267 billion through the end of the year in its June 19-20
meeting, and officials lowered their forecasts for growth and
employment. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after the meeting that
the Fed stands ready do more if growth falters, saying that
additional asset purchases are among the steps the central bank
would consider.  A Labor Department report released July 6 may add to the
case for more stimulus. The unemployment rate has stayed above 8
percent since January 2009, the longest stretch above that level
since 1948. Payrolls increased by 80,000 in June, the figures
showed, compared with a projected 100,000 rise based on the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed’s mandates to promote stable prices and maximum
 employment  are equally important, meaning policy makers in the
current environment should be willing to risk some price
increases if bigger job gains could be achieved, Evans said
today.  Inflation Tolerance  “If we are missing our employment mandate by a large mark,
but are close to our inflation target, then we should be willing
to undertake policies that could substantially reduce the
employment gap even if they run the risk of a modest, transitory
rise in inflation that remains within a reasonable tolerance
range,” he said.  Evans, 54, today said the  bond market  isn’t anticipating
rising inflation in the U.S. any time soon.  “Low long-term Treasury rates support the view that
markets are looking for only modest economic growth with low
inflation, and there is a high degree of caution out there --
which itself is an important factor holding back economic
activity today,” Evans said.  Evans, who doesn’t vote on policy this year, has been among
the most vocal proponents within the Fed for additional monetary
 stimulus . He was the only member of the FOMC last year to
dissent in favor of more accommodation.  In his prepared remarks, Rosengren of the Boston Fed said
hiring in the U.S. has recently slowed “fairly noticeably” and
warned that consumer demand may weaken further in a “self-
fulfilling dynamic.”  “The slowdown in employment growth not only hinders our
ability to get to full employment, but also weakens the consumer
side of the economy even more, going forward,” said Rosengren,
55. The presidents of the Boston and Chicago Fed district banks
are  scheduled  in a rotation to be voting members of the FOMC
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  