-- Fed’s Rosengren Says Jobs Slowdown Signals Further U.S. Weakness
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-07-09T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/fed-s-rosengren-says-jobs-slowdown-signals-further-u-s-weakness.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said a struggling U.S. labor market
threatens to slow household spending as Europe’s fiscal crisis
adds to uncertainty that’s restraining hiring and investment.  “The slowdown in employment growth not only hinders our
ability to get to full employment, but also weakens the consumer
side of the economy even more, going forward,” Rosengren said
in the text of remarks given in Bangkok today. “This suggests a
self-fulfilling dynamic at work as concern over a potentially
significant slowdown in the future reduces current growth.”  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis along with slower U.S. job
growth encouraged Fed officials last month to expand a program
to lower longer-term  interest rates  and signal that they’re
prepared to do even more. A Labor Department report that showed
employers added fewer workers than forecast was among data last
week indicating the economic recovery is showing signs of
strain.  With  Europe ’s debt and banking problems weighing on the
outlook, “slow growth is likely to continue for quite some
time,” Rosengren said at the Sasin Bangkok Forum today. “Just
in the past three months employment growth in the U.S. has
slowed fairly noticeably.”  Employers added 80,000 workers in June and the  unemployment
rate  held at 8.2 percent, the Labor Department reported July 6.
Economists projected a 100,000 rise, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The 84,000 gain in private
employment, which excludes government agencies, was the weakest
in 10 months.  Fed Forecast  Fed officials lowered their forecast for growth and
employment after meeting on June 19-20, projecting a jobless
rate of at least 7.5 percent by the end of 2013. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after the meeting that additional asset purchases
are among the steps the Fed would consider.  Rosengren said today that economies across the globe are
facing similar difficulties, with Europe on the verge of
recession and  China  experiencing a growth slowdown.  “My discussions with bankers, exporters, and business
managers indicate more restraint by firms in investing in
capital, and in hiring employees, as the firms wait for some of
the economic uncertainty to be resolved,” Rosengren said.  A more interconnected global banking system means that a
“serious financial shock” in Europe could have a “large
impact” on banking shares and the broader U.S. stock market, he
said.  “Such stock price declines could impact households and
businesses on both sides of the Atlantic, and problems in Europe
could potentially cause a more significant retrenchment by
European financial institutions operating in the  United
States ,” Rosengren said. “Given global employment and fiscal
challenges, the global economy remains quite vulnerable to
financial shocks.”  Rosengren, 55, was formerly the head of banking supervision
and regulation at the Boston Fed and became its president in
2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Rosengren next holding a seat in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  