-- Forest Urges Shareholders to Ignore Icahn Board Nominees
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-09T21:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/forest-urges-shareholders-to-ignore-icahn-board-nominees.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , maker of
the antidepressant drug Lexapro, urged investors to ignore  Carl
Icahn ’s attempt to get four nominees elected to the board.  Forest also told shareholders the company’s independent
directors have hired  Spencer Stuart , an executive recruitment
company, to help find and evaluate candidates to succeed Chief
Executive Officer Howard Solomon, who will turn 85 next month.  Icahn began his second proxy battle in two years with
Forest in June when he nominated four directors and accused the
company of “conduct to enrich and entrench management to the
detriment of the stockholders.” Icahn, 76, is the second-
largest stockholder with 9.8 percent of the company’s shares as
of June 25, according to a regulatory filing today from Forest.
Solomon encouraged investors to reject Icahn’s nominees in a
letter that was part of the filing.  “Your board has reviewed Icahn’s candidates and we urge
you to vote only for your board’s proposed nominees,” he wrote.  Forest, in a second filing today, said its independent
director-led CEO search will consider internal and external
candidates, which may include Solomon’s son, David Solomon.
Icahn has criticized the company for failing to lay out a clear
 succession plan .  “As we previously disclosed, the board is engaged in
ongoing succession planning,” Forest said in the letter to
shareholders. “The independent directors have a deep bench of
management talent from which to evaluate potential CEO
successors.”  Different Visions  Icahn said he has spoken with Howard Solomon, who the
billionaire called “a friendly guy.”  “He says we’d be a disturbance,” Icahn said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “We would be, to his
plans. His plans, I think, are to swing for the fences and get
his son in to be CEO. We would obviously stand up against that.
I think that’s why he doesn’t want us on the board.”  Solomon, later today, sent a letter to Icahn responding to
several of the complaints including the timing of his stock
sales and criticism that  David Solomon  may be a candidate for
chief executive officer.  “I did not anticipate that my son David would be publicly
disparaged and caricatured by someone utterly ignorant of even
the slightest information about his qualifications or
performance,” Solomon wrote, adding that Icahn had promoted his
son, Brett, to several executive positions. “David will neither
be favored nor handicapped because of his relationship with me.
The qualifications of our sons should speak for themselves.”  Icahn Record  In his interview, Icahn cited previous successes with
investments in drugmakers, including ImClone Systems Inc., which
was sold to  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in 2008 for $6.5 billion; Genzyme
Corp., sold to  Sanofi (SAN)  for $20.1 billion last year;  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , which agreed to be bought by Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. for $5.3 billion on June 29; and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,
whose stock has more than doubled in the past two years.  “They do know our record is stellar and that we understand
what should be done in these cases,” Icahn said. “What harm is
it to have representatives of shareholders on the board?”  Forest’s filings question Icahn’s nominees’ objectivity,
interest in  shareholder value  and experience. The drugmaker’s
shareholder meeting is scheduled for Aug. 15.  The company’s top-selling antidepressant Lexapro lost
patent protection in March, and in April the company forecast a
26 percent decline in fiscal 2013 revenue. Forest joined with
 Ironwood Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IRWD)  on an experimental irritable bowel
and constipation drug, linaclotide, which is waiting on
regulatory approval.  Forest rose 1.3 percent to close at $35.93 in  New York . The
stock has gained 19 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in New York at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  