-- Freshfields, Covington, Clifford Chance: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/freshfields-covington-clifford-chance-business-of-law.html
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
revenue fell by about 0.9 percent to 1.13 billion pounds ($1.75
billion) for the 2011-12 financial year, dropping it to the rank
of fourth-largest London-based law firm by revenue.  Linklaters LLP held onto the No. 2 slot among the so-called
magic circle of  London ’s largest law firms with revenue rising
0.6 percent to 1.2 billion over the same period.  Of the four magic circle firms that disclose financial
information, Freshfields and Linklaters did the worst compared
with the previous year.  Clifford Chance  retained the top spot
among the group as revenue rose to 1.3 billion on a significant
increase in Asia work. Allen & Overy LLP posted a 6 percent rise
in revenue to 1.18 billion pounds, moving it ahead of
Freshfields to the three slot behind Linklaters.  At Freshfields, “our biggest immediate priority is how we
react to developments in the euro zone,” Chief Executive
Officer Ted Burke said. “A significant amount of our business
is in the euro zone and the depreciation of the euro has
impacted us.”  Linklaters signed an exclusivity agreement in April with
Sydney-based Allens Arthur Robinson that includes a joint
venture in Asia, making the firm “very comfortable with the
size that we are now and the way we are building the business,”
 Simon Davies , managing partner at Linklaters, said in a phone
interview.  The “focus is on quality and that may not necessarily lead
to us opening everywhere,” Davies said. “We are trying to look
at it in a more sophisticated way by being more selective.”  Uncertainty over the euro continues to affect deal activity
in the 17-nation group, both men acknowledged. Spain agreed in
June to take a rescue loan of as much as 100 billion euros to
help recapitalize its banking sector. Merger and acquisition
work makes up around 40 percent of business for Linklaters,
Davies said.  Slaughter and May, the fifth member of the magic circle,
isn’t a limited liability partnership and doesn’t release its
financial details.  For more, click here.  Moves  IP Litigator Julie Petruzzelli Joins Baker & McKenzie  IP litigator Julie A. Petruzzelli has joined  Baker &
McKenzie  LLP as a partner in  Washington . Petruzzelli has more
than 25 years of experience in all aspects of intellectual
property litigation, counseling, and licensing. She was
previously a partner at Venable LLP, where she had been the head
of that firm’s technology division and its IP litigation
practice group, the firm said.  Petruzzelli has handled a variety of complex litigations,
including patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright. She has
developed and implemented IP strategies for large and small
domestic and international corporations. Recently, Petruzzelli’s
practice has focused on representing companies in Asia,
especially in  Japan , the firm said.  “Julie is an excellent addition to our North American and
global practices, which encompass more than 470 attorneys
worldwide,” said  Kevin O’Brien , chairman of the firm’s  North
America  intellectual property practice. “Our clients continue
to face a variety of threats to their IP assets, and companies
will appreciate Julie’s excellent credentials, especially
combined with the experience of our strong regional IP team.”  Baker & McKenzie has more than 3,800 lawyers in 70 offices
in 43 countries.  Covington Hires Former Northrop Counsel in Washington  Covington & Burling LLP is bolstering its government
contracts practice by adding former Northrop Grumman Corporation
counsel Susan Cassidy as a partner in its Washington office.  While at defense contractor Northrop Grumman, Cassidy was
senior counsel in the company’s Information Systems Sector,
supporting both the Intelligence and Defense markets, the firm
said. Most recently, she served as the lead counsel for the
Defense Technologies Division. In this role, she provided
government contracts legal advice in support of a variety of
programs, including those involving missile defense integration,
enterprise IT infrastructure solutions, cybersecurity, combat
systems integration, identity management and biometrics, and
cloud computing, according to the firm.  “Susan has an unusual breadth of experience in the
government contracts field -- including litigation, advisory and
transactional matters,” said Timothy Hester, chairman of the
firm’s management committee. “Her in-house experience at a
leading defense contractor will provide unique insights into the
needs of government contractors in today’s competitive defense
environment, and will be a strong complement to our many
practice areas that can provide high-value services to clients
in this industry.”  This is Covington’s second recent high-profile addition to
the government contracts practice. Robert Nichols joined the
firm as co-chairman of the government contracts practice in
April.  Covington has eight offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Deals  Clifford Chance Advises Chalieco on Its $184 Million IPO  Clifford Chance LLP advised  China  Aluminum International
Engineering Corporation Limited (Chalieco) on its IPO which
listed June 6, the firm said in a statement. Paul Hastings LLP
represented CICC and GF Securities as the joint bookrunners and
joint lead managers on the deal.  Chalieco issued 363,160,000 H shares at HK$3.93 ($0.51)
each. The IPO raised approximately HK$1.427 billion ($184
million). China International Capital Corporation Hong Kong
Securities Limited and GF Securities (Hong Kong) Brokerage
Limited acted as joint bookrunners, according to Clifford
Chance.  Clifford Chance Beijing partner Tim Wang, who led on the
deal said, “I am delighted we could assist Chalieco with this
IPO. Despite global economic uncertainties, we continue to
assist with several equity capital markets deals, including the
biggest Hong Kong IPO so far this year for Haitong Securities,
raising US$1.68 billion.”  Wang was supported by firm associates as well as Shanghai
partner Jean Thio, who provided U.S. legal advice.  The Paul Hastings team was led by Raymond Li, partner and
chairman of Greater China, and capital markets partners Sammy Li
and David Grimm.  Chalieco is a technology, engineering service and equipment
provider in the nonferrous metals industry in China. The company
provides engineering solutions throughout various stages of the
nonferrous metals industry chain, the firm said. Businesses
included engineering design and consultancy, engineering and
construction contracting and equipment manufacturing. Chinalco
is the controlling shareholder of the company.  Firm News  Weintraub Genshlea, Weissman Wolff Merge as 70-Lawyer Firm  Weintraub Genshlea Chediak Tobin & Tobin LC and
entertainment firm Weissmann Wolff Bergman Coleman Grodin LLP
have announced the merger of their law firms to form Weintraub
Tobin Chediak Coleman Grodin LC.  Weintraub Tobin will have more than 70 attorneys in
 Sacramento ,  San Francisco  and  Los Angeles . The firm will focus
on entertainment and its convergence with technology and
finance. Key practice areas include: corporate, banking,
securities, employment, litigation and dispute resolution,
intellectual property, tax, trusts and estate planning, real
estate and bankruptcy, the firm said in a statement.  “After our successful expansion in the San Francisco
market with the merger of Tobin & Tobin late last year, we
turned our eyes toward Los Angeles and found a firm that mirrors
our culture and complements our specialty practice areas,” said
Michael Kvarme, Weintraub Tobin’s managing shareholder. “The
combination with Weissmann Wolff offers clients a fully
integrated team of business attorneys that are held in high
esteem by the entertainment industry.”  The Los Angeles office will continue to advise
entertainment industry clients in film, television, animation,
video games, digital media and publishing including Scholastic,
 Random House ,  Warner Bros . and NBC/Universal.  Through the San Francisco office, entertainment clients
will have access to the legal expertise and relationships
established with technology groups, the firm said.  “The combined capabilities and expanded services of the
firm benefit our clients in that we now have a larger
geographical reach and further depth in meeting all of their
business needs,” Marvin Gelfand, managing partner for Weissmann
Wolff said.  Bankruptcy  Dynegy Inc. Files for Bankruptcy in Plan to Merge With Unit  Dynegy Inc. (DYNIQ) , a Houston-based power producer, filed for
 Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in Poughkeepsie,  New York , as
part of a plan to reorganize.  Dynegy will merge with its Dynegy Holdings unit, which is
already in bankruptcy, under the plan, the Houston-based company
said in a statement June 6. The board met June 5 at a special
meeting to vote on the filing after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Cecelia Morris said at a July 2 hearing that she would approve
the unit’s so-called disclosure statement.  The company’s lawyers are the New York-based law firm White
& Case LLP. Its financial advisers are Lazard Freres & Co.  The unit’s plan will pay bondholders between 59 cents and
89 cents on the dollar, the power producer has said. Dynegy put
the unit into bankruptcy last year.  Under the proposal approved by Morris, the holdings unit
will merge with the parent company and creditors will own 99
percent of the combined entity. The plan is the result of a
settlement with creditors following a court-ordered
investigation into asset transfers.  Dynegy listed assets of more than $11 billion and
liabilities of over $5 billion in the July 6 bankruptcy filing.
Under the reorganization plan, the company’s assets will be held
under the parent company.  The company’s subsidiaries that own and operate its coal-
fired and gas-fired businesses weren’t included in the filing
July 6 because they were financed last year, Dynegy said.  The case is In re Dynegy Inc., 12-36728,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 