-- Full Tilt Poker’s Bitar to Be Freed on Bond, Judge Rules
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-09T21:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/full-tilt-poker-s-bitar-to-be-freed-on-bond-judge-rules-1-.html
Full Tilt Poker founder Raymond
Bitar, who came to U.S. last week, 15 months after he was first
indicted, can be freed on $2.5 million bond secured by $2
million in cash or property, a federal judge said today.  Bitar was arrested by agents of the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation in  New York  on July 2, the same day he was named
in a revised indictment alleging that he and another man used
funds from online players to finance Full Tilt’s operations and
pay its owners in what one prosecutor described as a “ Ponzi
scheme .”  Prosecutors said that even after Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara unsealed the initial indictment against Bitar and
10 other people in April 2011, Bitar conspired to lie to
customers about the security of the funds. Bitar had remained in
Ireland working for the company, his lawyer said last week.  While a federal magistrate judge ruled July 2 that Bitar
could be freed on a bond secured by $1 million in cash and
property, U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer said today that he
believed that increasing the amount of cash or property to $2
million would be appropriate to ensure Bitar’s return to court.  “I think the defendant can be fairly released on bail but
the terms must have some vigor to them,” Engelmayer said,
adding later, “he has one million reasons to return to court.”  Bitar’s bond would be secured by additional property,
including a warehouse he owns in San Dimas,  California , his
lawyer John Baughman said.  The initial indictment included charges of bank fraud,
 money laundering  and illegal  Internet gambling .  Bitar pleaded not guilty to the charges last week.  The case is U.S. v. Bitar, 10-cr-336, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mary Romano at 
 mromano6@bloomberg.net  