-- Gasoline Futures Rise in N.Y. on Speculation of Further Stimulus
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-09T18:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/gasoline-falls-on-u-s-job-market-europe-debt-crisis-concerns.html
Gasoline rose on speculation that a
struggling U.S. jobs market,  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown
in  China  will prompt more fiscal easing to stimulate growth.  Futures gained as Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President
 Charles Evans  said the central bank should move more forcefully
to lower the jobless rate. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
downward economic pressure is still “relatively large” and the
government will intensify policy fine-tuning. Euro-area finance
ministers are meeting in Brussels on the debt crisis.  “Europe is in a recession, the U.S. is marginally in a
recession, China is way above a recession but weakening,” said
Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management
Institute in  New York . “The global economy is simply slowing
and the expectation is for more easing,”  August-delivery gasoline advanced 4.99 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $2.7659 a gallon at 2:05 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract is for reformulated gasoline,
or RBOB, delivered into New York Harbor.  Boston Federal Reserve President  Eric Rosengren  said at the
Sasin Bangkok Forum that a struggling labor market threatens to
slow household spending as Europe’s fiscal crisis adds to
uncertainty that’s restraining hiring and investment.  “The odds are increasing for the U.S. to enter more
quantitative easing,” Chirichella said.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities In
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, known as QE1 and
QE2, from 2008 to 2011 to support the economy. Speaking to
reporters after his speech, Rosengren called the June job
figures “disappointing” and said a third round of easing,
known as QE3, is possible depending on economic data.  QE3 Hype  “There’s just ongoing hype related to a potential QE3 and
we’re trying to price at least a U.S. easing into the market,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., an
energy advisory company in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Labor Department figures released July 6 showed June
payrolls climbed 80,000 after a 77,000 increase in May.
Economists projected a 100,000 gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Spain’s 10-year debt yield rose
above 7 percent, intensifying concerns about the region’s
financial woes.  “The jobs reports and the economic outlook as a whole is
weighing on the market,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “The report on Spanish bonds is
increasing concern about Europe.”  Brussels Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers meet today in Brussels after
leaders agreed at a June 28-29 summit to ease the way to direct
recapitalization of banks from bailout funds and to start work
on Europe-wide bank supervision.  The dollar weakened against the euro, raising commodities’
investment appeal, as European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  signaled policy makers may be open to another interest-
rate cut if the economic outlook warrants it. The euro gained
0.2 percent against the U.S. currency at 2:05 p.m. in New York.  “The gains are correlated with the pop in the euro,”
Schork said.  Heating oil for August delivery rose 4.84 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $2.7583 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.1 cent to $3.382 a gallon yesterday, the seventh
consecutive gain, according to AAA. Prices are down 14 percent
from a year-to-date high of $3.936 on April 4 and are 6.4
percent below a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  