-- GE, Yahoo, Samsung, Rawlings: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-09T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/ge-yahoo-samsung-rawlings-intellectual-property.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  didn’t infringe
a patent owned by  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  over a way to
control the angle of wind-turbine blades to reduce wear and
tear, a federal judge said.  The decision by U.S. District Judge John Antoon in Orlando,
Florida, eliminates the need for a trial that was scheduled to
begin later this month. Antoon ruled that GE’s turbines adjust
the angle of the blades in a way that’s different than that
covered by Mitsubishi Heavy’s patent.  The case is part of a legal battle in which GE, the biggest
U.S. maker of wind turbines, is trying to block Tokyo-based
Mitsubishi Heavy from getting a toehold in the U.S. market. GE
makes about half of all wind turbines installed, and the U.S.
has the second-largest amount of wind capacity in the world
behind China, according to the Global Wind Energy Council’s 2011
annual report.  The Orlando case was filed in 2010 after patent-
infringement suits that Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE had
filed in Texas and before the U.S. International Trade
Commission in 2008.  “GE’s position throughout the litigation was that MHI’s
claims were without merit,” Chet Lasell, a GE spokesman, said.
“GE’s commitment to the protection of intellectual property
rights includes a commitment to respect the intellectual
property of others, and this ruling is evidence of that fact.”  A federal jury in Dallas told Mitsubishi Heavy on March 8
to pay GE $170 million for infringing a patent on a way to keep
turbines connected to utility grids during voltage fluctuations
without sustaining damage. Mitsubishi Heavy is challenging that
decision.  A U.S. appeals court told the ITC to review whether the
Japanese turbine-maker infringed a different patent, which
covered a method of steadying the stream of energy from the
turbine to the electrical grid. The initial opinion was issued
in February and reissued July 6.  Mitsubishi Heavy also has accused GE of trying to
monopolize the wind-turbine market. That case is on hold while
GE’s patent-infringement complaints are being considered.  Mitsubishi Heavy had been selling about $2 billion worth of
turbines a year until the litigation began, Sonia Williams, a
spokeswoman for Mitsubishi Power Systems Americas has said.
Since then, the company has only sold turbines from its
inventory and hasn’t made others. Banks have been hesitant to
lend money, and customers are concerned about buying products
that are targeted by litigation, she said in a June 29
interview.  The case is Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. v. General
Electric Co., 10-cv-812, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Orlando).  Yahoo, Facebook Are Said to Reach Settlement in Patent Dispute  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  reached a settlement in a
patent dispute, while agreeing to strengthen an alliance between
the companies, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  and
Yahoo’s interim chief executive officer,  Ross Levinsohn , helped
work out the terms, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. Boards of both
companies have agreed to the deal, one person said.  The agreement includes patent-portfolio cross-licensing,
one person said, resolving a dispute kicked off in March, when
Yahoo alleged that Facebook infringes patents covering such
functions as Internet privacy, advertising and information
sharing. Facebook, the largest social-networking service,
countersued in April, accusing Yahoo of infringement.  The technology blog AllThingsD previously reported the
settlement and deeper ties between Yahoo and Facebook.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Samsung Denied Request for Immediate Stay of Galaxy Tab Ban  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost an emergency bid to resume
selling the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer in the U.S. while a
patent-infringement suit filed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is pending.  In a July 6 ruling, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit denied Samsung’s request to put the sales ban on
hold immediately and ordered Apple to respond to Samsung’s
appeal by July 12. A federal judge in San Jose ordered the ban
last month. Notice of the Federal Circuit’s decision was posted
on its website.  Samsung also has asked the appeals court to lift an order
that it stop selling its Galaxy Nexus smartphone in the U.S.
pending trial because of a different Apple case. The Federal
Circuit made no decision on that request when ordering Apple to
respond by July 12 in that case as well.  Apple and Samsung, the world’s two biggest makers of
smartphones, are locked in a battle for market share that spans
four continents. Together, they make more than half of the
smartphones sold worldwide, according to IDC, a Framingham,
Massachusetts-based market researcher.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh issued the ban on the Galaxy
Tab June 26 after finding that Apple would probably win its
claim that the Tab copied a patented design owned by the
Cupertino, California-based smartphone maker. She had denied the
request in December, and the Federal Circuit ordered her to
reconsider.  Three days after the Galaxy Tab order, Koh imposed a ban on
the Galaxy Nexus smartphone, saying Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung hadn’t raised a substantial question that Apple’s
patents in the case are invalid.  The Galaxy Tab case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1506, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court Galaxy Tab case is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  The Galaxy Nexus case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1507, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court Galaxy Nexus case is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  Amazon Said to Plan Smartphone to Vie With Apple’s IPhone  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is developing a smartphone that would vie
with Apple Inc.’s iPhone and handheld devices that run  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the Chinese mobile-
phone maker, is working with Amazon on the device, said one of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the plans are
private. Amazon is seeking to complement the smartphone strategy
by acquiring patents that cover wireless technology and would
help it defend against allegations of infringement, other people
with knowledge of the matter said.  A smartphone would give Amazon a wider range of low-priced
hardware devices that bolster its strategy of making money from
digital books, songs and movies. It would help Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Bezos  -- who made a foray into tablets with the
Kindle Fire -- carve out a slice of the market for advanced
wireless handsets. Manufacturers led by Samsung Electronics Co.
and Apple shipped 398.4 million smartphones and other mobile
devices in the first quarter, according to researcher IDC.  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Amazon, declined to comment.  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in
November that Amazon is planning to release a smartphone.  Seattle-based Amazon considered buying wireless patents
from InterDigital Inc. before the King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-
based company said in June that it will sell the assets to  Intel
Corp . for $375 million, two people said. Amazon is taking
pitches and setting up briefings with other sellers, the people
said.  Amazon beefed up its patent prowess recently by hiring Matt
Gordon, formerly senior director of acquisitions at  Intellectual
Ventures Management LLC , the company that was founded by former
Microsoft Corp. Chief Technology Officer  Nathan Myhrvold  and
owns more than 35,000 intellectual property assets. Gordon will
be general manager for patent acquisitions and investments at
Amazon, according to his profile on LinkedIn.  Adding patents would help Amazon protect itself against
lawsuits alleging illegal use of technology. Amazon has been
involved in five patent-related cases this year, and 20 cases
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for mobile patents has increased, as shown recently
by Google’s $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. and its thousands of patents, which closed this
year.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Rawlings Sues Wilson Over Gold Decor on Brandon Phillips’ Glove  Jarden Corp. (JAH) ’s Rawlings Sport Goods unit sued  Amer Sports
Oyj (AMEAS) ’s Wilson Sporting Goods unit for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed July 5 in  St. Louis , is related to the
“Gold Glove” award Rawlings gives to professional baseball
players each year, and the trademarks associated with that
award.  Wilson is accused of creating confusion in the marketplace
and falsely giving some baseball fans the impression it is
associated with the Gold Glove award. Rawlings claims this is
the result of Wilson’s promotion in which it’s created a
baseball glove for Cincinnati Reds second baseman  Brandon
Phillips  that bears “metallic gold-colored webbing, stitching
and lettering.”  Phillips, who is one of Wilson’s endorsers, has won the
Rawlings Gold Glove award three times. His use of the Wilson
gold-decorated glove represents the sporting goods company’s
“intentional, willful, and malicious intent to trade upon the
goodwill associated with the Gold Glove” trademarks, Rawlings
said in its pleadings. Phillips is not a party to this suit.  Rawlings asked the court to bar Wilson’s sale of a baseball
glove with gold features. Additionally, Rawlings seeks money
damages, including profits related to the alleged infringement.  The company also asked for extra damages to punish Wilson
for what it says is deliberate infringement.  Helsinki-based Amer Sports didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Rawlings Sporting Goods Co. v. Wilson Sporting
Goods Co., 4:12-cv-01204, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Missouri (St. Louis).  Royal Shakespeare Name Only Sweet for Theater Group, Court Says  Juliet asked Romeo, “What’s in a name?” in one of  William
Shakespeare ’s most-famous plays. A European Union court ruled
quite a lot is in a name, upholding the  Royal Shakespeare
Company ’s EU-wide rights to its moniker.  On July 6 EU General Court sided with the theater company
against Graz, Austria-based Jackson International Trading Co.
Kurt D. Bruehl GmbH & Co. KG, which won the EU trademark rights
in 2003 to use the Royal Shakespeare name for catering, food,
alcohol and water.  The Austrian company “would benefit from the power of
attraction, the reputation and the prestige” of the Royal
Shakespeare name, the EU’s second-highest court ruled. The
connotative link to the theater company “would give the
applicant a commercial advantage over its competitors’ goods.”  Jackson International appealed after losing the rights in a
2009 decision by the EU’s trademark agency. The appeals board of
the Office for Harmonization for the Internal Market had
overturned the Austrian company’s claim because of the “strong
likelihood” that it could “free ride” on the theater
company’s “immense success and reputation in the U.K.”  Jackson International didn’t immediately respond to calls
for comment on the decision.  The court’s July 6 ruling can be appealed to the  EU Court
of Justice  in Luxembourg.  The case is  T-60/10 , Jackson International v. OHIM - Royal
Shakespeare Company.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Anti-Abortion Group Defeats Copyright Infringement Claim  The  Center for Bioethical Reform , a California-based
organization that opposes abortion, defeated a copyright
infringement case brought by a family-planning clinic.  The case stems from the center’s use of “ Every Day, Good
Women Choose Abortion ,” a film created by the  Northland Family
Planning Clinic  of Southfield, Michigan. Northland sued the
center in federal court in  Los Angeles  in May 2011, claiming the
center used footage from the film without authorization and
surrounded it with graphic footage of abortions.  These offending videos were posted on multiple websites,
Northland said, and constituted multiple instances of copyright
infringement. Northland asked the court to bar any use of the
film content by the Center, and for awards for money damages and
litigation costs.  In a June 15 order, U.S. District Judge James V. Selna
granted the Center’s motion to kick out the case. He said the
videos made by the Center didn’t harm Northland and that the use
of content from “Every Day, Good Women Choose Abortion” fell
within copyright law’s definition of fair use. He said it was
“unthinkable” that anyone would think the videos created by
the center were “a market substitute” for the original film.  The case is Northland Family Planning Clinic Inc., v.
Center for Bio-Ethical Reform, 8:11-cv-00731-JVS-AN, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 