-- German Exports Increased More Than Forecast in May: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-09T09:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/german-exports-increase-more-than-forecast-to-boost-economy-1-.html
German exports rebounded more than
economists forecast in May, helping  Europe ’s largest economy to
weather the sovereign debt crisis.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes,
jumped 3.9 percent from April, when they fell 1.7 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a 0.2 percent increase, according to the median of 13
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . Imports surged 6.3
percent.  The  European Central Bank  cut interest rates last week as
the debt crisis threatens to tip the euro area, Germany’s
largest export market, into recession. While German business and
investor confidence have slumped amid signs growth is slowing,
record-low unemployment and demand from outside the euro region
have helped insulate the economy. Factory orders and industrial
production both rose in May.  “All in all, the data suggest that resilient exports to
 emerging markets  and strong domestic demand offset the weakness
in demand from other European countries in the second quarter,”
said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in
London. “Unfortunately, leading indicators point to a serious
loss in German momentum for the summer months.”  Investor confidence plunged the most since 1998 last month
and business sentiment dropped to a two-year low.  French Confidence  French business confidence declined to the lowest in almost
three years in June, adding to signs of slowdown in the region’s
second-largest economy. Sentiment among French factory
executives fell to 91, the lowest since August 2009, from 92 in
May, the Bank of France said in a statement in Paris today.  European stocks fell for a fourth straight day, and Asian
stocks and U.S. equity futures declined after Japanese machinery
orders dropped and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation’s
economy faces “relatively large” downward pressure.  The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.6 percent to 252.83 at 11 a.m. in
Frankfurt.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the euro-area
economy will contract 0.3 percent this year, compared with
projected expansions of 2.1 percent in the U.S. and 8.2 percent
in China. It predicts 0.6 percent growth in Germany.  Germany’s trade surplus increased to 15.3 billion euros
($18.8 billion) in May from 14.5 billion euros in April, today’s
report showed. The surplus in the current account, a measure of
all trade including services, was 9 billion euros, down from 11
billion euros a month earlier.  German Resilience  “Germany continues to exhibit resilience in the face of
the presumed global slowdown,” said  Klaus Baader , senior
economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “Given the
latest manufacturing orders data, which showed a healthy bounce,
there is little near-term risk that German exports will
collapse. But there are certainly plenty of risks in the euro
area.”  German carmakers Porsche SE and Volkswagen AG are likely to
report increased vehicle deliveries this year, though “the
second half of 2012 is certain to become more difficult and
challenging for the automotive industry as a whole,” Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said on June 25.  Siemens AG Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser indicated on
June 26 that it will be more difficult to meet financial targets
set for 2012 as demand tapers off at some industrial automation
units and Chinese growth fails to pick up.  Chinese inflation eased to a 29-month low of 2.2 percent in
June, the government said today in Beijing.  China lowered benchmark  interest rates  on July 5 for the
second time in a month. Wen said the government will intensify
its response to the economy’s slowdown as growth wanes in Asian
neighbors from Japan to Vietnam, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday.  The latest reading on the  U.S. economy  will come via
consumer credit data to be released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  