-- Germany Sees ‘Intensive’ EU Carbon Talks in September, October
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-07-09T11:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/germany-sees-intensive-eu-carbon-talks-in-september-october.html
Germany plans talks with other
European Union countries about the bloc’s long-term climate
goals and expects “intensive” discussions on the EU carbon-cut
pathway in autumn, Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said.  The EU debate on its post-2020 strategy to lower
greenhouse-gas discharges stalled after  Poland  in March blocked
for a second time a political declaration to back a strategy
paper by the European Commission on the cheapest carbon-
reduction trajectory. Germany was trying to raise the issue of
the so-called Low-Carbon Roadmap in June to stress its
importance, Altmaier said in a July 8 interview during an
informal meeting of EU environment ministers in Nicosia, Cyprus.  “We’re now going to have a series of bilateral talks with
key countries, like Poland, and personally I’m convinced we can
find pragmatic solutions acceptable for both sides, taking into
account justified interest of countries like Poland, which has a
very specific situation due to its coal mines and power
plants,” he said.  The commission’s Low-Carbon Roadmap shows that  Europe  can
exceed its current target of cutting emissions by 20 percent
from 1990 levels in 2020 and reduce CO2 discharges by 25 percent
domestically as long as it steps up  energy efficiency . The
cheapest way to attain the bloc’s long-term goal of cutting at
least 80 percent of greenhouse gases is to lower them by 40
percent in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040, according to the paper.  “I expect intensive talks on it in autumn, especially in
September and October,” Altmaier said. “And it’d be great if
we could find an agreement before the end of the year.”  Longer-Term Goals  Poland, which relies on coal for more than 90 percent of
its energy consumption, has repeatedly said the EU should not
tighten its existing target or decide on longer-term goals
without a global deal to cut greenhouse gases. Stepping up EU
ambitions could hurt the bloc’s competitiveness and trigger the
relocation of businesses to countries without emission curbs,
Polish Environment Minister Marcin Korolec said on July 7.  “I think it’s possible to take account of these specific
national situations in implementing more ambitious targets in
the Low-Carbon Roadmap and that’s what we’re trying to
achieve,” Altmaier said. “Give us a chance.”  Companies including  Germany ’s biggest utility EON AG and
Europe’s largest oil company  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have
repeatedly called on the EU to set its post-2020 climate goals
to encourage investment in clean technologies. They have also
urged policy makers to curb the oversupply of allowances in the
bloc’s emissions cap-and-trade program, which knocked carbon
prices down to a record low earlier this year.  More Efficient  The pollution caps that the EU emissions trading system, or
the ETS, imposes on more than 12,000 facilities owned by
manufacturers and utilities were set before the economic
slowdown that cut into industrial output. The system doesn’t
allow any minimum or maximum prices. To alleviate the oversupply
EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  is planning to propose
before the end of July a measure to postpone auctions of some
carbon permits in the third phase of the ETS starting in 2013,
an idea known as backloading.  “We made it clear repeatedly that we want to see the ETS
more efficient,” Altmaier said. “I haven’t seen the proposal
yet and much depends on the degree that is proposed. For the
time being we’re not hostile, but very much interested in
considering it.”  The backloading proposal will be published along with a
report on the functioning of the EU carbon market, which will
sketch long-term options to improve the system. One potential
measure to be included in the report is increasing the 1.74
percent linear factor by which European emission caps are set to
fall annually in the next trading period, people with knowledge
of the matter said last month.  Effective Instrument  “It’s my conviction that we have to make sure that the ETS
stays and becomes an effective instrument, but it’s also my
conviction that we need a flexible and pragmatic phasing-in that
will avoid a clash with the business sector,” Altmaier said.  Starting the ETS in 2005 as the world’s biggest cap-and-
trade emissions market gave the EU a leading role in fighting
global warming, which scientists say will cause more intense
heat waves, floods and storms. The bloc needs to keep up
pressure on countries worldwide to commit to reducing  greenhouse
gases  blamed for climate change, Altmaier said.  To help accelerate international emissions talks Germany
will hold a meeting next week in Berlin with the representatives
of Qatar, the host of the  United Nations  next climate summit
that is scheduled to start in November, Altmaier said.  Take The Lead  “We all know the international environment is difficult.
We’re having the financial crisis in Europe and we’re facing
presidential elections in the U.S., but EU countries are
prepared to take the lead,” he said.  One of the key issues that European nations and other
countries are faced with is to attract private investors to
climate-related projects, according to Altmaier. At their
meeting in Nicosia EU ministers stressed the need to encourage
pension funds, insurance companies and banks to more involvement
in  climate change  adaptation and clean technologies, he said.  “We realize there’s a lot of private money floating
around, looking for safe havens and good rates of investment,
but these people often don’t know yet about the enormous
potentials of renewable energy, about impressive margins, so we
have to organize a process of exchange of best practices, data
and information should be made available to them,” he said.
“It’s very important to take more private capital aboard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  