-- Goldman’s Hawker May Get More Bids After China Offer
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-07-10T18:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/goldman-s-hawker-beechcraft-accepts-1-79-billion-offer.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the bankrupt
business-jet maker owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Onex
Corp. (OCX) , may draw higher bids after agreeing to sell itself to
Superior Aviation Beijing Co. for $1.79 billion.  Superior will make payments over the next six weeks to help
keep Hawker afloat until the deal closes, the companies said
yesterday. The accord makes Superior the so-called stalking
horse bidder in a U.S. Bankruptcy Court-supervised auction that
may win more offers.  Textron Inc. (TXT)  and  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , among others,
expressed interest previously in Hawker’s assets.  Hawker Beechcraft sought  bankruptcy protection  in May after
struggling with lower demand for private jets following the
recession and constrained U.S. defense spending. The
planemaker’s debt included a term loan and notes used for the
portion of its $3.3 billion takeover in 2007 that wasn’t covered
by $1 billion cash from buyers Goldman Sachs and Onex.  Merging with Superior would provide more “access to the
Chinese business and general aviation marketplace, which is
forecast to grow more than 10 percent a year for the next 10 to
15 years,” Chief Executive Officer  Steve Miller  said yesterday.  Bill Boisture, chairman of Wichita, Kansas-based Hawker
Beechcraft, said the decision to move forward with the Chinese
bidder was “based on two key factors: The bid for the company
was the most attractive we received during the strategic review
process and the going-forward plan offered the most continuity
for our business.”  U.S. Operations  Boisture said Superior is committed to maintaining Hawker
Beechcraft’s strong presence in the U.S. as well as its employee
base and management team. And Miller praised Superior’s
“previous experience operating a U.S. business and its
demonstrated ability to quickly restore a business to
profitability after emerging from Chapter 11.”  Another company Superior purchased, a helicopter maker in
Vernon,  Texas , called Brantly International, now does all its
manufacturing in Qingdao,  China , according to its  website . A
February 2011 notice on the site mentions that Brantly moved its
engineering and administrative offices in with sister company
Superior Air Parts in Coppell, Texas.  The Chinese company acquired Superior Air Parts in 2010
after the engine-parts maker filed for bankruptcy protection,
Qian Chunyuan, its spokesman, said in a telephone interview
today. The U.S. manufacturer is now profitable, Qian said.  Deal Funding  Superior plans to fund the acquisition with its own capital
and loans from Chinese banks, Qian said. The Beijing-based
company is confident it can conclude the deal, he said. Superior
Aviation is 60 percent owned by Chairman Cheng Shenzong, he
said. Cheng’s other holdings include Qingdao Haili Helicopter
Co. and Qingdao Brantly Investment Group.  “This whole thing is exceedingly baffling and
inexplicable,” said  Richard Aboulafia , an analyst with Teal
Group in Fairfax, Virginia. “The idea that a tiny parts company
just out of bankruptcy and backed by completely unknown entities
should be able to attract $1.8 billion to purchase and run a
legacy jet manufacturer borders on the absurd.”  Hawker traces its history partly to  Walter and Olive Beech ,
who started Beech Aircraft Corp. during the Great Depression in
1932, according to the company’s  website . With designer  Ted
Wells , they built the Beech Model 17, a biplane for business
executives that sold for about $15,000, according to the U.S.
Centennial of Flight Commission.  Hawker’s aircraft include the Hawker 4000 business jet and
the  Beechcraft King Air  propjet. The company competes with
planemakers including Textron’s Cessna Aircraft Co., Embraer,
Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   Cessna Threat  A sale to Superior Aviation would be a disappointment to
Textron investors and a threat to Wichita-based Cessna,  Julian Mitchell , an analyst with Credit Suisse in  New York , wrote in a
note yesterday. A company controlled by the Beijing municipal
government owns 40 percent of Superior, which would
“substantially reduce” Cessna’s chances in China, he said.  “The Chinese have made substantial inroads into global
market shares in other transportation industries such as
shipbuilding and railway rolling stock, and we do not see why
 business jets  are particularly impervious,” Mitchell wrote.
Even with Hawker Beechcraft struggling, Cessna’s pricing had
been “soft,” he said.  Textron, whose Cessna business is based in Hawker’s
hometown of Wichita, is interested in the manufacturer for its
propeller-driven business planes and military training aircraft,
CEO Scott Donnelly said in an interview yesterday before
Superior’s announcement. The Superior Aviation deal doesn’t
include Hawker’s defense business.  ‘Right Number’  Donnelly said Providence, Rhode Island-based Textron sees
the most value in the Beechcraft King Air planes and the T-6,
known as the trainer because the military uses the planes as a
training aircraft. The Hawker 4000 and 900, which are jet planes
that carry about 10 passengers, are struggling against the
competition, he said.  “There are problematic parts and there are good parts. For
the right number, you could manage that and we could make it a
win for our shareholders,” Donnelly said. “But there’s no
reason for a company like ours to overpay for that asset.”  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) ,  India ’s biggest maker of utility
vehicles, also was considering bidding for the planemaker, a
person with knowledge of the matter said. Mahindra builds
turboprop aircraft, as does Hawker.  Reorganization Plan  Embraer Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado said on an
April 27 conference call that he would be taking “a serious
look” at how Hawker Beechcraft’s assets might give a boost to
the Brazilian planemaker’s business-jet division. Robert
Stangarone, an Embraer spokesman, declined to comment yesterday.  Hawker retained  Perella Weinberg  Partners LP as a financial
adviser in December, amid net losses totaling more than $900
million in two years, and hired Miller, a turnaround specialist,
in February. Before its filing, the company and Perella Weinberg
identified 35 potential buyers from strategic purchasers to
private-equity firms and received eight bids from mid-May
through mid-June, according to a court document.  Prior to the Superior Aviation offer, Hawker had filed a
proposed reorganization plan that would give control of the
company to secured creditors holding debt valued at $921.6
million, canceling other interests in the company. New York-
based Goldman Sachs and Toronto-based Onex each owned 49 percent
of Hawker Beechcraft stock, while former managers and directors
held the remainder.  The company said it would borrow an unspecified amount to
exit court protection and repay a $400 million loan that
financed operations while in bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  