-- Greenberg Says Congress Outrageous for JPMorgan Hearings
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-09T15:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/greenberg-says-congress-outrageous-for-jpmorgan-hearings-1-.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the
former chief executive officer of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , said it is “outrageous” that lawmakers demanded  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon testify about trading losses.  “Many companies have transactions that go bad,” Greenberg
said today on “In the Loop With  Betty Liu ” on Bloomberg
Television. “Everybody’s not paraded down to  Washington  to
testify.”  Dimon told the Senate Banking Committee last month that he
was too  complacent  overseeing bets with  credit derivatives  at
the bank’s chief investment office in  London  and that trades
intended as hedges “changed into something I cannot publicly
defend.” He said the bank has the financial strength to
withstand the losses, which were at least $2 billion.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, was among
lawmakers who criticized the New York-based bank for taking too
much risk.  “I don’t want to see consumer lenders in Columbus losing
their jobs because cowboys in London make too many risky bets,”
Brown said last month, referring to 19,000 JPMorgan  employees  in
his state.  “He handled it OK,” Greenberg said of Dimon, 56. “It was
really outrageous to have the CEO come down and testify before
Congress because of a transaction that didn’t work out well.”  Goldman Sachs  Joe Evangelisti , a bank spokesman, declined to comment. A
spokeswoman for the lender said in May, when Dimon agreed to
testify, that the bank will be open and transparent with
regulators and Congress.  Lawmakers have been pushing firms to account for losses
after government rescues amid the 2008 financial crisis. Dimon
has repaid U.S. funds while New York-based AIG, once the world’s
largest insurer, is  majority-owned  by the U.S.  Greenberg joins Goldman Sachs Group Inc. CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein in cautioning against a backlash against occasional
losses by financial firms.  “If you put too much penalty on risk judgment, what kind
of world are you going to have?” Blankfein, 57, said last month
in  Chicago .  Greenberg, 87, was forced to retire from AIG in 2005 after
38 years running the insurer. He’s now chairman and CEO of C.V.
Starr & Co., an investment and insurance company.  Greenberg was called to testify about  losses  at AIG that
led to a 2008 government rescue that swelled to $182.3 billion.
He missed the hearing that year because of an illness and
submitted prepared testimony in which he blamed successors for
AIG’s downfall.  ‘Virtually Destroyed’  “When I left AIG, the company operated in 130 countries
and employed approximately 92,000 people,” Greenberg said in a
written statement to the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform in Washington. “The company we built up over
almost four decades has been virtually destroyed.”  Greenberg said in today’s interview that occasional losses
are common in banking. Still, financial firms shouldn’t make
risky bets with deposits, he said.  “I don’t think you ought to use depositors’ money to do
transactions that may have risk,” Greenberg said. “You can do
that by having a separate subsidiary that’s capitalized by
itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  