-- Guatemala Won’t Seize Mining Company Stakes, Minister Says
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-09T22:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/guatemala-won-t-seize-mining-company-stakes-minister-says-1-.html
Guatemala  Finance Minister Pavel Centeno ruled out a government seizure of stakes in mining or
other natural resource companies as part of a series of proposed
constitutional changes.  Existing investors won’t be affected by the proposed
changes, which would allow the government to have as much as a
40 percent stake in natural resource companies, Centeno said in
an interview today in Guatemala City. Shares in Reno, Nevada-
based mining company  Tahoe Resources Inc. (THO)  and  Goldcorp Inc. (G) 
trimmed losses following the comments.  “We are not going to expropriate, we don’t want to
expropriate, this would be counterproductive,” Centeno said
from his 18th floor office in the capital. “We don’t want to
manage them. We don’t want to interfere in the business of
natural resource exploitation.”  Guatemalan business leaders, including the country’s
chamber of commerce, said yesterday they oppose President Otto Perez Molina’s plans to change the constitution. The government
is open to talks over the proposals, which seek to diversify  tax
revenue , reduce the size of the legislature and strengthen the
justice system. Perez Molina will send his final proposal to
congress in August, Centeno said.  Silver Mine  Shares in Tahoe Resources, which has its Escobal silver
mine southeast of Guatemala City, fell 2.2 percent to $13.75.
Shares had fallen as much as 4.6 percent earlier. Tahoe’s stock
price tumbled 23 percent June 28 after reports of the proposal
surfaced. Vancouver-based Goldcorp declined 0.4 percent to
$37.62 in  New York  trading.  “We’re pleased that the latest comments clarifying this
situation are consistent with our own understanding,”  Jeff
Wilhoit , a spokesman for Goldcorp, said in a telephone
interview.  Perez Molina’s proposal would allow Guatemala to partner
with businesses and diversify the tax base, Centeno said.  “We want to have a mechanism to generate state funds that
aren’t via tax collection,” Centeno said.  Bond Sale Next Year  Central America’s biggest economy will grow 3 percent this
year after growth of about 4 percent last year, Centeno said.
Gross domestic product expanded 3.4 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, while consumer prices rose 3.5 percent in
June from a year earlier, the slowest pace since Feb. 2010.  Guatemala’s 10-year dollar bonds, the country’s first
global notes since 2004, have returned 6.2 percent since they
were sold on May 31, compared with 2.5 percent for El Salvador’s
2023 notes and 3.1 percent for  Panamanian bonds , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index and data collected by
Bloomberg.  Another global bond sale abroad is likely in 2013 as the
government seeks to lower borrowing costs by selling less debt
domestically, Centeno said.  Guatemala’s Agricultural, Business, Industrial and
Financial chamber opposes the constitutional reforms, the
association said in a statement yesterday on its website. The
chamber, known as Cacif, said that other legislation, such as
transparency laws, should take priority, the statement said.  ‘New Face’  Guatemala’s BB credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s , two
levels below investment grade, puts the country of 15 million in
the same category as  Turkey  and  Portugal  and one level below
 Costa Rica . Insecurity in Guatemala, where drug gangs have ties
to Mexico’s most violent cartels, is too high and hinders the
country’s economic growth, Centeno said.  More than 95 percent of crimes committed in Guatemala go
unpunished, said Luis Pedro Alvarez, legislator for the
Encuentro Por Guatemala party. The constitutional reforms would
strengthen the justice system and work to reduce that figure,
Centeno said.  “Guatemala is a country that is showing investors a new
face,” Centeno said. “We are offering clear rules that allow
investors to consider the country for the long term and not the
short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  Guatemala City  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  