-- Guerilla Ads on Mobiles Harm Innovation, Security Provider Says
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-09T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/guerilla-ads-on-mobiles-harm-innovation-security-provider-says.html
Innovation in mobile applications
may be hampered by clandestine advertising software that harms
consumer trust, according to Lookout Inc., which provides
security systems for networks and electronic devices.  Some of the software triggers ads that appear outside the
application and may change browser settings, or access and pass
on personal information including e-mail addresses or locations,
said Kevin Mahaffey, co-founder and chief technology officer of
the San Francisco-based company. About 1 in 20 free apps come
with such software, equating to at least 80 million downloads to
date, he said, citing a study published today.  Ads are “extremely important to the mobile ecosystem
because they allow app developers to make money even with free
applications,” thus promoting innovation, Mahaffey said in a
phone interview on July 5. “There is a danger that if we don’t
act as a mobile ecosystem to solve the question of what’s
acceptable and what’s good and bad, we could end up in a
situation where people don’t trust mobile apps.”  With mobile advertising growing as more consumers opt for
Internet-capable smartphones, protecting privacy will be the
focus of a U.S. Department of Commerce forum on July 12 in
 Washington . While mobile platforms aren’t as plagued by
“adware” as desktop computers, the incentives for programmers
and advertising sponsors are similar, said Jules Polonetsky,
director of the Future of Privacy Forum.  “People hated pop-ups, but they worked and the industry
became addicted to it, and although everyone knew that it was
bad for user experience everyone was doing it,” said
Polonetsky, formerly a privacy executive at America Online Inc.
and consumer affairs commissioner for former  New York  Mayor  Rudy
Giuliani .  Responsible Practices  “It took the technology of pop-up blocker to push that
back,” he said. “There needs to be additional guidance to
prompt the market in the right direction.” The Future of
Privacy Forum is an industry-sponsored group in the U.S. capital
that favors “responsible data practices,” according to its
website.  Mobile advertising network Jumptap Inc., a rival to  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , said last week it raised $27.5 million and is eyeing an
initial public offering after revenue grew 60 percent. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch predicts the mobile advertising market
will surge to $18.3 billion in 2015, from $3.6 billion in 2011.  Lookout has proposed guidelines for ad networks, including
making privacy policies transparent to users, having opt-outs
and linking ads to the application they were downloaded with.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  