-- Libor Scandal Seen Boosting NYSE Repo Futures
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-07-09T15:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/libor-scandal-seen-boosting-nyse-repo-futures.html
The scandal impairing confidence in
the  London  interbank offered rate, a benchmark for $360 trillion
in securities, may drive demand for interest-rate futures that
NYSE Liffe U.S. will start offering this month.  The contracts on NYSE’s U.S. futures exchange will be tied
to indexes that track movements in a $400 billion market where
bond dealers that trade directly with the Federal Reserve
finance securities holdings. The futures were developed to give
banks a more direct method of hedging changes in the cost of
those transactions, known as general collateral finance
repurchase agreements, or GCF repos.  Bankers and investors are debating whether alternatives to
Libor exist as confidence in the benchmark diminishes following
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who resigned as Barclays’s chief executive officer
after the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($451.4 million),
told British lawmakers last week that other banks lowballed
their Libor submissions.  “Something like the GCF rate makes some sense to a lot of
people because it is a prolific market, there are trillions of
dollars in repo trades outstanding, and a lot of people use
it,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a telephone interview. “The
futures have a pretty good chance” of succeeding, he said.  Rate Swings  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.224 percent on July 6,
according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.’s GCF Repo
index for Treasuries, one of the measures that futures from the
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  unit will be tied to. The index is a weighted
average of all so-called general collateral finance repurchase
agreements between dealers each day through the tri-party
market.  Three-month dollar Libor, published daily by the British
Bankers’ Association, was set at 0.4576 percent on July 6.  “GCF repo is basically everything that Libor is not,” Tom Callahan, chief executive officer at NYSE Liffe U.S., said in a
June 28 telephone interview. “It’s a very deep, very liquid
market, based on real trades, fully collateralized and centrally
cleared. That has started to look like a very appealing
alternative to Libor.”  Community Health  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Community Health  Systems Inc.,
the second-largest U.S. hospital chain, plans to raise $1
billion to refinance notes maturing in 2015.  Videocon Industries
Ltd. (VCLF) , controlled by billionaire Venugopal Dhoot, was said to
plan to borrow as much as $1.4 billion to develop energy assets
in  Mozambique . Benchmark gauges of corporate credit risk in the
U.S. and Europe rose.  Proceeds from Community Health’s new senior debentures due
in 2020 will be used to purchase its 8.875 percent bonds at
102.6 cents on the dollar after a July 3 tender offer, the
Franklin, Tennessee-based company said today in a regulatory
filing.  Community Health Systems is selling the debt less than two
weeks after the U.S. Supreme Court decided to leave President
 Barack Obama ’s transformation of the health system substantially
intact. Junk bonds of health-care providers rallied after the
ruling, which boosted investor optimism for the industry by
reducing the risk that the companies will be stuck with unpaid
bills.  Videocon Loan  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  and SBI Capital Markets Ltd. are arranging
the loan for Videocon, according to a person familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because the information is
private. The two arrangers are marketing the debt to other
lenders, the person said.  Videocon, based in the western Indian city of Aurangabad,
The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Indian
state refiner Bharat Petroleum Corp. operate 10,500 square
kilometers (2.6 million acres) of offshore gas fields in
Mozambique. The fields, called Offshore Area 1 of the deepwater
Rovuma Basin, hold at least 10 trillion cubic feet of gas, more
than the proven reserve of the U.K., Anadarko said in a
statement on Oct. 5.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 32 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:54 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Credit Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.1
basis points to a mid-price of 113.7 basis points as of 11:48
a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index climbed for a third day after reaching an almost two-month
low of 106.5 on July 3.  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 0.7 to 172.5.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Incremental swings in short-term  interest rates  have grown
in importance as the Fed holds its target near zero for a fourth
year to support the economy.  Incremental Leverage  In a repurchase, or repo, agreement, U.S. government
securities are exchanged for cash, with the debt held as
collateral for the loan. Dealers, who use the transactions to
finance holdings and increase leverage, agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date and cash is sent back to the lender.  In a general collateral repo transaction, the lender of
funds is willing to accept a variety of Treasury, MBS or agency
collateral.  GCF repo, a fraction of the $5.5 trillion repo market, was
introduced in 1998 by DTCC’s Fixed Income Clearing Corp. unit
with JPMorgan and Bank of New York Mellon, the clearing banks
that function as the agent and collateral holder in tri-party
repo transactions.  New York-based DTCC, which processes more than $3 trillion
in repos each day, publishes a repo index for Treasuries,
 agencies  and agency  mortgage-backed securities .  Lost Credibility  Libor is derived from a survey of London banks conducted
each day by  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  on behalf of the BBA.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from each other for time periods from overnight to one year in
different currencies. After a set number of quotes are excluded,
those remaining are averaged and published for each currency by
the BBA before noon.  “Libor has lost a lot of credibility,” said  Tim Price , a
 money manager  who helps oversee more than $1.5 billion at PFP
Group LLP, an asset-management firm in London. “So far,
Barclays has been first out of the trap. It seems almost certain
there will be more names to follow.”  A viable new benchmark index would take a survey of rates
from actual money-market transactions anonymously, with repo
rates among the possible measures, Price said.  Libor Alternatives  “As people look for alternatives to Libor, the question is
whether it should be a market rate or a non-market rate or a
survey,” said Credit Suisse’s Jersey.  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory  Committee , the bond dealers
and investors who meet  quarterly  with the government, included
the DTCC GCF Treasury Repo index among choices for a benchmark
money-market  reference rate  for a floating-rate note program
they proposed.  Fidelity Investments , the largest manager of money-market
mutual funds, recommend the notes be linked to the GCF Treasury
repo index, according to a letter issued during a  public comment 
period. A derivative market based off the repo index would
enhance the attractiveness of the index as a reference rate,
Boston-based Fidelity said in the note.  New York-based NYSE Liffe U.S. will begin trading repo
futures based on three DTCC indexes on July 16, listing the 30-
day contracts for 24 consecutive months.  Trading in the market may reach 500,000 contracts a day,
Citigroup Inc. analysts Neela Gollapudi and Timothy Chung wrote
in a July 6 note to clients. “We would not be surprised if it
takes several quarters to several years” to get to that level,
they said.  Volatile Rates  “While hedging short rates might not be a large concern
when the Fed is on hold, repo rates have been surprisingly
volatile for the past several years, sometimes more so than Fed
Funds or Libor,” they wrote. Dealers and investors that seek to
protect against those fluctuations by buying futures on other
benchmarks face the risk that the two won’t move in tandem, they
said. “These market participants would normally prefer to hedge
repo risk with repo futures,” the analysts wrote.  Even the most well-planned futures contract can struggle to
generate enough demand to succeed, such as oil futures on Middle
Eastern crude that attracted little attention from investors,
said Ed Ditmire, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  “A lot of seemingly thoughtful contracts don’t succeed,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Deriving the GCF rate from actual repo trades, as compared
to Libor, which is set by bank estimates of how much it would
cost to borrow from one another, “will be a good selling
point” for NYSE, Ditmire said.  CME’s Eurodollar  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange owner,
still has the most-popular interest-rate future in the
Eurodollar, even as trading volume in the first quarter fell
19.2 percent from a year earlier, according to statistics
compiled by the  Futures Industry Association , an industry trade
and lobbying group. The contract tracks interest-rate movements
over three months and settles against the BBA rate.  About 126.3 million Eurodollars changed hands in the first
three months of 2012, compared with 156.2 million in the same
period last year, according to the FIA data.  Trading in CME’s contract on the Fed’s overnight rate has
fallen 48 percent in the first half of the year compared with
last year, to an average 57,892 trades a day from 111,279 per
day, according to  Michael Shore , a CME spokesman.  The Libor price-fixing scandal may help NYSE tap demand for
an alternative, Ditmire said. “It’s a very interesting and
opportunistic time to be thrusting themselves into this with an
innovative product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 