-- Libor Unveiled a London ‘Cesspit,’ Bank of England’s Tucker Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-07-09T18:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/libor-unveiled-a-london-cesspit-bank-of-england-s-tucker-says.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said the Libor investigation unveiled a “cesspit” in
the City of London and called for regulators to scrutinize all
benchmarks that aren’t based on real transactions.  “I can’t be confident about anything after learning about
this, this cesspit,” Tucker told British lawmakers in the House
of Commons Treasury Select Committee today.  Tucker’s testimony follows the record 290 million-pound
($450 million) fine imposed on  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month for the
attempted manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities. The scandal
has cost the jobs of three top Barclays executives, including
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , and risked Tucker’s
position as the front-runner to replace  Mervyn King  as governor
of the Bank of England.  “As well as looking at Libor, they should look at every
single index that isn’t based on real transactions, where
participants in the market have to self-certify,” Tucker said.
“That plainly doesn’t work.”  Tucker said he was unaware that banks may have been
manipulating the benchmark before 2008. Barclays said in its
settlement with regulators last month that its traders rigged
Libor as early as 2005.  “We were not aware of allegations of dishonesty,” he
said. He thought “these money markets are not working,
they are dysfunctional,” Tucker said.  The Bank of England used Libor to price fees for its
Special Liquidity Scheme in 2008, something he “would not have
dreamed of” doing “had we doubts about lowballing,” he said.
The Bank of England’s Special Liquidity Scheme was introduced at
the peak of the credit crisis to allow banks to swap hard-to-
trade mortgage-backed securities for  government bonds .  “Even if they have been completely clean over that period,
self-certification is plainly open to abuse and so it could
occur elsewhere,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Howard Mustoe at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net  