-- Libor Woes Threaten to Turn Companies Off Syndicated Loans
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-07-10T10:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/libor-scandal-threatening-to-turn-companies-off-syndicated-loans.html
The scandal surrounding the  London 
interbank offered rate is threatening to undermine confidence in
syndicated loans and hasten companies’ flight to bonds.  “What corporate treasurers are concerned about is the
damage this Libor problem will do to market confidence,” said
John Grout, the policy and technical director at the Association
of Corporate Treasurers in London, which has about 4,500
members. “If people lose trust in banks and Libor, which is
indexed to a huge amount of debt and derivatives instruments,
market liquidity could be reduced and borrowing costs could rise
for corporates.”  Corporate loans typically pay interest pegged to Libor or
its equivalents in other currencies, and the rate-rigging
scandal is spreading uncertainty about whether the benchmarks
reflect lenders’ true cost of funding. At least a dozen banks
are being investigated for manipulating Libor, prompting
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to quit last
week after the U.K.’s second-biggest lender was fined a record
$451 million.  Loans are already on the wane as a funding option for
companies in the U.S. and  Europe . More stringent  capital
requirements  introduced by regulators to prevent the risky
lending practices that exacerbated the financial crisis have
made it more expensive for banks to extend loans, and prompted
lenders in Europe to pledge more than $1 trillion of balance-
sheet cuts.  Loans Decline  Non-financial companies in the U.S. borrowed $483 billion
through syndicated loans and credit lines this year, a 13
percent drop from the same period of 2011, while in Europe
volumes fell 25 percent to $322 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Loans were overtaken by bonds for the first time in Europe
this year, according to  Fitch Ratings . Bond issues made up 52
percent of the 467 billion euros ($575 billion) of new corporate
funding in the first half, compared with 29 percent for the
whole of 2011, the New York-based firm said in a July 3 report.  “Before 2007 our borrowings were linked to  base rate  not
Libor, but then banks insisted we move to a Libor-rated margin
as we were told it was market practice,” said Ben Whawell, the
chief financial officer at Warrington, England-based trucking
and warehousing company  Stobart Group Ltd. (STOB)   ‘Any Opportunity’  “The last week hasn’t changed anything as far as banks are
concerned,” he said. “They’re all in it to make money and
they’ll take any opportunity they can to charge you a fee.”  Clare Dawson, the managing director of the Loan Market
Association in London, said Libor would continue to be the
benchmark for the syndicated loan market.  “Libor is only one factor that people are looking at when
they look at a loan, either as a means of raising finance or as
an investment,” said Dawson, whose  group  represents 486 banks,
investors and law firms. “I see no reason why a floating-rate
debt product won’t continue to be a key component of the
financing market, and clearly most floating rate loans are based
off Libor or Euribor.”  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
 British Bankers Association  in London, in which the world’s
biggest lenders are asked the rate they’re charged to borrow
over a variety of short-term maturities in currencies including
dollars, euros and yen. Banks are accused of massaging down
submissions for the benchmark for $360 trillion of global
securities during the financial crisis and artificially
increasing them before it.  The so-called lowballing may have more impact on lenders’
returns in Europe than in the U.S., where they’ve been quicker
to adopt Libor floors that set a minimum level for the
benchmark. The main three-month dollar Libor rate held at 0.458
percent today, compared with 5.724 percent in September 2007.  “In the wake of this scandal, we’re worried that more
banks will stop submitting rates to BBA because of the legal
cost and controversy involved,” said Grout, formerly finance
director of Cadbury Schweppes. “That won’t be helpful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  