-- Libor Criminal Probe, CFTC Exemptions, Canada: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-09T11:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/libor-criminal-probe-cftc-bank-exemptions-canada-compliance.html
The U.K. Serious Fraud Office opened
a criminal probe into the attempted rigging of interest rates
that led to a record fine against  Barclays Plc (BARC) , adding to
pressure on banks already under investigation by regulators
around the globe.  SFO Director  David Green  said he had decided to “accept
the Libor matter for investigation” in an e-mailed statement
July 6.  Politicians including Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  and Opposition Labour leader Ed Miliband called for a
criminal probe after Britain’s second-biggest bank was fined
$451 million two weeks ago in the U.K. and U.S. for submitting
false Libor rates. Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond and
Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier resigned over the
scandal.  Barclays spokesman Giles Croot didn’t immediately respond
to a voice-mail seeking comment.  The SFO joins the U.S. Department of Justice in criminally
investigating how derivatives traders and rate submitters
colluded to rig interbank offered rates. The U.K. Financial
Services Authority is seeking civil penalties against banks and
has said its criminal powers don’t include Libor rigging.  As part of the U.S. and U.K. settlements, Barclays admitted
rigging the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, as well as
Euribor, its equivalent in euros, as early as 2005. In testimony
to Parliament last week, Diamond apologized and said 14 Barclays
traders were involved.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG,
 ICAP Plc (IAP) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are
among the firms regulators are investigating. About 18 banks are
surveyed as part of the process of determining Libor rates.  Osborne told lawmakers last week that the FSA was in touch
with the SFO about a criminal investigation. FSA Chairman  Adair
Turner  said this week that its probes will result in more
settlements “before the end of the year.”  For more, click here.  Separately,  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest
lender by assets, said it didn’t collude with other banks in
setting the London interbank offered rate, distancing itself
from probes on whether banks rigged benchmark rates.  Katherine Gay, a spokeswoman for the Toronto-based bank,
made the remarks July 6 in an e-mailed statement.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Said to Exempt Banks Under $10 Billion From Clearing  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  is poised to
exempt banks with assets of less than $10 billion from Dodd-
Frank Act requirements to guarantee swap trades at
clearinghouses, two people briefed on the matter said.  The CFTC is scheduled to consider a final rule tomorrow
allowing those banks and other companies an exception from the
2010 law’s clearing mandate designed to limit risk in trades,
the people said on condition of anonymity because the plan
hasn’t been made public. The agency’s five commissioners are
also scheduled to propose an exemption for farm credit banks and
other cooperatives, the people said. The rules could change
before the vote.  Banks with as much as $50 billion in assets have urged the
CFTC to exempt them from the clearing requirement, saying that
their trades don’t pose the financial-system risk the law meant
to reduce.  Steven Adamske , spokesman for the CFTC, declined to comment
on the exceptions July 5.  Lenders including Los Angeles-based City National Bank, San
Antonio-based Frost National Bank and  Susquehanna Bancshares
Inc. (SUSQ)  of Lititz, Pennsylvania, have told regulators they should
be considered swaps end-users, which rely on the products to
hedge or mitigate their commercial risks.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of
America Corp. , Citigroup Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  controlled 96
percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S. bank holding
companies as of March 31, according to the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  Dodd-Frank calls for most derivatives trades to be moved
into clearinghouses.  The CFTC is also scheduled to hold a final vote tomorrow on
a joint rule determining which derivatives are considered swaps
and are subject to new Dodd-Frank rules.  Canada Tightens Oversight of Consumer Complaints Against Banks  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the government
will give regulators more power to monitor complaints by
consumers against banks.  The government will enact regulations requiring banks to
belong to federally approved external complaints bodies, and
giving the  Financial Consumer Agency of Canada  the authority to
monitor and enforce compliance, the Department of Finance said
in a statement on its website.  The rules will set requirements for the complaints bodies
in terms of independence, timeliness and transparency, according
to the statement. The regulations will be published July 13 for
a 30-day comment period.  Compliance Action  Euribor Board to Hold Conference After Interbank Fraud Reports  The board of Euribor will hold a conference call today in
response to the recent revelations concerning fraudulent
reporting of inter-bank lending rates, a spokeswoman for
Euribor-EBF said in a telephone interview.  The board is made up of the national banking associations
of euro area countries.  Euribor-EBF is an association in charge of the development
and management of Euribor, the Euro Interbank Offered Rate,
which is the money market reference rate for the euro.  For more on inter-bank lending, see top section, above.  Gafisa Responds to U.S. SEC Subpoena for Financial Records  Gafisa SA, the Brazilian homebuilder that said it breached
bond covenants in April, sent the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission documents after receiving a subpoena from the
regulator.  Gafisa filed its 2010 and 2011 annual reports with the
U.S., and posted the documents on its website, the company said
July 6 in a Brazilian regulatory filing.  Regulators from the
SEC’s division of enforcement asked the Sao Paulo-based
homebuilder on June 14 to deliver all documents it used to
prepare its financial statements as far back as Jan. 1, 2010,
according to a U.S. regulatory filing made earlier in the day on
July 6.  Gafisa has complied with the SEC’s requirements, according
to an e-mailed statement from a communications firm representing
the company. The company said in the filing that the subpoena
“does not specify any charges” or make clear what action, if
any, the SEC intends to take’’ with the information it gathers.  The homebuilder failed to satisfy some of the clauses of
its 2018 real-denominated floating-rate bond, according to an
April 10 filing.  Suzlon Plans Turbine-Parts Plant in Brazil as Wind Loans Blocked  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest wind-turbine maker,
agreed to build a components factory in Brazil as the country’s
state development bank suspended loans to developers buying the
machines from foreign companies.  Suzlon “has decided to have local manufacturing facilities
based on the requirements,” the Pune-based producer said in its
annual report. The company will do the same in South Africa for
similar reasons, it said.  State bank BNDES, Brazil’s main lender to wind farms, this
month halted loans to developers seeking to buy turbines from
overseas companies, including Suzlon, while it verifies whether
the manufacturers are getting 40 percent of their components in
Brazil, as required.  Suzlon, negotiating orders with potential clients in the
country, is diversifying sales as demand is forecast to slow in
China and the U.S., the two largest wind markets. Brazil was the
fastest-growing major wind market in 2011, boosting installed
capacity by 63 percent,  Global Wind Energy Council  data show.  BNDES is deciding whether to make the ban official. Brazil
plans to raise the local content requirement to 60 percent
eventually. Suzlon has been buying blades in the country from
local manufacturer Aeris Energy, and hasn’t built its own plant
yet, it said July 6 in an e-mailed response to queries.  German Regulator Checks Bank Controls Amid Libor Spat, FTD Says  Germany’s financial watchdog Bafin is investigating whether
the country’s banks have controls in place that would prevent
manipulation of the kind that affected Libor, Financial Times
Deutschland reported, citing Benjamin Fischer, a spokesman for
Bafin.  Bafin, which doesn’t have the legal mandate to start a
criminal investigation, is working closely with the relevant
authorities, Fischer told FTD.  Lawsuits and Settlements  AIG Sues U.S. Over Alleged $30.2 Million Tax Overpayment  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , which was taken over by
the federal government in 2008, sued the U.S. seeking
$30.2 million for an alleged overpayment of taxes for 1991.  The lawsuit, filed July 5 in the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims in Washington, said that the insurance company is
attempting to resolve underpayments and overpayments of taxes
through 1999. The refund request has been pending before the
Internal Revenue Service since 2007, according to the complaint.  “AIG is bringing this action to protect itself against the
running of the six-year statute of limitations on suing for
additional overpayment interest before final resolution of its
tax liabilities for 1997, 1998 and 1999,” Charles Ruchelman, a
lawyer for AIG, wrote in the complaint.  The U.S. has a 61 percent stake in AIG, down from more than
90 percent, after a 2008 rescue that swelled to
$182.3 billion.  The case is American International Group Inc. v. U.S.,
12-00437, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  TD Ameritrade Reaches Agreement in State Antitrust Probe  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  will cooperate in a multistate
investigation into potential violations of antitrust law in the
retail brokerage industry.  The company also agreed to implement an antitrust
compliance policy and training for employees, Connecticut
Attorney General George Jepsen said in a statement on July 6.  The investigation focuses on possibly collusive conduct by
several retail securities brokers and firms that help them
execute orders, Jepsen said. Scottrade Inc. reached a similar
agreement in March.  Kim Hillyer , a spokeswoman for Omaha-based TD Ameritrade,
confirmed the agreement and said the investigation resulted in
no findings of wrongdoing by the company. TD Ameritrade reached
the accord with Connecticut, Missouri and Iowa, according to a
letter posted on the attorney general’s website.  Interviews  Author Patterson Says ‘Exchanges Becoming More Toxic’  Author Scott Patterson discussed his book, “Dark Pools:
High Speed Traders, A.I. Bandits, and the Threat to the Global
Financial System.” Patterson talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox
and Courtney Donohoe on Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock” about
the current state of high speed trading and dark pools.  For the audio, click here.  Barnier to Widen EU Market-Abuse Rules to Include Libor  European Union Financial Services Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  said he plans to widen EU rules on market abuse to
outlaw the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate.  “I’ll propose to widen the field of application to
effectively cover the manipulation of indexes, which includes
Libor,” Barnier said yesterday in an interview in Aix-en-
Provence, France.  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined 290 million pounds ($449.3 million) on June 27 for rigging
Libor, a global benchmark, for profit. Chairman Marcus Agius,
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating
Officer Jerry Del Missier subsequently resigned.  “Anyone thinking of manipulating markets needs to know
they’ll face sanctions, including possibly criminal ones,”
Barnier said.  Arlene McCarthy, the lawmaker leading work in the EU
parliament on the draft law on market abuse, said last week she
and Barnier discussed how the bloc’s rules should be extended to
ensure that manipulation of interbank lending rates is treated
as a criminal offense.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 