-- Ice Coco Cocktails Join French Fusion at Paris Hotels
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/ice-coco-cocktails-join-french-fusion-at-paris-hotels.html
Paris’s luxury hotels are known for
their beauty and service and for the quality of the restaurants.
How about their casual-dining venues? I tried three.  La Bauhinia ( Shangri-La ): This restaurant, named after a
flower, mixes Asian and French cuisine, with a seasonal menu.
It’s a dramatic space, reminiscent of a theater-in-the-round
under a glass cupola designed by architect Maurice Gras. Diners
are seated on red-velvet divans around the room.  A starter of Som Tam (26 euros/$32), Thai green-papaya
salad, was crunchy and light. Pan-seared foie gras with a Lillet
wine emulsion melted in the mouth and the sweet and sour were
perfectly balanced.  A main course of poussin (38 euros), served with a pastilla
and black-pepper poultry jus, was almost buttery. A stuffing
including cucumber, red chili pepper, ginger and lime brought a
burst of freshness to the pan-seared Berlada sole. If it were
possible to eat perfume and enjoy it, that would be the rice,
cooked in coconut milk and served in a banana leaf.  The only disappointment was dessert: a Napoleon with
flavorless wild strawberries.  Rating: *** Cost: About 70 euros a person, plus wine.
There’s a 48 euro, two-course lunch. Information:
 http://bit.ly/MwsEVc   Fouquet’s ( Hotel Fouquet’s Barriere ) This establishment is
just how an elegant brasserie should be: bustling and lively
without being frenetic. With its hardwood floors, red-cushioned
chairs and golden chandeliers, the place is cozy and inviting.  This is a place to try cocktails. Barman Stephane Ginouves
won a Meilleur Ouvrier de France award last year. His Ice Coco
is a refreshing mix of whiskey, pineapple juice, white cocoa
cream and coconut liqueur. The wine list carries 2,000
selections, with bottles from 69 euros to more than 3,000 euros.  Chef Jean-Yves Leuranguer’s king-crab salad includes
crunchy sucrine lettuce and quinoa, shreds of yellow and orange
carrots and citrus slices, which didn’t overpower the delicate
flavor of generous chunks of crab. Lobster ravioli was a
delightful surprise, covered with a foamy emulsion of lobster
broth instead of the more common bisque.  The grilled filet mignon with a bearnaise sauce (49 euros)
was tender and juicy, and a grilled tomato with buttery bread
crumbs avoided the trap of sogginess.  A gianduja hazelnut cake was moist. The rum baba came with
a glass of rum on the side.  Rating: *** Cost: The three-course “discovery” menu is 85
euros. Information:  http://bit.ly/rXFCYZ   L’Obe  ( Hotel de Crillon ): This place looks like a
brasserie, with its bar and walls paneled in wood and mirrors.
It would be more authentic if livelier. Still, there is a good
selection of wines by the carafe.  The highlight of the meal was a starter salad with scallops
and Parmesan (26 euros): Four big juicy scallops, served warm
with golden pine nuts on a bed of cool, fresh salad greens.
Canadian lobster salad with avocado and grapefruit (32 euros)
looked better than it tasted.  While the pan-seared prawns with sesame seeds had a great
nutty flavor and firm texture, the risotto was overpowered by
Parmesan. Lamb chops in a mustard crust offered an enjoyable mix
of textures.  A carafe of Pomerol 2007, Chateau Bellegrave (70 euros) was
generous and at the right temperature, unlike a cheese plate and
the signature dessert, vanilla Napoleon, (15 euros) which were
served a bit warmer than room temperature.  Rating: ** Cost: About 70 euros. There’s a 39 euro, 2-
course menu with coffee and mini desserts. Information:
 http://www.crillon.com/#flavours/obe   (Adria Cimino writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  James S.
Russell  on architecture and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 