-- Microsoft Will Buy Perceptive Pixel for Large Touch Display
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-09T17:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/microsoft-will-buy-perceptive-pixel-for-large-touch-display-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said it will buy
Perceptive Pixel Inc., a maker of large touch-screen display
monitors that can be used by multiple people at the same time.  Microsoft plans to sell Perceptive Pixel’s large screens,
which can run its latest operating system, Windows 8, the
Redmond, Washington-based software company said at a conference
in Toronto today. Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  Microsoft has a lot riding on the success of Windows 8, due
to be released later this year. Perceptive Pixel’s 82-inch
multi-touch screen, used by customers including news broadcaster
CNN and oil-services provider  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , can respond to
finger movements and a stylus at the same time, helping users
mimic real-world work environments, according to the company’s
 website . It will be another vehicle for Windows 8 sales to big
customers such as corporations and schools.  “It’s just a very big Windows 8 tablet, but people ‘Ooh
and ah’ at it,” Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer 
said at the conference. “Our challenge is to make that
technology more affordable.”  The displays currently sell for about $80,000, he said. The
screens can connect to standard corporate computers and already
work with Windows 8; Microsoft demonstrated one running the
program at a conference in February.  Windows 8 will be shipped to manufacturers the first week
in August and go on sale by the end of October, Microsoft said
today. In the coming year, Microsoft expects to sell “a few
million” units of its Surface tablet, Ballmer said.  Election Use  Perceptive Pixel  Founder  Jeff Han, who demonstrated multi-
touch technology at the  TED  conference in 2006, will join
Microsoft, with his team becoming part of the company’s Office
division.  The New York-based company gained prominence in 2008 when
cable-news network  CNN  used one of its displays as a large
interactive U.S. map for presidential election coverage.  Now Han, who says many of his company’s biggest  customers 
are top-secret defense and government projects, wants to take
the products more mainstream. To do that, he needs Microsoft’s
muscle and better integration with Office programs like the
OneNote note-taking application and Lync conferencing software,
he said in an interview.  Microsoft expects the acquisition to close this summer, and
it will work hard to lower the price of Perceptive Pixel
products, Giovanni Mezgec, a Microsoft general manager, said in
an interview. He declined to give a specific month or say how
much lower the prices may fall.  “We want to make this mainstream,” he said. “We will do
anything possible to get the cost down and to get new forms of
this out in the market places in any way possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  