-- Indentured Students Rise as Loans Corrode College Ticket
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-07-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/indentured-students-rise-as-loans-corrode-college-ticket.html
Geraldine Damiani Brezler took out a
$5,000 student loan in the late 1960s to study at the  State
University of New York . She became a nurse, got married, bought
a house and repaid the debt in less than three years.  Today, her son, David, 38, owes about $85,000 in loans for
a master’s degree in education at  New York University . He can’t
find full-time work, lives with his parents in White Plains,  New
York , and has  deferred  paying his debt for three years.  The financial-aid odyssey of two generations of Brezlers
tracks the history of U.S. student loans, which, like the home
mortgage, helped define the American dream. In the early years,
the loan program let ambitious teens take on a small debt that
could pay off with a lifetime of higher earnings. Now, the $1
trillion in outstanding student debt has become a drag on the
economic recovery, a flashpoint in the presidential election and
a threat to the egalitarian ideals of U.S. higher education.  “It’s like waking up to a snarling wolf every morning,”
said David Brezler, who spends his days searching job listings,
following up by e-mail and phone and taking on short-term
consulting jobs. “The idea of buying a house -- it’s completely
inconceivable.”  How did a once-modest federal program spiral out of
control, weighing down low- and middle-income families like the
Brezlers that it was designed to help?  ‘Indentured Student’  The answer echoes both the health-care and mortgage crises.
As college costs have soared faster than the rate of inflation
over the past four decades -- reaching $60,000 a year at the
most expensive private schools -- Republicans and Democrats
alike postponed a reckoning. They encouraged borrowing and
ignored surging tuition, leaving loans to balloon to the size of
mortgages, shocking even the system’s own architects.  “No one ever conceived this was a way to create a debtor
class of former students, the indentured student,” said  Tom
Wolanin , who worked on federal higher education policy for 30
years and was a deputy assistant education secretary in the
Clinton administration.  Politicians of all stripes ignored repeated warnings that
the day would come when debt would become unsustainable.  “The path of least resistance was to have the student
borrow more,” Wolanin said.  Congress, during the administrations of  Jimmy Carter ,
 Ronald Reagan ,  George H.W. Bush  and George W. Bush dangled more
credit to more families. The U.S. raised the total amount that
dependent students could borrow during their college careers to
$31,000, up from $7,500 when the loan program began, according
to an April Congressional Research Service report. Under certain
circumstances, the limit for dependent students is even higher.  Election Issue  In the final stretch to this year’s presidential election,
college costs and debt are looming larger than ever. In a
January speech at the  University of Michigan , President  Barack Obama  proposed rewarding schools that control costs with access
to more loans and grants. In June, at the  University of Nevada ,
 Las Vegas , he touted an executive order that eases the
application process for a loan program that lets students make
lower payments tied to their incomes, stretching them over
decades.  “I want to make it easier for more students like you to
earn a degree without shouldering a mountain of debt,” Obama
said.  In his  education plan  released in May, Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said Obama’s financial-aid
initiatives encourage students to take on more debt, “claiming
to help them today and then sending them the bill tomorrow.”
Romney advocates cutting education regulation and encouraging
colleges to become more efficient, lowering costs partly through
the use of online instruction.  Building Boom  The government began offering loans to all college students
regardless of income in 1992. At the same time, it let  parents 
borrow up to the cost of attendance minus any financial aid.
Congress endorsed almost unlimited borrowing for graduate
students in 2006, the same year it let federal grants and loans
be used for online programs, especially at for-profit schools
targeting working adults.  As borrowing soared, university presidents began a
multibillion-dollar building boom across campuses, featuring
private dorm rooms and network TV-ready football fields.
Colleges themselves went into debt to pay for these extras. By
the end of 2011, more than 500 colleges and universities rated
by Moody’s Investors Service had $211 billion of outstanding
debt, compared with $91 billion in 2002.  “The tendency of the colleges and universities at the
undergraduate or the graduate level is to charge as much as they
can, and continue to build and expand,” William Bennett,
education secretary under Reagan, said in an interview.  Access Surges  Federal loans have enabled the number of college-goers to
more than triple, to 21.6 million in 2010 from 5.9 million in
1965, Education Department data shows. The average debt held by
members of the  class of 2010  was $25,000, according to a report
by The Institute for College Access & Success in Oakland,
 California .  For most graduates, that level of debt is manageable, said
Sarah Flanagan, a lobbyist for the  National Association of
Independent Colleges and Universities , which represents more
than 1,000 private, nonprofit schools.  Yet, a  survey  last year by the Washington-based Pew
Research Center found that more than half of U.S. adults said
higher education failed to provide “good value” for the money,
three-quarters said it was unaffordable for most Americans and
almost half said the loans made it harder to pay other bills.  Some scholars are coming to a conclusion that shakes at the
core of a long-held belief: College may not be for everyone.  ‘Mindlessly Drifting’  The “college for all” movement focuses too much on
helping students pursue four-year degrees when two-year and
other programs may better prepare them for the workforce,
according to a 2011 Harvard University  report .  “Mindlessly drifting into college, believing that anything
they study for however many years is going to be worth going
into debt for -- that’s what is getting far too many young
people into deep trouble,”  Robert Schwartz , academic dean at
Harvard’s education school, said in an interview.  The choices were easier for Geraldine Brezler, now 64. In
addition to paying off her $5,000 student loan in less than
three years in the early 1970s, she earned enough as a nurse to
pay the $6,000 down payment on the family’s first home in Akron,
Ohio, while her husband began his medical career.  “When I borrowed for college, it was more like getting a
car loan,” she said. Regarding her three kids, who all have
master’s degrees, “the amount of money that they borrowed is
more like a down payment on a house,” she said.  1965 Start  The modern student-loan program was born in 1965, part of
President  Lyndon Johnson ’s Great Society. In a November  ceremony 
at Southwest Texas State College, his alma mater, Johnson signed
the bill authorizing the initiative, saying it would “swing
open a new door for the young people of America.”  “Education is no longer a luxury,” Johnson said.
“Education in this day and age is a necessity.”  Under the  program , the government would guarantee loans
made to students by banks or private lenders and would pick up
the interest while students were in college. Borrowers would
start paying back one year after graduation. In 2010, under
Obama, the Education Department started making all new loans
directly, eliminating the role of private lenders -- a decision
Romney wants to reverse.  In the 1964-1965 academic year, it cost $1,560 on average
to attend a public college, according to a 1965 speech to
Congress by late U.S. Representative Carl Perkins, a Democrat
from Kentucky.  Debt ‘Bondage’  Two decades later, politicians on both sides of the aisle
were alarmed at the growth of the program, with more than $35
billion of outstanding federal student loans by 1985, according
to a speech that year by Representative William D. Ford, a
Michigan Democrat.  “We are producing a class of indentured students who must
work to free themselves from the bondage of educational debts,”
said Ford, who sat on the House Education and Labor Committee
during the passage of the 1965 Higher Education Act. “How will
the next generation afford a home or car if their disposable
income is committed to paying off student loans?”  In 1987-1988, the average costs for tuition and fees at a
public university were $1,485, and $7,048 at a private college,
according to the nonprofit  College Board , whose members include
colleges and universities. Bennett suggested that the
availability of student loans paved the way for colleges to
raise tuition at a rate that outpaced inflation.  For-Profit Schools  “Increases in financial aid in recent years have enabled
colleges and universities blithely to raise their tuitions,
confident that Federal loan subsidies would help cushion the
increase,” Bennett wrote in a 1987  op-ed piece  in the New York
Times.  The federal-aid expansion coincided with a boom in for-
profit colleges, which have higher student-loan default rates
than traditional colleges and rely on federal money for as much
as 90 percent of their revenue. Turbocharging the growth of
these institutions, George W. Bush’s administration eased
regulations that capped the federal money they could receive.  Students at for-profit colleges carry the heaviest loan
load: 53 percent of degree recipients had school debt of $30,500
or more, compared with 24 percent at private, nonprofit colleges
and 12 percent at public schools, according to a 2010  report  by
the College Board using the most recent federal data available.  In 1992, the government opened the educational loan
floodgates even more. Over the next 10 years, outstanding
federal student-loan debt more than tripled to about $280
billion from about $80 billion, according to federal data.  Parent Borrowers  Congress under President  George H. W. Bush  expanded its
 Stafford  program, which had been limited to low-income students.
Students could now borrow regardless of income.  At the same time, parents could also take out loans up to
the cost to attend, minus any scholarships or loans granted to
the student. While parents must pass a credit check to prove
they aren’t in bankruptcy, they don’t need a medical exam and
there is no age limit.  The new provisions made the federal program politically
appealing to middle-class voters, said  Neal McCluskey , associate
director of the Cato Institute’s Center for Educational Freedom
in  Washington .  By 2005-2006, tuition and fees at a public university were
$5,492, while the costs at a private, nonprofit college averaged
$21,000, according to the New York-based College Board. A year
later, under President  George W. Bush , graduate students were
able to borrow up to the cost to attend, which can amount to
$100,000 or more. Universities began enrolling more students.  More Degrees  In the past decade,  Northwestern University , expanded its
graduate offerings aimed at working professionals in the  School
of Continuing Studies  to 2,000 students from 150, said Thomas
Gibbons, dean of the school based in Chicago. Two-year programs
cost from about $38,000 to $50,000, he said.  Many families like the Brezlers are asking whether graduate
school is good value. About a third of people with masters’
degrees make less money on average than a typical bachelor’s
degree holder, according to data analyzed by Stephen J. Rose, a
labor economist at  Georgetown University .  When Brezler’s children decided to pursue graduate school,
the idea was “if they got more education, they would get better
jobs and would be able to pay back their degrees,” Brezler
said. “Now the paradigm has shifted.”  The recession that began in December 2007, combined with
increases in college costs, prompted more anger from students
and indebted families.  Worth It?  Obama said in 2009 before a joint session of Congress that
by 2020, “America will once again have the highest proportion
of college graduates in the world.” At the same time, others
began to question whether graduating with a high level of debt
was worth it.  To ease the burden on federal loan borrowers, Obama has
promoted a plan that took effect in 2009, letting them make
 payments based on income . For those whose circumstances don’t
improve, their loans can be canceled in 25 years. Under a plan
unveiled last year, some borrowers’ debt could be canceled in
20 years.  The younger Brezlers may need help with their debt for the
next few decades. While Geraldine Brezler and her husband Mario
paid for their children’s undergraduate educations, the three,
all in their 30s, took on debt for graduate school yet haven’t
landed the full-time jobs they’d expected after additional
schooling, she said.  Second Master’s  Their daughter, Katherine, 30, graduated from college in
2005, earned a master’s degree in education and is working on a
second one in urban affairs. She has defaulted on some of her
loans as she tries to cobble together an income from teacher’s
assistant jobs while seeking a full-time teaching position.  David, who has been at his parent’s house since August,
carries on with his job search. In the meantime, he freelances
as a Spanish interpreter for doctors and in courtrooms from 20
hours a week to 20 hours a month. His brother Benjamin, 34, just
finished a master’s degree in microbiology and continues to
interview for jobs.  “The hope was you get more advanced degrees and get a
better job and it just hasn’t panned out that way so far,”
Geraldine Brezler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  