-- Industrial Metals Climb as China CPI Points to Easing
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-07-09T11:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/industrial-metals-climb-as-china-cpi-points-to-easing.html
Copper was seen rising in  New York  on
speculation  China  is poised to take further steps to spur its
economy, potentially bolstering the outlook for demand in the
world’s largest consumer of the metal.  Chinese officials will intensify their response to a
slowdown in the country’s economy, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said. He
spoke as government figures showed inflation in China reached a
29-month low. Copper usage in the nation probably will keep
climbing, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “Base metals are looking strong this morning in light of
tame inflation in China, stoking hopes that a monetary move by
China is imminent,” RBC Capital Markets LLC said in a report.  Copper for September delivery gained 0.4 percent to $3.4215
a pound by 7:16 a.m. on the Comex in New York, rising for a
first session in three. The  London  Metal Exchange’s three-month
contract climbed 0.1 percent to $7,542 a metric ton.  “Chinese copper offtake has and likely will continue to
grow in spite of weak manufacturing activity,”  Max Layton , an
analyst at Goldman Sachs in London, said in a report e-mailed
today. He predicted 5 percent growth in demand this year.  A 50 percent jump in June property sales in eastern
provinces of China compared with a year earlier will support
metals demand, according to Goldman Sachs. The copper market’s
focus is turning to Chinese import figures due tomorrow,
Commerzbank AG said in a report, forecasting traders in the
country may have taken advantage of price declines in June.  Comex copper dropped in the weeks ended June 8 and 15.
Prices are down 2 percent this month.  Net-short  positions , or wagers on falling copper prices,
held by funds rose to 13,770 futures and options contracts as of
June 26 from 11,897 a week earlier, according to the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Orders to remove copper from warehouses monitored by the
LME jumped 27 percent to 44,400 tons, the highest level since
May 14, on gains in  South Korea  and  New Orleans , daily exchange
figures showed. Stockpiles of the metal declined for a fifth
session in six to 253,350 tons.  Nickel, aluminum, tin, zinc and lead gained in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  