-- Inflation at Two-Year Low Spurs Commodity Slump: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-09T20:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/inflation-at-two-year-low-spurs-commodity-slump-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
fell the most in two weeks as energy and commodity producers
slid, after inflation in the world’s second-largest economy
eased to the lowest level since January 2010.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in  New York  slid 1.7 percent to 89.55, the
most since June 25. Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd. dropped the
most in two weeks as the metal’s prices retreated. PetroChina
Co. and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  tumbled for a third day.  Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co. (YZC) , the country’s fourth-largest miner, posted the longest
losing streak in a month as the price of thermal coal in the
nation declined for a ninth week.  Government data showing the  consumer price index  rose 2.2
percent in June, the slowest pace in more than two years,
follows the second interest-rate cut in a month last week.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said downward pressure on the economy is
still “relatively large” and the government will intensify
policy fine-tuning, the state-owned Xinhua News Agency reported
on July 8. Economists estimate the Chinese  economy  expanded at
the slowest pace in three years during the second quarter.  “Investors in Chinese equities are stepping back,”
Derrick Irwin, who helps manage $2.5 billion in the Wells Fargo
Advantage  Emerging Markets  Equity Fund, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters yesterday. “It’s difficult to
make money by betting around the margins of consensus, and the
consensus is that China is slowing.”  ‘Greater Urgency’  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined for a third day,
retreating 1.2 percent to $33.05. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
of mainland stocks tumbled 2.4 percent to 2,170.81, the steepest
slump in a month. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares
slid 0.2 percent to 1,352.46 after a jump in Spanish yields
above 7 percent intensified concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Economists forecast China’s exports probably climbed 10.6
percent from a year earlier in June, down from 15.3 percent in
May, before the figures due today. The Chinese economy may have
expanded 7.7 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
analysts estimated ahead of government data scheduled for July
13. That would be the slowest pace in three years.  Finance ministers in Europe, where China sends 20 percent
of its exports, prepared a gathering in Brussels to work out
crisis measures.  “Lower inflation allows you to cut rates while Wen is
highlighting that there’s greater urgency to do that because
their economy is weaker than they expected,”  Alec Young , a
global equity strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said in a telephone
interview from New York yesterday. “Given the lack of evidence
that the easing has done much good, coupled with the negatives
out of Europe, most investors aren’t willing to aggressively buy
Chinese equities.”  Yanzhou Coal  American depositary receipts of Yanzhou, based in China’s
Shandong province, dropped 3.2 percent to $14.95 in New York,
the biggest decline in two weeks. They earlier slid to $14.87,
the lowest level since October 2009.  China’s benchmark price for power-station coal fell for a
ninth week, as slowing economic growth and increased use of
hydropower crimped electricity demand.  Coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per
kilogram fell to a range of 645  yuan  ($101.25) to 660 yuan a
metric ton as of yesterday, according to data yesterday from the
China Coal Transport and Distribution Association. The average
of the range was 2.6 percent less than a week earlier and the
lowest since Nov. 16, 2009, according to data from the
association that goes back to the beginning of 2008.  Aluminum Corp., the largest maker of the lightweight metal
in China that is also known as Chalco, sank 2.8 percent to
$10.50, the biggest drop since June 25.  ‘Drag on Growth’  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the  London  Metal
Exchange averaged $2,019 a ton in the second quarter, 23 percent
less than a year earlier. The metal rose 1.5 percent yesterday
to $1,925 a ton in London.  ADRs of PetroChina, the nation’s largest oil producer, fell
2.5 percent to $122.81, the lowest price this year. The
company’s  Shanghai-traded shares  sank to a record low of 8.86
yuan yesterday. The ADRs, each representing 100 ordinary shares
in PetroChina, traded 0.5 percent  above  its Hong Kong stock,
from a 1.1 percent discount in the previous day.  Cnooc, the biggest offshore oil explorer in China, lost 0.7
percent to a one-week low of $196.18 in New York.  “If Europe continues to drag on growth globally, then how
could China keep spending on commodity to build the
infrastructure,” Michael A. Gayed, chief investment strategist
at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on over $150 million in
assets, said by phone from New York yesterday.  Ambow Resignation  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a tutoring and test
preparation provider based in Beijing, tumbled 13 percent to
$2.78, the lowest level on record, after losing 31 percent last
week.  Ambow said chief financial officer Gareth Kung, who joined
the company in December, resigned and was replaced by KJ Tan,
vice-president of finance, in a July 4 statement. It reported a
net loss of $12.7 million in the first quarter, from a net
income of $2 million a year ago, in a separate statement that
day.  Kung was appointed as CFO at  Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. (SMI) , the biggest chipmaker in China said in a
regulatory  filing  yesterday to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  Semiconductor retreated 1.3 percent to $1.52 in the third
day of declines in New York.  LDK Bonds  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-largest maker of wafers,
sank 7.5 percent to $1.86, the biggest loss in a month.  The yield on LDK’s yuan-denominated bonds due in 2014
surged 1.94 percentage points to a record 7.49 percent last
week, according to data from Chinabond, the nation’s largest
debt clearing house.  The solar maker, based in Xinyu of China’s Jiangxi
province, outlined a plan to sell 1 billion yuan ($157 million)
of notes before June 30 in an April 5 statement. As of July 6,
it hasn’t sold the securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Its bonds in Singapore yield 91 percent, compared with the 46
percent yield on Bonn-based  Solarworld AG (SWV) ’s debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  