-- Investment Bankers Face Termination as Europe Fees Fall
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y ,   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-07-10T14:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/investment-bankers-face-termination-as-europe-fees-fall.html
Investment bankers in  Europe  are
girding for a second wave of job cuts in less than a year after
the euro area’s debt crisis drove fees from mergers and
securities underwriting to a nine-year low.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS (UBSN)  AG, Switzerland’s biggest
lenders, face the most pressure to boost efficiency as that
country runs ahead of others in introducing tougher capital and
liquidity rules to curtail risk-taking, making some businesses
unviable. The banks’ securities units had the highest costs as a
proportion of revenue among a group of the 12 largest firms in
Europe and the U.S. last year, Morgan Stanley analysts Hubert Lam and Huw van Steenis wrote in a May 24 note.  While the situation may be most acute at Credit Suisse and
UBS, similar dynamics are at work at other firms as the debt
crisis drags on, capital requirements ratchet higher and
economic growth grinds to a halt.  “Bankers are really gloomy and a lot of people are worried
about their jobs,” said Edward Cumming-Bruce, a partner at
London-based advisory firm Gleacher Shacklock LLP who has more
than 20 years’ experience. “Banks are under remorseless
pressure to cut costs and balance sheets as we witness a
significant change in the way the financial industry works.”  Falling Revenue  The debt debacle is roiling markets and discouraging
clients from doing deals. Investment-banking fees in Europe, the
 Middle East  and Africa from mergers, stock and bond sales and
loans sank by more than a third in the first half from a year
earlier to $9 billion, the lowest since 2003, according to
estimates from New York-based research firm Freeman & Co.  Revenue per employee at the investment banks of Credit
Suisse and UBS last year amounted to $622,654 and $612,707,
respectively, down about 50 percent from 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from company reports. At  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
revenue per employee at the corporate banking and securities
division fell by 14 percent since 2006, and at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
investment bank by 9.3 percent, the data show. UBS is the only
one of the four firms to have fewer workers at its investment
bank at the end of 2011 than five years earlier.  The two Swiss companies, both based in Zurich, had combined
investment-banking staffs of 38,156 at the end of 2011. They
probably will have the highest cost-to-income ratios of the 12
biggest banks again this year, according to estimates by the
Morgan Stanley analysts. Unless the firms boost revenue this
year or next, the pressure to cut more jobs and shrink their
securities units will intensify, the analysts said.  ‘Cycle’ Broken  “It makes sense for them to cut the most,” said Andrew Lim, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  London  who
recommends that his clients sell Credit Suisse and buy UBS.  Spokesmen for UBS, Credit Suisse, Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank and Barclays in London declined to comment.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index,
which tracks 43 stocks, has  fallen  about 26 percent in the last
12 months, led by lenders in Greece and  Italy .  At least seven euro economies already are in recession and
 Germany , Europe’s largest, which helped the single-currency zone
avert a contraction in the first quarter, also is cooling.
German investor confidence dropped the most in 14 years in June,
and executives grew more pessimistic. Euro-area economic
sentiment slumped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years last
month, while unemployment reached a record 11.1 percent in May.  Western European financial firms have announced fewer than
16,000 job cuts this year, compared with more than 107,000 in
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The industry is still significantly overstaffed,” Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, a London-based analyst at Societe Generale SA,
said in a note in June. “The usual investment-banking revenue
cycle remains broken.”  Reducing Headcount  The industry could lower costs by 29 percent by reducing
pay levels, which remain 35 percent too high relative to long-
term averages, and cutting headcount by 10 percent to 12
percent, according to Hoffmann-Becking’s report.  “The European banking industry must recapitalize and
restructure its loan portfolio,” said  Richard Bove , an analyst
at Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida . “In this process
one would imagine well over 100,000 people will lose their jobs
in banking” over the next 18 months.  Employment in London’s financial-services industry may fall
in 2012 to its lowest level in 16 years, the Centre for
Economics & Business Research Ltd. said in May. The U.K. economy
is struggling to recover from its first double-dip recession
since the 1970s.  Fee Pool  Merger fees in Europe may decline further this year if
Baar, Switzerland-based  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  fails to
complete its 16.7 billion-pound ($26 billion) offer for the rest
of Xstrata Plc, the biggest takeover this year, after the
target’s second-largest shareholder demanded in June that the
bid be increased by 16 percent.  Initial public offerings also are being pulled as the
sovereign-debt crisis weighs on stock markets. Evonik Industries
AG, Germany’s largest closely held chemical company, abandoned
in June what would have been that country’s biggest IPO in more
than a decade.  The fee pool from European equity transactions dropped 53
percent in the first half to $1.1 billion from the same period a
year earlier, data from Freeman shows. Fees earned from mergers
and acquisitions fell 36 percent to $3.2 billion, while those
from arranging bond sales slumped 20 percent to $3 billion.  UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, and Credit Suisse, the second-
largest, said last year they will scale down their investment
banks and expand other businesses to prepare for Basel III and
Swiss capital rules that will require them to hold more reserves
for complex and risky businesses.  Exiting Businesses  UBS is cutting Basel III risk-weighted assets at its
securities unit by almost half from September’s levels, and
Credit Suisse is reducing them by about 37 percent. The banks
are exiting or reorganizing businesses such as securitization,
structured products and long-dated unsecured trades.  Credit Suisse Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan , 52, had
added about 2,000 people to the securities unit since 2009 -- a
move he called wrong in retrospect -- before announcing plans
last year to eliminate 3,500 positions across the company by the
end of 2013. Headcount at the investment bank at the end of 2011
was 12 percent higher than five years earlier, while net revenue
was 44 percent lower. At UBS’s unit, the number of employees
fell 21 percent since 2006, while revenue plunged 57 percent.  Senior managers at Credit Suisse, who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak about the
matter, said they expect more staff reductions because the
market environment isn’t improving. The bank trimmed the 2011
bonus pool for its securities unit by 51 percent after the
division posted a second consecutive quarterly loss.  ‘Unabated Slowdown’  UBS also announced 3,500 job cuts last year, with about
1,575 of those at the investment bank. As of the end of March,
the unit still had about 700 more positions to eliminate to
reach its target of about 16,000 employees by the end of 2016.  Deutsche Bank announced 500 job cuts in October after
scrapping its operating pretax profit forecast of 10 billion
euros ($12.3 billion) for 2011 amid a “significant and unabated
slowdown in client activity.”  Deutsche Bank’s new co-CEOs,Anshu Jain, 49, and Juergen Fitschen, 63, who took over in June, may focus on cutting costs
and disposing of unwanted assets when they announce their
strategy in September,  Kian Abouhossein  and Amit Ranjan, London-
based analysts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said in a July 3 note.  The bank, Europe’s largest by assets, may save 2.5 billion
euros, led by job reductions, cost-cutting and lower pay at the
investment bank, the analysts said. The investment-banking unit
could trim as much as 20 percent of its staff, Abouhossein and
Ranjan estimated.  M&A Cuts  The unit has about 31,799 employees, including back-office
workers, the highest among global peers, the analysts estimate.
If Deutsche Bank doesn’t cut any jobs in the “weak revenue
environment,” its revenue per employee at the investment bank
may fall to the lowest compared with New York-based Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley, UBS, Barclays and Credit
Suisse in 2013, according to JPMorgan estimates.  “Headcount in the  investment bank  has not declined at the
same pace as revenues,” the JPMorgan analysts wrote. “The
current weak revenue environment may lead to further
announcements on cost savings in our view.”  Leaders within the German firm’s M&A advisory unit are
preparing for job cuts as they struggle to justify existing
staff levels amid a decline in revenue, according to a banker
within the department who asked not to be identified.  Without Diamond  Barclays’s investment bank faces an uncertain future after
the departure last week of  Robert Diamond , 60, who turned the
unit into a top-tier global firm before becoming CEO of the
company last year. Diamond, Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier quit after the bank was
fined a record 290 million pounds for trying to rig the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor.  Barclays had already eliminated 3,500 jobs across the
company by October and planned further reductions, Diamond said
at the time. The bank was cutting more than 200 support jobs at
its investment-banking division to reduce costs, a person with
knowledge of the reductions said in April.  Barclays is one of at least 12 banks, including UBS, Credit
Suisse and Deutsche Bank, being probed for manipulating Libor.  While further cuts “at the margins” are likely, making
major decisions without a new CEO and management team will be
difficult, said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore
Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool. “They would have to be careful
about how deep they cut if they do cut,” he said.  ‘Constant Trimming’  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest state-
owned lender, said in January it would eliminate 4,800 jobs,
including 3,500 at the investment bank, citing volatile markets
and increasing U.K. regulation. The Edinburgh-based bank said it
would sell or close units including cash equities, mergers
advisory and equity capital markets.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  is closing its securities unit in  Russia  and
will cease to carry out cash-equity business for Central and
Eastern European shares in  New York  and London, according to a
statement in June. The Milan-based bank is retrenching after it
needed 7.5 billion euros in fresh capital.  Even if banks don’t announce new job-cutting programs, they
will probably reduce staff levels quietly, said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA.  ‘Massive Uplift’  “Since 2008 there has been a massive uplift in regulation,
and banks need to manage their staff appropriately,” he said.
“Everybody is doing job cuts. There is constant trimming.”  Barclays may cut 5 percent to 10 percent of employees at
its investment bank in Europe, and about half a dozen investment
bankers in Germany have left the firm, according to people
familiar with the cuts. In London, JPMorgan will eliminate 20
investment-banking jobs as market conditions weaken, a person
with knowledge of the matter said in May. The New York-based
bank trimmed additional jobs in Europe over the past few weeks,
said another person, who asked not to be identified.  “More cuts are inevitable,” said Philip Keevil, a partner
at advisory firm Compass Advisers Group LLC, which has offices
in London and New York. “And sooner rather than later.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net . 