-- Iran Producing Missiles Based on Russia’s Kornet, Analysts Say
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-09T15:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/iran-producing-missiles-based-on-russia-s-kornet-analysts-say.html
Iran  is producing new laser-guided
anti-tank missiles modeled on  Russia ’s Kornet, the rocket used
by Hezbollah in the 2006 war with  Israel , according to defense
analysts in London and Moscow.  The Iranians may have copied the design after obtaining it
from non-state sources such as Hezbollah, said Igor Korotchenko,
director of the Center for Analysis of World Arms Trade in
Moscow, who’s also the head of an advisory council for the
Russian Defense Ministry. Syria and the Hamas Islamic movement
are also among possible sources for providing the technology,
according to Neil Gibson, a defense analyst from IHS Jane’s.  Iranian Defense Minister Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi on
July 7 inaugurated production of the Dehlaviyeh anti-armor
missile system designed to hit mobile and ground targets, the
state-run Fars news agency reported. The Kornet has a range of
as far as 5.5 kilometers (3.3 miles), according to its
manufacturer, the KBP Instrument Design Bureau.  Hezbollah, a Shiite Muslim militant organization in Lebanon
backed by  Syria  and Iran, in 2006 claimed to have destroyed two
advanced Merkava-4 Israeli tanks with the Russian-made Kornet,
which Israeli officials said was supplied by Syria. Russia
hasn’t licensed Iran the technology to produce the Kornet,
Korotchenko said.  Vyacheslav Davidenko, spokesman for state arms exporter
Rosoboronexport, and Andrei Morozov, a senior manager in charge
of media relations at KBP, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Syria, Hamas  “It’s most likely that a country in the area, previously
supplied the Kornet by Russia, has supplied the missile to
Iran,” IHS Jane’s Gibson said by e-mail. “This is most likely
Syria, Hamas or Hezbollah, the latter supposedly supplied the
Kornet by Syria.”  Syria had to commit not to re-export Kornet missiles at the
time its purchases were made, according to Korotchenko. Iran
could receive some technology and missiles through third parties
such as Hezbollah as the Kornet was exported to dozens of
countries, he said.  The Russian missile was also sold to  Algeria , Greece,
India, Jordan, Morocco and Turkey as well as reportedly to
 Azerbaijan , Libya, Peru and  Uganda , Gibson said.  Once the missile had been supplied, Iranian engineers and
scientists would have had to reverse-engineer all the missile
systems, according to the IHS Jane’s analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  