-- Irish Lawmaker May Appeal Court Ruling on ESM Ratification
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-07-09T15:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/irish-lawmaker-may-appeal-ruling-on-esm-ratification-correct-.html
Irish lawmaker Thomas Pringle said he
“retains the option” of appealing a High Court ruling in
Dublin paving the way for the ratification of domestic
legislation on the European Stability Mechanism.  Pringle, who challenged the constitutionality of the laws,
said he may appeal to the country’s  Supreme Court . He said he
would study the written judgement and details of Judge Mary Laffoy’s comment in court that she will refer one outstanding
question on the case to European courts in Luxembourg.  “It’s only half time,” Pringle told reporters outside
the courts complex in Dublin.  European leaders moved to create the ESM, which will have
firepower of about 500 billion euros ($615 billion), to combat
the escalating euro-region debt crisis. The ESM treaty comes
into force when countries representing at least 90 percent of
its paid-in capital have ratified it. Ireland is responsible for
1.6 percent of total capital.  Germany ’s  Constitutional Court 
will hear a challenge tomorrow on the ESM.  Participation in the ESM treaty will not transfer or lessen
Irish sovereignty to the ESM, the judge said. Judge Laffoy said
there’s still a question about “the effect and operability of
the ESM,” which covers the 17 members of the euro area, if all
27 EU governments haven’t given notice of ratification of an
amendment to the EU’s founding treaty that allows the fund to be
set up.  She said guidance from the EU Court of Justice is needed to
address the issue.  “The establishment of the ESM treaty at the earliest
possible date is something that this government has negotiated
hard to achieve,” Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.
 “This will serve as a positive backdrop as we look to build
upon the positive return to the T-Bills market” last week “and
return to bond markets next year.”  The National Treasury Management Agency on July 5 sold 500
million euros ($625 million) of bills due in October at a yield
of 1.80 percent, the first auction since September 2010.  The yield on Ireland’s 5 percent security due in October
2020 fell 2 basis points to 6.27 percent today. The rate was at
7.11 percent on June 28, and exceeded 14 percent about a year
ago.  -- Editors: Dara Doyle, Tony Aarons  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  