-- Is Romney Gutsy Enough to Pick Chris Christie?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-07-09T22:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/is-romney-gutsy-enough-to-pick-chris-christie-.html
Here is a fact causing Republicans
to wonder why  Mitt Romney  isn’t the runaway favorite in his
campaign to unseat  Barack Obama : No U.S. president since
 Franklin Roosevelt  has won re-election when the  unemployment
rate  was more than 7.4 percent.  So why isn’t Romney the clear favorite? Because Obama
remains more popular personally than one would otherwise expect.
Because the Obama campaign has been more effective at sowing
doubt about Romney’s record as a wealthy capitalist than the
Romney campaign anticipated, which is evidence to some that
Romney’s campaign isn’t overstaffed with brilliant strategists.
And because Romney himself has the unfortunate tendency to come
off as both artificial and superficial.  Even Romney’s allies know he lacks the chemical building
blocks of likability. The Republican speaker of the House,  John Boehner , was asked recently by a voter in  West Virginia  the
following lamenting question: “Can you make me love Mitt
Romney?” Boehner answered, in a plain-spoken manner, “The
American people probably aren’t going to fall in love with Mitt
Romney.”  Many of Romney’s problems arise from his lack of
authenticity. This suggests that he should choose a running mate
who conveys a feeling of he-just-can’t-help-himself genuineness.
Which is why all the talk about Romney’s unwillingness to
consider New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  for the vice-
presidential slot is a bit of a mystery to me.  Large Liabilities  There are, to be fair, many reasons Romney might want to
keep Christie off the ticket. Christie has an excessively large
mouth. He is easily provoked. He turns up late to speeches on
occasion. He doesn’t quit when he’s ahead. He is no one’s idea
of a deputy. He comes from a state the Republicans can’t win, no
matter what Romney does. He is a Northeastern laissez-faire
Republican mistrusted by social conservatives. And, of course,
he is unwieldy and overweight and makes Romney look anorexic by
comparison.  On the other hand, if Romney wanted to actually win the
presidency, he might consider choosing Christie.  I’ve been looking at Romney’s vice-presidential
possibilities for the past couple of weeks (yes, I know, I need
to find a better hobby), and I’ve been struck by two things. The
first, as the Washington Post columnist Michael Gerson has
noted, is that the field of Republican vice-presidential
hopefuls is much more impressive than was the field of
Republican presidential hopefuls. (My apologies to fans of
 Michele Bachmann  and  Herman Cain .)  The second is that the most talked-about candidates, while
in possession of impressive resumes, are almost comically bland.
The first rule when picking a vice-presidential running mate is,
of course, don’t pick Sarah Palin, or anyone who might remind
the voting public of Sarah Palin. The people on Romney’s short
list -- which includes Ohio Senator  Rob Portman , former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  and Wisconsin Representative
 Paul Ryan  -- do not resemble Palin in any way. Romney is safe
with any of these candidates.  Will he fill arenas with them? Are any of these candidates
particularly skilled at speaking to disaffected blue-collar
workers, to Reagan Democrats, without condescension? Pawlenty
has a blue-collar background, but he didn’t connect with the
white working class, or with anyone else, in his abbreviated run
for president. Let me put it another way. Do any of these
candidates match Christie’s preternatural ability to explain
Republican  deficit -reduction ideas without coming off as
bloodless budget-cutters?  Overflow Crowds  I’ve spent some time following Christie across  New Jersey ,
to town-hall meetings mainly, but also on visits to social-
service agencies and, most entertainingly, to a Bruce Springsteen concert in  Newark . His town halls are famous for
their confrontational tone, but in truth shouting matches are
rare. What isn’t rare are huge, overflow crowds. I attended
events, mainly in high-school gymnasiums, over the past few
months, and at each one fire marshals had to cap attendance.  Why do people come by the hundreds to weekday morning
meetings in small towns? Because Christie gives them something
they want. Not so much the sarcasm (which can be enjoyable), but
the skillful, tenacious and blunt articulation of just where New
Jersey’s government has gone off the rails -- in its budget-
making, in its management of state-worker pensions and in its
uncanny ability to create unfunded mandates. No one in national
politics does a better job of arguing against deficit spending
than Christie.  An easy prediction: Christie would be filling basketball
arenas with wildly enthusiastic fiscal conservatives within two
weeks of being chosen as Romney’s running mate.  Another easy prediction: It ain’t going to happen.  The downside risk of a Christie pick is fairly small. But
from what I understand, Romney is looking for someone who
presents no downside at all. This comprehensive aversion to risk
might be at the core of the problems plaguing his campaign. If
the campaign does figure out that it needs to balance Romney’s
upper-crust manner with someone who has actual middle-class,
even working-class, credentials, it might very well go with
Pawlenty. Pawlenty lost his nerve in the Republican primaries,
but he was a talented governor.  Can he energize arenas crammed with Republicans looking for
inspiration? Doubtful. But nothing the Romney campaign has done
so far suggests that it is interested in energizing voters.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on combating  drug-resistant
tuberculosis  and rethinking  capital controls ; William Pesek on
the  Fukushima meltdown report ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  finds  no silver
lining  in the health-care ruling; Virginia Postrel on what our
 many pairs of shoes  say about us; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  wonder why the Fed doesn’t  ease more aggressively ;  David
Crane  on reining in  state health-care liabilities .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 