-- Missile Agency Head Faulted for Leadership Cited Morale
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-09T15:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/missile-agency-head-faulted-for-leadership-cited-morale.html
The three-star general who heads the
U.S.  Missile Defense Agency  told a House defense panel that his
agency’s morale was “significantly higher” than average even
as the Pentagon’s inspector general found he had created an
“unhealthy command climate” by yelling at subordinates.  The inspector general recommended that Army Secretary John McHugh consider taking “appropriate corrective action” against
agency director Lieutenant General  Patrick O’Reilly , because he
“engaged in a leadership style that was inconsistent” with
military ethics regulations, according to a report by the
watchdog office dated May 2 and released last week.  “Witnesses testified that O’Reilly’s leadership style
resulted in a command climate of fear and low morale,” the
inspector general found.  Reilly portrayed a different atmosphere under his
leadership in agency charts sent to the House Armed Services
strategic forces panel on May 30. The agency had “significantly
higher satisfaction scores than the rest of federal government
in training, salary, ethical conduct and diversity,” according
to the summary of an employee survey sponsored last year by the
White House Office of Management and Budget.  The agency ranked No. 32 of 154 governmentwide among most-
improved U.S. agencies in fiscal 2011, Reilly said in a
statement. “This improvement in morale was achieved despite”
the displacement of more than 75 percent of its Washington area
workforce because of base-closing requirements, O’Reilly wrote
in remarks intended to complete the record of a March hearing.  Lockheed, Raytheon  The Missile Defense Agency is responsible for developing,
fielding and upgrading the nation’s ground and sea-based missile
defense programs. Its top contractors are  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  Orbital
Sciences Corp. (ORB)  The Pentagon is seeking $7.7 billion for the
agency in fiscal 2013.  Army spokesman George Wright said McHugh “has received and
is currently reviewing the report” from the inspector general
and “any further comment at this time would be inappropriate.”  Representative  Michael Turner , an  Ohio Republican  who is
chairman of the defense panel, said in an e-mailed statement
“there’s a clear disparity between this report and Lt. Gen.
O’Reilly’s representations to the Committee.  ‘‘The MDA is a key agency to the defense of the homeland,
and anything other than superior leadership and morale is
unacceptable,” he said.  Yelling, Screaming  The inspector general said “multiple witnesses testified
that LTG O’Reilly yelled and screamed at subordinates in both
public and private settings, such as video teleconferences and
staff meetings.”  Although one employee told investigators O’Reilly’s
approach “helped ensure people were prepared and had their
facts straight” during meetings, his style in the long-term
“was detrimental because staff could not withstand that type of
pressure for long periods,” the inspector general’s
investigators were told.  The report was obtained by Foreign Policy magazine under
the Freedom of Information Act and posted by the inspector
general on its website.  Resort Incident  One witness quoted in the report cited a February 2010
incident at the JW Marriott Starr Pass Resort in Tucson,
 Arizona , where O’Reilly yelled at employee for making
reservations at a resort out of concern about conveying the
impression the agency spent lavishly on travel.  “The yelling was so distracting that the witness thought
hotel security would be called,” according to the 22-page
inspector general’s report signed by Marguerite Garrison, deputy
for administrative investigations.  O’Reilly told the inspector general’s investigators he
apologized to the employee and to a supervisor who witnessed the
incident.  In comments contained in the inspector general’s report,
O’Reilly disputed its findings, questioning the objectivity and
accuracy of witness testimony and denying that he engaged in
many of the practices described.  O’Reilly, who served in the agency since the mid-1990s
including as manager for the ground-based defensive system,
became director in November 2008, a position that previous
directors held for about four years.  O’Reilly has no comment on the difference in assessments,
according to his spokesman,  Richard Lehner .  Asked if O’Reilly would retire in November, Lehner said,
“There is no retirement schedule for general and flag officers.
They all serve at the pleasure of the President and the
Secretary of Defense.”  ‘Job Satisfaction’  In the submission to a House Armed Services Committee
panel, O’Reilly said employees showed “overall job
satisfaction” in the survey.  “In key areas -- overall satisfaction, training, salary,
ethical conduct diversity and equal employment opportunity, MDA
was 7 to 14 percentage points above the governmentwide
average,” O’Reilly wrote in his message.  According to the briefing charts, 86 percent of respondents
said their leaders treated them with respect and 80 percent
responded that “cooperation is high between employees.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  