-- Hites Falls on Prospect of New Credit Oversight in Chile
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-09T18:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/hites-falls-on-prospect-of-new-credit-oversight-in-chile.html
Empresas Hites SA (HITES)  fell, with volume
more than four times the three-month average, after Chile’s bank
regulator said the government will proceed with a plan to
increase supervision of department-store credit cards.  The retailer slid 1.9 percent to 343 pesos at 1:47 p.m. in
Santiago and earlier fell 4.2 percent. Other department-store
operators also fell, with Ripley Corp SA down 2.1 percent to
479.49 pesos.  “Hites’s loans portfolio is the riskiest in the market and
that creates uncertainty on the stock,” Jeanne Marie Benoit, an
analyst at Celfin Capital SA, said in a phone interview today
from Santiago. “Also, there are fears that the economy is
decelerating and the effect that may have on domestic demand.”  Chile ’s banks regulator will disclose within a month new
regulations for non-bank credit card issuers and will demand
that they comply with the same standards as banks, Chief
Regulator Raphael Bergoeing said in an interview with Santiago-
based daily La Tercera published July 8. The regulator’s
communications department confirmed Bergoeing’s comments.  Hites, which says its focus is to sell to middle- and
lower-income segments in Chile, had total loans outstanding of
117 billion pesos ($237 million) as of the end of 2011 and
provisions reached 11 percent of its total portfolio, according
to data on the company’s website.  Separately, Chile’s government reached an agreement with
lawmakers to reduce the maximum  interest rate  that can be
charged on some consumer loans, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain
told reporters in Santiago today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  