-- Titian Nudes Vie With Real Bare Women, Voyeurs in London
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-07-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/titian-nudes-vie-with-real-bare-women-voyeurs-in-london.html
On reading the press release for
this exhibition, the words “mission impossible” came to mind.  The new show, “Metamorphosis: Titian 2012,” at the
 National Gallery  in  London  sets three contemporary artists a
challenge. At the entrance hangs a trio of the greatest pictures
Titian painted: “Diana and Actaeon” “Diana and Callisto” and
“The Death of Actaeon” -- three masterpieces of western art.  In adjacent rooms, three artists have been invited to
“respond” to the Titians. Not surprisingly, and entirely
excusably, two of them fail. One,  Mark Wallinger , has come up
with perhaps the only artistic device that would not be upstaged
by Titian’s richly sensual depictions of naked female flesh. He
is exhibiting real nude women.  Wallinger’s work, “Diana” (2012) consists of a bathroom,
set up in the center of a gallery. Within this space, eight
women, each of whom -- by a neat conceptual twist -- is named
Diana, in turn take a bath. It’s possible to see inside, but
only with difficulty.  There are four vantage points: a keyhole, a couple of small
perforations at eye level, a window obscured by a venetian blind
within and another frosted window, one small corner of which is
broken. Through these, by dint of crouching and peering through
the keyhole or squinting sideways through the gap in the window
it’s possible to catch a glimpse of what’s happening on the
other side of the walls. You might see, for example, a pair of
feet immersed in bathwater, or a shoulder being toweled.  Voyeur Punished  Wallinger’s idea is witty. “Diana and Actaeon,” for my
money the finest of the three Titians, is all about the
punishment of a voyeur. Actaeon, a hunter, accidently stumbled
on Diana and her nymphs while they were bathing. Infuriated, the
goddess transformed him into a stag; he was then torn to pieces
by his own hounds.  Through this installation, Wallinger manages to transform
every spectator into a Peeping Tom. It’s impossible to see the
work without becoming one. That makes a sharp point. A good deal
of art is concerned with staring at sculpture or pictures of
naked people. If you do that in real life, you are a voyeur (or
perhaps an artist).  No Fizz  For the rest, there’s not much to say. Poor  Chris Ofili , as
a painter, is in an invidious position side by side with Titian.
The pictures on show suggest he has lost his way (temporarily, I
hope, since I like his work). They are flat: dull, without
Ofili’s earlier fizz and energy.  Conrad Shawcross -- another artist whose work I often
admire -- has come up with a robotic mechanism which
periodically examines a pair of antlers made from various woods.
This seems to represent Diana metamorphosed strangely, yet not
very excitingly, into a machine tool.  The rest of the exhibition is made up of costumes, sets --
by the three artists -- and a film of new ballets inspired by
Titian. These will be performed by the  Royal Ballet , which is
collaborating with the National Gallery on the Metamorphosis
project (from July 14 to 20).  Some people may say that all this is a grave indignity to
inflict on those venerable Titian masterpieces. They look good,
though, hung together for the first time since the 18th century.  And the Wallinger, while not a great work, is a clever joke
-- and one likely to attract a huge amount of attention from
childish types such as school groups and journalists.  “Metamorphosis: Titian 2012” opens tomorrow and runs
through Sept. 23 at the National Gallery, London. The exhibition
is sponsored by  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 