-- Mitsubishi UFJ Suspends Two London Traders on Libor Probe
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-07-10T03:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/mitsubishi-ufj-said-to-suspend-two-london-traders-on-libor-probe.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank, said it suspended two
London-based traders as investigators probe the suspected
manipulation of benchmark  interest rates .  The suspension isn’t related to their work at the Japanese
bank, Hironori Imafuku, a Tokyo-based spokesman, said by
telephone today. Lending unit  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. 
asked the employees to stand by at home, he said.  Derivatives traders Christian Schluep and  Paul Robson  have
been suspended from the bank, said a person briefed on the
matter, who asked not to be identified. The two formerly worked
at Dutch lender Rabobank, one of at least 12 banks being probed
by regulators over allegations they rigged the London and euro
interbank offered rates, the person said.  Schluep and Robson didn’t return messages left at their
office. Schluep didn’t return a message sent via LinkedIn.
Imafuku of Mitsubishi UFJ declined to disclose the names of the
two traders, saying the bank doesn’t comment on individuals.  Robson joined  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi  in August 2009 after
eight years at Rabobank, according to the U.K. Financial
Services Authority register. Schluep joined the lender a year
later. Before that, he worked at Rabobank from December 2003
until October 2008. Both traders are listed as inactive since
July 4, the register shows.  Record Fine  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined a record $451 million by U.K. and U.S. regulators last
month for attempting to fix Libor and Euribor. Traders tried to
rig the rate to boost profits while managers instructed rate-
setters to lowball their submissions to avoid the perception the
lender was under stress during the crisis, regulators said.  Libor is determined by a daily poll that asks banks to
estimate how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for different time-frames and in different currencies. Rabobank
last month withdrew from the panels that set Libor in yen, the
Canadian dollar, the Swiss franc, the Danish krone and the
Swedish krona. It continues to contribute toward Libor in U.S.
dollars, euros and pounds.  “We remain a member of the panels to which we have
significant funding operations,” said Hendrik Jan Eijpe, a
spokesman for Rabobank. He declined to comment on the two
traders.  Mitsubishi UFJ is responding cooperatively to authorities’
investigations relating to Libor, Imafuku said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  