-- Japanese Borrowers Market Dollar Bonds as Swaps Reduce Costs
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-07-09T09:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/japanese-borrowers-market-dollar-bonds-as-swaps-reduce-costs.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  and
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  are marketing U.S. dollar bonds as swap rates
reduce the Japanese companies’ funding costs.  Takeda, a drug manufacturer based in Osaka, is offering
three-year bonds yielding about 75 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and five-year notes paying a spread
of about 105 basis points, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private. Mitsubishi plans to sell five-year bonds with a
yield premium of 135 basis points to 140 basis points, another
person said.  Issuers from the world’s third-largest economy have sold
$18.8 billion of U.S. currency bonds this year, 13 percent more
than in the same period last year, as the advantage gained by
issuers when swapping proceeds back to yen increased.
Perceptions of Japanese corporate creditworthiness, as measured
by the Markit iTraxx Japan index tracking the cost of bond
insurance, reached a two-month high on July 4, according to data
provider CMA.  Takeda “wants to diversify its funding sources into
countries and currencies where it operates,” said Machiko Amano, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , by phone from Tokyo.  Takeda got 31 percent of its revenue from  North America  in
the year to March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The five-year  basis swap , a gauge of the discount investors
receive for switching U.S. dollars into the Japanese currency,
averaged minus 77.5 basis points this year from minus 48.1 basis
points in the same period of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Credit-Default Swaps  The more negative the number, the more attractive it is for
Japanese borrowers to sell dollar debt and swap the proceeds
into yen.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps on 50
of the nation’s biggest companies, including Mitsubishi, fell as
low as 168.5 basis points on July 4 and has dropped from 186.8
at the end of last year, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Morgan Stanley and Nomura Holdings Inc. are arranging
Takeda’s sale, the person familiar with the offering said.
Citigroup, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley are also managing
Mitsubishi’s offering.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  has hired Bank of America,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan and itself to arrange
investor meetings about a possible 10-year subordinated dollar
bond, a separate person with knowledge of the matter said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  