-- Japan Checking Possible Insider Trading of ANA, Official Says
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-07-10T01:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/japan-checking-possible-insider-trading-of-ana-official-says.html
Japan ’s securities watchdog is
examining possible  insider trading  of  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) 
shares before last week’s announcement of a public offering, a
government official with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  is
studying share movements before the July 3 announcement and will
conduct hearings to determine whether underwriters leaked
information, said the official, who requested anonymity as the
investigation is private.  Japanese regulators are cracking down on insider trading
after finding that employees of firms including  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  tipped off clients about share sales they managed in 2010.
Moody’s Investors Service said such leaks may be “more than a
rare occurrence” and the loss of confidence from the scandal
will damage local securities firms.  Trading volume  of All Nippon Airways shares reached a
three-month high the day before news of the 211 billion yen
($2.6 billion) issuance became public, led by short-selling,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The moves were
“unnatural,” ANA spokesman Ryosei Nomura said on July 6.  ANA’s Nomura said the airline currently has no plan to take
action after receiving assurances from the four underwriters --
Nomura Holdings,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  -- that they didn’t leak information.  Trading Spike  Spokesmen at the four banks declined to comment. An SESC
spokesman who asked not to be named also declined to comment,
saying he wasn’t authorized to discuss individual companies with
the media. ANA spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka said the carrier is
unaware of the regulator’s examination.  ANA, Japan’s biggest carrier, announced its share sale at 4
p.m. on July 3. Investors traded 24 million ANA shares on the
previous day, the most since March 27, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock declined as much as 2.7 percent
on July 2 before closing 0.9 percent lower at 224 yen, while the
benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  dropped 0.1 percent.  Shares of ANA rose 2 percent to 201 yen at 10 a.m. in Tokyo.
The Topix advanced 0.5 percent.  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita said today
that his agency is determined to continue its insider-trading
probe, without referring to specific cases. “There are some
deep-rooted issues,” he said at a news conference in Tokyo.  The Financial Services Agency, which oversees the SESC,
last week asked 12 brokerages including the four arrangers of
ANA’s issuance to review how they handle private information.  Hurting Business  The investigation is beginning to undermine underwriting
business for Nomura, Japan’s largest brokerage, and its closest
domestic rival  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)   Nomura was dropped as a lead underwriter for state-owned
 Development Bank  of Japan Inc.’s bond sale because of its
involvement in leaking non-public information used for insider
trading. The Japan Housing Finance Agency said yesterday it
excluded Nomura from managing bond issuances.  Daiwa was omitted from a bond sale being conducted by
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.  “We expect a mounting loss of confidence from this scandal
will have a lasting impact on all players in the Japanese
market,” Moody’s said in a note yesterday. For local companies
seeking advice on takeovers, the crackdown gives them “a reason
to use international brokers that have not been implicated in
the insider trading scandal,” the credit-rating company said.  Nomura said last month that it cut top executives’ pay and
suspended some businesses after acknowledging that employees
gave leaks ahead of three share issuances in 2010. The SESC is
still inspecting the Tokyo-based firm.  Daiwa said last month that it will start an internal probe
and strengthen controls after the SESC found that an employee of
an unidentified brokerage leaked insider information on Nippon
Sheet Glass Co.’s 2010 public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  