-- Japan’s Once Dominant Finance Ministry Rises Again With Noda Tax
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-07-09T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/japan-s-once-dominant-finance-ministry-rises-again-with-noda-tax.html
Japan ’s Ministry of Finance is back.  The bureaucratic body that dominated the nation’s postwar
boom before being stripped of powers in the 1990s amid
corruption scandals and an economic slump, is regaining control
thanks to a ruling party that promised to rein it in.  The Democratic Party of Japan took office in 2009 pledging
not to raise taxes and to curtail bureaucracy and devolve power
to citizens. Last month, Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  defied
opinion polls and allowed the breakup of his own party to push
through the ministry’s decade-old plan to double the  sales tax .  “The Ministry of Finance is not just on its way back to
power, it’s already there,” said Yoichi Takahashi, a professor
at  Tokyo ’s Kaetsu University and former  finance ministry 
official. “Since the Democrats took over the administration,
that has become obvious.”  The ministry’s tax victory is an echo of the influence it
wielded when it helped orchestrate a 50-fold, export-led
expansion in the economy between 1955 and 1990, in tandem with
the trade ministry. The MOF’s diminished role during the
stagnation of the two decades that followed is coming to an end
as bureaucrats take advantage of the inexperience of DPJ
lawmakers to expand influence on policy making, said Takahashi.  Noda and predecessor  Naoto Kan  abandoned their party’s no-
tax pledge after both served as finance minister, heading up the
control of budget outlays. The DPJ reached a deal to double the
five percent tax with the main opposition Liberal  Democratic
Party , whose leader is also a former finance chief.  Party Revolt  Noda pushed the tax bill through the lower house of
parliament on June 26, sparking the resignation from his party
of about 50 lawmakers led by power broker  Ichiro Ozawa  and only
just conserving his majority. After the bill passed, MOF
bureaucrats were ordered to avoid drawing attention to
themselves by drinking in the ministry building or even smiling,
the Nikkei newspaper reported.  Noda’s lobbying for the tax increase prompted opposition
Your Party lawmaker Kenji Eda to publish a book in March
entitled: “Finance Ministry Mind Control: The frightening
methods of finance ministry bureaucrats, who brainwashed Prime
Minister Noda to engineer the tax increase.”  “I think that’s just about right,” said Democratic
lawmaker  Sakihito Ozawa , who abstained from the tax vote.
“Neither Mr. Kan nor Mr. Noda mentioned the need to raise the
sales tax before becoming finance minister.”  Elite Lawyers  The ministry, which recruits many senior officials from the
elite  University of Tokyo  law department, traces its history
back to the Meiji restoration in the 19th century. Unlike the
military and conglomerates that were broken up by the postwar
U.S. occupation, MOF was left almost untouched until 1998, when
it was stripped of its banking supervision role and lost much of
its influence over the Bank of Japan.  Advocating the MOF’s sales tax increase may cost Noda the
next election, which must be held by August 2013, said  Koichi Nakano , a political science professor at  Sophia University  in
Tokyo. A poll in the Asahi newspaper on June 28 showed 52
percent of respondents opposed the bill.  “The fact that he committed himself so strongly to the
 consumption tax  increase shows the very heavy influence of the
Ministry of Finance,” said Nakano. “Politically it’s
remarkable that the MOF managed to convince Noda to bring about
a collective suicide of the whole party.”  Democratic Party lawmaker and former Bank of Japan official
Keisuke Tsumura denied bureaucrats have more influence over the
DPJ than they did over the LDP, which governed for half a
century. “We have not gone back to where the LDP was,” he
said.  MOF Pedigree  Noda succeeded Kan as prime minister in September after
serving as finance minister for 15 months. Kan spent six months
as finance chief before becoming premier in June 2010, and began
to push the consumption tax policy as  Europe ’s debt crisis
heightened focus on Japan’s sovereign debt, which is forecast to
exceed 1 quadrillion yen ($12.5 trillion) next year.  Hirohisa Fujii, a former finance minister in the ruling
party who handled negotiations with the opposition over the
bill, said raising the tax is essential to avoid further
downgrades of Japan’s debt and a sell-off of  government bonds .  Fitch Ratings  cut the country’s sovereign credit rating in
May, citing a “leisurely” approach to shoring up its finances.
The downgrade has had little effect on  interest rates , which are
the second-lowest in the world after  Switzerland .  Debt Risk  The prospect of tighter fiscal policy has won favor in the
credit market. After the lower house passed the tax bill on June
26, five-year credit-default swaps that protect investors from
the risk of non-payment of Japan’s debt touched 88.85 basis
points, the lowest since July 2011, and were at 91.50 on July 5.
Yields on 10-year Japanese government bonds traded at 0.8
percent on July 6, close to a nine-year low.  “From the point of view of foreign investors, the sales
tax will make it easier to buy, so it’s positive for the JGB
market,” said  Satoshi Yamada , manager of fixed-income trading
at Okasan Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Noda said in a speech on Jan. 24 that the tax increase was
“imperative” to ensure Japan had “a robust fiscal structure
that is not swayed by the power of financial markets.”  As well as the tax bill, which still has to pass in the
upper house of parliament, the MOF is becoming more aggressive
in restraining gains in the yen that hurt exporters. The
ministry spent at least 14.3 trillion yen ($179 billion) last
year, including a record 8.07 trillion yen in one day, trying to
curb the currency’s rise.  That intervention on Oct. 31 was the fourth time in almost
14 months the ministry acted to stem the yen’s gains by
directing the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to sell the currency. Before
September 2010, when then-finance minister Noda oversaw the
first of those moves, Japan hadn’t intervened in the market for
six years.  Yen Watching  “The Noda administration and the Ministry of Finance may
be willing to go to great lengths to prevent an economic
slowdown,” Citigroup currency strategist Osamu Takashima wrote
in a June 27 note. “They will be increasingly cautious about
further yen appreciation.”  The yen traded at 79.68 to the dollar on July 9 in Tokyo,
about 5 percent weaker than its postwar high of 75.35 in
October.  Focusing on Japan’s record debt could detract attention
from other means of reviving the economy, said Sakihito Ozawa,
an advocate of more aggressive action by the Bank of Japan.
“You have to think of taxes as one aspect of overall economic
policy,” he said.  Consumption Curb  Supporters of Democratic party rebel Ichiro Ozawa say the
increase in the sales tax will fail to boost government revenue
because the higher rate -- 8 percent in 2014 and 10 percent in
2015 -- discourages consumption. Each 1 percentage point gain in
the tax will cut growth in real gross domestic product by 0.32
percentage point in the year after implementation, according to
the Cabinet Office’s  Economic and Social Research Institute .  When the tax was last raised, at the start of the Asian
financial crisis in 1997, Japan entered a 20-month recession.  The ministry’s victory over the sales tax isn’t the only
sign of its increasing influence. A DPJ plan to remove the tax
collection agency from ministry supervision as part of a package
of bills submitted with the sales tax was quashed during
negotiations with opposition lawmakers.  The MOF’s resurgence increases control of policy by an
unelected body that presided over the expansion and subsequent
collapse of Japan’s 1980s real estate bubble, leading to more
than a decade of  deflation .  “The Finance Ministry is in charge of fiscal policy and
they tend to think that if they raise the consumption tax,
everything else will somehow sort itself out,” said Hiroyuki Kishi, a professor at  Keio University  near Tokyo and a former
trade ministry official. “What Japan really needs is for
politicians to take an overview of the economy and society and
set policy priorities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  