-- JPMorgan Probe Shows FERC Priority Policing Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-09T18:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/jpmorgan-probe-shows-ferc-priority-on-policing-energy-markets.html
The U.S.  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission ’s probe of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  demonstrates a
renewed focus on market manipulation as the agency beefs up its
oversight of the multibillion dollar energy-trading business.  The FERC on July 2 sued New York-based JPMorgan to release
e-mails, revealing an investigation of possible gaming of power
markets in  California  and the Midwest. Since January 2011 the
agency has announced 11 probes of alleged manipulation in
electricity and natural gas markets and a record $245 million
settlement with Constellation Energy Group Inc.  The agency issued in December a  preliminary  determination
that  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  manipulated the California power market.
In April, the FERC issued a notice of alleged violations to
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Amanda Williams and
Barclays spokesman Michael O’Looney declined to comment.  “I see a fairly steady activity in the enforcement area,”
Susan Court, a former director of the FERC’s Office of
Enforcement, said in a telephone interview. “There is a theme
here.”  In February, the FERC created a division within its
enforcement office to police the markets, where electricity is
bought and sold by power generators and utilities.  2005 Overhaul  A 2005 overhaul of U.S. energy policy, passed after the
collapse of energy trader Enron Corp., gave the agency the
authority to fine companies as much as $1 million a day per
violation, a vast increase in the agency’s enforcement powers.  The agency is investigating JPMorgan for potential
violations that were reported to FERC between March and June of
last year, identified after  power-grid  operators reported
unusual trading offers for the supply of energy.  “Our team of Ph.D. economists is vigilant about keeping an
eye on questionable activities and stands prepared to address
potential issues and report them immediately” to FERC, said
Steven Greenlee, a spokesman for the California Independent
System Operator Corp., one of the grid managers that reported
unusual trading patterns.  $73 Million  J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp. allegedly made bids that
resulted in at least $73 million in improper payments to the
generators, according to FERC. The investigation came to light
when the FERC went to court seeking internal e-mails from
JPMorgan. The company and agency agreed today to let a
magistrate judge settle the dispute over release of the
documents.  “We believe we have complied in all respects with the law,
as well as FERC rules and applicable tariffs, governing this
market,”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said in a
statement. “We stress that this investigation is ongoing and
that no conclusions have been reached or findings adjudicated.”  The FERC’s emphasis on market manipulation in recent months
stems from the authority Congress granted to the agency in the
2005 law, according to Court. Because it takes years to collect
and analyze documents before bringing a case against a company,
some investigations that began years ago are just coming to
light now, said Court.  Vigorous Policing  FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff, who declined an interview
request, said after the Constellation settlement that the agency
will be vigorous in policing manipulation and that senior
management at companies “will be held accountable.”  “Conduct involving fraud and market manipulation poses a
significant threat to the markets overseen by the commission and
is an enforcement priority,” Craig Cano, a spokesman for the
FERC, said in an e-mail. The agency’s investigations have led to
$302.4 million in civil penalties and repayment of $155.4
million in unjust profits, primarily since passage of the 2005
law, he said.  Consumer groups “have zero confidence in FERC’s ability to
police these markets,”  Tyson Slocum , director of the Energy
Program for  Public Citizen , a Washington-based watchdog group,
said in a phone interview. “They have become sidetracked” with
issues including adding renewable energy to the power grid, he
said.  New Unit  The agency in February created the Division of Analytics
and Surveillance within its enforcement office. Run by Lee Ann
Watson, a lawyer who previously worked in the agency’s
investigations group, the 45-person division examines the
natural gas and electricity markets to spot signals of market
manipulation.  The retirements of coal power plants and retrofits
necessary to meet the Environmental Protection Agency’s rules
might also lead to higher power prices -- and more focus on
market manipulation -- in the coming years, said Christine Tezak, senior policy analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in McLean,
Virginia.  “Certainly, the FERC would want to be able to assure
customers and state regulators that any upward price movements
are appropriate reflections of scarcity and not market
manipulation,” Tezak said.  Wall Street firms have been players in energy trading at
least since the late 1990’s, when many states restructured their
power markets. In so-called deregulated markets, buyers bid for
electricity from power generators. Consumers then purchase the
power from their local utility.  More Resources  The FERC’s focus on unusual behavior in the markets has
intensified since the 2005 energy law.  “As the amount of resources devoted to this purpose have
grown over time, so too has the commission’s ability to pursue
such cases,” Shaun Ledgerwood, a senior consultant with the
Brattle Group in  Washington  and a former FERC economist, said in
an e-mail.  Consumer groups aren’t convinced that the FERC can control
gaming of the power grid.  “I’m not at all satisfied that there’s sufficient
control” to prevent price manipulation, said Carl Wood, who was
a member of the  California Public Utilities Commission  when it
was responsible for stabilizing California’s utility industry
after the 2000-2001 energy crisis. During that event companies
including Enron caused power shortages and rolling blackouts.  Fundamentally Broken  Wood said the Constellation market-manipulation case shows
that “there is something fundamentally broken about the
system.”  He says the way the power markets work now doesn’t link
power prices with the cost of power generation.  “In some respect, almost every market participant on the
seller side, on the supply side is involved in what from a
consumer point of view is really manipulation -- they are
looking for opportunities to get prices that are out of line
with their production costs,” he said. “So every market
participant is potentially a market manipulator from that point
of view.”  The FERC probe into JPMorgan’s activities doesn’t
necessarily mean wrongdoing occurred, said Nora Mead Brownell, a
FERC commissioner from 2001 to 2006, said in a phone interview.  “We had vast changes,” after Enron, Brownell said. The
agency, like all regulators, has had a difficult time keeping up
with the quickly developing financial markets, she said.  The agency’s focus on market manipulation does send a
broader message to the players who have the potential to game
the markets, she said.  “Not only do you want to get the bad guys, but you want
the market to know that you are going to get the bad guys,” she
said.  The case is Federal Energy Regulatory Commission v. J.P.
Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., 12-mc-352, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  