-- Verlander, Cain Picked as Starting All-Star Game Pitchers
-- B y   L a r r y   S i d d o n s
-- 2012-07-09T19:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/justin-verlander-matt-cain-picked-as-starting-all-star-pitchers.html
Justin Verlander  of the Detroit
Tigers and Matt Cain of the San Francisco Giants were picked as
the starting pitchers for tomorrow night’s Major League Baseball
All-Star Game.  R.A. Dickey of the New York Mets, tied for the major-league
lead in wins, was among those bypassed by National League
manager Tony La Russa for the starting role.  Verlander is 9-5 with 128 strikeouts and a 2.58 earned run
average this year. Cain, who pitched a perfect game for the
Giants this season, is 9-3 with 118 strikeouts and a 2.62 ERA.  Dickey, a 37-year-old knuckleball specialist, is 12-1 and
tied with the Washington Nationals’ Gio Gonzalez for the most
wins in the majors. He has a 2.40 ERA and 123 strikeouts.  While Dickey hasn’t pitched since July 5, La Russa said
last week he was leaning against starting the Mets’ right-hander
because of the difficulty a knuckleball can cause a catcher who
isn’t used to handling the floating pitch. The NL’s starting
catcher as voted by fans is Cain’s San Francisco teammate,
 Buster Posey .  The game between Verlander’s American League team and
Cain’s NL squad is set for Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City,
Missouri.  Batting Orders  The National League batting order will be  Carlos Gonzalez  of
the Colorado Rockies, designated hitter: Melky Cabrera of the
Giants, center field;  Ryan Braun  of the Milwaukee Brewers, left
field; Joey Votto of the Cincinnati Reds, first base; Carlos
Beltran of the St. Louis Cardinals, right field; Posey; Pablo
Sandoval of the Giants, third base; Dan Uggla of the Atlanta
Braves; second base; and Rafael Furcal of the Cardinals,
shortstop.  For the American League, it’s  Derek Jeter  of the New York
Yankees, shortstop;  Robinson Cano  of the Yankees, second base;
 Josh Hamilton  of the Texas Rangers, center field; Jose Bautista
of the Toronto Blue Jays, right field; Prince Fielder of the
Tigers, first base; Adrian Beltre of the Rangers, third base;
David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox, designated hitter; Mike
Napoli of the Rangers, catcher; and Curtis Granderson of the
Yankees, center field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Larry Siddons at in New York 
 lsiddons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 