-- Kampeter Sees German Court Clearing Path for Bailout Fund
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-07-09T12:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/kampeter-expects-german-court-to-clear-path-for-bailout-fund.html
German Deputy Finance Minister
Steffen Kampeter said he doesn’t expect the nation’s
Constitutional Court to stand in the way of  Europe ’s permanent
bailout fund and that it can come into effect in coming days.  “I’m expecting it within the next week,” Kampeter said in
an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” in  London  today, when asked about  Germany  clearing the
way for the rescue fund. “I don’t expect anything on the
baseline to change. Not doing anything is a much riskier
threat” for Germany and Europe.  A legal challenge to the European Stability Mechanism has
prevented German President Joachim Gauck from signing off on the
bailout fund, a key weapon in European governments’ push to end
the debt crisis. While it was passed by the country’s parliament
last month, final approval hinges on the  Constitutional Court ,
which will decide as soon as tomorrow whether to grant a
temporary injunction against the legislation.  The court will tomorrow hear challenges from politicians
and private citizens and may then say then how long it will take
for it to rule.  Delaying approval of the fund risks depriving Europe of a
strengthened bond-buying instrument, which  Spain  and  Italy  have
touted as a tool to reduce surging borrowing costs. European
leaders also agreed at a summit in Brussels on June 29 that the
fund can be used to directly capitalize banks.  Italy Delay  The permanent fund is nevertheless dependent on more than
just Germany to come into force. Italy’s parliament isn’t
scheduled to vote on the approval necessary for ESM to become
active until July 30. For the ESM to take effect, countries
representing 90 percent of the voting weight of the 17 euro-
region nations must give their approval. Italy has a voting
weight of almost 18 percent.  Kampeter said that proposals to give the ESM a banking
license, allowing it to borrow from the  European Central Bank ,
“doesn’t solve the problem” and historically, “when central
banks tried to solve political problems by printing money,” it
led to persistent inflation.  He also said countries need to focus on improving their
economies rather than pressuring the ECB to buy  government bonds 
to cap rising borrowing costs.  Spain’s 10-year debt yield rose above 7 percent today as
Europe’s finance ministers gather to work out crisis measures
after leaders agreed last month to ease access to direct
financing for banks as well as a more unified banking system.  Reforms Demanded  Kampeter said that rising borrowing costs reflect the
“trust in the reform capabilities of national politics” and
“to keep your spreads low, you have to reform your country.”  The European Commission will make proposals “as soon as
possible” for a single euro-area bank supervisor, though there
is “no concrete timing” yet, spokesman Olivier Bailly told
reporters in Brussels today.  Kampeter said he does not see a supervisor “earlier than
2013” as “the common understanding of the summit was that one
single rulebook and a common understanding of a supervisory
banking authority in Europe has to be discussed.”  He rejected pressure to fast-track a joint deposit
insurance scheme for the euro area as “first is supervision and
then we’ll have to see if other steps can follow,” he said.
“Some seem to think that the solidarity issue in the banking
union should start first; I don’t think that.”  Kampeter said that it would be difficult to explain to
taxpayers that “we should invest in lack of supervision in
other countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Maryam Nemazee  in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  