-- Kayak Software Seeks Up to $87.5 Million in Initial Offering
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-07-09T12:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/kayak-software-seeks-up-to-87-5-million-in-initial-offering.html
Kayak Software Corp., the online
travel company, plans to raise as much as $87.5 million in its
U.S. Internet initial public offering.  The Norwalk, Connecticut-based company plans to sell 3.5
million shares at $22 to $25 each, according to a regulatory
filing today. The IPO is scheduled to price July 19, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock will trade under the
ticker KYAK on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Kayak, which first filed to go public in November 2010,
delayed its IPO roadshow in late May after  Facebook shares 
plunged 27 percent in their first two weeks of trading, a person
familiar with the situation said at the time. Facebook has since
regained about half its value and U.S. stocks have rallied amid
corporate earnings growth and an increase in mergers and
acquisitions.  Revenue at Kayak jumped 39 percent in the first quarter to
$73.3 million, from $52.7 million a year earlier. The company
reported  net income  in the period of $4.1 million, following a
$6.9 million loss in the year-earlier quarter because of a
writedown related to its SideStep brand.  Kayak’s competitors in the online travel market include
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Microsoft Corp., according to the filing, and
both have made acquisitions to expand their businesses. The
company also faces competition from startups like  Hipmunk Inc.   Kayak was founded in 2004 by Daniel Stephen Hafner, the
chief executive officer, and Paul English, the chief technology
officer. They hold a combined 16 percent of the company’s voting
power. The biggest backers are General Catalyst Partners,
 Sequoia Capital ,  Accel Partners  and  Oak Investment Partners .  Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG are leading the
offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  