-- Key Rejects Maori Water Claim as N.Z. Asset Sale Hearing Begins
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-07-09T00:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/key-rejects-maori-water-claim-as-n-z-asset-sale-hearing-begins.html
New Zealand ’s government rejected a
Maori group’s claims that tribes are entitled to ownership of
water, a case that may jeopardize the proposed sale of shares in
state-owned energy companies.  “The basis of the claim from the Maori Council is that
Maori own the water, and the government rejects that view,”
Prime Minister John Key told Television New Zealand’s  Breakfast 
today. The claim is being heard in Wellington from today by the
Waitangi Tribunal.  Key’s government wants to raise about NZ$6 billion ($4.8
billion) from reducing its stake in Air New Zealand Ltd. and
selling as much as 49 percent of four energy companies, starting
with an offer of shares in Mighty River Power Ltd. this year.
The Maori Council says the sales violate the 172-year-old Treaty
of Waitangi, New Zealand’s controversial founding document that
gave the indigenous people rights to their land and resources.  The tribunal, a commission that makes recommendations on
claims of breaches of the treaty, agreed to urgently hear the
council’s application before the Mighty River sale proceeds. Its
rulings are not binding on the government, but may lead to High
Court litigation, Key said.  “We’ll get a legal opinion on what the Waitangi Tribunal
come out and say,” Key said. “The concept that someone owns
water we think is not correct.”  Private Control  Maori want to stop their “taonga,” or treasures, from
being controlled by private investors who the government says
won’t be liable for any unresolved Treaty claims. Maori
opponents to the share sales say they turn a sacred life force -
- water -- into a commodity.  “Government has consistently refused to deal with the
Maori interest in water, instead running the line that nobody
owns the water, while maintaining all rights of management and
jurisdiction over it,” Hone Harawira, the sole member of
parliament for the Mana Party, said in an e-mailed statement.
“But if that was the case, then what gives them the right to
sell shares in power companies that use that water?”  Mighty River operates nine hydro-electric plants on the
Waikato River, the nation’s largest in the central  North Island .
The Auckland-based company has rights to use the water.  “We do accept people own water rights,” Key said. “We
don’t believe the sale of 49 percent of Mighty River Power in
any way impinges on those water rights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  