-- New Zealand House Prices Rise to Record, Card Spending Gains
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-07-10T00:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/n-z-house-prices-rise-to-record-as-auckland-supply-tightens.html
New Zealand   house prices  rose for a
second month to a record in June while spending on debit, credit
and store cards gained for a fourth month, adding to signs of a
recovery in domestic demand.  Prices gained 0.3 percent from May, when they increased 1.7
percent, according to an index published by the  Real Estate
Institute of New Zealand  today. The value of transactions on
electronic cards rose 0.4 percent from May, when it increased a
revised 1 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington.  Rising house prices and  consumer spending  last month
indicate modest economic growth at the end of the second quarter
after gross domestic product jumped 1.1 percent in the three
months through March.  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard last month left the  official cash rate  unchanged at a
record-low 2.5 percent and signaled  interest rates  may not
change until next year, citing tame inflation and a weakened
global outlook.  “The recovery in retail spending is likely to remain
gradual,” Christina Leung, economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in
Auckland, said in an e-mailed note. “We continue to expect the
RBNZ will hold off raising the cash rate until at least March.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the card
spending report, buying 79.58 U.S. cents at 12:29 p.m. in
Wellington. The chance of a rate cut this year fell to 51
percent from 61 percent late yesterday, according to interest
rate swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Forecasts  All 16 economists surveyed last month by Bloomberg News
expect the central bank’s next move on borrowing costs will be
an increase, with two forecasting a rise in December and 14
predicting no change until 2013.  Domestic demand isn’t forecast to accelerate rapidly amid
concern that weak global growth will curb exports, which make up
30 percent of the nation’s economy. Businesses turned
pessimistic for the first time in five quarters after companies
had another three months of weak trading, according to the New
Zealand Institute of Economic Research Inc.’s second-quarter
survey today.  A net 4 percent of 925 companies forecast the economy will
deteriorate over the next six months, compared with 13 percent
seeing improvement in the first-quarter survey, the institute
said. A net 13 percent said profits fell in the April-June
period and a net 4 percent fired workers.  Lackluster Recovery  “The recovery remains lackluster,”  Shamubeel Eaqub ,
principal economist at the NZIER, told reporters in Wellington
today. The survey results are “consistent with consensus
forecasts of subdued economic growth, inflation and thus low
interest rates,” he said.  The house price recovery is a sign of increased property
demand, led by buyers in Auckland, home to a third of the
nation’s 4.4 million people, as new listings decline.  “The constraint across the country appears to be shortage
of properties to meet buyer demand,” REINZ Chief Executive
Helen O’Sullivan said in an e-mailed statement. “This is most
acute in Auckland.”  House prices  rose 1.7 percent in the past three months and
were 5.3 percent higher than a year earlier, today’s report
showed. The number of sales rose 17 percent from a year earlier,
the institute said. The time needed to sell a house dropped to
37 days from 38 days in May and 44 days in June last year.  In June, card spending on hospitality increased 3.1
percent, today’s government report showed. Sales of consumables
such as food, which make up 35 percent of retail purchases, rose
1 percent. Spending on fuel fell 4 percent as prices declined.  Excluding sales at fuel outlets, car dealers and parts
stores, transactions rose 0.9 percent.  Spending on services and purchases of non-retail items such
as travel and medical fees also gained. Purchases on retail,
non-retail and services items combined rose 0.3 percent, the
statistics agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  