-- Natural Gas Moves Into Backwardation on Power-Plant Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-07-09T22:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/natural-gas-moves-into-backwardation-on-power-plant-demand-1-.html
Natural gas futures on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  moved into  backwardation  for the first time
in 10 months as record heat boosted demand from  power plants .  Futures for August delivery settled at $2.883 per million
British thermal units on the Nymex, 0.7-cent higher than the
September contract. Backwardation occurs when the front month
contract trades at a higher price than contracts for later
delivery.  August prices gained as hot weather spurred demand for gas
from electricity generators to run air conditioners. The first
six months of 2012 represented the warmest start of any year in
records going back to 1895, according to the National Climatic
Data Center in Asheville, North Carolina.  “We have enough heat and enough current power utility
demand for natural gas to boost the cash and the nearby futures
to a premium,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York. Backwardation “doesn’t mean
that we are running out of gas or that there’s real physical
tightness as we still have a record inventory for the date.”  Traders buying back bets on price declines may also be
contributing to the jump in front-month futures, Evans said.  U.S. gas stockpiles rose 39 billion cubic feet to 3.102
trillion in the week ended June 29, a  record  for that time of
year, according to Energy Department data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gas on Aug. 29, 2011, the last time the front-month
contracts were in backwardation, dropped 1.9 percent after
 Hurricane Irene  cut power to more than five million homes and
businesses from  North Carolina  to Maine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  