-- Navistar Falls on Truck Order ‘Mismatch’ Concern
-- B y   H a s a n   D u d a r
-- 2012-07-09T20:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/navistar-falls-on-truck-order-mismatch-concern.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the
maker of International brand trucks, fell to its lowest closing
price since March 2009 after Bloomberg Industries said
truckmakers need to reduce output in the year’s second half.  The Lisle, Illinois-based company slid 3.1 percent to
$23.67 a share at the close in New York. Navistar earlier had
declined as much as 5.4 percent to $23.11.  “There has been a significant mismatch between incoming
truck orders, build rates and retail sales during 2012,”
Bloomberg Industries said in a report today. “New order
cancellations for heavy-duty trucks in  North America  rose to
10.1 percent in May, the second-highest level since 2009,”
Bloomberg Industries said in a related report.  Navistar on July 6 fell the most since November 2008 after
saying it expects additional costs to produce an engine that
will meet U.S. emission standards after its earlier technology
failed to comply. Navistar has declined 38 percent this year.  The company last month lowered its annual profit forecast
to a range of break-even to $2 a share as it tries to obtain
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency certification for its
engines. Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  increased his stake to
11.9 percent in June and hedge fund manager  Mark Rachesky 
disclosed a  13.6 percent  position, prompting the company to
adopt a poison pill to help fend off hostile bids.  Icahn declined to comment in detail about Navistar during
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.”  “This is not like other companies where the board just sat
by,” Icahn said. “He was doing what he felt was right for the
company,” the investor said, referring to Navistar Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Ustian. “He came up with this
different type of engine. Obviously it has had problems.”  Separately,  Fitch Ratings  cut its issuer default rating on
Navistar to B+, or four levels below investment grade, from BB-.
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its corporate  credit
rating  on Navistar to B, five levels into junk, from B+.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hasan Dudar in Southfield, Michigan at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  