-- New York Seeks Design for ‘Micro-Unit’ Apartment Building
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-07-09T20:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/new-york-seeks-design-for-micro-unit-apartment-building.html
New York City  is seeking proposals
for the design of a “micro-unit” apartment building in
 Manhattan  as part of a program to address a shortage of studio
and one-bedroom rentals.  The project calls for a building composed primarily of
apartments measuring 275 to 300 square feet (26 to 28 square
meters), smaller than what is allowed under current regulations,
according to a statement today from Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
office. The mayor will waive zoning regulations to test the
housing model at a city-owned site in the Kips Bay neighborhood.  The Department of Housing Preservation and Development is
issuing a request for proposals through a program called the
adAPT NYC Competition, aimed at accommodating demand for smaller
homes.  New York  City has about 1.8 million one- and two-person
households, and only 1 million studio and one-bedroom
apartments, according to the statement.  “Developing housing that matches how New Yorkers live
today is critical to the city’s continued growth, future
competitiveness and long-term economic success,” Bloomberg said
in the statement.  Manhattan rental prices have climbed in the past year
across all home sizes. The average monthly rent for a studio
apartment increased 4.3 percent to $2,065 in May from a year
earlier, while rates for a one-bedroom home rose 4.8 percent to
$2,810, according to a report by broker CitiHabitats. A two-
bedroom commanded an average $3,920 a month, up 4.1 percent from
a year earlier.  Sales Demand  Rising rents and record-low  mortgage rates  have helped fuel
demand for purchases of smaller apartments. Studios and one-
bedroom apartments accounted for 53 percent of all Manhattan
sales transactions in the second quarter, the second-highest
share since the end of 2009, according to a July 3 report by New
York appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and brokerage Prudential
Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  For the adAPT NYC project at 335 E. 27th St., at least 75
percent of the apartments must be micro-units, which will
include kitchens and bathrooms. The designs will be judged based
on affordability, the innovativeness of the layout, and the
developer’s experience. Submissions are due Sept. 14.  The initiative is part of Bloomberg’s “New Housing
Marketplace Plan,” a program to finance 165,000 new and
renovated units of below-market affordable housing by the end of
the 2014 fiscal year.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  