-- New York Gasoline Gains Over Speculation Supply Lines Strained
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-07-09T20:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/new-york-gasoline-gains-over-speculation-supply-lines-strained.html
New York  gasoline strengthened on
speculation that lower refinery capacity on the U.S. East Coast
and limited shipments of the fuel from the Gulf Coast in the
Colonial pipeline is tightening supplies in the region.  Colonial Pipeline Co. will allocate shipments on line 1,
its main gasoline line, for cycle 40, according to a July 5
notice to shippers. Refineries including Hovensa LLC’s St. Croix
refinery in the  U.S. Virgin Islands  and the Trainer plant in
Pennsylvania, now owned by a subsidiary of Delta Air Lines Inc.,
both shut before the start of the peak summer U.S. demand
season.  “Colonial pipeline is full and incremental supplies cannot
make it to New York to make up from the loss from Trainer and
Hovensa,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston, said in an electronic message.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in New
York Harbor narrowed 2.25 cents to 1.25 cents a gallon versus
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3:54 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the highest level
since June 14. Prompt delivery rose 6.59 cents to $2.7469 a
gallon.  The discount for the same fuel in the Gulf Coast shrank 1
cent to 13.88 cents a gallon under futures.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  started a fluid catalytic cracker over
the weekend and is putting into service an alkylation unit at
its Houston refinery after completing unplanned work.  The 65,000-barrel-a-day catalytic cracker and the 11,000-
barrel-a-day alkylation unit were shut after an upset July 5,
 Bill Day , a San Antonio-based spokesman, said in an e-mail last
week.  The same fuel in Chicago widened its discount 1.5 cents to
8.5 cents a gallon versus futures.  Citgo Petroleum Corp.’s Lemont, Illinois, refinery
restarted a compressor yesterday after it was shut down earlier
in the day. The incident didn’t affect production, Citgo said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 