-- Nomura, Daiwa Underwriting Snub Credit Negative, Moody’s Says
-- B y   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2012-07-09T03:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/nomura-daiwa-underwriting-snub-credit-negative-moody-s-says.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. (8601) ’s exclusion from bond underwriting amid a
regulatory crackdown on information breaches is credit negative,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  “It points to leakages of confidential information
exacting tangible damage on their businesses,” Moody’s analysts
led by Senior Credit Officer Maki Hanatate wrote in a weekly
note dated today.  Nomura,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage, was dropped as a lead
underwriter for state-owned  Development Bank  of Japan Inc.’s
bond sale because of its involvement in leaking non-public
information used for insider trading. Daiwa, the country’s
second-biggest brokerage, was excluded from a bond sale being
conducted by Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.  Regulators are attempting to restore confidence in the
country’s financial markets by investigating short-selling based
on tips from underwriters of public offerings. Moody’s said
leaks may be “more than a rare occurrence.”  Japan Housing Finance Agency dropped Nomura as underwriter
of residential mortgage-backed securities, replaced by
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., the government
agency said in an e-mailed statement today, without elaborating
on the reason.  Lasting Impact  “We expect a mounting loss of confidence from this scandal
will have a lasting impact on all players in the Japanese
market,” Moody’s said. For large Japanese companies seeking
advice on takeovers, the crackdown gives them “a reason to use
international brokers that have not been implicated in the
 insider trading  scandal,” the credit-rating company said.  Nomura said last month that it cut top executives’ pay and
suspended some businesses after acknowledging that employees
provided leaks ahead of three share issuances in 2010. The
Tokyo-based brokerage is still being inspected by the Securities
and Exchange Surveillance Commission.  “Nomura is at risk of tough disciplinary action by the
regulator, which could deepen the damage on its international
franchise,” Moody’s said.  Daiwa said last month that it will start an internal probe
and strengthen controls after the SESC found that an employee of
an unidentified brokerage leaked insider information on Nippon
Sheet Glass Co.’s 2010 public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 Rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  