-- Norway Oil-Production Shutdown Looms After Labor Talks Fail
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-09T15:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/norway-oil-production-shutdown-looms-after-labor-talks-fail-1-.html
A shutdown of all Norwegian offshore
oil and gas production will start at midnight, cutting about 12
percent of  Europe ’s oil output, unless unions and employers can
resolve a two-week strike or the government intervenes.  Workers will be locked out of oil platforms, Bengt Eidem, a
spokesman for the Norwegian Oil Industry Association, said today
by telephone as a dispute over pensions entered its 16th day.
“The situation is of course very serious and we hope that the
strike will be over as soon as possible,” he said.  Talks between the association, which represents employers
including  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , and unions broke
down yesterday morning after 13 hours. There has been no contact
since and no further discussions are planned, Eidem said. A halt
in output from western Europe’s largest crude exporter may boost
 oil prices , which already gained 7.8 percent the past two weeks.  Statoil, Norway’s biggest energy company, said its own
shortfall in output will be about 1.2 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day, resulting in daily lost revenue of 520 million
kroner ($87 million). As much as 2 million barrels a day may be
lost in total output from the continental shelf, according to
data from the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .  Force Majeure  “If a shutdown were to commence at midnight tonight it
will take up to four days to safely conclude,” Bard Pedersen, a
Statoil spokesman, said by phone. The producer is assessing
whether to declare force majeure on shipments, he said in an e-
mail. Force majeure is a legal clause that allows companies to
miss deliveries because of circumstances beyond their control.  Companies including Statoil,  BP Plc (BP/)  and Exxon are
coordinating preparations for a potential lockout, Eli Ane
Nedreskaar, a spokeswoman for the Oil Industry Association, said
today by phone.  The threat to suspend production is intended to force the
government to end the impasse via compulsory arbitration, as
happened in 1997, 2000 and 2004, said Teodor Sveen Nilsen, an
analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in Oslo. The disagreement is centered on
pension reforms, which would raise the age of entitlement to a
full company pension beyond 62 years. The companies have said
they’re conforming to the government’s general pension reforms.  State Intervention  “There might be a last-hour solution to this, but at the
moment it looks like the parties are still very far from each
other,” Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo,
said by phone, adding that she didn’t expect the government to
intervene today. “They will actually let the lockout start and
maybe let it last for a day or two before they do something.”  Her view contrasts with that of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which said in a note it expected the state to react. The Labor
Ministry said it was “monitoring and assessing the situation.”  Oil futures rose 1.1 percent in  New York  after falling 3.2
percent on July 6.  Brent crude  for August settlement gained 1.2
percent as of 4:47 p.m. in  London , widening its premium to New
York crude to $13.96, from $13.74 on July 6.  “If the only option to solve this is for the government to
use some of their tools to end this conflict, we certainly hope
that they will do that,” the industry association’s Eidem said.
“It seems to be quite difficult to find other options.”  Labor Unions  SAFE and Industri Energi, two unions representing the
workers, said yesterday the government shouldn’t order
 compulsory arbitration .  “It is total silence, which is reassuring as we take this
as a sign that the authorities chose to be reasonable and see
this as a conflict among parties,” Hilde-Marit Rysst, leader of
SAFE, said today by phone. Leif Sande, leader of Industri
Energi, also expects the lockout to proceed as planned.  “I haven’t seen any form of contact so I think it will go
ahead,” Sande said by phone.  Norway  pumped 1.63 million barrels of oil a day in May,
according to the Petroleum Directorate. About 15 percent of oil
production and 7 percent of gas is already affected, costing the
government and companies 3.1 billion kroner in 16 days, the Oil
Industry Association said. The strike is disrupting as much as
250,000 barrels of oil output a day, according to Statoil.  The U.K., which gets about 20 percent of its gas imports
from Norway, may withdraw the fuel from storage sites if the
lockout goes ahead at midnight, Barclays Plc said.  The dispute, which began June 24, is the first industrywide
strike by energy workers since 2004 and the longest, according
to the SAFE union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  