-- Norway Faces Backlash as Oil Supply Disruption Hits Stable Image
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-09T13:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/norway-faces-backlash-as-oil-supply-disruption-hits-stable-image.html
Norway ’s failure to end a strike that
risks cutting off all its offshore oil and gas production
threatens to “ruin” the country’s reputation as a stable
source for energy markets, Nordea Bank AB said.  A shutdown of Norwegian offshore oil and gas production
will start at midnight, cutting about 12 percent of Europe’s
crude output, unless unions and employers can resolve a two-week
strike, or the government intervenes. Neither side has arranged
further talks and the government has yet to signal it is willing
to intervene to end the strike.  “This kind of conflict definitely ruins the reputation
Norway has as a politically stable supplier of oil and gas to
the European market, in contrast to very many of the other
countries,” Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in
Oslo, said by phone today.  Norway, which isn’t a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
and natural gas exporter. The government’s failure to resolve
the strike by midnight would mark the first time a lockout has
gone ahead, after the state successfully forced mediation in
similar standoffs in 2004, 2000 and 1997.  “Norway’s reputation as a stable gas producer is clearly
being hurt by this and we’re sorry that there hasn’t been a
conclusion to the conflict,” Bard Pedersen, a spokesman for
 Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest energy company, said by phone
today.  ‘Very Serious’  Workers will be locked out of oil platforms, Bengt Eidem, a
spokesman for the Norwegian Oil Industry Association, said today
by telephone as the dispute over pensions entered its 16th day.
“The situation is of course very serious and we hope that the
strike will be over as soon as possible,” he said.  Oil futures rose as much as 0.9 percent after falling 3.2
percent on July 6.  Brent crude  for August settlement gained 66
cents, or 0.7 percent, to $98.85 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to
WTI was at $13.91 compared with $13.74 on July 6.  “If the only option to solve this is for the government to
use some of their tools to end this conflict, we certainly hope
that they will do that,” Eidem said. “It seems to be quite
difficult to find other options.”  SAFE and Industri Energi, two unions representing the
workers, said yesterday the Labor government of Prime Minister
Jens Stoltenberg shouldn’t order  compulsory arbitration . Should
the strike lead to a lockout, it will take producers about four
days to shut down production.  ‘Bit Crazy’  Norway pumped 1.63 million barrels of oil a day in May,
according to the Petroleum Directorate. About 15 percent of the
nation’s oil production and 7 percent of gas is already
affected, costing the government and companies 3.1 billion
kroner in the 16-day strike, according to the Oil Industry
Association. The strike is disrupting as much as 250,000 barrels
of oil output a day, Statoil said.  The dispute, which began June 24, is the first industry-
wide strike by energy workers since 2004 and the longest,
according to the SAFE union.  “Norway is a very important exporter to the European
market so a lockout will have big consequences,” Saltvedt at
Nordea said. “It is a bit crazy, actually. It doesn’t seem like
the parties are moving. You never know, there might be a last
hour solution to this but at the moment it looks like the
parties are still very far from each other. It will be a very
interesting day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  