-- Norway Shows Oil Strike Ultimatums Won’t Be Tolerated
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-07-10T15:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/norway-government-ends-oil-strike-lockout-averted.html
Norway ’s government is following a
last-minute intervention to halt the country’s longest-ever oil
strike with a warning to the industry not to force ultimatums
that risk cutting supply.  “I am not impressed by how the employers’ group chose to
use the lockout weapon,” Labor Minister Hanne Bjurstroem said
in an e-mailed reply to questions today. “It signals that they
don’t take the extensive consequences of a complete shutdown of
the Norwegian continental shelf seriously. In my view, this is
not the best way to deal with a legal labor conflict.”  Norway, which isn’t a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is Europe’s second-biggest oil
and natural gas exporter. Minutes after crossing a midnight
deadline that would have triggered a lockout, the government
announced its plan to resolve the strike with compulsory
arbitration. The move was vital in safeguarding Norway’s
reputation as a “stable and predictable supplier of oil and
gas,” Bjurstroem said.  The brinkmanship puts at risk Norway’s image as a reliable
oil and gas supplier, according to Thina Saltvedt, an energy
analyst at Nordea Bank AB.  Conflicts  “What about in the future if you have foreign  oil
companies  that want to invest in the Norwegian continental
shelf?” Saltvedt said by phone. “You don’t want to have them
doubting that the ministry can actually take care of political
conflicts; you don’t want them to be uncertain about the
stability of investing in the Norwegian continental shelf.”  Bjurstroem said her department stepped in because a lockout
“would have had vital repercussions for the Norwegian economy
and also for securing deliveries to Europe.” The result of the
compulsory arbitration will be binding.  Brent crude futures for August delivery dropped as much as
2.1 percent to $98.22 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange and were at $98.93 at 4:07 p.m. London time, compared
with $100.32 before the Norwegian government’s intervention.
Shares in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the Nordic region’s biggest oil company,
gained 1.6 percent to 143 kroner in the Norwegian capital.  ‘Legitimate Right’  The intervention came after the Norwegian Oil Industry
Association, which counts Statoil,  Total SA (FP)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
among its members, had threatened to halt all output from
midnight yesterday. The move would have cut off about 12 percent
of Europe’s crude output.  “We think that we should have a legitimate right to use
the tools that are at our disposal,” Jan Hodneland, chief
negotiator for the industry association, said in an interview
today.  Norwegian oil and gas professionals enjoy the world’s
highest salaries, with annual pay checks averaging $180,300 --
more than double the global average, according to a report
published by Hays Oil & Gas this year. That compares with annual
pay of $124,000 for U.S. workers and $87,100 for British oil
professionals, according to the U.K.-listed recruiting group.  The pension dispute, which began on June 24, was the first
industry-wide strike by the nation’s energy workers since 2004
and the longest lasting, according to SAFE, one of the three
unions involved.  Cornered  The government’s actions show it won’t be cornered by the
industry again, Saltvedt at Nordea said. “They wanted to say
that next time they have to do this in a different way because
you cannot have the situation where they are threatening the
Norwegian reputation and threaten the stability of deliveries to
 Europe ,” she said.  Statoil is now preparing to resume production at fields
affected by the strike.  “It may take from one to two days to get production
started and Statoil expects to have the fields back in full
production within a week,” the company said in a statement.  Norway pumped 1.63 million barrels of oil a day in May,
according to the Petroleum Directorate. About 15 percent of the
nation’s oil production and 7 percent of gas was affected before
the lockout was called off, the Oil Industry Association said
June 27. That’s cost the government and companies 3.1 billion
kroner ($508 million) in the 16-day strike, it said.  The offshore dispute centered on a proposal to raise the
 retirement age , only entitling workers to a full company pension
if they stay at work beyond the age of 62. Employers have said
they’re abiding by the government’s general pension reforms.  The midnight intervention hasn’t ended all disputes.
Workers in Norway’s oil services industry are now considering a
strike over pay and will break off talks with employers, Leif
Sande, the head of the country’s Energy Industry labor union
said today. The likelihood of a strike over pay is “very
high,” he said by phone, adding the industry faces “a
storm.”.  “To indicate already that you will break off negotiations
and strike, that’s a bit much,” Hodneland at the industry
association said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  