-- Oaktree’s Marks Lists Ritz-Carlton Condo for $50 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-07-09T19:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/oaktree-s-marks-lists-ritz-carlton-condo-for-50-million.html
Howard Marks , chairman and co-founder
of  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , listed his eight-room condo at
Manhattan’s Ritz-Carlton for $50 million, more than than double
what he paid for it in 2007.  The 4,500-square-foot (420-square-meter) apartment on
Central Park South was put on the market on July 7, according to
listings website  StreetEasy.com . Marks bought it for $18.9
million five years ago, when it was marketed as raw space,
according to the website.  “It was literally concrete walls and floors and ceiling,”
said  Roberta Golubock , senior vice president at brokerage
 Sotheby’s International Realty , which listed the apartment.
Marks and his wife “replaced the windows, so there’s nothing in
it other than columns that wasn’t created” after the couple
purchased the property.  The two-bedroom unit with “magical views of Central Park”
is one of 12 residences above the Ritz-Carlton hotel, which
offers such amenities as a spa and fitness center, according to
Golubock’s  listing . The condo’s living room has a “parquet de
Versailles-patterned floor of German silver, hand-hammered over
wood,” and the library is “inspired by  Coco Chanel ’s famous
Paris apartment,” according to the listing.  Architectural Digest  featured the apartment on its March
2011 cover, Golubock said.  ‘Finished Product’  Marks, reached by e-mail, referred questions to Golubock.  “The owner spent close to three years working on the
apartment -- designing, fabricating and finishing -- and I think
that there is absolutely a market for people who would
appreciate the opportunity not to have to spend years getting
the finished product,” she said.  In May, Marks, 66, set a record when he bought a duplex at
740 Park Ave. for $52.5 million, the highest price ever paid for
a New York City co-op. The eight-bedroom unit had belonged to
 Courtney Ross , the widow of former Time Warner Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Steven J. Ross, according to New York City
property records filed on May 11.  That same month, an 11,000-square-foot duplex penthouse at
the One57 tower under construction in Midtown, went into
contract for more than $90 million, setting a record for the
priciest condo sale.  Purchases of luxury apartments, defined as the top 10
percent of all sales by price, totaled 265 deals in the second
quarter, unchanged from a year earlier,  Miller Samuel  and
Prudential said on July 3. The median price of those
transactions fell 10 percent to $4.08 million.  Oaktree, based in  Los Angeles , raised $380.2 million in
April in an initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  