-- Obama Calls for Extending Middle-Income Tax Rates
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-09T23:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/obama-to-urge-one-year-bush-tax-cut-extension-for-middle-class.html
President  Barack Obama  urged Congress
to pass a one-year extension of Bush-era tax cuts for families
making less than $250,000 a year while letting rates rise for
higher earners, sharpening differences with congressional
Republicans and their presidential candidate,  Mitt Romney .  The country is being held back by the partisan deadlock in
Washington, and “nowhere is that stalemate more pronounced than
on the issue of taxes,” Obama said in remarks today at the
White House. “It’s time to let the tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans -- folks like myself -- to expire.”  Republican congressional leaders rejected Obama’s call,
saying the economy is too weak to raise taxes for anyone. They
vowed to press ahead with legislation to extend all the tax
cuts, a measure Obama said he would veto.  Obama is focusing on the issue of tax fairness three days
after a government jobs report showed the nation’s unemployment
rate stuck at 8.2 percent. He argued that tax cuts for the
wealthy haven’t helped the economy and are contributing to the
deficit.  The president sought to counter a Republican plan for a
vote on a one-year extension of all the tax cuts with his call
for acting immediately to keep the existing rates for those
making less than $250,000 a year and letting the Nov. 6
presidential election settle the issue of the tax cuts for the
wealthiest. Obama also said the post-election period may be used
to negotiate an overhaul of the  tax code .  ‘Massive’ Increase  Romney campaign spokeswoman Andrea Saul said in a statement
before the president’s remarks that Obama’s approach would
amount to “a massive tax increase” for “families, job
creators, and small businesses.”  “It just proves again that the president doesn’t have a
clue how to get America working again and help the  middle
class ,” Saul said. She said Romney wants to lower marginal tax
rates and “understands that the last thing we need to do in
this economy is raise taxes on anyone.”  The president’s remarks kick off a week during which he
will visit the swing states of Iowa and Virginia and his
campaign will hold events in New Hampshire,  Nevada ,  Colorado  and
 Florida  intended to show Obama as focused on middle-class
taxpayers and Romney as attuned to the richest Americans.  Following today’s announcement, Obama spent part of the
afternoon doing interviews with local television stations from
eight television markets in some of the states his campaign is
counting on in November, including Florida, Wisconsin and
Nevada.  House Vote  The Republican-controlled House plans to vote later this
month on extending the expiring tax cuts for all income levels
for a year and set in motion a process that would lead to a more
comprehensive overhaul of the tax code in 2013. That bill isn’t
expected to advance in the Senate, where Democrats have a
majority.  In an interview with New Orleans television station WWL,
Obama said that, if Congress sent him legislation extending all
the Bush-era tax cuts, “I would veto it.”  The Senate will vote on Obama’s plan “in the weeks
ahead,” Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said in
a statement.  Little Movement  Republicans and Democrats are dug into their familiar
positions before the election, and neither will budge soon, said
Jon Traub, managing principal of  tax policy  at Deloitte Tax LLP
in Washington.  “I don’t see any probability between now and Election Day
Republicans veer from their long-held position that all of the
tax cuts should be extended,” said Traub, who was staff
director for the House Ways and Means Committee until earlier
this year.  If Congress doesn’t act, all the tax cuts passed during
former President  George W. Bush ’s first term and extended by
Obama and Congress in 2010 would expire at the end of the year.
The top tax rate for ordinary income will increase to 39.6
percent from 35 percent. The top tax rate on  capital gains  will
increase to 23.8 percent from 15 percent, and dividends would be
taxed as ordinary income.  A one-year extension of the expiring tax cuts for all
income groups would reduce projected federal revenue by $426
billion, and the tax cuts above the $250,000 threshold make up
$68 billion of that total, according to an analysis by the
nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation that was provided to
Senate Finance Committee Republicans.  ‘Economy Hostage’  “Let’s not hold the vast majority of Americans and our
economy hostage while we debate the merits of another  tax cut 
for the wealthy,” Obama said. The fate of those cuts “will be
decided by the outcome of the next election. My opponent will
fight to keep them in place. I will fight to end them.”  By drawing the line for tax increases at $250,000 adjusted
gross income for married couples and $200,000 for individuals,
Obama sets up potential contrasts with two factions of senators
in his party.  Some  Senate Democrats , including  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska ,
have expressed openness to negotiating with Republicans on
extensions of tax rates for all income levels.  Others, including  Charles Schumer  of  New York , have floated
the idea the line at which tax increases start should be set at
$1 million. That approach would bring in much less revenue and
be more politically defensible, particularly in high-income
states such as New York and New Jersey where a greater
percentage of taxpayers would be affected by Obama’s threshold.  Jobs Picture  With job growth remaining stuck in June, Obama is looking
for ways to convince voters that their economic situation will
improve. U.S. employers added 80,000 jobs last month, lower than
economists’ forecasts and up only slightly from a 77,000
increase in May.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said Obama
is “doubling down on his quixotic call for the same small
business tax hikes that have been routinely rejected by the
House and Senate” to distract from last week’s jobs figures.  Obama’s tax push involves both his official and campaign
advisers.  Robert Gibbs , former White House press secretary and
now a campaign adviser, appeared on morning news shows today to
promote Obama’s message on taxes while highlighting the
campaign’s portrayal of Romney.  Romney thinks “we should shower rich people with tax
breaks” Gibbs said on NBC’s “Today” show. “Those are the two
different contrasting visions in this campaign.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  