-- Hogs Rise as Higher Pork Demand Seen for Grilling; Cattle Fell
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-09T19:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/hogs-rise-as-higher-pork-demand-seen-for-grilling-cattle-fell.html
Hog futures posted their biggest gain
in more than a week on speculation that lower temperatures in
the U.S. Midwest are easing a heat wave that slowed pork demand
for outdoor grilling. Cattle prices dropped.  Weather in most parts of the Midwest will be in the 80s
Fahrenheit this week, as much as 20 degrees below the peak
readings last week, Joel Widenor, a vice president at Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a telephone
interview. The heat last week set or tied 1,067 temperature
records, government data show.  “Vastly improved temperatures” may “give a shot in the
arm to meat demand,” said  Dennis Smith , a senior account
executive at Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago, said in
a telephone interview.  Hog futures for August settlement rose 0.7 percent to
settle at 93.95 cents a pound at 1 p.m. on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange, the biggest gain since June 29. Prices are
up 11 percent this year.  Today, corn futures surged to the highest price since
September as hot, dry weather menaced the U.S. crop. That’s a
bullish sign for forward hog prices because the grain is the
primary ingredient in livestock feed, Doug Houghton, an analyst
at Brock Associates, an agricultural commodity advisory firm in
 Milwaukee , said in a telephone interview.  Corn’s 44 percent rally since June 15 will make raising
hogs more expensive next year and may curb expansion or lead to
liquidation of animals, Houghton said.  Cattle futures for August delivery fell 0.1 percent to
settle at $1.1905 a pound in  Chicago , after reaching $1.184, the
lowest since June 28. The commodity has dropped 2 percent this
year.  Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement declined 1.5
percent to settle at $1.44275 a pound on the CME. Earlier, the
price touched $1.436, the lowest for a most-active contract
since Dec. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  