-- Oil Declines as Norway Ends Strike, China Curbs Imports
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-10T07:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/oil-declines-from-two-day-high-as-norway-orders-end-to-strike.html
Oil dropped for a third time in four
days after  Norway  ended an energy strike that threatened to halt
production by western  Europe ’s largest crude exporter and  China 
curbed purchases of the commodity.  Futures slipped as much as 1.6 percent after the Norwegian
government ordered compulsory arbitration in the dispute,
preventing a lockout of platform workers that was scheduled to
start at midnight yesterday. Norway pumped 1.63 million barrels
of oil a day in May, or about 1.8 percent of global consumption,
data from the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate show. China’s net
crude imports fell to the lowest level this year, according to
customs data today.  “It was looking like the strike was going to deteriorate
further,” said  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in
Sydney. “That  risk premium  is certainly coming out of crude.”  Oil for August delivery fell as much as $1.37 to $84.62 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $84.87 at 3:08 p.m. Singapore time. The contract
climbed 1.8 percent yesterday to $85.99, the highest close since
July 5. Prices are 14 percent lower this year.  Brent crude  for August settlement decreased $1.76, or 1.8
percent, to $98.56 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $13.69, down from $14.33 yesterday.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $83.66 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday
rebounded after trading near that indicator. Buy orders tend to
be clustered close to chart-support levels.  Norway, China  Norway announced the arbitration in a statement published
on the Oslo-based Labor Ministry’s website today. The strike,
which started June 24, disrupted about 15 percent of the
nation’s oil output and 7 percent of natural gas, the Oil
Industry Association said June 27.  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s
largest energy company, said it will resume full production
within a week.  Oil extended its drop after a report from China’s General
Administration of Customs showed the nation’s net crude imports
fell to 5.28 million barrels a day in June. That’s the least
since purchases of 5.1 million barrels a day in December and
compares with a record 5.98 million in May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China is the world’s second biggest crude
consumer after the U.S.  The customs bureau also reported that imports of goods
increased 6.3 percent in June from a year earlier, below the 11
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Export
growth was 11.3 percent, down from 15.3 percent in May.  U.S. Stockpiles  Money managers increased bullish U.S. oil wagers in the
seven days ended July 3, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report yesterday.
Net-long positions advanced by 10,994, or 8.9 percent, to
135,011 futures and options combined.  U.S. oil supplies probably declined for a third week as
refineries processed more crude into gasoline to meet peak
summer demand and as imports declined, a Bloomberg News survey
shows. Stockpiles fell 1.38 million barrels in the seven days
ended July 6, according to the median of eight analyst estimates
before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Refineries stepped up operations to 92.5 percent of their
capacity last week, up  0.5 percentage point  from the previous
week and near the five-year high of 92.6 percent reached June
22, the survey showed.  Oil rose yesterday after Shargh, a Tehran-based newspaper,
said several Iranian lawmakers plan to propose a bill to impose
tariffs on tankers sailing through the  Strait of Hormuz .  Iran 
has threatened to shut the strait, a transit route for about a
fifth of the world’s crude shipments, in response to sanctions
on its nuclear program.  Helga Schmid, an aide to European Union foreign policy
chief  Catherine Ashton , and Iran’s negotiator, Ali Bagheri, will
meet on July 24 in an effort to continue international talks
over the program, the EU said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  