-- Oil Rebounds as Norway Strike Looms
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-09T11:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/oil-rebounds-as-norway-strike-looms.html
Oil rebounded in New York after the
biggest drop in two weeks as a labor strike threatened to halt
production in  Norway , Western  Europe ’s biggest exporter.  Futures advanced as much as 0.9 percent.  Statoil ASA (STL)  said
it may declare force majeure on fuel deliveries as it prepares
to halt more offshore fields at midnight. Prices slid 3.2
percent on July 6, the biggest decline in two weeks, after a
report showed the U.S. created fewer jobs than estimated in
June. Iraq’s Deputy Prime Minister for Energy Affairs Hussain al-Shahristani said oil’s two-month plunge is unjustified.
European Union sanctions on Iranian imports took effect at the
start of this month.  “If the lockout in Norway goes ahead, it will come at a
highly inconvenient time, with Iranian oil out of the market and
continued supply losses in  Sudan  and elsewhere,” said Michael
Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,
 Denmark . “There’s a high likelihood of the government having a
friendly chat with both parties, though that’s less certain than
a week ago.”  West Texas Intermediate oil for August delivery climbed as
much as 76 cents to $85.21 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $84.80 at 12:34 p.m.
London time. The contract slid $2.77 on July 6 to close at
$84.45, the lowest settlement since July 2. Prices are down 14
percent this year.  Brent crude for August settlement gained 66 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $98.85 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to WTI was at
$13.91 compared with $13.74 on July 6.  Technical Support  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects the Norwegian government
to intervene and settle the dispute between employers and
unions, according to a report today. Norway’s strike, which
started last month, is already disrupting as much as 250,000
barrels of oil output a day, according to Statoil, the nation’s
largest energy company.  Talks in Oslo supervised by a state mediator failed
yesterday. Statoil may declare force majeure on deliveries, a
legal clause allowing companies to suspend contractual
obligations because of circumstances beyond their control, Bard
Glad Pedersen, a spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at around $83.80 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted
their decline July 6 near that indicator. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  Market Flooded  “The oil market is flooded with crude from pumping more
than the world requires,” Iraq’s al-Shahristani said in an
interview yesterday on Iraq’s Al Najaf television. “This
affects the prices, which started to dip during the last three
months from $125 to around $80. This drop is unjustified, and it
was a result of some countries raising crude production without
any justification.”  Three Libyan oil ports at Ras Lanuf, Brega and Es-Sider
have resumed exports after protests, according to the chairman
of state-run National Oil Corp.  Demonstrators had occupied the ports last week, cutting
crude exports by about 300,000 barrels a day, Nuri Berruien said
yesterday in a phone interview from the capital, Tripoli. The
country’s output will return to 1.5 million barrels a day within
24 hours, he said.  Hedge funds  and other money managers raised bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by 24,020 contracts, or 58 percent, to the highest
in a month in the week ended July 3, according to data from ICE
Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will increase, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 65,435 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That compares with net-longs of 41,415 contracts
a week earlier.  U.S. payrolls rose by 80,000 workers in June, compared with
a forecast of 100,000 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists,
Labor Department data on July 6 showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  