-- Oil Rises First Time in Three Days on Norwegian Strike
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-09T21:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/oil-fluctuates-on-european-crisis-norway-s-strike-threat.html
Oil rose for the first time in three
days as a labor strike threatened to halt all offshore oil and
gas production in Norway, Western Europe’s biggest exporter.  Futures climbed 1.8 percent as the shutdown was set to
start at midnight local time unless unions and employers resolve
a two-week-old strike. As much as 2 million barrels a day of
output may be lost from the continental shelf, according to data
from the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate . Oil’s gain followed a
3.2 percent decline July 6.  “We are getting some positive sentiment from the idea that
Norwegian oil might be taken off the market tomorrow,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We are rebounding from Friday’s big
drop.”  Oil for August delivery rose $1.54 to settle at $85.99 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are down 13
percent this year. Futures fell $2.77 on July 6 after a report
showed U.S. employers hired fewer workers than forecast in June.  Brent crude  for August settlement gained $2.13, or 2.2
percent, to $100.32 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Norway produced 2.04 million barrels a day of oil in 2011,
about 2.4 percent of total world output, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy.  “Generally, Norwegian strikes don’t last very long but
that’s given a little bullish impetus to the market,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts.  Threatened Lockout  Talks between the Norwegian Oil Industry Association, which
represents employers including  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , and unions broke down yesterday.  Workers will be locked out of oil platforms if no agreement
is reached by midnight, Bengt Eidem, a spokesman for the
association, said today by telephone as a dispute over pensions
entered its 16th day. There has been no contact since yesterday
and no further discussions are planned, he said.  “The situation is, of course, very serious and we hope
that the strike will be over as soon as possible,” Eidem said.  Statoil,  Norway ’s biggest energy company, said its
shortfall in output will be about 1.2 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day.  Norway’s government is “assessing and monitoring” the
strike, Morten Dagre, a senior adviser at the Oslo-based Labor
Ministry, said by phone today.  Strait of Hormuz  Oil also increased as some Iranian lawmakers called for
tariffs on ships sailing through the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit
point for about 20 percent of the world’s traded oil, according
to a Tehran-based newspaper.  Iran fired several missiles during a three-day military
exercise last week and threatened to block the strait in
response to a European Union-imposed embargo on Iranian oil that
took effect on July 1.  Prices pared gains near the close of floor trading after
Reuters reported that Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi 
said the country is ready to negotiate halting 20 percent
uranium enrichment.  An aide to  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign policy chief,
will meet a top Iranian official on July 24 in an effort to
advance international talks over  Iran’s nuclear program , the EU
said said in an e-mailed statement from Brussels.  “We’ve got news still developing about a potential
shortfall overseas,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market
strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago. “Iran and
the strike are two things on the minds of all traders.”  Crude Production  Oil futures have tumbled 22 percent since reaching a 52-
week high of $110.55 a barrel in intraday trading on March 1.  The recent slide in crude prices is unwarranted and has
been caused by countries pumping more oil than the market needs,
Hussain al-Shahristani, Iraq’s deputy prime minister for energy
affairs, said in remarks aired in an interview yesterday on
Iraq’s Al Najaf television.  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of global crude,
should adhere to its output target of 30 million barrels a day,
Shahristani said. Members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries are pumping about 1.5 million barrels a day
in excess of the limit, he said. The 12-member group produced
31.6 million barrels of oil in June, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 422,789
contracts as of 5:08 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 525,487
contracts July 6, 7.2 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.42 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  