-- TSE, Osaka Must Heed Offer Concerns, Says OSE Shareholder
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-07-10T07:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/tokyo-osaka-bid-faces-shareholder-discontent-over-price.html
Tokyo  Stock Exchange Group Inc. will
begin its tender offer for Osaka Securities Exchange Co.
tomorrow even as JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd., the OSE’s
 third-largest  shareholder, said the bourses must ensure price
concerns don’t derail the deal.  JO Hambro wants to convert its 5.1 percent stake into
equity in the merged exchange and doesn’t want disagreement over
price to jeopardize the deal, Nudgem Richyal, a Singapore-based
portfolio manager at JO Hambro, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. Shares of Osaka Securities were unchanged at 459,000
yen today after gaining 1 percent since July 4, the day before
 Japan ’s antitrust regulator approved the merger of the country’s
biggest bourses. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 2.7 percent
in the period.  TSE’s tender offer for the OSE will run from tomorrow until
Aug. 22, OSE said in a statement today. The TSE, which offered
480,000 yen a share for  Osaka , has no plans to change the merger
conditions, Kazuhiko Yoshimatsu, head of corporate strategy,
said yesterday. OSE shareholders plan to hold out for better
terms from Tokyo, the Financial Times reported July 8, citing
unnamed people familiar with the deal.  “We’re very aware that there are some international money
managers out there who want a better price,” said Richyal. “My
hope is that management will pay attention to that reality.”  Richyal wouldn’t comment on whether JO Hambro was satisfied
with the current offer or on how it will vote. TSE’s bid, which
values the Osaka bourse at 129.6 billion yen ($1.63 billion),
would create the world’s third- largest exchange  based on
turnover, according to data compiled by Deutsche Bank AG.  Fidelity Investments  Masahiro Yada, a spokesman for Osaka, declined to comment.
Owners of Osaka Securities’ shares support the merger, President
 Michio Yoneda  said at a June 21 shareholders meeting. The Tokyo
bourse needs to buy between 50 percent and 67 percent of Osaka’s
270,000 outstanding shares for the merger to be executed.  Fidelity Investments  is the biggest shareholder of the OSE,
owning about 14 percent of outstanding shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Fidelity declined to comment on the
merger.  Given the large holding by JO Hambro, “if this spreads to
other shareholders it would probably impact the tender,” said
Hiroshi Torii, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “Raising the
offer price would seem like a reasonable solution.”  Third-Largest  While the TSE’s share of domestic stock trading value is
about 96 percent, it was 6.3 percent of the global total in
2011, according to a May 24 report from Deutsche Bank. OSE’s
global share was 0.3 percent, making the combined trading value
the third-highest after NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX. For
derivatives transactions, TSE and OSE combined made up 0.9
percent of global trading value, according to the report.  “The potential benefits of the merger for all parties are
large, and therefore I think ultimately all sides will take a
pragmatic approach to ensure the deal succeeds,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director of Global Special Situations at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd., who advises OSE shareholders in
connection with the merger. “There’s an awful lot of political
capital that’s gone in to getting this deal to where we are
today.”  Two Steps  Japan’s government wants the marriage of the country’s two
largest bourses as a first step to creating a “comprehensive
exchange” as it seeks to revive the nation’s standing as a
financial hub. The country has three other  stock exchanges , in
the cities of Sapporo, Nagoya and Fukuoka, two commodities
exchanges and a grain exchange.  “The companies have reached a common recognition that a
firm position within the domestic cash equities market and
derivatives markets will be established and significant
synergies will be created by combining the business of the
companies,” Osaka’s board said in a statement today. “The
company believes that a purchase price of 480,000 yen per share
for the company’s common shares in the tender offer is
appropriate for the company’s shareholders.”  The transaction will be conducted in two steps, with TSE
bidding for as much as 67 percent of Osaka. Once that purchase
is complete, Osaka’s shares will be swapped for those of the
unlisted TSE, so the new exchange remains publicly traded. The
companies project the acquisition will close in January.  “Shareholders are justifiably unhappy with the terms they
are being offered, both the cash tender offer price and the
share-swap,” said Religare’s Foster. “I do not think it is an
attractive price.”  Scuttled Deals  About $32 billion in exchange takeovers have been scuttled
since  Singapore  Exchange Ltd. made a bid for ASX Ltd. in October
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s deal
fell through amid calls from the Australian public to maintain
domestic control of  stock trading .  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,  Asia ’s largest bourse
by market value, said yesterday that shareholders of London
Metal Exchange Ltd. will vote July 25 on its $2.2 billion bid
for the world’s biggest venue for base metals futures trading.  The Japanese exchanges will hold shareholder meetings this
fall or near the end of the year to vote on the merger, OSE
President Michio Yoneda told reporters on May 28 in Osaka.  “We’re very happy with the strategic direction of the
merger with the Tokyo Stock Exchange,” said JO Hambro’s
Richyal. “I think they are aware of the calls for a different
price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in 東京 at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  