-- Olympics $14 Billion Site Mixes Scary Tower, Big Dolphin
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-07-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/olympics-14-billion-site-mixes-scary-tower-big-dolphin.html
I expected a grand, flag-bedecked
avenue leading into  London ’s Summer Olympics site.  Instead, I walked through what’s touted as  Europe ’s largest
 shopping mall . The generic design of this behemoth deflates
expectations.  Britain has spent some 9.3 billion pounds ($14.4 billion)
for this exercise in city branding. While Beijing put $67
billion into venues that are all but unused, London targeted its
investment on commercial and residential revitalization in and
beyond the long-neglected 246 hectare (608 acre) site in the
east of the capital.  (To see a slide show of London Olympics architecture, click
 here .)  Games goers will quickly become aware of the compromises
the long-term ambitions exacted. Once through the mall, you’ll
stroll under the elegant dolphin-headed porch of the Aquatics
Centre.  London celebrity architect  Zaha Hadid  made the center’s
voluptuous, hump-backed form an eyesore by tacking on two clumsy
bat winged seating tiers to accommodate 17,500 spectators.  The tiers will come off after the games, leaving behind
2,500 permanent seats and an elegantly slimmed 269 million pound
landmark.  Even now, the interior looks glorious, with a luscious
undulating ceiling and elegantly sculptured diving platforms
that will no doubt figure heavily in TV coverage.  Giant Bicycle  The 500 million pound Olympic Stadium’s white-painted
steel-pipe framework -- a giant bicycle wheel turned on its side
-- backdrops Hadid’s building. Post-Olympics usefulness drove
the stadium’s utilitarian form. The above-ground superstructure
can be readily dismantled to shrink the arena to as few as
25,000 seats from 80,000.  While the stadium doesn’t inspire, it’s got a gutsy
industrial integrity that grew on me.  Peter Cook , whose sci-fi
imagery has influenced architects and movie-set designers since
the 1960s, collaborated with the engineering firm  Buro Happold 
and the workaday Kansas City-based stadium architect  Populous .  The ArcelorMittal Orbit, a 114-meter-high (374 foot)
sculpture posing next to the stadium, was supposed to be the
games’ heroic icon. Instead it’s a 22.7 million pound image of
industrial apocalypse. Menacing tentacles of red-painted steel
trusswork coil around a spiral stairway and an aerial
observation deck.  The Orbit was largely a gift of  Lakshmi Mittal , chief
executive officer of steelmaker ArcelorMittal, and was designed
by artist  Anish Kapoor  and bravura structural engineer Cecil Balmond. It will wow you even as you wonder how they got away
with it.  Ridged Parkland  Moving north, a gently ridged parkland unfolds. It’s the
first stage of the  Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park , which will open
in stages beginning about a year after the games.  It has replaced contaminated railyards littered with heaps
of discarded tires. Pollutant-filtering marshes and peaceful
paths line the Lea River and a network of canals built to serve
industry. A pair of swans obligingly emerged from the reedy
edges as I passed.  This remarkable transformation forms the core of the 102-
hectare park choreographed by the San Francisco-based landscape
architect George Hargreaves of  Hargreaves Associates . After the
games,  New York  landscape architect  James Corner Field
Operations  will add a festive promenade with squiggly hedges to
wrap the stadium and Orbit.  Warped Velodrome  The outwardly sloping wood-faced walls and gently warped
roof of the Olympic velodrome makes the most of the new
landscaping by snuggling gently into the lines of trees and
meadow. The shape, by  Hopkins Architects  of London, optimizes
the 6,000 seats for best viewing of the four kinds of cycling
events it accommodates.  Perhaps because it won’t have to be remodeled after the
games, it is by far this Olympics’ most elegant structure.  The organizers wisely erected temporary venues for sports
not popular in Britain. That’s no reason to make the hockey and
water-polo venues out of hideous scaffolding wrapped in an ocean
of PVC. The basketball arena is at least thoughtful, a white PVC
tent that’s becomingly dimpled by local architect  Wilkinson
Eyre .  More ugly white tents enclose a massive games
infrastructure that will require a lot of stylish fences,
banners, and plantings to disguise.  It won’t be easy to hide security measures that are running
to more than a billion pounds and may entail  missiles  mounted on
nearby highrises.  Though it’s a strangely mixed bag, this games, more than
any other since Barcelona, seems tightly focused on leaving an
extraordinary legacy for a part of east London that’s seen
little investment. Transit improvements, for example, now make
the Stratford gateway better connected than any part of greater
London outside the center.  If the commitment pays off, few will remember the
provisional quality of the games themselves.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art and  Jeremy
Gerard  on New York theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in London at  jamesrussell@earthlink.net .
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 