-- Money-Market Indicators Mixed on Dollar-Funding Stress Levels
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-09T13:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/money-market-indicators-mixed-on-dollar-funding-stress-levels.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled short-term dollar funding conditions were mixed.  The three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
which represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to
borrow from another,  was  0.45760 percent, unchanged, according
to the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a
gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, was little changed at 29.3
basis points. The spread is down from as high this year as 50.5
basis points, touched on Jan. 6.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the  Federal Reserve ’s effective funds rate will average
for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, widened 1.44 basis points to 32.44 basis
points, according to the second rolling three-month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened one basis point to 26.06 basis points. The gap,
which is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking-
sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations
for dollar Libor, is up from the year’s low of 22 basis points
reached on June 27.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $35.8 billion to $972.5 billion in the week ended July 4,
according to Fed data.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 58.5 basis points below Euribor, compared with 59
basis points below on July 6.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, widened. The
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 43 basis
points, from 42 basis points on July 6.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 36.4 basis points, from minus
34.4 basis points on July 6. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  