-- Monsanto-DuPont Trial Over Roundup-Ready Crops to Start
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/monsanto-dupont-trial-over-roundup-ready-crops-to-start.html
DuPont Co. (DD) ’s Pioneer seed unit said
in 2005 it would make herbicide-tolerant soybeans and corn
within five years to challenge the dominance of seeds with
Monsanto Co.’s widely licensed Roundup Ready trait.  According to Monsanto, DuPont couldn’t live up to that
pledge and added Monsanto’s technology to its experimental
seeds, in violation of licensing agreements between the
companies. The world’s largest seed company sued DuPont in 2009,
accusing its biggest competitor of patent infringement and
breaching the 2002 contracts. DuPont countersued. A  jury trial 
is set to begin today in Monsanto’s hometown of  St. Louis .  Monsanto sought to keep DuPont from using the Roundup Ready
trait, one of the biggest farming innovations in a generation,
in combination with a similar genetic modification in some new
competing seeds. DuPont responded by challenging the validity of
a patent at the heart of Monsanto’s $11.8 billion in annual
sales.  “DuPont has the most to gain if they invalidate the
patent,” said Jason Dahl, a  fund manager  at Victory Capital
Management who holds Monsanto shares and expects the patent to
be upheld. “It’s not like anyone has come forward and said, ‘I
developed this.’ They know it works, that’s why they want to use
it. They just don’t want to pay for it.”  The trait, introduced by Monsanto 16 years ago, allows
crops to survive applications of Monsanto’s Roundup, the world’s
best-selling weedkiller. The genetic modification is engineered
into most of the world’s soybeans and many other crops. In the
years since, Monsanto has strictly enforced patents on the
seeds.  Patent Licenses  “We understand why Monsanto wants to go to trial,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at Gulley & Associates LLC,
said in a June 26 report. “Monsanto has won five trials and
settled with DuPont on other occasions.” Gulley recommends
buying shares of both companies.  Monsanto licenses its technology to other seed makers, and
the trait has been embraced by American farmers. Roundup Ready
seeds let growers dispatch hundreds of types of weeds with a
single herbicide while leaving crops unscathed.  DuPont’s Pioneer unit may pay Monsanto about $200 million
a year to use the technology under normal industry rates,
although some reports have suggested the payments are as little
as $30 million, said Laurence Alexander, an analyst at Jefferies
& Co.  Monsanto has been under investigation for more than a
decade over allegations of anticompetitive practices in the
agriculture industry, including seeds.  Stifling Innovation  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , says Monsanto uses
monopoly power to stifle innovation, restricting use of the
Roundup Ready trait while making it difficult for rivals to
develop a competing trait. Those antitrust claims have been
split off into a separate case, with a trial scheduled for April
2013.  The trial that begins today involves a patent issued in
1997 for the Roundup Ready trait, which Monsanto called in court
documents “one of the most celebrated inventions in
biotechnology.” The technology uses an enzyme that acts as an
alternative food-production pathway, allowing biotech crops to
survive as weeds are starved by the glyphosate herbicide
Monsanto markets under the Roundup brand name.  DuPont, which denies infringing Monsanto’s patent, has
focused much of its defense on challenging its validity. The
company also claims Monsanto obtained its patent only by
withholding information from the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office  during the application process.  Patent Validity  According to DuPont, a farmer who had been sued by Monsanto
produced evidence showing the patent was invalid. Monsanto filed
a request with the government to have the patent reissued with
changes, without telling the agency that the purpose was to
correct information that would make it vulnerable to challenges,
DuPont said in its July 2009 response to the lawsuit. Monsanto
denied any improprieties with its application or reissue filing.  The dispute involves DuPont’s Optimum GAT soybeans, which
the company in 2005 announced it was developing as a competitor
for Roundup Ready seeds. GAT stands for “glyphosate ALS
tolerant,” because the seeds are genetically altered to
tolerate glyphosate, the ingredient in Roundup, as well as other
weedkillers known as ALS herbicides.  In 2009, DuPont disclosed that it was adding the Roundup
Ready trait to its Optimum GAT seeds because a combination of
Monsanto’s technology and DuPont’s worked together to boost crop
yields.  Combining Traits  Monsanto sued, saying its 2002 licensing agreement
prohibits DuPont from combining the Roundup Ready technology
with another glyphosate-tolerant trait. In January 2010, U.S.
District Judge Richard Webber, in a pretrial ruling, sided with
Monsanto’s reading of the contracts, saying they permit use of
the Roundup Ready trait “only in seed products containing no
other glyphosate-tolerant traits.” The trial that starts today
centers on patent-related issues in the dispute.  DuPont contends the legal fight caused it to cancel plans
to introduce its herbicide-tolerant corn and soybeans.  There is a chance the companies will settle the dispute
rather than complete the trial, Gulley said. DuPont needs to put
the Roundup Ready trait in its seeds and Monsanto wants
compensation for use of its research, he said.  “Each has a good idea of the validity of each other’s
case, their respective negotiating positions, and what’s at
stake financially,” he said in a June 26 note to clients. With
a settlement, “both parties can lower the risk of a surprising
adverse jury verdict.”  ‘Honest’ Competition  In recent years, the disagreements between the companies
have gotten personal. Monsanto Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant , in a 2009 letter to DuPont’s then-chairman, Chad Holliday, said DuPont covertly pushed for the antitrust
investigation and accused it of “a serious breach of business
ethics far beyond honest competitor behavior.”  “Your lobbying and communications that paint your company
as a victim of limiting technology licenses is dishonest,
disingenuous and downright deceitful,” Grant wrote.  In defending its patents, Monsanto hasn’t limited itself to
competing companies. It has sued farmers who tried to hold back
harvested seeds for use the following year. A group of organic
farmers unsuccessfully sued Monsanto last year, saying their
crops are at risk of being contaminated by wind-blown seeds and
challenging the validity of Monsanto’s patents.  The case is  Monsanto Co. (MON)  v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09cv686, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  