-- Hospital Bills Unpaid as S.C. Shuns Medicaid Expansion
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-07-09T14:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/hospital-bills-unpaid-as-s-c-shuns-medicaid-expansion.html
Shirley Johnson gets her medical care
at Palmetto Health Baptist hospital’s emergency room in
Columbia,  South Carolina . She goes when her back gives out or
when a benign tumor near her ribcage swells and throbs. She goes
for headaches, heartburn, and spider bites, leaving the hospital
a sheaf of unpaid bills.  “I owe so much money,” said Johnson. “The last time I
went just for my toe. It cost $1,000.”  Johnson, as a 49-year-old with no dependents, isn’t
eligible for Medicaid, the joint state-federal health program
for the poor, which covers about 20 percent of the state’s
residents. And in two years, when President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care overhaul allows the expansion of Medicaid to cover
17 million more Americans, she may still be left behind.  Governor Nikki Haley, a Tea Party-backed Republican, was
among the first state leaders to oppose expanding Medicaid after
the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the federal government can’t
make states do so. Caught between poverty and pressure to curb
government’s power, South Carolina illustrates the forces at
play in the nation’s capitals amid the broadest changes to the
health care system since 1965.  In South Carolina, the law would add about 500,000 people
to Medicaid, said Tony Keck, whom Haley appointed to head the
Health and Human Services Department.  ‘Broken Program’  “We simply can’t support this,” Haley and Keck said in a
July 3 statement. “We are not going to jam more South
Carolinians into a broken program, a program that stifles
innovation, discourages personal responsibility, and encourages
fraud, abuse and overuse of services -- and that, by the way,
costs us billions of dollars.”  Republican governors of  Louisiana ,  Florida ,  Iowa ,
 Mississippi , and  Texas  also oppose the plan to boost the scale
of the health-care program. Texas Governor  Rick Perry  said today
he won’t do anything to implement the president’s law. In his
state, about 25 percent go without health insurance, the
nation’s highest rate, according to  Census Department  figures.  “I stand proudly with the growing chorus of governors who
reject the Obamacare power grab,” he said.  States’ decisions about Medicaid will determine the fate of
a key provision of Obama’s plan to extend care to the uninsured,
one that would make the program available to everyone earning
less than 133 percent of the poverty line --  $30,657 for a
family of four. If states don't go along, millions of Americans            
would be left uncovered, without access to the program and unable
to qualify for the insurance subsidies available to those with
higher incomes.  Ready Money  The federal government would pay 100 percent of the costs
for those newly enrolled until 2017, when its share would begin
to decrease to 90 percent. Some states are leery of adding
enrollees as pressure on federal spending may put those funds at
risk, said Matt Salo, the head of the National Association of
Medicaid Directors in Washington.  “There is an enormous amount of federal dollars that are
being put on the table,” he said.  “On the other hand, there are risks associated with this.
States are having trouble sustaining the current Medicaid
program,” he said. “Ten percent of a very large number is
still a lot of money.”  Too Tempting  The flood of federal funds may be difficult to turn down,
said  Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, a
Washington nonprofit that advocates expanded health-care
coverage. All the states participate in Medicaid and the
Children’s Health Insurance Program, which assists families that
make too much to qualify for Medicaid, even though the federal
share is less than what they are set to receive under Obama’s
plan, he said.  The federal government will pay $931 billion of the cost of
the Medicaid expansion through 2022, with states paying $73
billion, according to the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a Washington-based group that argues against
cutbacks that hurt the poor.  “At the end of the day -- and maybe the end of the day is
after the November election -- I think all or virtually all of
the states will agree to participate,” Pollack said. “It is
truly fiscal malpractice for them to turn it down.”  The effects would be felt broadly in South Carolina, where
about 16 percent live below the poverty line. The  unemployment
rate  in May was 9.1 percent, nearly a full percentage point
higher than the U.S. as a whole. The state ranks as the nation’s
fifth-least healthy, according to Haley.  Ceding Power  The state where the Civil War began has also long been
suspicious of ceding power to the federal government, said Bruce Ransom, a political scientist at  Clemson University  in Clemson,
South Carolina.  One of the state’s U.S. senators,  Jim DeMint , is a founder
of the Tea Party Caucus. In 2009, then-Governor Mark Sanford
sparred with the Obama administration and his own Legislature,
seeking to use $700 million from the stimulus program to pay
down debt instead of spending on the economy.  “Federal aid, federal programs -- unless it’s for the
military -- are not good things,” Ransom said, summarizing
voters’ views. “That plays here. The conventional wisdom says
that’s a winning hand.”  Keck, South Carolina’s top health official, said the
state’s illnesses are driven by poverty and that money poured
into Medicaid would best be used elsewhere. Keck said he and
Haley favor block-grant funding that would hold the state
accountable for set outcomes, such as lowering obesity.  Getting By  “We should spend our money getting more people jobs with
health insurance,” Keck said. “If we’re going to talk at all 
about targeting the uninsured, it has to be with a completely 
different system than Medicaid.”  Being employed hasn’t yet helped Ilyasah Borden, a 23-year-
old single mother who makes $9.24 an hour as a cashier at a
 Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  home-improvement store in Columbia. While her three
children get care through Medicaid, she can’t. Right now, she
goes without insurance and may have to wait until next year to
get on the company’s plan.  “My biggest problem is my teeth,” she said. “I have
fillings that are falling out.”  “It’s like there’s no help for the people who are really
trying to work,” Borden said.  State Senator Darrell Jackson, a Democrat from a Columbia
suburb who sits on the finance and medical affairs committee,
said he plans to rally support for expanding Medicaid in the
Republican controlled legislature. He said he’s confident
lawmakers can be persuaded to buck Haley’s position, just as
they challenged Sanford’s rejection of Obama’s stimulus money.  Wide Reach  “South Carolina is basically a poor state,” he said.
“There are very few legislators’ districts that would not be
affected by this.”  Haley also faces challenges from the state’s hospitals,
burdened by serving patients too poor to pay. Without more
residents on Medicaid, hospitals will suffer, said Allan
Stalvey, a lobbyist for the South Carolina Hospital Association.
He said his group will press legislators and Haley’s
administration for the expansion.  “We’re concerned about it,” he said. “We’re hopeful we
can work something out.”  Across South Carolina, hospitals offered $1.6 billion in
care to uninsured indigents in 2011, according to Chris Finney,
program manager for the state’s Office of Research and
Statistics.  In Columbia, Shirley Johnson isn’t the only one who turns
up at the emergency room when she’s sick.  Ailing State  Her zip code is the sickest in South Carolina, which is one
of the sickest states in the country, according to Kate Hilton,
director of Organizing for Health, which began a campaign
targeting the area this year. Postal code 29203 has about 45,000
residents, a third with no insurance, the group’s figures show.
They make 90,000 visits to emergency rooms a year. A third of
those visits are from people who can’t pay.  Johnson said she never imagined her current straits, and
that she worked until she no longer could after hurting her back
12 years ago.  “I’m a jack of all trades and master of none,” she said.
“I even sold cans and bottles for five cents apiece.”  She lives with her daughter, Kelly, who also goes without
insurance.  Kelly Johnson has five children, a 9-year-old and two sets
of twins, 7 and 6 years old. The children are on Medicaid. Kelly
Johnson said she earns $9.25 an hour as a medical assistant, too
much to qualify.  Both women said they didn’t understand why South Carolina
wouldn’t take part in a program that would give them insurance,
and that it wasn’t right that richer people would get subsidies
they can’t.  “My mom can’t get Medicare and she can’t get Medicaid and
she can barely walk,” Kelly Johnson said. “It’s not fair,
because if you need care, what are you going to do?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  