-- German Stocks Decline; Metro, BASF Fall, Lufthansa Rises
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-07-09T16:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/most-german-stocks-fall-for-fourth-day-metro-leads-drop.html
German stocks fell for a fourth day
as a rebound in exports and Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s
signaling of further policy easing were overshadowed by a
decline in Japanese machinery orders.  Metro AG (MEO)  fell 6.3 percent after its chief executive said
there would be a small increase at best in German consumption
this year. SAP AG fell 1.8 percent. BASF SE dropped 1.1 percent
as  Societe Generale  SA cut the stock’s profit target.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  rose 1.8 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.4 percent to 6,387.57 at the close in
 Frankfurt . The gauge has still climbed 7 percent from its 2012
low on June 5 as  Greece  formed a new government and European
Union leaders opened the door to directly recapitalizing lenders
using the euro area’s permanent bailout fund. The broader HDAX
Index declined 0.3 percent today.  “Weakness in Japanese machine orders following on from the
weak U.S. jobs number makes for a skeptical Monday market,”
said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities
GmbH in Munich. “Inflation weaker in China shows confidence is
low, further stimulus is on the agenda, but probably not
imminent considering they only lowered rates last week.”  German exports  rebounded more than economists forecast in
May, helping Europe’s largest economy to weather the sovereign
debt crisis. Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, jumped 3.9 percent from April, when they fell 1.7
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast an increase of 0.2 percent, according to
the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Imports surged
6.3 percent.  China Slowdown  Chinese premier  Wen Jiabao  said the world’s second biggest
economy faces “relatively large” downward pressure. The
government will intensify fine-tuning of policies even as
measures taken since April are helping to stabilize a slowdown,
he said, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  Japanese  machinery orders , an indicator of  capital
spending , fell 14.8 percent in May from the previous month, the
Cabinet Office said, the biggest drop since 2001. Economists
expected a 2.6 percent decline.  Metro, Germany’s biggest retailer, fell 6.3 percent to
20.43 euros. Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch forecast a
“small increase at best” in German consumption this year,
which will have a “significant impact” on the retailer’s
business, Bild am Sonntag reported, citing an interview.  SAP Declines  SAP AG, the largest maker of  business software , lost 1.8
percent to 44.71 euros.  BASF SE (BAS)  dropped 1.1 percent to 55.46 euros. Societe
Generale cut its price estimate for the world’s biggest chemical
maker by 20 percent to 55 euros because of the weak macro-
economic outlook.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-largest steelmaker,
declined 4.2 percent to 29.83 euros. A measure of basic
resources was the worst performer in the Stoxx 600.  Kontron AG, a maker of miniature computers for  slot
machines  and drone aircraft, slid 6.3 percent to 4.78 euros as
the stock was downgraded to hold from buy by Hauck & Aufhauser
Privatbankiers KGaA equity analyst Tim Wunderlich. The 12-month
target price is 5.60 euros per share, according to Hauck &
Aufhauser.  Deutsche Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline, gained
1.8 percent to 9.44 euros.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s largest steelmaker, surged 2.2
percent to 13.42 euros. “A floor may be in sight” for
industrial-exposed metals such as base metals, silver and
platinum,  Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a research note. The third quarter will
be the bottom for the most recent price correction, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  