-- How to Slow Down Hot Money
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/how-to-slow-down-hot-money.html
Until recently, respectable opinion
frowned on all barriers to money  flowing  across borders. Today,
the old thinking has been overturned. Sometimes, it’s agreed,
capital controls are necessary.  The old consensus was wrong and won’t be missed. The new
view, however, lacks clarity and, when it comes to application,
effective oversight. Capital controls may sometimes be necessary
-- but they are always dangerous and open to abuse. These
policies need to be better considered and more carefully
supervised.  Since 2008,  interest rates  in the U.S. have fallen almost
to zero, and international investors have looked elsewhere for a
good return. But the resulting financial flows can be much more
destabilizing than economists previously believed.  Some developing economies have seen enormous capital
infusions and a corresponding appreciation of their currencies -
- which makes their exports less competitive and threatens to
cause bubbles in domestic asset prices.  Brazil , for instance,
responded with a control that once would have been strongly
opposed: a tax on foreign investors’ holding of Brazilian
assets. Lately, the pressure of inflows has abated, and the
controls have been eased.  Sensible Barriers  Even the  International Monetary Fund , once a trenchant
critic of such barriers, now agrees that they can make sense. A
new  study  by Olivier Jeanne,  Arvind Subramanian  and  John Williamson  of the Peterson Institute for International Economics
goes further, arguing that use of capital controls needn’t be
confined to incipient asset bubbles. A country with a persistent
current-account deficit -- such as  India  -- might also find them
useful for avoiding a chronic overvaluation of the currency.  That argument highlights a danger, however. An instrument
that can be used to stop a currency from appreciating too much
can also be used to keep it undervalued.  China  has used  capital
controls  -- severe restrictions on the domestic assets
foreigners can buy -- for exactly this purpose. What China does
is equivalent to subsidizing exports and putting tariffs on
imports, policies that would be forbidden under the promises it
has made as a member of the  World Trade Organization .  Governments have developed an elaborate and mostly
successful regime to regulate the unfair use of ordinary trade
restrictions. The  Peterson Institute’s  economists argue that
capital controls should be brought under a similar regime, and
we agree.  The current non-system, as they say, is too restrictive in
some ways and too permissive in others. Too restrictive because
any policy that departs from openness in international trade and
finance still invites stigma, which discourages governments from
acting promptly and forcefully when it makes sense to do so. Too
permissive because it allows a case like China to continue
indefinitely, where the purpose is not to prevent a currency
distortion but to create and perpetuate one, at great cost to
others.  New international rules on capital controls could correct
those mistakes by addressing two factors: the form of the
restrictions and their rationale.  Just as global trade rules insist on tariffs not import
quotas, a rule-guided system for capital controls should prefer
market-based restrictions, such as taxes, over administrative
barriers, such as prohibitions or discriminatory regulation
similar to what  Argentina  has imposed. Market-based measures
make it easier for other governments to see what is going on and
to judge the effects. In a spirit of cooperation, this is
something any government can reasonably ask of another. To curb
excesses, the rules on instruments should also specify a maximum
rate of tax on capital flows. The academic literature suggests
that a moderate rate of, say, 15 percent, is optimal.  International Oversight  In addition, again in parallel with the regime for goods
and services, governments resorting to capital controls should
have to say why -- and convince a representative international
body with oversight powers. The WTO could take that role, or
perhaps the IMF. Merely demanding an explanation would be
progress; and ultimately, countervailing sanctions could be made
available to governments expressing a grievance.  Nobody would claim that the international effort to police
trade in goods and services works perfectly. On the other hand,
it’s a minor miracle that the global slowdown of the past few
years has provoked  no great upsurge  of protectionist sentiment
or policy. The WTO and its predecessors deserve some credit:
They have entrenched norms of good behavior that, so far at
least, have stuck.  Now that we better understand the close connections between
currency valuations, flows of capital and flows of goods, we
need a similar global effort to codify and oversee the limited
use of capital controls. Do it before bad habits become too hard
to break.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on combating  drug-resistant
tuberculosis ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on why Romney should  choose Chris
Christie ; William Pesek on the  Fukushima meltdown report ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  finds  no silver lining  in the health-care ruling;
Virginia Postrel on what our  many pairs of shoes  say about us;
Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  wonder why the Fed doesn’t
 ease more aggressively ;  David Crane  on reining in  state health-
care liabilities .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 