-- How to Stop the Fast March of Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/how-to-stop-the-fast-march-of-drug-resistant-tuberculosis.html
Public health professionals have
warned about drug-resistant tuberculosis for years. Now comes
news out of  India  and China to feed the concern.  Doctors in India have  documented  more than a dozen cases of
TB so tenacious, it responds to no known drug. This is a scary
proposition in a country where 2 million of the world’s 9
million annual TB cases occur and where malnutrition,
overcrowding and a weak health system create a hotbed for the
 often-fatal  disease.  Conventional drug resistance is also turning out to be a
problem in China, which has a million TB cases a year. In a
 study  published this month in the New England Journal of
Medicine, 1 of 10 TB patients there had multidrug resistance,
and 1 in 120 had extensive drug resistance.  Previously, resistance was thought to exist mainly in
patients who’d had regular TB and didn’t complete the required
six months of treatment or didn’t get sufficiently strong drugs,
enabling the bacteria to develop resistance. But in the  China 
study, most cases were in new patients. This means that
resilient bacteria are being  passed from person to person .  This calls for a new approach to TB in the developing
world. In wealthy countries, people who are suspected of having
TB are immediately tested for drug-resistant strains. In poor
ones, that test is done, at best, only after patients fail to
recover on first-line medications, which provide them no benefit
and only teach more bacteria to become elusive.  Screening all TB cases for resistance is an enormous
challenge. The most common method for testing TB in the
developing world is to examine sputum smears under a microscope;
this misses about half of all cases and provides no information
on resistance. Culture-based resistance tests take weeks to
produce results. And conventional rapid tests that recognize the
DNA of TB bacteria require sophisticated labs that are rare
outside of developed countries.  However, a recent innovation makes mass screening feasible.
A breakthrough test, which detects resistance to the popular TB
drug rifampicin -- a strong indicator of multidrug resistance --
provides results in two hours and can be conducted without an
advanced lab. Called  Xpert MTB/RIF , it was designed by
California-based  Cephied Inc . in collaboration with the
nonprofit  Foundation for Innovative Diagnostics  with funding
from the  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation .  In mid-June,  Unitaid , a global health organization housed
at the  World Health Organization  and financed mainly by airline
ticket taxes, and the  Stop TB Partnership , a public-private
umbrella group also housed at the WHO,  allocated $40 million  to
deploy the test in 20 countries. This is an important step to
making it universally available.  Ideally, TB patients found to have mutant strains would
then receive the right treatment. Because advanced regimens can
cost 50 to 200 times the $20 it typically costs to treat
ordinary TB, a significant investment by donors and governments
in affected countries is needed. The Stop TB Partnership
estimates it will take $7.1 billion to monitor, diagnose and
treat drug-resistant TB in the developing world. As relatively
prosperous countries, India and China, which fund just  59
percent  and  67 percent  of their TB budgets respectively, should
become self-sufficient and, with other emerging economies,
contribute to the global effort.  Controlling drug-resistant TB is expensive, but so is
inaction. TB spreads easily through the air when an infected
person coughs, sneezes or even speaks. It respects no borders,
particularly in a world of increasing international travel. All
three Indian cities where the untreatable strain has been
identified --  New Delhi , Mumbai and Bangalore -- are popular
business destinations. The last time the U.S. faced a serious
outbreak of multidrug-resistant TB, in the late 1980s,  New York 
City alone spent more than $1 billion controlling it. Attacking
drug-resistant TB is not so much a cost as an investment.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on rethinking  capital controls ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on why Romney should  choose Chris Christie ;
William Pesek on the  Fukushima meltdown report ;  Ramesh Ponnuru 
finds  no silver lining  in the health-care ruling; Virginia
Postrel on what our  many pairs of shoes  say about us; Betsey
Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  wonder why the Fed doesn’t  ease
more aggressively ;  David Crane  on reining in  state health-care
liabilities .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 