-- PacSun Risks Wipeout as Investors Shun Surf Gear Seller: Retail
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-07-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/pacsun-risks-wipeout-as-investors-shun-surf-gear-seller-retail.html
Pacific Sunwear of California Inc. ,
which made surf and skate styles cool for millions of U.S.
teens, is trying to avoid a wipeout.  After popularizing such brands as Quiksilver and Hurley,
PacSun, as it’s known, alienated customers by trying to sell its
own apparel. Many decamped. So did investors; the shares have
 fallen  92 percent in the past five years. Now, as PacSun tries
to win back hearts and minds by retreating to its original
strategy, it faces growing competition from  Zumiez Inc. (ZUMZ)  and
 Tilly’s Inc. (TLYS) , which sell similar gear.  PacSun “lost credibility with their core market,”  David King , a senior research analyst at Roth Capital Partners LLC in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “The question is, ‘can
they get back to that?’”  It’s not as though action-sports apparel is becoming less
trendy. Fueled by the popularity of the Extreme Games on ESPN,
sales of skateboards, surf apparel, footwear and accessories
were $17 billion in 2010, the last year for which figures are
available, according to Board-Trac, an industry consultant based
in Trabuco Canyon, California.  And while consumers are still spending tentatively, surf-
and skate-inspired apparel retailers may have an opportunity to
grab a bigger part of the teen spending pie. Teens are moving
away from the “preppy” graphic Ts and hoodies sold by
 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and American Eagle Outfitters Inc. to an
eclectic mix of lifestyle brands, fueling the success of
retailers like Tilly’s and Zumiez,  Richard Jaffe , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York said in a May 29 note.  Tilly’s IPO  Zumiez has surged 37 percent this year, and in May Tilly’s
raised $107 million in an initial public offering, closing on
July 6 at $16.37. PacSun, based in Anaheim, California, has
advanced 4.7 percent this year, a performance that’s due in part
to stock purchases by Chief Executive Officer Gary Schoenfeld
and other directors.  “We truly believe we can stand out through our on-trend
and distinctive apparel, our unique mix of brands and the
emotional connection we’re once again establishing with
customers with our Golden State of Mind positioning,”
Schoenfeld said in a telephone interview, referring to a new
marketing campaign playing up PacSun’s  California  heritage.  Founded in 1982, PacSun introduced once-obscure skater and
snowboarding brands to mall-shopping teens. Sales peaked at
$1.44 billion in 2007. Revenue has  declined  every year since to
$833.8 million in the year ended Jan. 28, and the retailer is
closing stores. By the end of this fiscal year, PacSun will have
as few as 620 stores, about half the number it once had. To help
pay for the store closings, PacSun got a $60 million loan from
private-equity firm Golden Gate Capital in December.  Private Label  Former CEO Sally Kasaks, who led PacSun from October 2006
to June 2009, spearheaded a shift to higher-margin private label
lines, reducing brand assortment and cutting footwear out of
stores to compete with other mall-based retailers. The strategy,
made more difficult by the onset of the recession and a drop in
 consumer spending , failed to resonate with teens who craved
action sports brands and shoes, as well as junior girls who
could find a bigger variety of cheap fashion elsewhere.  By walking away from the branded market, Schoenfeld says
PacSun lost its status as a national platform for such emerging
brands as Vans Inc., the skate shoe company he ran until its
2004 sale to VF Corp.  Crystal Clear  “We’ve been crystal clear that we’re going to get back to
the old days, and get back to being a place where new emerging
brands would be excited to be in our stores and where customers
could rediscover new brands as well,” he said.  However, Zumiez and Tilly’s, founded in 1978 and 1982
respectively, have been using the same strategy. While both
retailers were established at about the same time as PacSun,
their expansion has taken off in the past five years.  Zumiez targets mostly action sport-oriented males with
hardware like skateboards and branded apparel. Sales at the
Everett, Washington-based company have jumped to $555.9 million
in the year ended Jan. 28 from $407.6 million three years
earlier and its store count has almost doubled in five years to
494 on April 28. The company projects expanding to as many as
700 locations, eclipsing PacSun in the next few years.  Given its focus on West Coast-inspired apparel, Tilly’s is
more of a direct threat to PacSun. Still, the  Irvine ,
California-based chain has fewer locations -- 145 as of April 28
-- that typically are situated outside malls.  Late Teens  PacSun is now targeting young men and women in their late
teens and early 20s, older than the sought-after customer three
to five years ago, according to Schoenfeld. The retailer has
added clothes from  emerging brands  like Diamond Supply Co., also
carried by Zumiez, and Young and Reckless, a label carried by
both Zumiez and Tilly’s. Schoenfeld also has brought in Nike and
Vans shoes and Oakley sunglasses, and wants to return to core
branded apparel for men and boho-chic styles for women.  Same-store sales at PacSun rose 1 percent in the first
quarter, the first increase for both men and women’s clothing
since 2005, evidence the chain is getting some traction. Still,
Zumiez posted a 12.9 percent increase in that period, and
Tilly’s said comparable-store sales rose 4.3 percent.  Michael Christianson, an 18-year-old from Roswell,  Georgia ,
bought jeans and shirts from PacSun last month, having never
shopped there before.  The retailer has “a lot of T-shirts that fit my style --
some other places usually do, Urban Outfitters, for example, but
Urban Outfitters is usually quite expensive,” Christianson
said. He said he liked the assortment and will be back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  