-- Pakistan Shuts Capital as Islamists Protest NATO Route Reopening
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-07-09T12:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/pakistan-shuts-capital-as-islamists-protest-nato-route-reopening.html
Pakistani authorities deployed
paramilitary forces in Islamabad and shopkeepers shut early as
thousands of supporters of an Islamist group converged on the
capital to protest the decision to reopen NATO supply routes.  The rally by about 8,000 members of the  Difah-e-Pakistan
Council , or Defense of  Pakistan  Council, a movement of parties
with links to the Taliban and other extremist groups, began
yesterday in the eastern city of Lahore. Protesters plan to
demonstrate in front of parliament later today after completing
the 300-kilometer (185-mile) journey, according to the
 Associated Press .  “The opening of NATO supply routes is a violation of
parliament resolutions,” Maulana  Samiul Haq , a senior leader of
the council, said in a speech in Lahore yesterday that was
broadcast by television channels. “This long march will free
our nation from rulers who are just serving U.S. interests.”  Trucks carrying supplies for U.S.-led forces fighting in
neighboring Afghanistan began crossing the border from Pakistan
last week after a seven-month blockade. The routes were reopened
after U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  apologized for the
killing of 24 Pakistani soldiers in a November border strike by
American helicopters.  Relations between the U.S. and Pakistan have been battered
by a series of disputes as the Obama administration plans its
exit from the 11-year war in neighboring Afghanistan. Pakistan’s
parliament called for a halt to missile attacks by U.S. unmanned
drone aircraft as it debated future ties with the government in
 Washington . The U.S. has demanded Pakistan stop guerrillas based
on its soil from attacking international coalition troops across
the frontier.  $100 Million a Month  Police and paramilitary forces have been deployed in
Islamabad to provide security, state-run Associated Press of
Pakistan cited Rehman Malik, a senior adviser to the  Interior
Ministry , as saying. Barbed-wire barriers were installed on main
roads leading to the parliament.  Other council leaders include Hafiz Saeed, founder of the
banned Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group which  India  blames for
plotting the 2008 raid on Mumbai, Hamid Gul, a retired Pakistani
intelligence chief with a long history of supporting militants,
and Syed Munawar Hasan, leader of Pakistan’s most powerful
Islamist party, the Jamaat-e-Islami.  The closing of the Pakistani supply routes forced the U.S.
and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to send material and
equipment into Afghanistan from the north, through Central Asia,
at an added cost that Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has
estimated at about $100 million a month.  For Pakistan’s government of newly installed Prime Minister
Raja Pervez Ashraf, which faces parliamentary elections by early
next year, agreeing to allow the resumption of NATO convoys
carries political risks. A June 27 survey of attitudes by the
Pew Research Center found that 74 percent of Pakistanis
considered the U.S. to be an enemy, up from 69 percent in 2011.  U.S.-led coalition troops in  Afghanistan  are aiming to
weaken the Taliban insurgent movement before handing over
security responsibilities to Afghan forces ahead of a withdrawal
from the country in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  