-- Palo Alto Leads Push to Raise $700 Million in IPOs
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-07-09T20:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/palo-alto-networks-seeks-as-much-as-229-million-in-ipo.html
Palo Alto Networks Inc. and Kayak
Software Corp. led companies that announced plans today to raise
more than half a billion in initial public offerings, a sign the
market is recovering from a monthlong drought following  Facebook
Inc. (FB) ’s disappointing debut.  Palo Alto Networks is seeking to raise as much as $229
million, while Kayak aims to raise as much as $87.5 million,
according to regulatory filings today.  Fender Musical
Instruments Corp. (FNDR) , Five Below Inc. and Durata Therapeutics Inc.
also set terms for their IPOs, bringing the total to almost $700
million.  Morgan Stanley is leading the IPOs for Kayak and Palo Alto
Networks, set to price July 19, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The sales follow the June IPO of ServiceNow Inc., the first
technology company the bank took public since leading Facebook’s
share sale, which froze the U.S. market for more than a month.
While ServiceNow surged in its debut, Palo Alto Networks and
Kayak will face investors who are more skeptical of IPO promises
from Morgan Stanley, said Bahl & Gaynor Inc.’s  Matt McCormick .  “Their only possible solution is to hit the ball out of
the park on their next couple launches, and the onus is on them
to succeed,” said McCormick, who helps oversee $6.2 billion at
the firm in Cincinnati. “Expectations are going to be high and
people are going to be looking for issues, and if they can
compete positively, that’s a win.”  Fender IPO  Fender, the largest seller of guitars in the U.S., filed
today to raise as much as $160.7 million in an IPO to repay
debt. Teen retailer Five Below filed to raise up to $134.6
million, while pharmaceutical company Durata disclosed plans to
raise as much as $81.3 million.  IPOs globally raised $41.3 billion in the three months
ended June 30, 34 percent less than in the same period a year
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least 50
companies shelved sales as  Europe ’s debt crisis spread, growth
prospects slowed in  China  and Facebook’s stock sank as much as
32 percent after the IPO.  ServiceNow raised $210 million on June 28, pricing the
shares above the planned range. New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
which led ServiceNow’s share sale, is on track to be the top
underwriter for technology and global IPOs, according to
Bloomberg data.  Internet Firewalls  The more successful the technology offerings, no matter how
small, the easier it will be for investors to forgive Morgan
Stanley for Facebook’s decline, McCormick said.  Palo Alto Networks said it plans to offer 4.7 million
shares for $34 to $37 each, according to a filing, while its
shareholders are offering 1.5 million. The company will list
under the symbol PANW on the  New York  Stock Exchange. Morgan
Stanley is leading the offering along with  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Nir Zuk co-founded Palo Alto Networks in 2005. Its
firewalls give companies customized control over what their
employees can access through the Internet, with products
installed at more than 5,300 companies, according to its
website.  The midpoint of Palo Alto Networks’s price range values
that company at about $2.36 billion, or 11 times sales of $220
million in the 12 months through April 30, Bloomberg data show.
That’s almost double the average price-to-sales ratio of 6 for
Juniper Networks Inc., Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.,
Fortinet Inc. and Sourcefire Inc., which Palo Alto Networks
names as competitors in its filing, Bloomberg data show.  Online Travel  In its filing today, Norwalk, Connecticut-based Kayak said
it plans to sell 3.5 million shares for $22 to $25 each. The
stock will list under the ticker KYAK on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  Kayak, an online travel site which first filed to go public
in November 2010, delayed its IPO roadshow in late May after
Facebook shares plunged 27 percent in their first two weeks of
trading, a person familiar with the situation said at the time.  Kayak was founded in 2004 by Daniel Stephen Hafner, the
chief executive officer, and Paul English, the chief technology
officer. They hold a combined 16 percent of the company’s voting
power. The biggest backers are General Catalyst Partners,
 Sequoia Capital ,  Accel Partners  and  Oak Investment Partners .  Valuations  The midpoint of Kayak’s price range would value the company
at about $906 million, or 3.7 times sales of $245 million in the
12 months through March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with the average trailing 12-month price-to-sales
ratio of about 3 for companies Kayak names as competitors in its
filing, including TripAdvisor Inc., Expedia Inc. and Orbitz
Worldwide Inc.  Morgan Stanley and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are leading Kayak’s
public market debut.  Fender and its stockholders are offering 10.7 million
shares at $13 to $15 each, according to a regulatory filing
today. Fender, based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , estimates net
proceeds to be about $88.2 million and didn’t disclose a date
for the IPO.  Fender, which traces its roots to 1946, makes the
Stratocaster, or “Strat,” one of the most popular electric
guitars and models inspired by musicians such as  Eric Clapton 
and John Mayer. The company, which increased sales 13 percent to
$700.6 million last year, sees growth coming from  emerging
markets  such as China and  India  as guitar-based music becomes
more popular in those nations.  The midpoint of the offering range would value Fender at
$369 million, or about 0.5 times sales of $704 million in the 12
months through April 1 and 26 times net income of $13.9 million
in the same period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and William Blair & Co. will lead
Fender’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  