-- Panasonic Restructuring Costs May Increase on Job Cuts
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-07-10T06:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/panasonic-restructuring-costs-may-increase-on-job-cuts.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , seeking to turn
around after a  record loss  last year, said restructuring costs
this year may exceed an initial estimate as the company takes
charges to cut jobs and accounts for depreciation of factories.  Restructuring  costs  this year may increase from the planned
41 billion yen ($515 million) announced in May, President
 Kazuhiro Tsuga  told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday. He didn’t
provide a new target.  Panasonic, planning to draft a new mid-term business
strategy by February, may rearrange businesses and consider
withdrawing from  sectors  that can’t be turned around in six
years, Tsuga said yesterday. Japanese consumer-electronics
makers including  Sony Corp. (6758) , Sharp Corp. and Panasonic are all
restructuring after competition with South Korea’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  pushed them into losses.  “The cost increase could be positive if Panasonic uses it
to slim down its headquarters,” said  Masahiko Ishino , an
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “The
company will need to explain if it’s because of depreciation of
factories, as the market thinks they were finished with that
last fiscal year.”  Panasonic fell  1.3 percent to 610 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading, extending its decline this year to 6.7 percent. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has risen 4.8 percent.  Preemptive Move  The  manufacturer , the biggest employer among publicly
traded companies in Japan with 330,767 workers as of March, will
reorganize its headquarters and eliminate redundancies to
recover from the loss, Tsuga said last month after taking over
as president.  “We need to make a preemptive move that increases the
costs,” Tsuga said yesterday. “We should allow our sales to
fall to some extent, because we are focused on improving
profitability.”  Panasonic may cut the number of  staff  at its headquarters
to “a few hundred” from about 7,000, Tsuga said. The office
will narrow its focus to  investor relations  and managing overall
business portfolios as early as October, he said in June.  Panasonic may rearrange its businesses into four areas,
Tsuga said June 28. They are household appliances, including TV
sets and solar panels; business-use goods such as air-
conditioners; mobility products, such as car navigation systems
and rechargeable batteries for electric cars; and personal
products, such as compact cameras and shavers.  Sony’s Restructuring  Panasonic, Japan’s biggest  appliance maker , said in May it
may post net income of 50 billion yen for the year started April
1, compared with a 772 billion-yen loss the previous 12 months.
The  record loss  included 267 billion yen in charges to write
down assets at its TV business, 250 billion yen in similar
charges for its battery subsidiary Sanyo Electric Co., and 148
billion yen to promote restructuring.  In  Japan , sales of digital appliances including TV and Blu-
ray players fell short of its expectations in the last quarter,
Tsuga said.  Sony, Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics exporter, said
in April it will cut 10,000 jobs, or about 6 percent of its
workforce, after a record loss last fiscal year.  Fumio Ohtsubo, Tsuga’s predecessor, eliminated 36,000 jobs
last fiscal year while speeding up a shift toward solar panels
and energy-saving appliances in an attempt to move away from the
money-losing TV business. The company’s  cash and near cash 
declined 41 percent last fiscal year to 574 billion yen as of
March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its  credit rating  on Panasonic in
February to A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade.  In  China , Panasonic may consider joining hands with other
companies for its TV business, Tsuga said. Combining its system
chips business with  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  and Renesas Electronics Corp.
is an option, he said, adding nothing has been decided.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  