-- Patriot Coal Files for Bankruptcy Protection in New York
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-07-10T21:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/patriot-coal-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-new-york.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCX)  sought  bankruptcy
protection  after milder winters and a shift to natural gas sent
coal demand to a 24-year low.  The St. Louis-based company’s Chapter 11 petition listed
$3.57 billion in assets and $3.07 billion in debts. The filing
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  said dozens of the
company’s units would join in the filing.  “The coal industry is undergoing a major transformation
and Patriot’s existing capital structure prevents it from making
the necessary adjustments to achieve long-term success,” Chief
Executive Officer Irl F. Engelhardt said in a statement that
cited lower thermal coal prices, canceled customer contracts and
rising costs for environmental liabilities for increasing
pressure on the company in recent months.  Patriot already has a loan to finance operations in
bankruptcy and expects its mining operations and customer
shipments to continue through the case, the company said in its
statement. The $802 million loan, which still requires court
approval, is through Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays
Bank Plc and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. as joint
lead arrangers.  The company intends to “emerge as a viable and strong
competitor in the coal industry,” Chief Financial Officer Mark Schroeder said yesterday in court papers. Patriot needs to trim
labor costs because of declining prices and demand for coal,
along with regulations that will require the company to spend
hundreds of millions of dollars on water-treatment facilities
and pension benefits in coming years, he said.  Pay, Benefits  The company will also seek court approval to pay employees
and continue health-care and other benefits, according to the
statement.  Patriot has 13 active mining complexes in Appalachia and
the Illinois Basin and controls an estimated 1.9 billion tons of
coal reserves, according to its  website . It sells thermal coal
to electricity generators and metallurgical coal to steel and
coke producers.  Wilmington Trust Co., and  U.S. Bank  NA were among Patriot’s
largest unsecured creditors, according to court papers.
Wilmington is a trustee to $250 million in notes and U.S. Bank
is a trustee to $200 million in notes. The filing listed
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  State Street Corp. (STT)  and Vanguard Group Inc. as
entities that control 5 percent or more of the voting stock in
the company.  Coal Use  U.S. coal use in the first quarter was the lowest for that
period since 1988, according to the Energy Information
Administration. Utilities have switched some  power plants  to
cheaper natural gas as regulations restricting emissions make
coal costlier to burn. Gas fell to a decade low in April amid a
surplus of the fuel.  This year, Patriot has reduced thermal coal production by
more than 4 million tons, trimmed costs and laid off 1,000
employees or contractors, according to a May 9  filing  with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Patriot has worked to refinance debt since at least May,
when it said it hired Blackstone Group LP while meeting with
lenders to complete loan and credit facilities. Also that month,
Engelhardt took over as Patriot’s CEO after Richard M. Whiting
resigned.  Forecast Cut  The company postponed closing a $625 million, 9.5 percent
five-year loan after saying May 14 that a key customer might
default on a contract for coal that had fallen as much as $30 a
ton below the original contracted price. The same day, the
company cut a 2012 forecast for sales of steelmaking coal.  On June 1, Patriot filed a complaint in federal court in
Charleston,  West Virginia , alleging that Fort Meyers, Florida-
based Keystone Industries LLC breached a contract to buy
“hundreds of thousands of tons” of coal. Later that month,
Principal Accounting Officer Christopher Knibb resigned and was
replaced by Chief Financial Officer Mark Schroeder, according to
filings with the SEC.  Patriot got 87 percent of its 2011 revenue from coal mined
in the Central Appalachian region of the U.S., which includes
 Kentucky  and West Virginia. Its operating costs in Appalachia
were $71.06 a ton last year while the average price of Central
Appalachian coal futures was $75.86.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-12900, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  