-- Patriot Said to Get Funding Ahead of Possible Bankruptcy
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s ,   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-07-09T21:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/patriot-said-to-get-funding-ahead-of-possible-bankruptcy.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCX) , the U.S. fuel
producer that has lost more than $7 billion in value, has lined
up financing ahead of a bankruptcy filing that may come as soon
as today, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The so-called debtor-in-possession financing is being
provided by Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc and Bank of America
Corp., said the people, who asked not to be identified as the
process is private.  Patriot is the biggest casualty so far of the slump in the
U.S. coal industry, which has seen tens of millions of tons of
production cutbacks this year. Patriot, which owns mines in
 Kentucky  and  West Virginia , this year idled some of its mines,
reduced a 2012 forecast for sales of steelmaking coal, and
warned of a potential default by a key customer.  Coal miners are struggling because of a combination of a
warm winter, utilities switching some generating capacity to
cheaper natural gas and regulatory moves to curb emissions from
coal-burning  power plants . U.S. coal use in the first quarter
was the lowest for that period since 1988, according to the
Energy Information Administration.  The miner’s shares fell 72 percent to 61 cents by 4:15 p.m.
New York time. Spun off five years ago by  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ,
Patriot has tumbled 93 percent this year. The company’s market
value peaked at $7.5 billion in 2008.  Patriot’s $250 million of 8.25 percent notes due in April
2018 dropped 7.9 cents to 34.1 cents on the dollar as of 4:57
p.m., according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds are yielding
36 percent, Trace data show.  Working on Loans  Patriot, Citigroup, Barclays and Bank of America didn’t
immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  The St. Louis-based company said in May it hired Blackstone
Group LP as it worked with lenders to arrange $625 million of
loans and credit facilities to refinance other debt. A
commitment letter from Citigroup, Barclays and Natixis expired
July 6.  Chairman Irl Engelhardt took over as Patriot’s chief
executive officer on May 29 after Richard M. Whiting resigned.  Patriot last month sued Keystone Industries LLC over claims
it broke a purchase contract for “hundreds of thousands of
tons” of coal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  