-- Paulson Funds Fell in June as Rally Undercut Euro Wager
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-07-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/paulson-funds-fell-in-june-as-rally-undercut-euro-wager.html
John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-
fund manager seeking to reverse record losses in 2011, is
digging himself into a deeper hole with a bet that Europe is
facing a financial crisis.  The $22 billion firm had losses in all its funds last month
as stock markets rose. The losses were led by a 7.9 percent drop
in his Advantage Plus Fund, according to an update to investors
obtained by Bloomberg News. That leaves the fund, which seeks to
profit from corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies
and uses leverage to amplify returns, down 16 percent this year.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment on the returns.  Paulson, 56, who became a billionaire by betting against
the U.S. subprime mortgage market, told investors in April that
he was shorting European sovereign bonds and buying credit-
default swaps on the region’s debt, or protection against the
chance of default. In February he said the euro is
“structurally flawed,” and will eventually fall apart.  “The risk of a European financial crisis is the largest
risk in the market,” Paulson told investors in a letter dated
yesterday, in which he said hedges and short sales caused the
losses. “Our funds are positioned to protect capital when
market gyrations produce drawdowns.”  Hedges are offsetting trades and shorts are bets that the
prices of securities will fall.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  jumped 5 percent last
month, including dividends. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
capped the biggest June rally since 1999 as European leaders
agreed to relax conditions on emergency loans for Spanish banks
and possible help for  Italy , measures that won’t eradicate the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis, Paulson said.  ‘Temporary’ Impact  “The plans announced at the end of June will prove
insufficient in solving the structural problems of the  euro
zone ,” Paulson wrote in the letter. “Like the passage of the
Greek bailout plan in March, the plans’ impact on the markets
will prove temporary and short-lived. These plans do not solve
the productivity gap among euro-zone countries, current account
deficits, government deficits, unemployment, and capital
outflows.”  Paulson relayed his concerns about the  European debt crisis 
to investors this year after losing 51 percent in 2011 in his
Advantage Plus fund, which was driven by an ill-timed bet on a
U.S. economic recovery. The gold-share class of the fund
declined 6.6 percent in June and 14 percent this year. Investors
can choose between gold- and dollar-denominated versions of most
of Paulson’s funds. Paulson’s Advantage Fund, which employs a
similar strategy as the Advantage Plus Fund, fell 5.7 percent in
June and 12 percent this year. Its gold shares slumped 3 percent
in June and 8 percent in the first half of the year.  Gold Fund  Paulson’s Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other
gold-related investments, fell 0.7 percent last month and 23
percent this year. Losses in gold-mining stocks have contributed
to declines in the Advantage funds and Gold Fund this year. The
59-member  S&P/TSX Global Gold Index (SPTSGD)  slumped 0.4 percent in June
and 15 percent in the first half of 2012, including reinvested
dividends. Bullion gained 2.6 percent last month after  Europe ’s
leaders took steps to resolve the debt crisis, boosting the
outlook for global growth and commodities demand.  Paulson’s Recovery Fund, which invests in assets Paulson
believes will benefit from a long-term economic rebound such as
financial services, insurance, hotels and real estate companies,
fell 2.3 percent in June and gained 3.5 percent in the first
half of 2012. The gold shares slumped 0.7 percent last month and
advanced 3.6 percent this year.  Partners Enhanced  The Paulson Partners Enhanced fund, which invests in the
shares of companies that are involved in mergers, declined 4.9
percent in June and climbed 4.1 percent this year. The gold
share class fell 2.2 percent last month and gained 4.4 percent
in 2012.  Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund decreased 2.8 percent
last month and advanced 2.2 percent in the first half of the
year. Its gold shares fell 1.5 percent in June and climbed 2.2
percent in 2012. The fund jumped 590 percent in 2007, largely
because of Paulson’s bets against the U.S. subprime mortgage
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  