-- Pennsylvania Fracking Can Put Water at Risk, Duke Study Finds
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-07-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/pennsylvania-fracking-can-put-water-sources-at-risk-study-finds.html
A study that found hydraulic
fracturing for natural gas puts drinking-water supplies in
 Pennsylvania  at risk of contamination may renew a long-running
debate between industry and activists.  The report by researchers at Duke University, published
yesterday in the Proceedings of the  National Academy of
Sciences , said a chemical analysis of 426 shallow groundwater
samples found matches with brine found in rock more than one
mile (1.2 kilometers) deep, suggesting paths that would let gas
or water flow up after drilling. While the flows weren’t linked
to hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the study found natural
routes for seepage into wells or streams.  “The industry has always claimed that this is a separation
zone, and there is no way fluids could flow” from the shale to
the aquifers, Avner Vengosh, a professor at the Nicholas School
of the Environment at  Duke University  and one of the study’s
eight authors, said in an interview. “We see evidence of
hydrologic connectivity.”  Gas drilling by fracking is booming in the Marcellus gas
field, mainly in Pennsylvania, with  permits  issued for more than
11,000 wells mostly in the northeastern counties, such as
Bradford and Susquehanna, studied by the scientists. The
drilling has been an economic boon for the state and helped
drive down natural gas prices nationwide to decade lows.  It has also raised fears among citizens and environmental
groups about water contamination from the chemical mixture used
to break apart the shale or from gas leaking into water wells.  Dimock Tests  The town of Dimock, where some residents say water turned
toxic after gas-drilling nearby, is in Susquehanna County. The
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency tested water in Dimock, and
found none with unsafe levels of contaminants.  “We have not seen any evidence that hydraulic fracturing
has contaminated groundwater in Pennsylvania,” said Kevin
Sunday, a spokesman for Pennsylvania’s Department of
Environmental Protection, in an e-mail.  In fracking, water, sand and chemicals are injected into
deep shale formations to crack the rock and free trapped gas.
The Marcellus formation, stretching from  New York  to  Tennessee ,
may hold enough gas to supply the U.S. for three years.  Gas is likely to leak up from the shale formation first,
before water or drilling fluids, Vengosh said. The study found
that the minerals in shallow wells flowed there naturally, over
time, and didn’t find a connection between gas drilling and
water contamination.  ‘No Correlation’  Industry representatives said that was the most important
finding.  “The good news is that the researchers make it crystal
clear that the phenomena they observed had nothing to do with
shale development,” Chris Tucker, a spokesman for the industry-
backed group Energy In Depth in Washington, said in an e-mail.  Still, some of the homes tested are “at higher risk” of
contamination due to underlying geology, Nathaniel Warner, the
lead author on the Duke study, said in a statement.  The results show that “these areas could be at greater
risk of contamination from shale-gas development because of a
pre-existing network of cross-formational pathways that has
enhanced hydraulic connectivity to deeper geological
formations,” according to the study.  Terry Engelder, a professor of geosciences at  Pennsylvania
State University  who studies geological formations in the
region, reviewed the Duke paper and recommended against
publication in the journal, he said.  “The science on this paper is solid,” he said in an
interview. “It’s the leap of faith they take in their
interpretation and to focus everybody’s attention on the
Marcellus” gas drilling.  It’s not clear how long it took for the brine to migrate
into groundwater, and it could take thousands of years, he said.
And once fracking takes place, gas and water will flow into the
well and not up through any fissures that may exist. “The
natural flow would be into the well bore,” Engelder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  