-- Peregrine Sued by CFTC, Investigated After Suicide Try
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-10T22:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/peregrine-investigated-over-missing-money-after-suicide-attempt.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., a
futures brokerage, is being probed by the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation and sued by a commodities regulator in the wake of
a suicide attempt by the firm founder Russell Wasendorf Sr.  Peregrine has a $200 million “shortfall” in customer
funds, according to a Commodity Futures Trading Commission
complaint filed today in federal court in Chicago.  “The whereabouts of the funds is currently unknown,” the
CFTC said, alleging they were misappropriated by the firm and
its founder.  Wasendorf is in a coma after trying to kill himself
yesterday outside Peregrine’s  Cedar Falls , Iowa, offices,
according to the agency’s complaint, which names him and the
company as defendants. The CFTC seeks a court order freezing
Peregrine assets and preserving its paperwork.  The  National Futures Association , an industry self-
regulator, said  yesterday  that Peregrine reported it had about
$400 million in customer-segregated funds on or about June 29,
of which $225 million was on deposit at  U.S. Bank .  The regulator said it learned that its chairman “may have
falsified bank records” after finding only $5 million on
deposit.  “We are involved in the investigation,” Sandy Breault, an
FBI spokeswoman in Omaha,  Nebraska , said today in a telephone
interview. The bureau is “currently reviewing the facts of the
situation,” she said.  ‘Accounting Irregularities’  “Some accounting irregularities are being investigated
regarding company accounts” after “a recent emergency
involving Wasendorf, a suicide attempt,” Peregrine told its
customers yesterday in an e-mailed message. A copy was obtained
by Bloomberg News and confirmed by Patricia Campbell, a company
spokeswoman in  Chicago .  The National Futures Association “and other officials”
have frozen all customer money, the firm’s e-mail said.
Wasendorf owns the entire firm, it said.  Campbell today didn’t reply to voice-mail and e-mail
requests for comment on the federal probe and CFTC lawsuit.  Sheriff  Tony Thompson  of Black Hawk County, Iowa, said
Wasendorf was found in his car with a note, whose contents the
sheriff declined to divulge. A hose ran from the vehicle’s
exhaust pipe into the passenger compartment, he said.  Note Found  An officer with the sheriff’s office arrived at the
Peregrine offices just after 8 a.m. yesterday where paramedics
were attending to Wasendorf, according to the police report
which was e-mailed to Bloomberg News. Wasendorf was breathing as
he was taken from his car and was incoherent, according to the
report. He was later air lifted to University of  Iowa  Hospitals
in Iowa City, it said.  “A note was found in the vehicle that indicated possible
discrepancies with accounts at Peregrine Financial Group,” the
report said.  Peregrine started as Wasendorf & Son Inc. in 1980,
according a time line on the firm’s  website . It evolved into
Peregrine in 1990 and moved its headquarters to Chicago. Two
years later it was incorporated as a futures commission
merchant.  In 2009 the firm opened a new office at One Peregrine Way
in Cedar Falls, according to the website.  The possible loss of customer money at Peregrine follows
the bankruptcy of  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Holdings Inc. last year, where as
much as $1.6 billion in missing client cash has yet to be
recovered by trustees overseeing the liquidation of the firm.  Jefferies Group  Futures industry leaders including  CME Group Inc. (CME)  Chairman
 Terrence Duffy  said MF Global’s failure was the first time a
futures brokerage’s collapse led to the loss of customer money,
which is supposed to be segregated in separate accounts.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  has a clearing relationship with
Peregrine and after the broker couldn’t meet a margin call it
“began an orderly liquidation” of the firm’s trades, the New
York-based investment banking firm said today in a statement.  “Jefferies does not expect to incur any loss in respect of
PFG,” it said in the statement. The bank said it will hold all
proceeds from the liquidation in segregated accounts.  The NFA prohibited Peregrine from soliciting or accepting
new customer accounts or funds, placing trades for customers
except to liquidate positions or distributing customer money.  Wasendorf invested in Sentinel Management Group Inc., the
futures broker that filed for bankruptcy in 2007. He said he
lost a “tiny” amount of money in the collapse yet had many
friends and colleagues who were among the victims.  “It’s disbelief that someone could get away with this kind
of shell accounting,” Wasendorf said at the time.  The brokerage offered futures, cash, foreign exchange and
options on futures trading.  Receiver’s Lawsuit  Peregrine was sued this year by a court-appointed receiver
in  Minnesota  and accused of ignoring red flags that Peregrine
customer Trevor Cook was operating a Ponzi scheme.  Cook was sentenced to 25 years in prison for operating
“one of the largest Ponzi schemes in Minnesota history,”
receiver R.J. Zayed said in the complaint.  Supposedly profitable investments by Cook and others with
Peregrine “ultimately lost more than $30 million” in accounts
that Peregrine “permitted Cook to open, maintain and manage in
the face of overwhelming red flags of fraud or insolvency,” the
suit said.  Cook and others “transferred tens of millions of dollars,
totaling approximately $48 million,” to Peregrine accounts from
their customers.  Jennifer Muchoney, whom the lawsuit lists as a lead
attorney in the case for Peregrine, couldn’t be reached
yesterday after normal business hours in Chicago.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York 
at   mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 