-- Peter Sauer, Ex-Hoops Star, BofA Executive, Dies at 35
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-07-10T20:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/peter-sauer-ex-hoops-star-bofa-executive-dies-at-35.html
Peter Sauer, a former  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  executive who was captain of the Stanford
University basketball team that reached the Final Four in 1998,
died after collapsing during a recreational game. He was 35.  Sauer collapsed and struck his head on the court during his
team’s July 8 game at Gardella Park in White Plains,  New York ,
the Journal News newspaper  reported . The city lists the adult
basketball league as “NCAA-certified, competitive” with “top-
notch players.” He died of an enlarged heart and suffered a
skull fracture, the Westchester County Medical Examiner’s office
said today in an e-mail following an autopsy.  After playing professionally in  Europe , Sauer traded
basketball for finance in 2001, when he joined Zurich-based
 Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  in New York, according to Steve Keller, who
hired him and became a friend. Keller brought Sauer to Bank of
America after moving there himself in 2006.  “He was truly one of a kind and universally adored,”
Keller, now a managing director at UBS AG in New York, said in
an e-mail. “I am personally devastated, as are a multitude of
my colleagues at UBS and throughout the business.”  Keller, who was captain of  Yale University ’s 1990-1991
basketball team, added that Sauer was “a devoted husband and
father who couldn’t stop talking about his three young
daughters.”  New Venture  Sauer joined  Bank of America  in 2007 and was a director in
equity research sales, said Jessica Oppenheim, a company
spokeswoman in New York. She said he recently left the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm to pursue new ventures.
Keller said Sauer had planned to raise money for  hedge funds 
through independent retail-brokerage groups, a venture that was
just getting started.  “Peter was a terrific friend, competitor and colleague,”
Bank of America Co-Chief Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag said
in a statement.  In March, with Stanford’s team in town for the National
Invitation Tournament, Sauer led players and coaches on a tour
of Bank of America’s New York headquarters, according to a
university  news release .  Sauer and his Stanford class of 1999 teammates reached the
NCAA tournament all four of their seasons and won the Pacific-10
title in 1999, a first for the university. A forward, he stood 6
feet, 7 inches tall, averaged 7.9 points and 4.2 rebounds for
his career, and was team captain his junior and senior years,
according to university  records .  Biggest Game  Stanford’s alumni magazine  reported  in 1998 that Sauer was
a “business buff” who turned a hypothetical $100,000 “into
millions” for an investment class.  In the 1998 NCAA tournament, Stanford defeated  Rhode Island 
to represent the Midwest region in the Final Four. It lost by
one point, 86-85, to  Kentucky , which went on to win the
championship. Sauer’s three-pointer with 9.2 seconds left were
the final points of the game, according to a New York Times
account.  When Sauer graduated with an economics degree, his 124
games played ranked fourth in school history, according to a
Stanford  website . His class of seniors on the team ranked second
in both scoring and rebounding overall for the school.  ESPN basketball analyst Dick Vitale wrote yesterday on his
Twitter feed: “Heartbreaking. A fantastic young guy gone too
early.”  Pro Ball  Peter M. Sauer was born on Nov. 9, 1976, in  St. Louis  and
grew up in Pittsburgh, where he was a star player at Shady Side
Academy, graduating as the school’s career scoring leader, the
 Associated Press  reported.  After  Stanford , he signed with the  Atlanta Hawks  of the
 National Basketball Association  and was cut in the summer of
1999, according to a Pittsburgh Post-Gazette profile in July
2000. He then moved to Greece to play for the B.C. Iraklis
Thessaloniki professional team, shunning minor leagues in the
U.S.  “Basketball will take me places and afford me experiences
I might not have had,” Sauer told the Post-Gazette. “But it is
not my life. I see myself playing maybe three to five more years
and then going out and getting a real job and living a more
normal existence.”  He played a season in Greece, then one in  Italy . He married
the former Amanda Swank in 2001, and they moved to  New York
City , according to the Post-Gazette.  Survivors include his wife and their daughters; a younger
brother, Alex; and his parents, Georgia and Mark Sauer, the
Post-Gazette said. His father is a former president of the
Pittsburgh Pirates baseball team and St. Louis Blues National
Hockey League club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  