-- PPR Confirms It’s in Talks to Acquire Chinese Luxury Company
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-07-09T10:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/ppr-confirms-it-s-in-talks-to-acquire-chinese-luxury-company.html
PPR SA (PP) , the French owner of Gucci,
said it’s in discussions to buy a Chinese luxury company to
bolster growth in its largest market for high-end goods.  Talks are at an early stage and the acquisition may be
completed this year, PPR Chief Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said in an interview in today’s  Hong Kong Economic
Times . PPR spokesman Paul Michon confirmed the interview when
contacted by Bloomberg News, though declined to comment further.  Pinault said in May he was “uber optimistic” on PPR’s
prospects in China. Revenue at PPR’s luxury division, which
includes Gucci,  Bottega Veneta  and  Yves Saint Laurent , climbed
18 percent in the first quarter, excluding currency swings and
acquisitions, led by a 20 percent increase in  emerging markets .  PPR is reorganizing to focus on  luxury goods  and so-called
sports-lifestyle brands such as Puma to tap rising demand for
branded apparel and accessories in Asia and Latin America. The
company, which sold furniture retailer Conforama last year, also
plans to sell online retailer Redcats and the Fnac electronics
and media chain, with some proceeds being used for acquisitions.  Small- and medium-sized companies with growth potential
would interest PPR, which has looked at targets in Brazil and
Asia, according to Pinault. The Paris-based company agreed to
buy Italian suitmaker Brioni Roman Style SpA for less than 350
million euros ($430 million) in November and surf, skate and
snowboarding clothier Volcom Inc. for $608 million in May 2011.  PPR would be interested in acquiring a Chinese brand “with
its own identity” that doesn’t follow the European concept of
luxury goods, Pinault said in September. The company, which is
seeking to expand in jewelry, “looked at a brand that was born
in Hong Kong, but it’s too small,” he said at the time.  Hermes International SCA (RMS) , the Paris-based maker of Kelly
handbags, already owns a Chinese luxury brand, having opened its
first store under the Shang Xia label in Shanghai in 2010.  PPR was down 0.4 percent at 112.45 euros at 11:48 a.m. in
Paris trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  