-- Putin Says West Uses ‘Rocket-Bomb’ Methods to Maintain Clout
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-09T17:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/putin-says-west-uses-rocket-bomb-methods-to-maintain-clout-1-.html
The West is seeking to maintain its
global influence via the use of force and intervention in
conflicts triggered by the Arab Spring, Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  said, vowing to stop such efforts in  Syria .  “Our partners often resort to unilateral actions, in
violation of international law,” Putin said today in a speech
to Russian ambassadors in Moscow. “This manifests itself in so-
called humanitarian operations, the export of rocket-bomb
democracy and interference in internal conflicts.”  Putin, who last year condemned the NATO-led air campaign
that led to the ousting of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and the
loss of billions of dollars of Russian contracts as a
“crusade,” warned against a similar scenario in Syria.  Russia accuses the U.S. and its allies of having misused
United Nations approval for military action to protect civilians
in  Libya  and is locked in dispute with Western states over their
demands for Russian ally, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, to
step down. Sixteen months of violence between Assad’s forces and
rebels has killed more than 10,000 people, according to the UN.  Putin reiterated  Russia ’s position that the conflict in
Syria should be solved via dialogue and not force.  ‘Tragic Events’  “The tragic events in Libya are for all to see, we can’t
allow this scenario to be repeated in other countries, such as
Syria,” he said. “We need to do everything to force the
conflicting sides to achieve peaceful political solutions to all
disputed issues.”  World powers adopted a plan for a Syrian transition
government on June 30, altering a draft agreement proposed by
Annan after Russia objected to language that would have
prohibited members of Assad’s inner circle from joining a
transitional government.  More than 70 percent of Syria’s population is  Sunni Muslim .
Assad and much of the ruling elite are members of the Alawite
community, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  Assad has blamed much of the fighting on foreigners and
extremists and along with Russia has accused Qatar and Syria of
arming the insurgents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  