-- Qatar Air to Get New Wing on Airbus A380s After Spurning Fix
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 2012-07-09T13:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/qatar-air-to-get-new-wing-on-airbus-a380s-after-spurning-fix-1-.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. will receive an
upgraded version of Airbus SAS’s A380 superjumbo after refusing
to take jets with wing faults requiring modifications later,
Chief Executive Officer Akbar  Al Baker  said.  “Qatar Air insisted that Airbus provide us with the new,
certified wing for the A380 and Airbus has kindly obliged,” Al
Baker said today at the Farnborough air show. “We will receive
the A380 with the new wing which will not require
modification.”  The second-biggest Middle East carrier will take its first
A380 in January 2014, the CEO said. Toulouse, France-based
Airbus had said previously that all examples delivered through
the beginning of 2014 would suffer from the wing-rib defect and
require both short-term fixes should cracks develop and a
permanent repair later that can take eight weeks per plane.  The European Aviation Safety Agency, the region’s flight-
safety regulator, said July 5 that its final approval for a
redesign of the wing would come by the end of this year.  Qatar Air will give Airbus “the benefit of the doubt”
over the largest version of its A350 wide-body plane, which the
carrier has previously suggested might fail to measure up to the
required performance criteria, Al Baker said.  Still Profitable  “They have been very forthcoming,” he said. “They have
been listening to us and I think they’ll get things right.”  The Doha-based airline posted a profit of $206 million in
the year ended March 31, the CEO said, adding that while
earnings may be lower this year it will remain profitable even
as economies slow.  “We have no decline in passenger numbers, quite the
contrary,” the executive said, adding that his expansion plans
are being frustrated by the inability of manufacturers to
further accelerate deliveries.  Qatar Air last year took a 35 percent stake in Cargolux
Airlines International SA,  Europe ’s biggest freight-only
carrier, and is interested in any further opportunities to
expand its “footprint,” Al Baker said.  The Gulf carrier, which competes locally with Dubai-based
Emirates, the largest international airline, and Abu Dhabi-based
Etihad, serves a network of 117 destinations and plans to
announce a further batch of new routes in coming weeks, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in Farnborough via 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net 
Olivia Sterns in Farnborough via 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  