-- Queens Park Rangers Sign Park Ji-Sung From Manchester United
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-09T15:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/queens-park-rangers-sign-park-ji-sung-from-manchester-united.html
English Premier League soccer team
Queens Park Rangers signed  South Korea  international Park Ji- Sung from  Manchester United  on a two-year contract.  Financial terms for the 31-year-old midfielder’s contract
weren’t disclosed. He’s moving for a transfer fee of 2 million
pounds ($3.1 million), the Manchester Evening News reported
earlier.  Park helped United win four Premier League titles and the
Champions League during his seven years at the club, making more
than 200 appearances and scoring 27 goals. He’s one of six
offseason signings by west London team QPR, along with  Ryan Nelsen ,  Andy Johnson , Rob Green, Samba Diakite and loan signing
Fabio da Silva, who’s also from United.  “On a football level Ji is someone I have admired from
afar for years,” QPR manager  Mark Hughes  told a televised news
conference. “He wore the red shirt of Manchester United in a
distinguished way and he will bring a great deal to the team.
It’s a very exciting time for QPR.”  QPR owner  Tony Fernandes , who controls Malaysia’s AirAsia
Bhd., is keen to increase the profile of the club and described
Park as a “global star,” whose signing shows “our
determination and our ambition to build this club.”  Born in Seoul, Park began his career at Kyoto Purple Sanga
in Japan. He represented South Korea in the 2002  World Cup ,
where the nation reached the semifinals on home soil, before
following the national team manager  Guus Hiddink  to PSV
Eindhoven the same year. He switched to United from the Dutch
team in July 2005.  “I know QPR want to improve and have ambitions to reach
the next level and I will try my best to help,” Park told
reporters. “There were other offers but nothing compared to
QPR.”  Top Flight  QPR was promoted back to the top flight in 2011 after a 15-
year absence. Fernandes bought the club last August.  In January this year, Fernandes fired manager  Neil Warnock ,
replacing him with Hughes, a former Manchester United player
who’s also coached clubs including Manchester City and Fulham.
Under Hughes, QPR finished a point above the three-team
relegation zone last season.  “I said at the end of the season we didn’t want to be in
the same position next season and I stand by that, we are in a
better place now,” Hughes said.  Fernandes is continuing to search for the site of a new
stadium for QPR, whose current capacity is about 18,000, the
lowest in the top division. While progress is being made, he
said today, he did not go into specifics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  