-- Romney’s Hamptons Fundraising Blitz Draws Beach Protest
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-09T17:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/r-romney-s-hamptons-fundraising-blitz-draws-beach-protest.html
Protesters unfurled a “Koch Kills”
banner and shouted “shame on you” as wealthy donors to
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  rounded
a corner in Range Rovers, Denalis and other  luxury vehicles  on
their way to a fundraiser at the Southampton,  New York  beach
house of David Koch, an energy billionaire.  Details about yesterday’s $50,000 per-person dinner were
spare. Brothers David and Charles Koch closely guard their
privacy and prefer to spend their political dollars through non-
profit groups that don’t disclose their donors -- even as
they’ve publicly stated a desire to oust President  Barack Obama .  Obama and surrogates in battleground states will contrast
the president’s and Romney’s approaches toward the middle class
with a series of events this week. Obama today called on
Congress to approve a yearlong extension of the Bush-era tax
cuts on annual earnings of less than $250,000 while allowing
rates to rise for higher earners.  The president will travel to Iowa tomorrow and also is
scheduled to hold local television interviews as his campaign
kicks off events in other states, including New Hampshire,
Nevada, Colorado and Florida.  ‘Koch Problem’  After an invitation to the Koch evening event for Romney
surfaced publicly, MoveOn.org,  Occupy Wall Street  and other
groups that support Democratic causes took note, busing in about
100 protesters from Manhattan and flying a plane trailing a
banner that said: “Romney has a Koch problem.”  Midway through the event, the protesters took to the beach,
making a three-quarters-mile trek to the ocean-front backyard of
David and Julia Koch’s home. They were kept at bay there by an
entourage of Secret Service agents posted on a bluff between the
beach and tents in the backyard. Some party-goers briefly peeked
at the unfolding scene, smiling as the opposition shouted,
“Voters in, money out.”  “After three-and-a-half disappointing years in office,
President Obama and his liberal allies are desperate to divert
attention from his broken promises and failed record,” said
Richard Gorka, a Romney spokesman, in an e-mail.  The Koch event was one of a trio of fundraisers in the
Hamptons for Romney yesterday. Earlier, the candidate attended a
lunch at “The Creeks,” Ron Perelman’s 57-acre East Hampton’s
estate. Perelman is chairman and chief executive of McAndrews &
Forbes Holdings Inc., which owns cosmetics maker  Revlon Inc. (REV)   Featured Guest  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
was a featured guest at the $5,000-per-person lunch.  Romney then made an afternoon visit to the beach home of
Clifford Sobel, ambassador to Brazil under former President
 George W. Bush . Sobel’s place is a short drive away from David
Koch’s residence. Romney’s campaign didn’t allow reporters to
attend any of the three events and declined to provide details
about them.  Andrew Sabin, president of a precious-metals company and
co-host of the Perelman lunch, told the New York Times the three
fundraisers were expected to raise $3 million to support
Romney’s candidacy.  It was the gathering at the Koch home, which has an
assessed value of $18 million, that attracted the organized
protest.  ‘A Koch Party’  “You’re invited... to a Koch party!” a website called
“the Occupied  Wall Street  Journal” announced, supplying
readers with a map to the Southampton home.  David and Charles Koch each own 42 percent of closely held
Wichita, Kansas-based  Koch Industries , have a combined net worth
of $70.8 billion, and are the seventh and eighth richest people
in the world, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires index .  The  Democratic National Committee  released an ad yesterday
that highlighted Romney’s Koch fundraiser and making the party’s
case on how the wealthy could benefit from the election of the
former Massachusetts governor.  “Oil billionaire  David Koch  is hosting a fundraiser for
millionaire Mitt Romney at his Hampton’s estate this weekend,”
the ad begins. “And what would Mitt Romney do for the Koch
brothers?” the ad asks. “Give a new $250,000  tax cut  to every
millionaire & billionaire. Protect  tax  loopholes for companies
outsourcing jobs. Protect tax subsidies for big oil.”  Protesters Rally  Those standing outside the Koch home with the protesters
included Southampton architect Pete DeWitt, 59, who said “the
Kochs represent everything that’s wrong with the system. It’s
their anti-labor, anti-environment agenda I’m protesting, their
secret giving to politics. I wouldn’t protest someone like
Perelman -- he seems fine. I have no problem with wealth and
money in general.”  The Koch brothers have become synonymous with outside
spending in politics in part because David Koch is head of
Americans for Prosperity, which has helped fuel the Tea Party
movement that seeks smaller government. Americans for Prosperity
is a nonprofit group that isn’t required to disclose its donors
and legally can’t spend more than 50 percent of its budget on
elections. It has spent more than $6 million on television ads
attacking Obama, and recently announced a $9 million ad campaign
against the president’s health-care law.  Obama Message  Democrats have highlighted the group’s secrecy. In
February, Obama’s Twitter account posted a message asking its 12
million followers to sign a petition “to demand that the Koch
brothers make their donors public.”  The Kochs also help finance the 60 Plus Association, an
advocate for the elderly that favors privatizing Social
Security. A nonprofit group called the Center to Protect
Patients Rights has funneled $9 million to 60 Plus. The center,
which doesn’t have to disclose its donors, is headed by Sean
Noble, who has spoken at Koch-sponsored gatherings of wealthy
donors, including sharing a podium with Americans for Prosperity
President  Tim Phillips .  As of the end of May, neither David nor  Charles Koch  had
contributed to Romney’s campaign. Nor have they given to super-
political action committees, which require disclosure of donors
who finance campaign-related ads by the groups.  In the 2008 presidential race, David Koch gave $2,300 to
Romney’s bid for the Republican presidential nomination, which
he lost to Senator  John McCain  of Arizona. David Koch later
contributed $2,300 to McCain’s campaign, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics.  Younger Brother  William Koch, the younger brother of David and Charles
Koch, has given $1 million to Restore Our Future, a super-PAC
backing Romney, through a personal check and through one of his
companies company, Oxbow Carbon LLC. Another $1 million to
Restore Our Future arrived in March from Huron Carbon LLC, which
has the same  West Palm Beach , Florida, address as Oxbow.  In January,  William Koch  contributed $2,500 to Romney’s
campaign. He sold his share in Koch Industries, founded by his
father, Fred Koch, as an  oil company . William Koch’s Oxbow
Carbon & Minerals is the world’s biggest marketer of petroleum
coke, a carbon used to make aluminum.  None of those protesting the Koch event was arrested. The
group obtained permits from the town to gather at the side of
the road and secured permission yesterday to walk up the beach
to Koch’s house.  Members of Move On drove a vehicle they’ve dubbed “the
Romneymobile Cadillac” that was plastered with stickers from
companies that Romney co-founded, including Bain Capital LLC,
the Boston-based private equity group. A fake dog was strapped
to the top, a reminder of Romney’s decision to transport Seamus,
the family dog, in a crate on the roof of his car on a family
vacation in the 1980s.  Michael Korn, a 57-year-old from Brooklyn, stood shirtless
as party-goers whizzed by in their vehicles, displaying a
homemade placard with pictures of David and Charles Koch,
identified as “the Kochtopus.”  “It doesn’t matter if it’s Romney or Obama,” he said.
“Votes shouldn’t be weighed by oodles of cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  