-- Rangel’s Top Challenger Espaillat Concedes Primary Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-09T19:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/rangel-s-top-challenger-espaillat-concedes-primary-race.html
New York state Senator Adriano Espaillat conceded his race against U.S. Representative Charles Rangel, who has represented  New York City ’s Harlem neighborhood
for more than 41 years.  Espaillat, 57, told reporters today that he will drop a
court challenge of the June 26 primary election results. A
hearing had been scheduled for July 11.  “My lawyers have advised me there’s no mathematical
possibility or at least an unlikely possibility that we could
turn this around,” Espaillat said in front of his north
 Manhattan  campaign headquarters. “It’s virtually impossible for
the results to be different.”  Rangel held a 2 percentage-point lead over Espaillat, his
closest challenger, after the Board of Elections finished
counting machine-cast and valid absentee and affidavit ballots
on July 7. Rangel had 18,942 votes to Espaillat’s 17,955, with
the rest going to other candidates, said Valerie Vazquez, a
spokeswoman for the elections board.  Democrats compose almost 97 percent of the district in
northern Manhattan and the Bronx, so winning the primary almost
ensures victory in the November general election.  Election Night  Espaillat first conceded on election night June 26, and
Rangel declared victory after results showed Rangel ahead by
45.2 percent to 39.8 percent with 84 percent of polling places
unofficially counted. The  Associated Press , which reports the
vote count, called the race for Rangel.  By June 30, with 40,810 votes counted on all machines,
Rangel’s lead had narrowed to 44 percent to 42 percent, or 802
votes, with the absentee and affidavit ballots not yet counted.
State law requires a full recount of machine and paper ballots
when the first- and second-place vote totals differ by 0.5
percentage points or less.  State Supreme Court Judge John W. Carter of the Bronx told
the Board of Elections last week that while it can certify a
winner, it can’t report the election results to the state to
make them official until approval by the court.  Rangel, 82, once served as chairman of the tax-writing Ways
and Means Committee.  This was his first election since the House censured him in
December 2010 for 11 ethics violations including failure to
disclose and pay taxes on rental income from a house he owned in
the  Dominican Republic . Rangel campaigned in a court-redrawn
district that removed areas of the Upper West Side and added a
mostly-Latino section of the Bronx.  Espaillat had sought to become the first Dominican-born
member of Congress. During the campaign, he said Rangel’s
censure had reduced the congressman’s effectiveness and made him
a “poster child for dysfunction in  Washington .”  Espaillat said he would decide in the next two days whether
to run for re-election to his state Senate seat representing
northern Manhattan. Some supporters are already circulating
petitions seeking to place his name on the ballot. He may face
Democratic state Assemblyman Guillermo Linares, who has said he
intends to campaign for Espaillat’s seat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  