-- Rein In Benefits Now and Tax Californians Later
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2012-07-09T22:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/rein-in-benefits-now-and-tax-californians-later.html
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed $50
billion  tax-increase  initiative won’t solve California’s budget
problems. Neither will anything else on the state’s ballot in
November, nor will more cuts to child care, courts, parks,
college and welfare programs repeatedly slashed by the state
Legislature.  Solving California’s budget woes requires addressing five
root causes: unfunded health-care promises to retired employees,
excessive incarceration rates, a  boom-and-bust  revenue system,
underfunded pension commitments and fast-growing spending on
Medicaid.  Except for alterations to Medicaid (which requires
agreement from the federal government for material changes), the
Legislature and governor have all the power they need to address
these causes. They just need to use it.  This article looks at the role of retiree health care,
technically known as “other post-employment benefits.” Visible
state spending on these benefits grew at a 12 percent annual
rate from fiscal year  2001-02  to  2011-12 , but there is even
greater invisible spending.  The state promises post-retirement health and dental
coverage to its employees as part of an exchange for employee
services rendered.  Accounting standards  suggest that these
benefits be financed when the exchange occurs (known as “pre-
funding”) rather than after the employee has left active service
(this is called “pay as you go” or “pay-go”).  Double Whammy  If the cost isn’t pre-funded, then the cash has to come out
of later budgets that get hit with a double whammy: The state
gets no benefit from the services it is paying for and has to
cut other programs or employees and/or  increase taxes  to make
room for the payment. That is what is happening now.  California  isn’t alone in facing this challenge. According
to the Pew Center on the States,  states owe  more than $600
billion of unfunded liabilities for retiree health-care
benefits. A few states, such as  West Virginia , have taken
meaningful steps to pre-fund them, but California is one of 17
that set aside no money. In 2011, it even abandoned a commitment
made in 2010 to do so.  The pay-go system used by California means state budgets
don’t report the financial effects of the benefits until they
are actually paid. According to the  Governmental Accounting
Standards Board , which sets standards of accounting and
financial reporting for U.S. state and local governments, that
means those budgets don’t reflect full costs as they are
incurred, liabilities for promised benefits for past services or
-- of particular relevance to California’s proposed tax increase
-- growing demands on future cash flows to meet those promises.  California’s budget for the last fiscal year (ended June
30, 2012) illustrates this misleading practice. The budget
reports that $1.5 billion was spent on retiree health care, but
the full cost -- $4.74 billion -- is found in a  report  issued by
the state controller. The difference -- $3.2 billion -- is just
as much of a cost as the reported expense. But since it wasn’t
paid in cash, it becomes an unfinanced liability that will
demand payment from future budgets.  These retiree health-care promises at the state level,
which aren’t approved by voters, now amount to more than $60
billion in California, almost half of the general-obligation
bond liabilities approved by voters. Deliberately or otherwise,
the health-care obligations aren’t well publicized by the state,
showing up on the  controller’s  obscure report but not on a
report issued by the  state treasurer  that claims to measure the
state’s debts. Like off-balance-sheet debt in the corporate
world, these liabilities are findable only by those who know
where to look.  Eliminated Benefits  They are a big drain on budget cash, as has been made
painfully clear in cities such as Stockton -- which also
 financed  the retiree health care of its public employees on a
pay-go basis and recently entered bankruptcy partly because of
these obligations. Starting in 2013, retiree health benefits in
Stockton are set to be eliminated, according to the terms of the
city’s bankruptcy budget.  At the state level in California, these liabilities have
big implications for the proposed tax increase. Proponents claim
more  tax revenue  will help services. But this seems unlikely,
given the increasing amounts of cash needed to meet existing
liabilities and new unfinanced benefit costs that will add up to
more than 40 percent of the revenue from the seven-year tax
increase.  Worse, the structure of California’s budget, which pays for
K-14 education and debt service ahead of everything else, means
that increases in health-benefit spending have an outsized
impact elsewhere. Areas such as parks, courts, child care,
welfare, the University of California and  California State
University  are the first crowded out by higher spending on post-
employment benefits.  As one example, even though state revenue  grew more  than 50
percent over the past  10 fiscal years  and taxes were  raised  in
2009, state spending on the  University of California   declined 20
percent  over that  period  partly because outlays for retiree
health benefits  more than tripled  and consumed more than  $11
billion.   Solving this problem will require more short-term budget
pain because one way to lower total costs is to finance the
promises upfront, as they are made. As State Controller John Chiang points out, “ even slight amounts  set aside will help
lessen the impact on future generations.” But that solution is
only partial and puts the entire burden on taxpayers and
programs. A full solution would also require substantial
contributions by employees during their working years, changes
to benefits, and reforms to reduce health-care costs.  Raising taxes in November without first fixing the retiree
health-care benefits system is akin to providing capital to the
pre-financial-crisis Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. without first
demanding that it address its off-balance-sheet debt.  This would continue a callous pattern by California
legislators of raising taxes and slashing programs but not
addressing root causes. And that means even greater cuts and tax
increases down the road.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive and a
Democrat, is a lecturer at  Stanford University  and president of
Govern for California, a nonpartisan government-reform group. He
was an economic adviser to California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  from 2004 to 2011. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on combating  drug-resistant
tuberculosis  and rethinking  capital controls ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on why Romney should  choose Chris Christie ; William Pesek on the
 Fukushima meltdown report ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  finds  no silver lining 
in the health-care ruling; Virginia Postrel on what our  many
pairs of shoes  say about us; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers 
wonder why the Fed doesn’t  ease more aggressively .  To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in  San Francisco  at  davidgcrane@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 