-- Reliance’s GTI Said to Offer Up to 11% Yield in Singapore
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-07-09T07:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/reliance-s-gti-said-to-offer-up-to-11-yield-in-singapore.html
Global Telecommunications
Infrastructure Trust, the undersea cable unit of  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  seeking to list in  Singapore , may offer
investors a yield of as much as 11.5 percent, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  GTI Trust will pay a yield of 9.5 percent to 11.5 percent,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
details are private. The business trust, which filed an initial
public offering prospectus in Singapore on July 5, is seeking as
much as $1 billion in the sale, they said.  The company is offering a higher dividend payout than other
business trusts listed in Singapore as it tries to attract
investors in the weakest IPO market since 2009. Singapore’s
inflation stood at 5 percent in May, while the three-month
Singapore Interbank Offered Rate, or Sibor, is at an all-time
low at just under 0.4 percent.  “Having such a high yield would certainly make investors
take a closer look,” said Wong Sui Jau, general manager of
Fundsupermart, the online division of IFAST Financial Pte, which
administers S$3.6 billion in assets. “It is certainly one of
the highest yields I’ve come across for a prospective IPO. High
dividend payouts are something that investors are looking for
nowadays because  interest rates  are low and inflation is
relatively high.”  Ensuring Success  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , which raised
$5.5 billion in a Singapore IPO in March last year, has a yield
of  6.4 percent , based on dividends paid in the last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hutchison Port is down
25 percent since the IPO.  Perennial China Retail Trust (PCRT) , which
raised S$784 million in May last year has a yield of 4.8
percent, after declining 30 percent since its debut.  GTI Trust owns four subsea cable systems that carry
 Internet traffic  and data around the globe. Reliance, controlled
by Indian billionaire Anil Ambani, is attempting to sell assets
to reduce net debt that stood at 358 billion rupees ($6.5
billion) at the end of March.  “The company is keen to deleverage and is probably
offering such high yields to ensure the deal goes through in
these markets,” said Vivekanand Subbaraman, an analyst at MF
Global Sify Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. Companies have
raised $361 million in IPOs in Singapore so far this year, the
lowest since the same period in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Deal Size  PCCW Ltd. (8) , the biggest phone company in Hong Kong, offered
a dividend yield of about 9 percent when it sold a
telecommunications business trust in the city in November,
people familiar with the matter said then.  HKT Trust and HKT
Ltd. , as the company is called, has advanced 37 percent since
its debut through July 6, outpacing gains in Hong Kong’s
benchmark stock index.  GTI Trust will offer as many as 758 million units at $1.09
to $1.32 apiece, according to two of the people. A Reliance
Communications official said he couldn’t immediately comment.  Deutsche Bank AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and Standard Chartered Plc are
arranging the GTI Trust offering, according to the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  