-- Right Is Wrong to Think It Won on Health Care
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-07-09T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/right-is-wrong-to-think-it-won-on-health-care.html
Some conservatives have
convinced themselves that last month’s ruling by the
 Supreme Court  upholding key parts of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul contained a great victory in
the battle for constitutionally limited government. They
are mistaken.  The Obama plan, as written by Congress and signed by
the president, tells states they must expand their Medicaid
programs or lose all their federal funding. (The federal
government provides about half the program’s money.) Seven
justices of the Supreme Court held that this threat to cut
off funding was an act of unconstitutional coercion.  Conservatives have been volubly unhappy with the rest
of Chief Justice  John Roberts ’s decision in the health-care
case, but have mostly agreed with this ruling. Some
conservatives have even claimed that it sets the stage for
a revival of federalism.  Jay Cost, in the Weekly Standard,  calls  the court’s
move a “major victory for conservatives who cherish our
system of dual sovereignty.” Michael Barone  writes  that the
court has embraced “a principle that could work powerfully
against big-government policies. Medicaid has been vastly
expanded over the years in this manner. Now the court seems
to be saying that that game is over.”  Conditions Apply  These hopes are very likely to be dashed. For one
thing, the court didn’t announce a clear rule for
distinguishing between run-of-the-mill conditions that the
federal government can attach to its grants to the states
and impermissible coercion. Instead of following a rule,
the justices will apparently decide case by case whether
the federal government is being so overbearing as to offend
their sensibilities. That’s not much of a constitutional
doctrine, or even the beginnings of one.  In partial defense of the justices, how could anyone
draw a line and claim, with a straight face, that it comes
from the Constitution? There is no line of principle here,
let alone a constitutional one. Conservatives fought hard
to require state governments receiving federal welfare
money to force the beneficiaries to seek work. And they
were not violating any obvious principle of federalism in
doing so: States are not entitled to federal money with no
strings attached.  The court could in theory use its malleable new
precedent to strike mighty blows against federal programs.
In practice, it probably won’t. The court hasn’t struck
down a major federal program since the 1930s -- a streak
Roberts has just left unbroken. If a future majority of the
court wanted to act more boldly, it wouldn’t need this
precedent to do so.  The present ruling does little to limit government.
Roberts ruled that if states decline to expand their
Medicaid programs, the federal government may withhold only
the portion of its funding that would have aided the
expansion. Some fans of Obama’s health-care plan have  noted 
that the federal government is still giving the states a
Medicaid offer they can’t refuse. If Virginia expands its
program but Texas doesn’t, the government will tax Texans
to aid Virginia’s move. The only way for Texans to get
their money back is to expand the program.  Warped Incentives  It is this very dynamic that has caused Medicaid to
grow so relentlessly. States that offer better benefits to
more people have gotten more federal dollars, and thus have
been encouraged. Medicaid has not, for the most part, grown
in the manner Barone describes: The federal government
hasn’t kept ordering the states to expand the program.
Instead, it has enabled that expansion with money.  Sixty
percent  of Medicaid spending is “optional,” rather than
mandated.  This arrangement ought to raise serious concerns. It
includes obvious incentives to overspend, and it makes
accountability elusive: The states can always blame the
federal government if the program is unsatisfactory, and
vice versa. A court that sees federalism as a matter of
accommodating the interests of state governments and
respecting their dignity will, however, be blind to these
problems. State officials are perfectly happy with being
able to direct more money to their constituents than they
have to raise in taxes from them. The problem with Medicaid
isn’t that the terms of the deal are bad for the states.
It’s the very structure of the deal.  We would probably have a smaller government if the
federal government just took over the whole program, as
President  Ronald Reagan  proposed. That would better fit the
constitutional template of divided powers that the founders
gave us. Politicians, not justices, have to do most of the
work of fixing our fiscal federalism. The court’s health-
care decision doesn’t advance this goal at all.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on combating  drug-resistant
tuberculosis  and rethinking  capital controls ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on why Romney should  choose Chris Christie ;
William Pesek on the  Fukushima meltdown report ; Virginia
Postrel on what our  many pairs of shoes  say about us;
Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  wonder why the Fed
doesn’t  ease more aggressively ;  David Crane  on reining in
 state health-care liabilities .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  