-- RIM Customers Working on Contingency Plans
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-07-09T20:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/rim-s-customers-working-on-contingency-plans-corporate-canada.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  customers
from GoDaddy Group Inc. to asset manager Thames River Capital UK
Ltd. are preparing for the worst: the loss of the BlackBerry
service their employees depend on to communicate.  RIM’s stock has  slumped  more than 70 percent in the past
year, and tumbled 19 percent on June 29 after the company posted
a quarterly loss and delayed the BlackBerry 10 operating system,
increasing the pressure on RIM to find a buyer or sell assets.
While RIM has built infrastructure to ensure continued service,
some customers are devising backup plans as RIM prepares to face
shareholders at its annual meeting tomorrow.  “In the past three months there’s been a lot of concern
that the BlackBerry platform won’t be around in the future,”
said Maribel Lopez, founder of Lopez Research, a wireless-
industry consultant based in  San Francisco . “It’s not unheard
of for a large phone manufacturer to go out of business.”  Corporate customers, the backbone of RIM’s  business , are
fortifying contingency plans so they won’t be affected by a
possible breakup of the BlackBerry-maker or other setbacks. With
millions of employees connecting to the office through mobile e-
mail, companies have been eager to establish a fallback or
replacement plan, said Avi Greengart, a technology research
director at  Current Analysis .  Thames River Capital supplies about 140 of its 170
employees with smartphones, most of them BlackBerrys, said
Robert Cockerill, head of infrastructure at the London-based
 money manager . With the delay of BlackBerry 10 and a service
contract with RIM expiring this year, Cockerill said he expects
much of his staff to switch to  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhone or devices
based on Google Inc.’s Android platform.  Service Disruption  Cockerill has brought in MobileIron Inc., a  Mountain View ,
California-based developer of software that helps companies
manage and protect data on mobile devices and tablets.
MobileIron provides security for Thames River Capital including
encryption and password protection for non-BlackBerry devices
such as iPads, he said.  Thames River Capital is preparing for scenarios where
BlackBerry service may be shut down, disrupted, or if a
competitor such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  acquires RIM and converts the
operating system to its Exchange e-mail service, he said.  “There is a risk of RIM getting bought,” Cockerill said
in an interview. “But if you have the right support you can be
agnostic and it won’t really matter.”  MobileIron Chief Executive Officer Bob Tinker said his
customer list includes 100 Fortune 500 companies, and about a
quarter of those customers are financial services firms.  Embrace Innovation  “Large enterprises don’t want to be locked in with a
single vendor anymore,” Tinker said in an interview. Customers
want to embrace all the innovation in mobile and RIM’s delay of
BlackBerry 10 doesn’t help that, he said.  “CIO’s are now asking us: ‘What do we do if RIM gets
acquired or if they restructure,’” said Tinker.  Norton Rose  LLP,  a  law firm  with 6,000 BlackBerry-equipped
employees, is using MobileIron’s software to support iPhones and
iPads, which were given to some staff members as secondary
devices, said Vlad Botic, group enterprise architect at the
London-based firm.  Botic, who said Norton Rose would like to continue using
BlackBerrys, began exploring alternatives last year after the
three-day BlackBerry outage that caused users around the world
to lose data services amid a network failure.  “RIM isn’t in a good position right now,” Botic said in
an interview. “The problem with BlackBerry, which was
highlighted when the service went down, was that the only way to
solve it is with an entirely new device.”  ‘Significant Outage’  While the chance of BlackBerry service getting shut down is
slim, Botic said he has scheduled a meeting with RIM this week
to seek assurances that there won’t be a disruption in the event
of a takeover.  GoDaddy, an Internet domain-name and hosting company, could
switch users to iPhone or Android devices “within hours,” said
Auguste Goldman, chief infrastructure officer at the Scottsdale,
Arizona-based company.  In the event of a “significant outage” for BlackBerry
devices, GoDaddy has a plan to migrate users to other platforms,
Goldman said in an interview.  “The BlackBerry infrastructure and services are among our
most valuable assets,” said Nick Manning, a spokesman for
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM. “BlackBerry customers depend on
our robust network and they can continue to depend on it going
forward.”  RIM shares  fell  5.3 percent to $7.67 at the close in  New
York .  iPhone, Android  Six staffers at Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. first began
planning for the possibility of a disruption in BlackBerry
service last year. To prepare, Nationwide retained Good
Technology Inc., whose software for servers and phones can
provide secure corporate e-mail and calendar services to iPhones
and Android devices.  “You could see that RIM started to decline,” Robert Burkhart, director of new technology innovation at Nationwide,
said in an interview.  Today, the number of BlackBerrys Nationwide associates use
is down to 7,000 from about 8,500 a year ago, while the number
of non-BlackBerry devices used has risen from zero to 4,450,
Burkhart said.  “We are well on our way to having a dual environment, so
if RIM did go out, we’d be okay,” Burkhart said. “If people
are starting contingency plans now, they are behind the eight
ball. They should have been looking at this all along.”  Good Technology, which works with 4,000 corporate customers
worldwide, including eight of the top 10 financial services
companies, has seen an inflow of customers concerned about RIM’s
prospects and making contingency plans.  Contingency Plans  “We’ve had two meetings this month with large financial
services firms on this topic,” Brian Carr, senior vice
president of worldwide sales at Sunnyvale, California-based Good
Technology, said in an interview. “In the last year, I talked
with half of Fortune 100 companies, and it’s a concern for all
of them. Every single one of them is looking at contingency
plans.”  The concerns are prompting many companies to speed up their
transition from BlackBerries to other types of mobile devices,
Carr said.  RIM has struggled to keep up with Apple’s iPhone and
devices based on  Google’s (GOOG)  Android platform. Last month, RIM said
it would cut 5,000 jobs and posted a quarterly loss that was
five times bigger than projected. Sales last quarter plunged 43
percent as RIM’s share of the global smartphone industry fell by
more than half to 6.4 percent in the first three months of the
year, according to research firm IDC.  BlackBerry Migration  “RIM’s situation is dire, but even in a worst-case
scenario, RIM’s servers aren’t likely to get turned off anytime
soon,” said Current Analysis’s Greengart. “Still, IT managers
are looking more seriously at alternatives to BlackBerry.
There’s a whole industry ready to provide security and
management around Apple and Android,” he said.  The migration from BlackBerrys started two years ago for
Ken Lawonn, senior vice president of strategy and technology at
Alegent Health, an Omaha, Nebraska-based health-care provider.  The shift was prompted by user preferences, rather than
concerns about the future of RIM, said Lawonn who uses Good
Technology’s software. The number of Alegent’s 300 smartphone
users with BlackBerrys has shrunk to 10 percent from about 50
percent two years ago, he said.  “Should something occur, we believe that’s going to be a
fairly easy transition,” Lawonn said. “If my BlackBerry broke
down, I’d look at the options, and if a BlackBerry wasn’t
available, I’d pick up an iPhone and be on my way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  