-- Romania Constitutional Court Upholds Suspension of President
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-07-10T10:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/romanian-president-s-suspension-upheld-by-constitutional-court.html
Romania’s Constitutional Court
upheld last week’s suspension of President Traian Basescu,
bringing him closer to being ousted as he battles the prime
minister for political power in the Balkan country.  The nine-judge court in Bucharest also confirmed Senate
head  Crin Antonescu  as interim president and approved a change
in the Parliament’s leadership, rejecting a challenge filed by
the legislature’s former heads, Vasile Blaga and Roberta
Anastase, it said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. It may
also rule today on a change in the referendum law that would
help ease moves to remove the president.  “The court found that the procedure to suspend Traian
Basescu from the position of President was respected,” the
court said, explaining the decision today on its website. “The
decision is final and mandatory.”  Premier Victor Ponta, riding public anger over austerity
measures, is looking to remove Basescu two months after becoming
the third premier this year in the Balkan nation as it prepares
for parliamentary elections in November or December. The
impeachment attempt is fueling political turmoil, which pushed
the leu to a record low.  The court also said a law preventing it from ruling on
parliamentary decisions, such as a president’s suspension, is
unconstitutional. The court’s powers are still limited by an
emergency ordinance issued by the government on July 4, which is
in force, stating that it can’t rule on parliamentary decisions.  Referendum Law  The court may announce its ruling today on a law governing
referendums that makes it easier to remove the president by
lowering the threshold for a valid vote, following a challenge
by the opposition. The government passed an emergency decree
last week with the same changes to the referendum law, which is
already in force.  According to the government’s degree, the president can be
ousted with the majority of citizens taking part in the
referendum instead of a majority of eligible voters.  The currency gained 0.26 percent and traded at 4.5205 to
the euro, at 12:25 p.m. in Bucharest today.  Lawmakers suspended Basescu last week because of
accusations he overstepped his duties when announcing state wage
cuts in 2010 and other economic decisions. Basescu survived an
impeachment referendum in 2007 with the backing of 74 percent of
the country’s 8.1 million voters.  Plunging Popularity  Basescu’s popularity plunged after backing the austerity
measures and his political future will be decided in the
referendum scheduled for July 29.  About 64 percent of Romanian voters will impeach Basescu in
the referendum on whether he should be reinstated or ousted from
office, according to a poll by Bucharest-based polling company
IMAS for radio station Europa FM released July 8. About 27
percent of voters support Basescu’s reinstatement while 8.3
percent are undecided or didn’t want to take part in the survey.  The July 5-7 survey of an unspecified number of voters had
a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  