-- Romney and Party Out-Raise Obama and Party During June
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-09T15:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/romney-and-allies-raised-106-million-in-june-to-challenge-obama.html
Presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  and the Republican Party raised $106 million
last month, more than the $71 million announced today by
President Barack Obama and his allied Democratic committees.  It was the second straight month that Romney and Republican
Party committees raised more money than Obama and the Democrats.  Neither campaign broke down its fundraising between the
candidate and the party committees, which can take in
contributions more than 10 times greater. Through May 31,
Obama’s re-election committee has taken in more money than
Romney’s, and the  Democratic National Committee  has outpaced its
Republican counterpart.  The Romney campaign and the  Republican National Committee 
have about $160 million cash on hand, according to a news
release. An Obama campaign official didn’t provide a similar
figure and said the June fundraising numbers were released
through an e-mail to supporters. Candidate and party reports are
due at the Federal Election Commission by July 20.  “This month’s fundraising is a statement from voters that
they want a change of direction in Washington,”  Spencer Zwick ,
Romney’s national finance chairman, said in a statement. “In
the months to come, these resources will be crucial to
highlighting the difference between President Obama’s broken
promises and Mitt Romney’s plan to get America on the right
track again.”  Privately Funded  Romney, like Obama, is raising money for the period before
the nominating conventions as well as the general election,
making 2012 the first presidential race in 40 years to be funded
entirely with private contributions.  Romney’s campaign and his allied Republican committees said
they raised $77 million in May, compared with $60 million raised
by Obama, 50, and the  Democratic Party . The Romney campaign
committee itself raised $23.4 million, while Obama’s campaign
brought in $39.1 million, FEC reports showed.  Romney, 65, a former Massachusetts governor and onetime
private-equity executive, has a series of fundraisers planned
this week, including in Colorado and Wyoming. One of the events
will be at the home of former Vice President  Dick Cheney .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 