-- Trump Opens Scottish Golf Course as Critical Film Screens
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-07-10T12:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/trump-opens-scottish-golf-course-as-critical-film-hits-cinemas.html
Donald Trump , the  New York  real
estate billionaire, opened the initial stage of his 750 million-
pound ($1.16 billion)  Scottish golf resort  today when he played
the first round on the championship course he has spent two
years building.  Trump was accompanied by Scottish professional golfers
 Colin Montgomerie , captain of the victorious European Ryder Cup
team in 2010, and  Martin Laird , who plays on the U.S.  PGA Tour .
 Paul Lawrie , the winner of the 1999 British Open who comes from
nearby Aberdeen and was due to fly in by helicopter, couldn’t
attend because of bad weather.  The opening comes as “ You’ve Been Trumped ” begins playing
in U.K. movie theaters. The film criticizes the way Trump, 66,
bulldozed the wishes of neighboring landowners to build the
course among sand dunes on the 1,400-acre (567 hectares) Menie
Estate 10 miles (16 kilometers) north of Aberdeen on Scotland’s
northeast coast.  A public row with Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  over
plans to build an offshore wind farm overlooking the course has
led Trump to put on hold plans to build a second golf course, a
450-bed, five-star hotel, 500 homes and 950 short-term rental
apartments. Salmond, whose constituency includes the course, has
not been invited to the opening ceremony.  The Scottish Wildlife Trust yesterday urged Montgomerie and
Laird to boycott the nine holes of the course that were built on
a former site of special scientific interest.  Trump planted marram grass to stabilize a stretch of sand
dunes that would otherwise have moved northwards at an average
of a few yards a year. Government environmental advisers, prior
to the development getting the go-ahead in 2008, had called for
the dunes to be protected.  40 Conditions  The real estate entrepreneur first identified the coastal
site as a potential golf resort in 2005. The Scottish government
intervened in 2007 after local councilors rejected the proposal.
Following a public inquiry, the government approved it in
principle in November 2008 after planning inspectors attached 40
conditions.  Trump, whose mother was born on the Scottish island of
Lewis, has spent more than 100 million pounds building the
course, restoring the estate and carrying out infrastructure
works. He has built a 22-acre driving range, a 3,000 square-
meter (32,000 sq ft) putting green and a 10,000 square-meter
short-game practice area.  The public can play the 7,400-yard (6,770-meter), par 72
course from July 15 and it will remain open until Oct. 31.
Weekend greens fees are 200 pounds for non-locals and 160 pounds
for locals. During the week the cost is 120-150 pounds.  The European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre, a venture
between Vattenfall AB,  Technip SA (TEC)  and Aberdeen Renewable Energy
Group, applied in August to build 11 next-generation offshore
wind turbines in Aberdeen Bay.  The turbines are 195 meters (640 feet) high to the tip of
the blade, the equivalent of a 64-story building, and will be
1.5 miles out at sea, according to David Rodger, a spokesman for
the venture.  Protest Letters  The European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre “is crucial
to the future economy of the region” and “is of strategic
importance to the development of the offshore wind sector for
Scotland, the U.K. and, indeed, Europe,” Rodger said in a
statement in January.  Since then, Trump has argued in letters to Salmond that
wind farms will destroy Scottish tourism and that other
countries are turning away from the technology. He has also
given evidence to Scottish lawmakers about his opposition to
wind farms in tourist areas.  Salmond’s policy is for  Scotland  to generate all of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2020. He wants Scotland,
the windiest country in Europe, to become a world leader in
renewable technologies  Trump has built golf resorts in New York,  New Jersey ,
 California ,  Florida  and the Grenadine islands in the Caribbean.
In January he won a contract to run the Jack Nicklaus-designed
Ferry Point municipal golf course in  New York City  that is due
to open in the fall of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  