-- Russians Confront Each Other in $1 Billion U.K. Trial
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-09T17:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/russians-to-start-1-u-k-trial-over-shadowy-former-link.html
United Co. Rusal (486)  Chief Executive
Officer  Oleg Deripaska  confronts a figure from his past he might
rather forget in a $1 billion courtroom battle with Michael Cherney that began today in London.  Cherney, a businessman living in exile in  Israel , sued
Deripaska saying they were partners in  Russia  during the 1990s
and that he is owed a share of Rusal, the world’s largest
aluminum producer.  Deripaska, a 44-year-old billionaire who made his fortune
in Russia’s metals trade, denies they were ever partners. He
says Cherney is a criminal who used gangster contacts to get
protection payments or “krysha,” according to court documents.  It’s the second major trial in London this year involving
Russian oligarchs who made their money in commodities. A three-
month, $6.8 billion fight between  Boris Berezovsky  and Chelsea
Football Club owner  Roman Abramovich  ended in January and is
awaiting a verdict from Judge Elizabeth Gloster.  That case saw the men’s reputations battered by accusations
of shady dealing in the period following the collapse of
communism in Russia, when a select group of individuals
prospered by acquiring state assets.  Cherney and Deripaska will be more concerned with gains and
losses than their images, said Professor Bruce Bean, a Russian-
law specialist at  Michigan State University  who testified in the
Abramovich trial.  Dangerous Trade  “It is impossible to embarrass these gentlemen,” Bean
said in an e-mail. “I fully expect that we will have confirmed
the tales that have been circulating for almost two decades
about the dangerous, criminal nature of the metals trade” in
Russia at the time.  While Cherney has been the subject of criminal
investigations -- like Deripaska and other prominent Russian
businessmen -- he has never been convicted of a crime, his
lawyer  Mark Howard  said today in opening statements.  The case will hinge on two pieces of paper said to contain
an agreement for Deripaska to hold shares in trust for Cherney,
according to court filings. Cherney claims Deripaska signed the
documents in 2001 at the  Lanesborough Hotel , which overlooks
London’s Hyde Park.  Deripaska is “seeking to rewrite history” and has “told
a quite incredible story,” Howard told the court today. The
allegations of criminality are “in order to divert attention
from contemporaneous documents.”  What’s at Stake  Cherney says Deripaska controlled 66 percent of Rusal
directly or indirectly by 2007, and that 13 percent is held for
him, according to documents from his claim. That stake may be
worth about $1 billion, based on the company’s market value of
$8.3 billion. Cherney doesn’t give a figure in his claim.  Deripaska looks forward to demonstrating that the
allegations are false, a spokesman said in a statement. His
legal team will start their arguments July 11.  Deripaska sought out Cherney so he could use his wealth and
connections to grow the aluminum business, Cherney’s lawyer
Howard told the court today. “He realized that a partnership
with Mr. Cherney could propel him into a different league
altogether.”  According to Cherney’s written arguments, released today,
some of Deripaska’s own evidence implicates him in bribing a
Russian governor, belonging to a criminal organization and
ordering a murder.  Direct Knowledge Lacking  Statements implicating both men can be found in police
reports and individuals’ statements, according to Cherney’s
attorneys. They were made by people without first-hand knowledge
and shouldn’t be taken seriously or used to make a case against
their client, Cherney’s lawyers said.  “Mr. Deripaska vehemently denies these allegations,” a
spokeswoman, Idil Oyman, said by e-mail. “Criminal gangs were
operating very widely in post-Soviet Russia. Mr. Deripaska was
subjected to a krysha by Mr. Cherney” and another man “and the
organized-crime gangs they represented.”  Deripaska declined to comment on “matters that may be the
subject of evidence to be given at trial,” Oyman said.  A  London  judge on July 6 in the final pretrial hearing
ruled that three witnesses could give anonymous evidence.
Deripaska’s lawyers, who wanted anonymity granted to nine
others, will appeal and as a result the identities of 12 people
involved in the case will remain secret when the trial starts.  Cherney won’t appear in person. He is the subject of a
European arrest warrant in a Spanish money-laundering
investigation, according to Deripaska’s legal papers, and will
testify through a video link.  ‘Lifelong Criminal’  In court documents, Deripaska’s lawyers said Cherney is “a
lifelong criminal” who began his career in Uzbekistan and moved
to Moscow. Deripaska was forced to enter into a protection
agreement with Cherney after assassination attempts against him
and his associates, he said in court papers. He didn’t say who
made the threats.  The fight for market share in Russia two decades ago
involved violence and became known as the aluminum wars.
Abramovich, a former shareholder in one of the companies that
formed Rusal through a series of mergers, testified at his trial
that he was reluctant to invest in the business because “every
three days someone was murdered.”  Deals were often sealed by handshakes rather than with
legal documents, which makes proving their existence in court
problematic, said Edward Mermelstein, a  New York  attorney with
wealthy Russian clients.  “It makes litigation for both sides more difficult, and
the outcome is less certain,” Mermelstein said.  There are as many as 70 witnesses that may be called in the
trail that is expected last until next year.  The case is Cherney v. Deripaska,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial Court 06-1218.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London
at   cchellel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 