-- SAC’s Cohen Joins Loeb Starting Reinsurer for Capital
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-09T21:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/sac-s-cohen-joins-loeb-starting-reinsurer-for-capital.html
Steven A. Cohen , the billionaire
founder of SAC Capital Advisors LP, started a reinsurance
company that can invest in his hedge fund, following  Daniel Loeb 
and  David Einhorn  in entering the business to secure more
permanent capital.  SAC Re Holdings Ltd. is being run by Simon Burton and will
focus on high-margin catastrophe coverage and casualty
protection, the Bermuda-based company said in a statement today.
The company’s investments will be managed by SAC Capital, which
oversees about $14 billion out of Stamford, Connecticut.  Cohen joins Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC who
started Third Point Re in Bermuda last year, and Einhorn, head
of New York-based Greenlight Capital Inc., in creating a
reinsurer to help to secure money for his hedge fund that isn’t
subject to investor withdrawals. Reinsurers, which help insurers
shoulder risk and earn premiums that they invest to make a
profit, have benefited from rising prices after record natural
disasters last year.  “Third Point and Greenlight are leveraging more of the
casualty business,” Burton, chief executive officer of SAC Re,
said today in a telephone interview. “We agree that that’s a
very compelling plan and it does form about 50 percent of the
business that we plan to write. We think the addition of high
quality uncorrelated property-catastrophe business is a further,
very strong addition to the overall plan.”  Private Placement  The company raised $500 million in a private placement from
founding investors including Cohen and private-equity fund
Capital Z Partners III LP, which invests in the  Bermuda 
reinsurance market, according to the statement. SAC Capital told
investors last year that it sought to raise $500 million for a
reinsurance business.  SAC Capital’s main fund has returned 5.2 percent this year
through June, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Hedge funds  have returned 0.9 percent in the same
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks, private-equity firms and hedge funds have formed
reinsurers in the past to take advantage of rising rates after
losses from natural disasters. The so-called Class of 2005
reinsurers were formed after storms led by  Hurricane Katrina .  Record catastrophe losses last year from the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan to flooding in Thailand helped boost
reinsurance rates. In the U.S., property reinsurance prices have
risen 6.5 percent this year from 2011 as primary insurers
changed how they managed risk after last year’s losses, Guy
Carpenter & Co. said in a statement today.  Warren Buffett  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said in May his firm was taking advantage of
increased prices in Asia after last year’s catastrophe losses.  Burton, former deputy chief executive officer of London-
based insurer  Lancashire Holdings Ltd. (LRE) , said some European
insurance companies may seek to transfer risk to the new firm as
the region’s sovereign debt crisis and new regulations put
pressure on capital.  In February, Einhorn’s  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE)  said
there are opportunities in Europe as the financial crisis and
Solvency II, a set of rules designed to align insurers’ capital
reserves with the risks they take, increased demand for their
product. Einhorn started his reinsurer in 2004 and began writing
insurance a year later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  