-- Samsung Wins U.K. Apple Ruling Over ‘Not as Cool’ Galaxy Tab
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-09T13:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/samsung-wins-u-k-apple-ruling-over-not-as-cool-galaxy-tablet.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  won a legal
ruling after a U.K. judge said its Galaxy tablets aren’t
“cool” enough to be confused with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The design for three Galaxy tablets doesn’t infringe
Apple’s registered design, Judge Colin Birss said today in
 London  in a court fight between the world’s two biggest makers
of smartphones. Consumers aren’t likely to get the tablet
computers mixed up, he said.  The Galaxy tablets “do not have the same understated and
extreme simplicity which is possessed by the Apple design,”
Birss said. “They are not as cool.”  Apple is fighting patent lawsuits around the globe against
rivals including  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung as it competes for
dominance of the smartphone and tablet computer markets. The
firms have accused each other of copying designs and technology
in mobile devices. Together, Samsung and Apple make more than
half of the smartphones sold worldwide, according to IDC, a
Framingham, Massachusetts-based market researcher.  Samsung said the judgment affirms its position that the
Galaxy doesn’t infringe Apple’s design rights.  “Should Apple continue to make excessive legal claims in
other countries based on such generic designs, innovation in the
industry could be harmed and consumer choice unduly limited,”
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said in an e-mailed statement.  Unusual Details  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad,” Apple spokesman Alan Hely said
in an e-mailed statement that didn’t specifically address the
ruling. “This kind of blatant copying is wrong and, as we’ve
said many times before, we need to protect Apple’s intellectual
property.”  Samsung asked the U.K. court to rule that its Galaxy
tablets weren’t too similar to products created by the late
Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  and design chief Jonathan Ive,
according to today’s judgment. Apple filed a counter-claim.  The judge found that Samsung’s products were distinctive
because they were thinner and had “unusual details” on the
back. He gave Apple 21 days to appeal.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has sought court
orders in the U.S.,  Germany , the Netherlands and elsewhere
seeking to block Samsung from selling its tablets.  Samsung has been ordered to stop selling its Galaxy Tab
10.1 in the U.S. until a patent-infringement trial can be held.
An order that it also stop selling its newest Galaxy Nexus
smartphone was temporarily put on hold last week while an
appeals court considers Samsung’s petition to have the ban
lifted.  The case is Samsung Electronics (UK) Limited & Anr v. Apple
Inc.,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , HC11C03050.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  