-- Samsung Shares Falls for a Third Day on Slowdown Concern
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-07-09T07:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/samsung-shares-falls-for-a-third-day-on-slowdown-concern.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
largest maker of televisions and mobile phones, dropped for a
third day in Seoul trading amid concern that a global economic
slowdown may crimp sales.  Samsung fell 3 percent to 1,126,000 won, the lowest closing
price since Feb. 14, while the benchmark Kospi index declined
1.2 percent. The stock has gained 6.4 percent this year.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined for a third straight
day after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said  China’s economy  faces
“relatively large” downward pressure, while Japanese machinery
orders fell more than expected, adding to a disappointing U.S.
jobs report. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung last week reported
second-quarter sales that missed estimates.  “There are worries about the macro economy,” Lim Dori, a
Seoul-based analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co., said by phone.
“European financial institutions are cutting risky holdings,
and as part of that, they’re selling off  Korea ’s representative
stock Samsung.”  Samsung posted second-quarter sales of 47 trillion won ($41
billion), trailing the 49.8 trillion-won average of 35 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit rose 79
percent from a year earlier to a record 6.7 trillion won.  A recovery in Samsung’s chip and display businesses is more
gradual than expected, Lim said.  The electronics maker also faces patent disputes with Apple
Inc., a competitor that’s also its biggest customer, which have
led to sales of its tablets and smartphones being blocked in
some markets.  Samsung lost an emergency bid on July 6 to resume selling
its Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer in the U.S., while a ban on
sales of its Galaxy Nexus smartphone in the market was put on
hold for a least a week, according to an appeals court ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  