-- Sanofi Withdraws Applications for Blood-Clot Drug Mulsevo
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-09T15:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/sanofi-withdraws-eu-marketing-application-for-blood-clot-drug.html
Sanofi (SAN)  withdrew its marketing
authorization requests for the Mulsevo drug to prevent blood
clots in chemotherapy patients, a setback for efforts by
 France ’s biggest drugmaker to bring new medicines to patients.  Sanofi “voluntarily withdrew” its applications globally
for semuloparin, also known as Mulsevo, Jean-Marc Podvin, a
Sanofi spokesman in Paris, said in a telephone interview today.
“We are evaluating the next steps for semuloparin, to determine
the appropriate path forward for the compound.”  Semuloparin doesn’t provide enough of a benefit to outweigh
its risks, a U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  panel decided in
a 14-1 vote on June 20. The advisers supported a June 18 FDA
staff  report  that Sanofi’s data didn’t “provide meaningful
support for the approval” as a treatment for venous
thromboembolism among high-risk patients receiving chemotherapy
for certain cancers.  “In the grand scheme of things, in terms of potential
sales lost, it’s not a massive change,”  Alistair Campbell , an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s more of a sentiment setback. It’s a blow to a
late-stage pipeline already seen as weaker” than that of many
rivals. “Questions will remain about Sanofi’s drug pipeline,”
said Campbell, who had forecast annual peak sales for
semuloparin of 240 million euros ($295 million) by 2017.  Faster Acquisitions  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has been
seeking to bolster Sanofi’s pipeline by reorganizing research
and development, dropping the least promising projects and
accelerating acquisitions and partnerships. In a presentation on
Sept. 14, he cited semuloparin as one of six new molecule and
chemical entities that Sanofi planned to introduce in a nine-
month period. Viehbacher described it as one of the assets “we
thought could really make it to the marketplace,” according to
a transcript of the presentation.  The European Medicines Agency said in a statement today it
had received a withdrawal letter from Sanofi for Mulsevo’s
marketing authorization application in the European Union.  Semuloparin risked competing with Sanofi’s own Lovenox,
Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst with Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris,
said in an interview before the FDA’s report was released last
month. Lovenox, first approved in 1993, helps prevent blood
clots in patients undergoing certain surgeries.  Sanofi is awaiting the FDA’s decision on whether to approve
its multiple sclerosis drug Aubagio. U.S. regulators haven’t
cleared a new drug from the French company since Jevtana in June
2010, for prostate cancer patients whose disease has spread.  Sanofi had asked for approval of semuloparin to treat
patients with pancreatic or lung cancers or advanced or
spreading solid tumors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  