-- Saudi Shares Drop on Earnings Concern, Politics; Dubai Retreats
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-07-09T13:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/saudi-shares-drop-on-quarterly-earnings-concerns-dubai-retreats.html
Saudi stocks dropped the most in
almost two weeks on concern quarterly results at the kingdom’s
biggest companies may miss estimates and as security forces
arrested a dissident, stoking concern tensions may escalate.  Qassim Cement (QACCO)  Co., a Saudi Arabian producer of the building
material, fell 1.5 percent after second-quarter profit missed
analysts’ forecasts.  Saudi Telecom Co. (STC) , the kingdom’s largest
phone company, slumped the most since March 2011. The  Tadawul
All Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined 1.4 percent, the biggest decrease since
June 27, to 6,756.99 at the close in Riyadh. The  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.4 percent and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  lost 1
percent.  “Investors are waiting for results of the bigger Saudi
companies, including Sabic, and are worried some may
disappoint,” said Turki Fadaak, head of research at Riyadh-
based Albilad Investment Co.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp., the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker known as Sabic and the second-heaviest
weighting on the index, may announce a  17 percent drop  in net
income to 6.72 billion riyals ($1.8 billion), according to the
mean estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi
Telecom, which may also report lower profit, decreased 5.2
percent to 36.7 riyals.  Qassim Cement’s second-quarter profit of 149 million riyals
missed the 155 million-riyal mean estimate of six analysts. The
shares dropped the most since June 5, falling to 79.75 riyals.  Dissident Arrested  Emerging-market stocks retreated after Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the nation’s economy faces “relatively large”
downward pressure, and as U.S. jobs data missed estimates. The
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 1.1 percent. Separately,
European finance ministers prepared to meet to work out crisis
measures after leaders agreed last month to ease access to
direct financing for banks and bailout mechanisms.  “The external backdrop is uninspiring and Saudi currently
correlates strongly on the downside,” said  Julian Bruce , the
Dubai-based director of institutional sales trading at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE. “There have been signs of unrest in the
Eastern province.”  In Saudi Arabia, security forces arrested dissident Shiite
cleric Nimr al-Nimr in the al-Qatif area of the oil-rich Eastern
Province, the Saudi Press Agency reported, citing an Interior
Ministry spokesman. While Sunni-majority Saudi Arabia largely
escaped the unrest that spread across the Arab world last year,
Shiite protesters have clashed this year with security forces in
Awwamiya, al-Qatif and other eastern towns.  Ramadan Approaching  The kingdom has accused Shiite-led Iran of interfering in
the affairs of Arab countries in the Persian Gulf, home to
three-fifths of the world’s oil reserves. Iran denies the
allegation and accuses Sunni rulers in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia
of discriminating against Shiites.  About 363  million shares  were traded on the Tadawul today,
compared with a 12-month daily average of 328 million shares.
The Islamic holy month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast from
sunrise to sunset and business slows, will start later this
month.  Saudi Airlines Catering Co. (CATERING) , the Saudi company that
provides airline catering services, rose 15 percent to 62 riyals
in its trading debut.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.1 percent, while
Qatar’s QE Index lost 0.3 percent. Bahrain’s  measure  fell 0.4
percent. Kuwait’s  gauge  and Oman’s benchmark stock  index 
decreased 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  