-- Schaeuble Dismisses Quick Bank Union, Limits Euro Aid Tools
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-07-09T21:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/schaeuble-dismisses-quick-bank-union-limiting-euro-aid-tools.html
Germany  dismissed a rapid move toward
direct bank recapitalization by the European rescue fund,
limiting the tools for shoring up  Spain ’s banks as the euro-area
debt crisis simmers.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  dismissed “false
expectations” raised by euro leaders last month that the
economically troubled  euro zone  would act quickly to unify the
oversight of its banking system.  “It will take time, it’s complicated, it isn’t easy to
do,” Schaeuble told reporters before a meeting of euro finance
ministers in Brussels today. “Everyone knows that the setup of
European  bank supervision  isn’t a trivial matter, but a huge
job.”  Germany’s go-slow approach reflected mounting public
opposition to bailouts in northern  Europe  just as southern
countries such as Spain and Italy clamor for official assistance
to tame an increase in borrowing costs.  A four-day slump in Spanish and Italian bonds puts euro-
area governments under pressure to act, especially after the
 European Central Bank  showed no signs of restarting its bond-
buying program.  The ECB last week lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points to 0.75 percent, a record, to help bolster the
region’s economy and encourage lending.  ‘Big Bazooka’  “One should not underestimate the effect of the reduction
of the interest rate,” ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  told
reporters in Brussels. “I know that the markets were a bit
disappointed. They always like the big bazooka, but I have to
say the bazooka is a very dangerous instrument.”  Finance ministers aim to agree on the outlines of as much
as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) in loans to aid Spanish
lenders and will have a first debate over the possible easing of
 Greece ’s bailout terms.  Plans to recapitalize Spain’s banks, first announced on
June 9, have failed to calm markets because the European loans
would be channelled through a Spanish government agency and add
to the recession-hit country’s debt load.  While euro leaders on June 29 pledged to enable the
permanent bailout fund to make capital injections directly to
distressed lenders, that power won’t come about until Europe
creates a single bank-supervision system.  Rescue Blueprint  The  European Commission , which proposes European laws,
expects to “have this in place by year-end,” Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  told a European Parliament
committee today. Other officials have said the second half of
2013 is more likely.  An accord tonight on Spain’s bank-rescue blueprint would
make a final agreement possible on July 20, Spanish Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said. He also expected debate over a
“new path of fiscal adjustment” that would give Spain an extra
year, until 2014, to drive its  budget deficit  below the euro
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  Today’s increase in Spanish and Italian borrowing costs
relative to German levels nullified gains made in the wake of
last month’s summit-level commitment to intervene in bond
markets “in a flexible and efficient manner.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who doubles as finance
minister, came back to Brussels to press his case for steps to
reduce Italy’s bond yields, whether using the euro bailout fund
or the ECB.  ‘All Ideas’  The ECB went a 17th week without settling any government
 bond purchases , the bank said today, keeping on hold a market-
calming step used from May 2010 until February 2012 amid growing
opposition from the Germans on its council.  The central bank is probing “all ideas” and “constantly
studying and searching for actions that could attenuate the
current crisis,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told today’s EU
parliament committee hearing.  The central bank won’t act until Europe is “in suicide
mode -- at that moment they will do it, but they will wait so
long that a lot of damage has been done,” Paul De Grauwe, a
professor at the  London School  of Economics, told  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Television’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  Tonight’s meeting is the first opportunity for Greece’s new
government to test creditor countries’ appetite to ease its
bailout conditions when Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras lays
out his economic strategy.  Greek Aid  A four-month policy-making hiatus caused by two elections
has cost time and Greece can’t count on the next installment of
240 billion euros in aid until it proves that its economic
overhaul is back on track, a European official told reporters in
Brussels on July 6.  Decisions on the next Greek disbursement aren’t likely
until August, the official said. The same timeline is likely for
Cyprus, which filed for aid after the Greek debt restructuring
hammered its banking system, the official added.  “We have to look at how realistic what we want from Greece
is,” Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said today. “I
think we can accommodate Greece, but Greece has to realize this
isn’t a one-way street.”  Finance ministers ended five months of haggling by
appointing Yves Mersch of Luxembourg to a vacancy on the central
bank’s six-person Executive Board. They also extended the tenure
of another Luxembourger, Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , as
chairman of euro meetings, an EU official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  