-- A Disaster Made in Japan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-09T21:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/search-for-truth-finds-a-disaster-made-in-japan.html
It’s fitting that  Japan (NKY)  chose a
medical doctor to diagnose what happened on 3/11, the shorthand
used to describe last year’s earthquake and cataclysmic tsunami.  Lawmakers didn’t tap a physicist to run a panel charged
with explaining why the world almost lost Tokyo 16 months ago.
They didn’t go with an engineer to investigate radiation leaks
at the Fukushima power plants. No former Supreme Court justices
were summoned to make sense of the madness of March 11, 2011,
when events conspired to change the way we view nuclear power.  Instead, officialdom entrusted the investigation to Tokyo
University professor emeritus Kiyoshi Kurokawa, a man without
significant ties to the  energy industry . One can safely assume
that bigwigs in Tokyo now regret that decision. Kurokawa has a
lot to say about  Japan ’s many failures, and the good doctor is
pointing fingers at people who had hoped for a whitewash.  Kurokawa’s findings -- that the Fukushima meltdown was a
preventable, man-made disaster stemming from the worst
conformist tendencies of Japanese culture -- are a fresh start.
They are the first sign that a break with the errant ways of the
past might be afoot.  Why is that? The first step to fixing a problem is
identifying what the problem is, something Japan’s government
has stubbornly refused to do. Until now, scant attention was
paid to how government-industry collusion placed so much of
Japan’s population in danger, as did a reluctance to question
authority and a reflexive obedience to process.  Nuclear Village  Yes, much of blame lies with the arrogance and incompetence
of  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., which owns the Fukushima reactors
now referenced in history books next to Chernobyl. But it takes
an insidious and toxic culture to cultivate such a corrupt and
dangerous system.  The reason Tepco is still in business and hasn’t been
nationalized is Japan’s omnipotent “nuclear village.” The
nexus of power companies and pro-nuclear regulators, bureaucrats
and researchers that champions the industry came in for
particular, and well-deserved, scorn in the 641-page Kurokawa
report.  One of its most explosive suggestions touched on a
widespread belief in Japan that it wasn’t the tsunami that
damaged the reactors and safety equipment, but the earthquake
itself. It undermines Tepco’s claims that the disaster was some
act of God that it couldn’t have foreseen or avoided.  Kurokawa’s six-month investigation was a Japanese first. It
had wide-ranging subpoena powers and held public hearings at
which  Naoto Kan , the prime minister during the nuclear crisis,
and then Tepco President Masataka Shimizu gave vastly
conflicting accounts of the disaster response. Whereas three
previous government-led inquiries went easy on the nuclear
village, last week’s report highlighted its complicity.  “What must be admitted, very painfully, is that this was a
disaster ’Made in Japan,”’ Kurokawa wrote. “Its fundamental
causes are to be found in the ingrained conventions of Japanese
culture: our reflexive obedience; our reluctance to question
authority; our devotion to sticking with the program; our
groupism; and our insularity.”  Kurokawa might as well have been talking about the economy
20 years after Japan’s asset bubble burst. Here we are in 2012
and Japan still thinks the key to prosperity is a weaker yen,
more aggressive central-bank action, limited immigration and
excluding women from the corporate and political power
structure. Talk about a world view that’s stuck in time.  Doctor’s Diagnosis  The question, of course, is what the patient does with the
doctor’s diagnosis. Does Japan’s government return to the
unhealthy ways that brought us the world’s worst nuclear fiasco
since 1986? Or does it take the Kurokawa report to heart and
realize a different path is needed? While the history of the
last two decades supports the former course, the latter one is
becoming harder for Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to avoid.  Fans of reactors are quick to point out that the science of
nuclear power is sound. That’s true. Where trouble starts is
when the most potent  power source  the world has ever known is
put in the hands of fallible humans without checks and balances.
Let’s remember, it was the managers at Tepco who put all of the
plant’s backup generators underground in a  nation  wildly prone
to earthquakes and tsunamis. Human error also was to blame for
the 1999  Tokaimura  nuclear accident caused by workers mixing
radioactive materials in buckets.  Nuclear enthusiasts point out that atomic power isn’t just
safe, but cheap. Tell that to the devastated towns in
northeastern Japan now facing extinction -- or the more than
100,000 people still living in temporary shelters. Until utility
operators can elevate reactors on huge shock absorbers or
construct them from rubber, Japan’s people will fear them.  There’s a brilliant aspect to the Kurokawa report. It
issues a variety of warnings to head off Japan’s tendency toward
cosmetic solutions, such as replacing senior officials at
regulatory agencies and power companies or changing their names.
It highlights the difficulty that panel members had getting
documents from regulators. It speaks to the dangers of lobbying.  Noda won the battle last month when he allowed two reactors
at Kansai Electric Power Co.’s Ohi nuclear plant to reopen, but
he’s unlikely to win the bigger war over public support.
Kurokawa’s bold report is a significant setback to Noda’s
campaign. It may be a victory for the Japanese people.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on combating  drug-resistant
tuberculosis  and rethinking  capital controls ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on why Romney should  choose Chris Christie ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  finds
 no silver lining  in the health-care ruling; Virginia Postrel on
what our  many pairs of shoes  say about us; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  wonder why the Fed doesn’t  ease more
aggressively ;  David Crane  on reining in  state health-care
liabilities .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  