-- Serbian Leaders ‘Should Forget About Kosovo,’ Premier Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-09T17:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/serbian-leaders-should-forget-about-kosovo-premier-says-1-.html
Serbia’s new leaders should look to
the future and “forget about  Kosovo ,” Prime Minister Hashim Thaci said after the international community agreed to stop
overseeing the former Serbian province.  The end of the monitoring will bring full sovereignty to
Kosovo, which will help it join the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, Thaci said July 6 in an interview in Dubrovnik,
 Croatia , speaking through an interpreter.  “A lot will change,” said Thaci, 46, who led Kosovo when
it gained independence from Serbia in 2008. “We will have the
full support of the international community and we are working
toward having Kosovo gradually integrated into NATO.”  Kosovo is recognized by the U.S. and 22 of the 27 European
Union states and improving relations with its former province is
a condition for  Serbia  to join the EU. About 130,000 Serbs live
among Kosovo’s mostly ethnic Albanian population of 2 million.
Serbia lost control over Kosovo in 1999 when NATO bombing forced
it to hand over control to the alliance.  The U.S.-led  International Steering Group  said July 3 it
will stop overseeing the breakaway province and close its
International Civilian Office in the capital, Pristina, in
September. The EU police and justice missions, or  EULEX , will
remain at least until their mandate expires in June 2014. Serbia
supports minority Serbs in Kosovo and maintains its own civil
institutions in the northern part, where Serbs are concentrated.  Peacekeepers, Police  About 6,000 peacekeepers from NATO’s Kosovo Force, or  KFOR ,
which last intervened in ethnic clashes in northern Kosovo on
June 28, will remain deployed.  “EULEX will remain as facilitators of Kosovo police,”
Thaci said, adding that the government is looking into the
“legal basis to have a mild presence of EULEX in an advisory
capacity until June 2014.” After that, Kosovo will be closer to
joining the EU, he said.  U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Philip Gordon, who’s in
the Serbian capital, Belgrade, to meet with President  Tomislav Nikolic  and premier-designate Ivica Dacic, urged the Balkan
country to end its “illegal” security presence and judicial
entities in northern Kosovo.  Recognizing Independence  The U.S. and the EU don’t expect Serbia to recognize Kosovo
“at this point,” Gordon told the conference in Dubrovnik July
7. “Still, Serbia will have to come to terms with the reality
of a democratic, sovereign, independent and multi-ethnic Kosovo
within its current border.”  Serbia would need to amend its constitution for any Serbian
leader to recognize independent Kosovo, which many Serbs regard
as the cradle of their nation.  Dacic said July 3 the new government will implement all the
international agreements made by the previous government
regarding Kosovo, so the nation can continue on its path toward
EU membership. Dacic, the leader of the Socialist Party that was
ousted with its founder  Slobodan Milosevic  12 years ago, has a
mandate from Nikolic to form a government.  EU-mediated talks with Serbia “will definitely continue,”
according to Thaci.  Kosovo is raising funds to finance its budget and rebuild
its communist-era infrastructure, which was devastated in 1999
when NATO drove out Serbian troops during the bombing campaign.  About 32 international companies are bidding for a 75
percent stake in state-run telecommunications company Posta dhe
Telekomunikacioni i Kosoves Sh.A. after a tender was opened June
26, Thaci said. The winner will be chosen by year-end, he added.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  said in separate
statements July 6 that they aren’t interested. They were
finalists in a 2011 tender that Kosovo’s government halted
because of a graft investigation at the Pristina-based company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  