-- Shipping Rally Ending as China Hoards Record Coal Heaps
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-07-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/shipping-rally-ending-as-china-hoards-record-coal-heaps-freight.html
Record coal stocks at  power plants 
in China, the biggest consumer of the fuel, are threatening to
reverse the rally in rates for commodity carriers and diminish
returns for ship owners to the lowest in more than a decade.  The utilities have 91 million metric tons in reserve and
stockpiles at the largest ports come to more than 90 percent of
capacity, according to the China Coal Transport & Distribution
Association and SteelHome, a Shanghai-based research company.
Panamax rates will drop 48 percent to an average of $5,000 a day
this quarter, said Steve Rodley, managing director at Global
Maritime Investments Ltd., which operates 64 ships. He correctly
predicted a slump in earnings for larger Capesizes in March.  China cut borrowing costs for a second time in a month on
July 5, seeking to boost growth that slowed for five consecutive
quarters. Electricity output, about 75 percent of which comes
from coal-fired generators, rose at the slowest pace in three
years in April and May, government data show. The Panamax fleet,
which carries more coal than any other commodity, will expand at
about three times the pace of cargoes this year, according to
London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  “Chinese coal demand is so low right now,” said  Jeffrey Landsberg , the New York-based managing director of Commodore
Research & Consulting, an adviser to ship owners. “The Panamax
market will be under pressure throughout this quarter, first and
foremost due to a significant oversupply of vessels.”  Crop Cargoes  Earnings for the 750-foot-long ships jumped 21 percent to
an average of $9,630 in the second quarter as owners cut speeds
and anchored vessels and South American crop cargoes surged
after harvesting. Rates were at $9,128 yesterday, 29 percent
lower than at the start of the year, according to the London-
based Baltic Exchange, which publishes prices covering about 75
percent of global commodity cargoes.  Rodley’s forecast is below the $8,925 predicted by forward
freight agreements, handled by brokers and used to bet on future
transportation costs. The third-quarter contract declined 12
percent compared with April 20, its high point for 2012,
according to Clarkson.  Ship owners need about $13,000 to break even once financing
charges are included, estimates Arctic Securities ASA, an Oslo-
based investment bank. Basic operating costs including crew and
insurance are about $6,500, according to a London-based unit of
Moore Stephens LLC advising the industry.  Slowest Advance  China ’s thermal-coal imports will increase 8.4 percent to
110.8 million tons this year, the weakest growth since 2008,
according to Clarkson. That will contribute to a 4.9 percent
gain in global seaborne trade in the fuel, the slowest advance
since 2009, the broker estimates. Coal is the world’s third-
biggest commodity cargo after oil and iron ore.  Expanding Chinese power capacity may increase demand for
coal imports. There are at least 26 coal-fired plants being
built with a combined output of 21,411 megawatts, equal to 6.6
percent of existing capacity, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Panamax rates also may climb on demand to haul other
cargoes. A shortage of vessels in the Atlantic region during the
South American harvest drove rates 64 percent higher in April,
according to RS Platou Markets AS, the investment-banking unit
of  Norway ’s largest shipbroker. U.S. and European farmers
usually start gathering wheat, corn and soybeans this quarter.  Owners may seek to shore up rates by slowing down or idling
vessels. Anchored Panamaxes averaged 552 last month, compared
with 396 a year earlier, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg. Speeds averaged 8.7 knots in June, from
9.25 knots in June 2011, the figures show.  Higher Rates  While the rally in Panamaxes may be reversing, equity
analysts still expect shipping companies to advance. Shares of
 Golden Ocean Group Ltd. (GOGL)  will gain 16 percent to 4.58 kroner in
Oslo trading in the next 12 months, the average of 10 estimates
shows. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based operator protected itself by
locking in charters at higher rates, said Martin Korsvold, an
analyst at Pareto Securities AS in Oslo.  Shares of  DryShips Inc. (DRYS) , which operates 29 Panamaxes, will
advance 43 percent in the next 12 months, the average of eight
estimates shows. The Athens-based company got 65 percent of its
revenue from drilling rigs and drillships last year, rates for
which are still rising, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Panamax fleet grew 37 percent to 2,083 vessels since
the end of 2007 as rates that rose as high as $94,977 that year
spurred owners to expand, according to IHS Inc., an Englewood,
Colorado-based research company. Outstanding contracts at ship
yards are equal to 33 percent of existing capacity, more than
for any other type of bulk carrier, the data show. Clarkson is
predicting growth of 14 percent this year, the most since 1983.  Vessel Classes  The glut extends to other vessel classes. Earnings for
Capesizes, which carry coal and iron ore, slumped 67 percent
since the start of the year, according to the  Baltic Exchange .
Rates for very large crude carriers, hauling about 2 million
barrels of oil, dropped 27 percent, Clarkson estimates.  China’s electricity production rose 3.2 percent in May
after advancing 1.5 percent the previous month, according to
data from the state-owned China Economic Information Network.
Excluding a 5.1 percent decline in January, when factories were
shut for the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, they were the
smallest gains since 2009.  China’s need for more coal also may weaken on a jump in
alternative power sources. Hydropower generation in June rose by
an amount equal to as much as 7 million tons of the fuel, or 88
Panamax cargoes, according to estimates from Commodore Research
& Consulting. Thermal coal accounted for about 80 percent of the
cargoes in single-voyage Panamax charters in the past 12 months,
Morgan Stanley estimates. The fleet’s five busiest ports are all
in China, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Chinese have been stockpiling for some time, and
their yards are very, very full,” said Rodley, whose company
makes money by trading the difference between freight
derivatives and rates for its 64 ships. “The oversupply is
huge. It’s hard to find anything positive to say.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  