-- Singapore Plans to Exempt More Criminals From Death Penalty
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-07-09T11:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/singapore-plans-to-exempt-more-criminals-from-death-penalty-1-.html
Singapore, which imposes the death
penalty for serious crimes including murder and drug trafficking,
said it plans to exempt more cases from the mandatory sentence.  While the nation will uphold the  death penalty  for those
who manufacture and traffic drugs, the punishment will no longer
be mandatory for all those caught carrying drugs exceeding
certain amounts, Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean said in
parliament today. Courts will have the discretion to either
sentence the offender to death or life imprisonment with caning
if the accused is only a courier and has cooperated with
authorities or has a mental disability, he said.  “These provisions retain the strong deterrence posture of
our capital punishment regime while providing for a more
calibrated sentencing framework when specific conditions are
met,” Teo said. The proposed changes will provide a framework
for accused persons to assist the state in targeting those who
play “a more significant role in drug syndicates,” he said.  Singapore has one of the lowest crime rates in the world,
according to the  United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes .
Still, the city state has been criticized by human rights
organizations such as  Amnesty International  for maintaining the
death penalty even as more than two-thirds of countries
worldwide have abolished it in law or in practice.  The death penalty will still apply for “intentional”
murders, while courts will have the discretion to impose life
imprisonment in less severe crimes, Law Minister K. Shanmugam
said. The seriousness of the crime, personal culpability and
deterrence will be considered, he said.  Second Chance  Intentional killing is still considered “one of the most
serious offenses,” and the state reserves the right to punish
offenders with the most severe penalty, Shanmugam said. When the
crime isn’t intentional, the courts will have the discretion to
impose either the death penalty or  life imprisonment .  “Justice can be tempered with mercy and where appropriate,
offenders should be given a second chance,” he said. “The
approach being taken is not without risks, but it is a step we
can take.”  Draft legislation outlining the changes will be proposed
later this year, Shanmugam said.  ’First Step’  The proposal is an important first step toward consistency
with universal standards of human rights, Braema Mathi,
president of Singapore-based human rights organization Maruah,
said in a statement today. The mandatory death penalty is
“fundamentally troubling, and it continues to be applied to a
substantial number of criminal offences,” Mathi said.  In a 2004 statement, the ministry of home affairs said the
country executed 110 people for drugs-related offenses and 28
for murder and arms-related offenses over five years.  There are currently 35 prisoners awaiting capital
punishment, 28 for drug offenses and seven for murder, Teo said.  “There will be an appropriate process where they will be
given the opportunity to be considered whether or not the new
sentencing regime can be applied to them,” he said.  There has been a “progressive reduction in the use of the
death penalty in  Singapore ,” Amnesty International said in a
 statement  in May.  Recent cases that have put the death penalty in the
spotlight include Yong Vui Kong, a Malaysian who was sentenced
with execution for smuggling 47 grams (1.7 ounces) of heroin to
Singapore, and last year lost a bid at the city’s highest court
for a presidential review of his sentence. An online petition
appealing for clemency garnered more than 41,000 signatures.  In 2005, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong dismissed
 Australia ’s calls to commute the death sentence for Australian
drug smuggler Nguyen Tuong Van.  A book on the city’s death penalty resulted in a contempt
of court charge for British author  Alan Shadrake . His book,
“Once a Jolly Hangman: Singapore’s Justice in the Dock,”
suggests that the government “succumbs to political and
economic pressures” in meting out the death penalty, the
Attorney-General’s Chambers said in court papers. Shadrake was
convicted and sentenced to jail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  