-- Sitting Less May Add Two Years to U.S. Life Expectancy
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-07-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/sitting-less-may-add-two-years-to-u-s-life-expectancy.html
Americans may add as many as two
years to the nation’s life expectancy if they can stand up more
often and watch fewer hours of television, a study found.  While studies have shown that too much time sitting and
watching TV are bad for a person’s health, today’s research in
the journal  BMJ Open  is the first to show how reducing sedentary
behaviors may increase  life expectancy  in the U.S., now about 78
years, said Peter Katzmarzyk, the lead author.  “It’s about the inactivity in your muscles,”  Katzmarzyk ,
a professor of epidemiology at Pennington Biomedical Research
Center in  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana , said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “When you’re sitting your legs are completely
inactive.  ‘‘It’s not just about getting physical activity in your
life. Just because you’re doing 30 minutes of physical activity,
what about the other 23.5 hours,” he said. “Don’t just sit the
rest of the day.”  For those who work in an office setting, standing during
meetings, walking over to a colleague’s desk rather than sending
an e-mail and getting up as often as possible are a few ways to
keep the muscles in the body active, he said.  Reducing sitting time to fewer than three hours a day may
add two years to U.S.  life expectancy  and cutting TV viewing
time to fewer than two hours a day may extend life by about 1.4
years, according to the study, which analyzed previous research.  Earlier Data  The researchers pooled data from five studies that involved
almost 167,000 adults. They combined the data with figures from
the  National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey , which was
used to determine how much time U.S. adults spent sitting and
watching TV. Americans watch an average of five hours of TV a
day, according to a June 2011 study in the Journal of the
 American Medical Association .  The analysis found that sitting less would reduce premature
deaths by 27 percent in the U.S., while spending fewer hours in
front of the TV may reduce it by 19 percent, Katzmarzyk said.  Previous research has shown that every two hours of
television viewing raises the risk of  Type 2 diabetes  20
percent, the risk of cardiovascular disease 15 percent and the
risk of early death 13 percent.  While today’s study looked at the total  U.S. population ,
individual actions such as weight, diet, health and whether
someone smokes go together with other factors to determine a
person’s life span, said Nancy Copperman, director of public
health initiatives at  North Shore-LIJ Health System  in Great
Neck, New York.  “I wouldn’t bet I would die two years earlier because I
sat in the office all day,” Copperman, who wasn’t an author on
the study, said yesterday in a telephone interview. She did
agree that people who sit as part of their jobs “need to take
an activity break where we actually get up and walk around.”  More studies are needed to determine how many hours of
sitting are bad for people’s health and how to reduce sedentary
behavior, Katzmarzyk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  