-- Sokol Trades at Lower Premium; Vietnam Plant Resumes: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-07-09T10:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/sokol-trades-at-lower-premium-vietnam-plant-resumes-asia-crude.html
Russia’s Rosneft sold Sokol crude for
September at lower premiums than the previous month.  Vietnam ’s
Dung Quat refinery is operating at full capacity for the first
time since it was shut in mid-May.  OAO Rosneft sold Sokol crude to China National United Oil
Corp., known as Chinaoil, and Vitol Group, said two traders who
participate in the market, asking not to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Chinaoil paid $5 to $5.50 a barrel over benchmark crude
Dubai for a cargo loading Aug. 28 to Sept. 6, while Vitol bought
the shipment for Sept. 15 to Sept. 24 at premium of about $4.40
a barrel, said the traders.  Last month, Rosneft sold a cargo for August at a premium of
$5.30 to $6 a barrel, two traders said June 8.  Itochu Corp. (8001)  is offering 95,000 metric tons of Russian
Sokol crude for loading mid-September, according to two traders
who participate in the market, asking not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, the state-owned oil producer known
as PetroVietnam, resumed full production at the Dung Quat
refinery after shutting for planned maintenance.  The plant started operating commercially July 7 and
returned to full capacity the following day, Nguyen Viet Thang,
the deputy general director of Binh Son Refinery & Petrochemical
Co., operator of the plant, said by phone today.  The 130,000 barrel-a-day facility, the country’s only
refinery, was shut from May 15 for repairs, Nguyen Hoai Giang,
the general director of Binh Son Refinery, said at the time.  Libyan Output  Three Libyan oil ports began export operations after a halt
on July 5 because of protests, said the chairman of state-run
National Oil Corp. Crude production in the North African country
will return to a level of 1.5 million barrels a day within 24
hours, Nuri Berruien said yesterday in a phone interview from
the capital, Tripoli.  Protesters occupied the ports of Ras Lanuf, Brega and Es-
Sider to call attention to their claims of economic and
political marginalization of  Libya ’s oil-rich eastern province
of Cyrenaica, cutting crude exports by about 300,000 barrels a
day, Berruien said.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest state-owned
crude exporter, will provide full contracted supplies to
customers in  Asia  for August, according to seven buyers at
regional refiners who received notification from the producer.  Saudi Aramco , as the company is known, will supply 100
percent of volumes agreed under long-term contracts, said the
people, asking not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak to the media. August will be the 33rd month
in a row that  Saudi Arabia  has not trimmed exports.  Petronas Alpha  Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s state oil company,
reduced a price-adjustment factor for its flagship Tapis crude,
following a drop in benchmark futures.  Petronas, as the Kuala Lumpur-based company is known, set
the so-called  alpha  at $8.15 a barrel for July, an official said
today, asking not to be identified because of internal rules. It
was $8.30 for June and averaged $5.90 in 2011.  The Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures the
European oil’s premium to the Middle East grade, fell 12 cents
to $2.68 a barrel for August, according to data from PVM Oil
Associates Ltd., a London-based broker. The September EFS lost
10 cents to $2.54.  Dubai Backwardation  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when the price for near-term
deliveries is greater than later supplies, narrowed 2 cents.
Swaps for August were 67 cents a barrel more than October,
according to data from PVM.  Profits from refining a barrel of Dubai into fuels such as
diesel and gasoline priced in the regional oil-trading hub of
 Singapore  averaged $2.64 during the last five days, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day average is $2.70.  Oman for September delivery fell $1.09 to settle at $96.82
a barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  