-- Sonny Bill Williams to Quit N.Z. Rugby for Stint in Japan, NRL
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-09T03:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/sonny-bill-williams-to-quit-n-z-rugby-for-stint-in-japan-nrl.html
Sonny Bill Williams will quit  New
Zealand  rugby to play for a Japanese club before returning to
Australia’s National Rugby League competition next year.  Williams, who scored four tries in seven games to help the
All Blacks win last year’s  World Cup , said today that he’ll join
Ota-based Panasonic Wild Knights until January after finishing
this year’s Super Rugby season with the Chiefs. He’ll then link
up with an unnamed NRL club.  Williams, 26, played 17 Tests for the All Blacks at center
or wing since walking out on the Canterbury Bulldogs NRL team in
2008 to play rugby union in  France . He made his All Blacks debut
two years later.  “It is a shame and disappointing that New Zealand rugby is
losing him,” All Blacks coach  Steve Hansen  said in a statement.
“He is an outstanding athlete who has stamped his mark on the
game and hopefully this is not the last time we see him.”  The 6-foot-3, 238-pound Williams, who also boxes and
currently holds the New Zealand Professional Boxing Association
heavyweight title, said that he’d made a “handshake agreement”
with an NRL club he wouldn’t identify, though hasn’t ruled out
returning to New Zealand in the future. His contract with the
Wild Knights also allows him to have a fight, he said today at a
televised news conference in Hamilton.  Williams said he’d initially turned down an approach from
the Japanese club, who then “came back with an offer I pretty
much couldn’t refuse.” His contract is worth NZ$1.5 million
($1.2 million) for 12 matches, the New Zealand Herald reported.  Williams started his career as a professional sportsman in
 Australia ’s NRL with the Bulldogs, helping the Sydney-based team
win the Premiership in his rookie season in 2004.  ‘Freakish Abilities’  The Auckland-born Williams switched to rugby union four
years later to play for Toulon in France and returned to New
Zealand in 2010, earning selection to the All Blacks squad at
the end of that year even though he hadn’t yet played at Super
Rugby level.  Williams’s “high-level skills and freakish abilities”
helped his conversion to rugby’s 15-a-side version, Hansen said,
adding that the development of his game understanding had turned
him into a “world class” player.  He scored two tries for the All Blacks in last month’s 3-0
Test series sweep against Ireland and has helped the Chiefs to
the top of the Super Rugby standings as they seek a first title
in the southern hemisphere’s top provincial competition. Heading
into last weekend’s matches, he had a tournament-leading 31
offloads, 10 more than any other player.  “He’s shown an ability to come up to an immense level in a
quick time in a sport that he didn’t know anything about, and
his family didn’t know much about,” Chiefs assistant coach
Wayne Smith said in the news conference. “Wherever he goes, I
think he’ll reach that peak too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  