-- Spain Should Take Toxic Assets Off Banks’ Books, Montoro Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-07-09T10:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/spain-should-take-toxic-assets-off-banks-books-montoro-says.html
Spain should lift toxic assets off
banks’ balance sheets with European support, Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro said.  “A first very important policy is to clean up the banking
system,” Montoro told a conference today in San Lorenzo de El
Escorial, near  Madrid . “We need to segregate from those balance
sheets the assets that are damaged by the crisis.”  Spain’s government, which had ruled out creating a bad bank
to buy soured assets, has indicated it may create such a vehicle
since seeking a European bailout for its lenders last month.
Banks have about 180 billion euros ($221 billion) of problematic
assets linked to the real-estate industry on their books as the
property slump enters its fifth year.  The mechanism for separating the assets -- whether it will
force all banks to comply and whether there will be one
centralized holding company -- will be set out in the agreement
governing the European rescue package, Montoro said.  Spain  is
negotiating the terms of as much as 100 billion euros of
emergency loans for its banks. Finance ministers are due to
discuss the accord at a meeting in Brussels today.  The European Commission has a “clear preference” for
segregating problematic assets and the policy has
“advantages,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said June 26.  De Guindos, in his second banking overhaul since the
government came to power in December, told banks to transfer
into separate management vehicles property they have taken onto
their books in exchange for loans. Still, each bank can set up
its own vehicle and the rules allow them to continue to fully
own the unit, reducing pressure to put a market price on the
assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  