-- Spanish Yields Show Summit Shortfall, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-09T14:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/spanish-yields-show-summit-shortfall-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
Spanish bond yields at levels that
have prompted bailouts signal last month’s European summit
wasn’t enough to stem the region’s debt crisis, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian.  Yields on Spanish debt due in 10 years rose to more than 7
percent today, corresponding to  interest rates  that spurred
 Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek emergency loans. The
difference in yield between the securities and similar-maturity
German bunds climbed 10 basis points to 573 basis points, within
16 basis points of the record level set June 18.  “It signals that people have understood that while the
last European summit did lot, it didn’t do enough,” El-Erian,
the chief executive officer of the world’s largest manager of
bond funds, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “It didn’t break
the link between weak banks and weak sovereign credit
worthiness. It hasn’t increased the resources of the ESM and it
hasn’t overcome national politics.”  European Union leaders agreed at the June summit to ease
the way to direct financing for troubled banks, to start work on
Europe-wide bank supervision and to increase access to the EU’s
bailout mechanisms. Finance ministers have been asked to hammer
out the details.  Among the issues finance ministers will have to tackle
today is how to start funneling as much as 100 billion euros
($123 billion) in aid to troubled Spanish banks without boosting
the government’s debt load. Ministers are likely to initially
channel the money via a Spanish state agency because the 500
billion-euro European Stability Mechanism won’t be operational
until a still-unspecified date in the summer, an EU official
told reporters in Brussels on July 6 on condition of anonymity.  Sovereign Favorites  More easing from the  European Central Bank  alone won’t
solve the euro-region’s crisis, El-Erian said. The central
bank’s balance sheet, with 3.1 trillion euros in assets, has
increased to about 30 percent of gross domestic product,
compared with about 20 percent of GDP at the U.S.’s  Federal
Reserve , he said.  “There are those who feel it should do more, and I think
that’s right provided the fiscal authorities and the political
authorities move as well,” he said. “The problem with central
bank action, whether it’s in Europe or the U.S., is it can only
provide a bridge given the problems we have. It is not a
solution.”  El-Erian reiterated that Pimco favors the sovereign debt of
nations including the U.S.,  Mexico  and  Brazil .  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  