-- Swap Definition Set to Trigger Dodd-Frank Overhaul Cascade
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-09T15:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/swap-definition-vote-set-to-trigger-dodd-frank-overhaul-cascade.html
When they decide which derivatives
are considered swaps under the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators
will unleash a cascade of rules on the $648 trillion global
market designed to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is poised to
complete several hundred pages of regulations tomorrow that
determine when trades by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Cargill Inc. and other companies must fall under
rules to reduce risk and increase transparency. The Securities
and Exchange Commission unanimously approved the rule July 6
without holding a public meeting.  “It’s really very critical to complete the further
definition of the word swap and the end-user exception,” CFTC
Chairman Gary Genslersaid in a telephone interview on July 5.
“Those are foundational rules.”  Dodd-Frank required the two agencies to write scores of
regulations to govern swaps reporting, record-keeping, trading,
collateral and other issues. The agencies missed the July 2011
deadline for implementing the changes and have repeatedly
announced further delays.  “All of these regulatory requirements depend on a
derivative being defined as a swap in the first place,” said
Lynn Stout, professor of law at  Cornell University . “The
definition of swap is the critical underpinning of the success
of the regulatory regime.”  End-of-Year Deadline  The U.S. agencies are striving to meet an end-of-year
deadline set by Group of 20 member nations to improve market
oversight in response to a credit crisis that led to the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and U.S. bailouts of
companies including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Getco LLC,
Citadel LLC and a group of proprietary traders,  hedge funds  and
other asset managers have urged the CFTC and SEC to complete
rules requiring clearing of trades before next year.  The CFTC also will exempt banks with $10 billion or less in
assets from requirements to guarantee swaps at central
clearinghouses, according to two people briefed on the matter
who requested anonymity because the rule hasn’t been made
public.  The swap definition will trigger almost 20 Dodd-Frank
changes to the market over the coming months. Within two months
of the definition’s publication, swap dealers and so-called
major swap participants must register; the CFTC estimates that
125 companies will be required to do so. Data on  interest rate 
and credit swaps must be reported to the public starting within
two months of the swap definition.  Conduct Standards  Regulations governing conduct standards between banks and
swap-buyers, internal standards for chief compliance officers
and registration for swap-data repositories are also pegged to
the final definition vote. Rules for agricultural swaps and
commodity options also rely on the swap definition.  Limits mandated by Dodd-Frank on speculation in oil,
natural gas, wheat and other commodities will also begin to take
effect two months after publication of the swap definition. The
so-called position limits, facing a court challenge by Wall
Street trade associations, will start to take effect on
contracts in the current, or spot, month.  “This is a key rule because once this definitions domino
drops, others will fall into place pretty quickly,”  Bart Chilton , a Democratic CFTC commissioner, said July 6.  13,000 Comments  The limits spurred more than  13,000 comments  to the agency
from supporters such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and opponents such
as  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc. and Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association filed a lawsuit in December seeking to overturn the
limits, arguing that the agency didn’t demonstrate that they
were required by the law. The groups also argued that the CFTC
failed to conduct an adequate analysis of the costs and benefits
before approving the regulation.  A ruling is pending from U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  