-- U.K. Output Index Declines to Level Signaling Contraction
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-07-09T07:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/u-k-output-index-declines-to-level-signaling-contraction-1-.html
A U.K. output index fell in June to a
level indicating the economy will continue to shrink, while
business confidence dropped to the lowest this year, according
to BDO LLP.  The gauge estimating output over the coming quarter
declined to 94.8 from 96.7 in May, while the sentiment measure
fell to 93.5 from 95.5, the accountancy firm said in a report
published today in London. The output index is below the 95 mark
that points to positive growth in three months, “suggesting
more difficult economic terrain is ahead,” BDO said.  The  Bank of England  expanded its  bond-purchase program  last
week as it stepped up efforts to lift Britain out of recession.
The economy shrank for a second straight quarter between January
and March and the central bank said recent indicators “point to
a continuation of that weakness in the near term.”  U.K.  industrial production  probably fell 0.2 percent in May
after stagnating in April, according to the median forecast of
28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Factory production
probably slipped 0.1 percent. The  Office for National Statistics 
will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.  Continuing Turmoil  The decline in the BDO sentiment index in June takes it to
the lowest since December. The company said that the “ongoing
unresolved” turmoil from the debt crisis in  Europe  is “likely
to be weighing on business confidence, particularly among
manufacturers.” An employment measure fell to 94.3 in June from
94.9 in May, while a gauge of inflation expectations rose to
103.3 from 102.6.  The BDO indexes are calculated by the Centre for Economics
and Business Research from a weighted average of all the U.K.’s
main business surveys in past month.  A separate survey today by Lloyds Bank showed Britons’
assessment of employment prospects rose to minus 53 last month
from minus 59 in May. Lloyds’ index of consumers’ job security
increased 2 points to minus 14.  In another report, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and
Employment Confederation said their index of hiring of full-time
staff dropped to 46.8 in June, the lowest in almost three years,
from 51 in May. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  