-- U.K. Stocks Decline for Second Day as Spanish Yields Rise
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-07-09T15:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/u-k-stocks-decline-for-second-day-as-spanish-yields-rise.html
U.K. stocks  fell the most in two
weeks as Spanish bond yields surged before euro-area finance
ministers meet in Brussels to discuss measures to contain the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Michael Page  International Plc retreated 3.8 percent after
the U.K. recruitment company reported a decline in profit.
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  dropped 2.2 percent as the Sunday Times reported the
company will delay a vote on a merger with  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  until September.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 35.30 points, or 0.6 percent, to
5,627.33 at the close in London. The gauge gained 1.6 percent
last week as the  Bank of England  expanded its bond-buying
program and surveys of manufacturing in economies from China to
the euro area beat economists’ estimates. The broader FTSE All-
Share Index slid 0.6 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
was little changed.  “Euro-zone finance ministers meet in Brussels, ostensibly
to build on the decisions announced at the summit two weeks
ago,” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in  London ,
wrote in a note. “As if to underline the urgency of their
discussions, yields for Spanish and Italian bonds are on the
march again, although this latest meeting is likely to end with
a statement of intent but little else.”  The yield on Spain’s benchmark  10-year bond  rose to 7.062
percent, the highest since June 18. That was above the 7 percent
threshold that prompted full bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal .  Euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels to discuss
crisis-fighting measures adopted by leaders of the 17 euro
nations last month.  Output, Confidence  A U.K. output index fell in June to a level indicating the
economy will continue to shrink, while business confidence
dropped to the lowest this year, according to BDO LLP.  The gauge estimating output over the coming quarter
declined to 94.8 from 96.7 in May, while the sentiment measure
fell to 93.5 from 95.5, the accountancy firm said in a report
published today in London. The output index is below the 95 mark
that points to positive growth in three months, “suggesting
more difficult economic terrain is ahead,” BDO said.  Michael Page (MPI)  dropped 3.8 percent to 350.9 pence. The
company said gross profit declined 6.6 percent in the second
quarter from the same period a year earlier and forecast the
third quarter will be “challenging.” Rival Hays Plc fell 2.7
percent to 70.9 pence.  Commodity Shares  Xstrata lost 2.2 percent to 815.6 pence. The company will
delay a vote on its merger with Glencore until September, the
Sunday Times reported yesterday. Talks with Qatar Holding LLC,
the investment arm of the country’s sovereign-wealth fund, on
the price of the deal may continue for weeks, the Financial
Times reported today without saying where it got the
information. Glencore fell 0.5 percent to 308.75 pence.  Lonmin Plc, the third-biggest platinum producer, and Evraz
Plc, the largest steelmaker in  Russia  by output, fell 3.6
percent to 701 pence and 1.9 percent to 241.6 pence,
respectively.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  lost 2.9 percent to 2,042.5
pence, while  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  fell 2.2 percent to 5,815
pence.  A gauge of commodity shares was the  worst performer  of the
19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600 Europe Index.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s  largest luxury-goods maker ,
fell 2.6 percent to 1,255 pence. The company reports first-
quarter sales on July 11.  Kenmare Slumps  Kenmare Resources Plc dropped 10 percent to 34.24 pence in
London, its biggest drop since Aug. 18, after Australian peer
Iluka Resources cut its sales outlook for the second-half of the
year.  JJB Sports Plc (JJB) , the U.K. retailer trying to survive with
funding from Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc., tumbled 25 percent to
7.38 pence after saying this year’s European soccer
championships failed to provide the same stimulus to revenue as
previous major tournaments. That was the stock’s biggest slump
in three years.  “Sales have fallen materially short of expectations,”
also affected by rainy weather, the Wigan, England-based
retailer said. Sales at stores open at least a year fell 8
percent in the 22 weeks ended July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  