-- U.S. July NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-09T15:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/u-s-july-nahb-first-american-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Housing
Opportunity Index from the  National Association of Home
Builders .  84 Metros Listed As Improving Housing Markets in July  The list of U.S. housing markets showing measurable and
sustained improvement rose by four to include 84 metros in July,
according to the National Association of Home Builders/First
American Improving Markets Index (IMI), released today.  This
number includes representatives from 32 states plus the  District
of Columbia .  The index identifies metropolitan areas that have shown
improvement from their respective troughs in housing permits,
employment and  house prices  for at least six consecutive months.
This month’s IMI includes 73 metros that held their positions on
the list from June, as well as 11 newly added markets. Notable
new entries include such geographically diverse places as
Prescott, Ariz.; Springfield, Mass.; St. Cloud, Minn.; and
Houston,  Texas .  “The geographic diversity and growing number of metros on the
latest IMI help spotlight the improvements we have begun to see
in terms of  home prices  and job market conditions across certain
parts of this country, which in turn are spurring more demand
for new homes,” said NAHB Chairman Barry Rutenberg, a home
builder from Gainesville, Fla. “That said, our members continue
to assert the need for more reasonable credit standards and more
accurate appraisal methods to perpetuate this positive
momentum.”  “The modest increase in the July IMI is encouraging because it
indicates that individual housing markets continue to regain
their footing despite some recent reports of weakening in the
broader economy,” added NAHB Chief Economist  David Crowe . “This
is evidence that the housing recovery is slowly but surely
taking root, one market at a time.”  “The positive takeaway from today’s report is that an increasing
number of consumers are looking at better conditions to both buy
and sell homes, which should help spur greater activity in
certain markets going forward,” noted  Kurt Pfotenhauer , vice
chairman of First American Title Company.  The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the
country that are showing signs of improving economic health. The
index measures three sets of independent monthly data to get a
mark on the top improving Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The
three indicators that are analyzed are employment growth from
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, house price appreciation from
 Freddie Mac  and single-family housing permit growth from the
U.S. Census Bureau. NAHB uses the latest available data from
these sources to generate a list of improving markets. A
metropolitan area must see improvement in all three areas for at
least six months following their respective troughs before being
included on the improving markets list.  Source: National Association of Home Builders
 http://www.nahb.com/facts/economics/housingopindex.html 
