-- U.S. June Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-07-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/u-s-june-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. employment trends index
from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index dipped to 107.47 in June, down
from the revised figure of 108.23 in May. The June figure is 5.6 percent higher than
a year ago.  “The Employment Trends Index has been flat since February, suggesting that slow
employment growth is likely to continue through the summer,” said  Gad Levanon ,
Director of Macroeconomic Research at The Conference Board. “Since there is little
hope of acceleration in the pace of economic activity any time soon, these weak
labor market conditions are likely to persist for the coming months.”  June’s drop in the ETI was driven by negative contributions from four of the
eight components. The declining indicators -- beginning with the largest negative
contributor -- were Percentage of Firms with Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now,
Ratio of Involuntarily Part-time to All Part-time Workers, Initial Claims for
 Unemployment Insurance  and Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to
Get.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market indicators, each of
which has proven accurate in its own area. Aggregating individual indicators into a
composite index filters out “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends Index
include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” (The Conference
Board  Consumer Confidence  Survey)  Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance (U.S. Department of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry ( U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics )  Ratio of Involuntarily Part-time to All Part-time Workers (BLS)  Job Openings  (BLS)**  Industrial Production  (Federal Reserve Board)*  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)**  *Statistical imputation for the recent month
**Statistical imputation for two most recent months  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly, at 10 a.m.
ET on the Monday that follows each Friday release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
Employment Situation report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conferenceboard . org/data/eti.cfm.  (ETI) 2012 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET)           Data for the Month
Monday, August 6                          July
Monday, September 10                     August
Tuesday, October 9 *                     September
Monday, November 5                          October
Monday, December 10                     November
* Tuesday release due to holiday  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
