-- U.S. Stocks Post Longest Slump in 1 Month on Europe Woes
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-09T21:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-as-japanese-orders-fall.html
U.S. stocks fell, giving benchmark
indexes the longest slump in more than a month, after a jump in
Spanish bond yields above 7 percent intensified concern about
Europe’s crisis and as investors awaited Alcoa Inc.’s results.  Alcoa advanced 0.2 percent at 5:46 p.m.  New York  time after
earnings and revenue analysts’ beat estimates.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and DuPont Co. dropped more than 1.3 percent to pace losses
among the biggest companies. The largest payment networks  Visa
Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard (MA)  Inc. slumped at least 1.3 percent after
being downgraded at UBS AG.  Patriot Coal (PCX)  Corp. plunged 72
percent before it filed for  bankruptcy protection .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2 percent to
1,352.46 at 4 p.m. New York time. The measure dropped 1.6
percent in three days for the longest slump since June 1. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 36.18 points, or 0.3 percent,
to 12,736.29. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was
5.1 billion shares, 24 percent below the three-month average.  “It’s very concerning,” said Jeff Savage, regional chief
investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank in Portland,
Oregon. His firm manages $169 billion. “Seven percent is not a
sustainable level of interest rates for Spain. That’s scary
stuff. We can’t have one of our best trading partners going
through terrible economic times and not having an effect on U.S.
corporate earnings,” he said, referring to Europe.  Stocks joined a  global slump  as the yield on Spain’s 10-
year bond rose above the threshold that prompted bailouts in
Greece, Ireland and Portugal. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  dismissed a rapid move toward direct bank
recapitalization by the European rescue fund, limiting the tools
for shoring up Spanish banks as the euro-area crisis simmers.  Earnings Season  Investors also awaited the start of the earnings season as
analysts’ estimates signal the first year-over-year profit
decline for S&P 500 companies since 2009. Forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg show a 1.8 percent drop in profits in the second
quarter. Revenue is projected to increase by 2.5 percent.  “People are too pessimistic about earnings,” said Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING
Investment Management. His firm oversees $160 billion. “We may
get some better price action in the U.S. as results come in.”  Alcoa (AA) , the first company in the Dow to report second-
quarter results, added 0.2 percent to $8.78 after the market
close. Profit excluding a restructuring charge and other items
was 6 cents a share, compared with the 5-cent profit that was
the average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell to
$5.96 billion from $6.59 billion, exceeding the $5.81 billion
average of 11 estimates.  AMD Slumps  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. slumped 9.4 percent to $5.09
after the close of regular trading. It said second-quarter sales
fell  11 percent  from the previous period, reducing an earlier
forecast, citing weaker-than-expected sales in  China (AMD)  and Europe
as well as tepid consumer demand.  Today’s decline trimmed this year’s gain in the S&P 500 to
7.5 percent. Stocks fell  last week  as jobs data heightened
concern about a slowing economy and Europe’s efforts to tame its
debt crisis disappointed investors.  Eight out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500 retreated as
commodity and consumer discretionary shares had the biggest
losses. DuPont, a U.S. chemicals producer, slumped 2.9 percent
to $47.47. Exxon Mobil fell 1.4 percent to $83.65.  Visa retreated 1.3 percent to $123.65, while MasterCard
declined 2.4 percent to $431.27. UBS analyst  John Williams 
changed his rating on the firms’ shares today to sell from
neutral, citing weaker U.S. economic data and a global slowdown
in growth. Williams said this could harm Visa and MasterCard,
which are among the top three performing shares in the  S&P’s
Information Technology Index (S5INFT)  since 2011.  Record Highs  The companies’ shares “sit near  all-time  highs despite
exposure to a weakening global consumer spending backdrop, which
makes a slowdown in key metrics inevitable over the next 3 to 6
months,” Williams wrote. “Multiple data points indicate global
growth is slowing -- clear negatives for the shares.”  Patriot Coal tumbled 72 percent to 61 cents as two people
with knowledge of the matter said the U.S. fuel producer could
seek bankruptcy protection as early as today. Patriot filed for
bankruptcy after the market closed, as milder winters and a
shift to natural gas sent coal demand to a 24-year low.  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  sank 3.1 percent to $23.67.
The maker of International brand trucks dropped after Bloomberg
Industries said truckmakers will need to reduce production in
the second half of the year.  The  Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index (USEDU)  of 13 stocks
tumbled 4.7 percent.  Bridgepoint Education Inc. (BPI)  plunged 34
percent to $14.25. The for-profit college company that owns
Ashford University tumbled after Ashford’s accreditation
application was denied by a regional accreditor.  Declining Prospects  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  slumped 2.4 percent to $16.40
as declining growth prospects prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to downgrade the online brokerage to  sell  from neutral.  A measure of health-care stocks had the biggest gain among
10 S&P 500 groups, rising 0.6 percent, amid takeover optimism.  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  surged 38 percent to $88.79.  WellPoint (WLP) 
Inc., the second-biggest U.S. health insurer, agreed to  buy  the
company for $4.9 billion in cash to expand the number of
Medicaid patients it serves as the U.S. health plan for the poor
undergoes broad changes in how it is managed.  WellPoint added 3.4 percent to $61.95. The deal also
 boosted  the value of other insurers focusing on Medicaid.
 WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG)  soared 18 percent to $62.56.  Molina
Healthcare Inc. (MOH)  rallied 18 percent to $27.12.  Apple Gains  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 1.3 percent to $613.89. The world’s most
valuable company may sell 4 million to 6 million still-to-be-
released smaller iPad tablets in this year’s fourth-quarter
holiday season, according to Piper Jaffray Cos. The firm rates
Apple overweight, the equivalent of a buy recommendation.  “We believe the smaller iPad, while potentially
cannibalizing 10 percent of full size iPad sales, could take 30
percent of total Android tablet sales in the December quarter,”
 Gene Munster , an analyst for Piper Jaffray, said in a note.  Boeing Co. (BA)  added 0.5 percent to $74.03. It is set to win an
order this week from United Continental Holdings Inc. for 100 of
the planemaker’s 737 jets in a transaction that may be valued at
about $8.4 billion, people familiar with the matter said.  The same securities analysts warning of the first decline
in quarterly earnings since 2009 are also more bullish than ever
on U.S. stocks.  A total of 247 companies in the S&P 500 have more buy
ratings than sells and holds, a record in Bloomberg data
starting in 2000. Bullish recommendations have been expanding
even as Wall Street firms cut their forecast for second-quarter
net income in the U.S. to a decrease of 1.8 percent from a gain
of 2 percent in April, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bulls vs Bears  Bears say rising equity volatility, declining profits and
the approaching U.S. presidential election mean the 4.5 percent
 drop  in the S&P 500 since April will continue. Bulls say
analysts are advising clients to buy because earnings are still
on track to reach a record this year and the index is trading 16
percent below its average valuation since the 1950s.  “My picks aren’t based on one quarter,”  Howard Rubel , a
New York-based equity analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in a July
5 phone interview. “It’s not always captured in a headline how
many pieces of judgment one needs to incorporate into a stock
recommendation, and a quarterly earnings report is only one
item. You have to look at things over a period of time.”  The last time earnings and share ratings diverged was the
third quarter of 2009, when the S&P 500 was  six months  into a
rally that lifted it more than 100 percent through April 2012.
Analysts predicted a 23 percent drop in S&P 500 annual profit,
while 205 companies in the index had more buy ratings than sells
and holds. The June-to-August period that year was the index’s
last quarter of negative  earnings  growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  