-- Tucker Says No Public Official Told Him to Lean on Barclays
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-09T18:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/tucker-says-no-government-official-told-him-to-lean-on-barclays.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said no government minister or official pressured him to
instruct  Barclays Plc (BARC)  or any other U.K. commercial bank to
lowball its Libor submissions during the financial crisis.  “Absolutely not,” Tucker told lawmakers in  London  today,
when asked if anybody from the civil service or the then Labour
government leaned on him to ask banks to lower their Libor
submissions. He also said some of a memo written by former
Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  after an October
2008 phone call between the two gave “the wrong impression.”  Tucker’s two-hour testimony followed the record 290
million-pound ($449 million) fine imposed on Barclays last month
for manipulation of the London interbank offered rate. The
scandal, which Tucker described as a “cesspit,” has
jeopardized his position as the front-runner to replace  Mervyn King  as governor of the Bank of England.  “I can’t be confident about anything after learning about
this, this cesspit,” he said. “Self-certification is plainly
open to abuse” and the government “should look at every single
index that isn’t based on real transactions.”  The deputy governor added he was not aware of allegations
other banks were submitting low Libor quotes before Barclays.  “We were not aware of allegations of dishonesty,” he
said, adding that he thought “these money markets are not
working, they are dysfunctional.”  Barclays Concerns  Diamond resigned on July 3 and testified to the  Treasury
Committee  a day later. Chairman Marcus Agius, who plans to leave
once a successor for Diamond is found, will attend the panel
tomorrow at 10 a.m.  Tucker was dragged into the affair by Diamond’s memo of
their Oct. 29, 2008 call, which suggested he might have hinted
that Barclays could lowball its Libor submissions. Tucker, who
was markets director at the time, said he spoke to Diamond as
there were worries Barclays was “next in line” after  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  had
accepted government bailouts in 2008.  According to the memo, Tucker had received calls from
“senior” government figures on Barclays’s Libor pricing.
Diamond said Tucker stated “that while he was certain we did
not need advice, that it did not always need to be the case that
we appeared as high as we have recently.”  ‘Wrong Impression’  Tucker said that sentence in the note “gives the wrong
impression.”  “It should have said something along the lines of: ‘Are
you ensuring that you, the senior management of Barclays, are
following the day-to-day operations of your money market desk,
your treasury? Are you ensuring that they don’t march you over
the cliff inadvertently by giving signals that you need to pay
up for funds?”  Tucker told the committee that the central bank didn’t keep
a record of the call. ‘Sitting here, I greatly wish there were a
note of it,’’ he said.  Odds at bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc (PWL)  show Tucker is no longer
the favorite to take over when King retires in 2013. His odds
have worsened to 9/4 from 6/4, while  Gus O’Donnell , the former
head of the U.K. civil service, moved to 7/4 from 2/1. O’Donnell
was a 14/1 shot at the start of the year.  Tucker’s Contacts  Diamond said last week that he didn’t interpret the
conversation with Tucker as a request to change Barclays’s Libor
submissions. Tucker said he was passing on concerns that had
been expressed by government officials. He said he had most
contact during the crisis period with civil servants Jeremy Heywood, Tom Scholar, Jon Cunliffe and, to a lesser extent,
Nicholas Macpherson, the top civil servant at the Treasury.  Tucker’s evidence puts pressure on Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , who last week accused his opposite
number in the  Labour Party ,  Ed Balls , of being involved in the
scandal as a Cabinet minister in the previous government. The
allegation sparked angry exchanges in the House of Commons.  “It is now absolutely clear that the chancellor’s
allegations last week were totally false and completely without
foundation,” Balls said today. “George Osborne should now
publicly withdraw these false allegations and apologize.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  