-- Lira Weakens for Fourth Day on Inflation, Cheaper Bank Funding
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-07-09T16:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/turkish-lira-weakens-for-the-fourth-day-in-istanbul-trading.html
The Turkish lira weakened for the
first time in four days as the central bank extended its policy
of cheaper funding and on speculation inflation will fall
further.  The lira weakened for the fourth day, depreciating 0.4
percent to 1.8253 per dollar, heading for its lowest close since
June 28. Yields on two-year benchmark debt sank as much as 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, in intraday trade and
erased losses to close unchanged at 8.02 percent, snapping the
biggest stretch of declines since July 2009.  The central bank lent today at its minimum 5.75 percent
policy rate for a 25th consecutive day, the longest stretch of
lending at the lowest rate since March 21. The  overnight cost of
borrowing  fell to 7.08 percent in the  interbank market , down
from 10.5 percent at the beginning of this year. The Turkish
economy shrunk 0.4 percent in the first quarter and  inflation 
dropped to 8.9 percent in June from 11.1 percent in April.  “We anticipate that the central bank will continue to
reduce the cost of funding at a time the whole world cuts
rates,” Fatih Keresteci, a strategist at HSBC Bank AS, said in
an e-mailed note.  The central bank will reduce its 6.5 percent inflation
forecast for 2012 toward the 5 percent goal when it releases its
quarterly inflation report on July 26, central bank Governor
Erdem Basci told executives in a speech in the eastern city of
Bursa on July 6.  Lira Depreciation  “The lira has become vulnerable again, as the Turkish
central bank isn’t expected to be as hawkish anymore and tighten
monetary policy every time the lira starts to weaken
considerably,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments. The lira
slumped 18 percent last year in the biggest depreciation
worldwide after the central bank cut rates to a record low of
5.75 percent in August.  The bank spent $16 billion of its reserves between August
and January to defend the currency, increasing rates as high as
12.5 percent within an unorthodox interest-rate corridor
introduced in October.  Inflation is expected to fall to 6.80 percent in 12 months,
compared with an estimate of 6.93 percent two weeks ago, the
Ankara-based bank said on its website on July 6. The rate of
price increases is predicted at 7.02 percent at the end of the
year, against a previous estimate of 7.38 percent, according to
a fortnightly central bank survey of economists and business
leaders.  Turkey ’s industrial output for May expanded at 5.9 percent,
the fastest annual pace since November, according to data
released by the statistics office in Ankara today. Output was
expected to rise 2 percent, according to the median estimate of
six economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  