-- Murray’s Wimbledon Loss Is Britain’s Triumph
-- B y   A . A .   G i l l
-- 2012-07-09T03:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/murray-loses-wimbledon-so-britain-triumphs-again.html
England ’s motto should be “Sorry.”
We have so many ways of saying it. And so many reasons. It ought
to be printed on the currency.  The other thing we say to one another a lot is, “It’s not
the disappointment, it’s the hope we can’t bear.” And then we
laugh. In that brittle English way.  We’ve been saying it a lot recently. Now here is Wimbledon.
And the first Brit (and Scot) to reach a final since before
memory. They’ve been fishing around to find someone from back
then to comment. The best they can manage is the child or
grandchild of someone who might have played in a final wearing
long trousers or a bonnet, or both.  Andy Murray  is playing at the moment upstairs. Obviously he
is playing in Wimbledon, which is not upstairs. But the rest of
the family is watching television upstairs. And it is ominously
quiet.  I can’t watch. It’s not that I don’t like tennis. I’ve
never played. I just like the sort of people who ask you to play.
It’s a middle-age-crisis game. And Wimbledon is more than
faintly absurd. With its blazered and trimmed snobbery. All the
royal-box seating and the corporate hospitality. The cameras
picking out celebrities in the crowd. Mostly people we thought
were dead.  It’s not all that. Like I said, it’s the hope I can’t bear.
Not the fear of what it will feel like when Murray loses. It’s
the terror of what this will do to the nation if he wins.  Fairness Engines  Americans have never really got the point of competitive
sports. We know what it is really for. We invented almost every
game that’s worth playing. And a whole lot that aren’t.
Including baseball.  The great age for organizing the rules of sport and setting
up governing bodies was the 19th century. The engines for
fairness and uniformity were English public schools. Games were
character-building.  Paul Newman  is said to have summed up the
American attitude to sport when he said, “Show me a good loser,
and I’ll show you a loser.” Well, we know that if you show us a
winner, you show us someone who has learned nothing useful apart
from doing something repetitive with a ball.  A good winner and a bad winner look just the same. A good
loser and a bad loser are very different. A point of all games
is not to teach you how to cope with winning. Any Neanderthal
can do that. It’s how you lose with aplomb, with flair, with
humility and optimism, that’s the trick. That’s the point of
sport.  A good loser should look like an Oscar acceptance speech.
If sport were simply about faster, higher, harder and longer,
then it’s a shallow cul-de-sac, only fit for Kipling’s
flannelled fools and muddied oafs. If, however, it teaches young
men and women character in the face of public disappointment,
then it’s a boon.  It’s the loser’s hand you should shake. He is taking home
something far more important than a hideous mantel ornament.  So the English have become supremely good at failing to win.
We joke about it. We are comfortable with it. We have the
weather for it.  We are so good at coming in second we can toy with it. We
can almost win. Unlike Samoa or  Kuwait , who are never in
contention, we could, we might, we just don’t. But if Murray, by
some kismet, some destiny-swerving fluke, grabs this one, well,
who knows what will happen. It could do critical damage to the
national psyche. We might imagine it marks a change in the
natural order of things. We could start believing that the toast
will fall butter side up. There will be horrible exhibitions of
self-belief, too ghastly and un-British to contemplate.  I can just remember the last time we won. The 1966  World
Cup . It was like the Blitz. Due to home-field advantage and bad
refereeing, we fluked the final from the Germans. It was a
nightmare. I was only a small boy, but I can still remember the
cloying, sickly taste of victory. We’ve only just got over it.  I’m going to take a break here to watch the end of the
match and compose my face.  * * *  It’s all over. That was a damn-close-run thing. But the
inexorable truth -- that Murray would take away the character-
building second-place -- won through in the end. The crowd
worked its Britannic magic, and slouched into the default
setting of pretending it was there for the tennis. And then it
got to cheer a Swiss man who had beaten the home boy.  So we can rest for another generation, being modestly proud
about not winning. Making jokes about gentlemen coming in second.
And smiling with an amateur humility, whilst looking the other
guy in the eye and saying that, on the day, the better man won.  But knowing, secretly, amongst ourselves, as on every other
day, we have the best of it. You judge a man, a child, a nation,
on how it loses.  (A.A. Gill, the restaurant and TV critic of the Sunday
Times of  London , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether it’s a  penalty or a
tax  and the  latest jobs report ; William D. Cohan on Finra’s
 captive arbitration system ; Susan P. Crawford on whether  Google
is a monopoly ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  gaming the Electoral College ;
 Simon Johnson  on  banks’ living wills ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the false
promise of  Asian values ; Jed Kolko on the downside of  rising
house prices .  To contact the writer of this article:
A.A. Gill in London at  aagill1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 