-- Luxembourg’s Mersch Appointed to ECB Six-Member Executive Board
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-07-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/luxembourg-s-mersch-named-to-ecb-executive-board-schuller-says.html
Luxembourg’s  Yves Mersch , the euro
region’s longest-serving central banker, was named to the
European Central Bank’s Executive Board in a victory for German-
style monetary rigor.  Mersch, 62, was appointed by euro-area finance ministers at
a meeting in Brussels yesterday, Guy Schuller, a spokesman for
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , told Bloomberg
News. He will move into the slot vacated by  Spain ’s Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, stripping Spain of its claim to a permanent
seat on the Frankfurt-based central bank’s six-member Executive
Board. Juncker chairs meetings of euro finance chiefs.  After five months of wrangling, Mersch defeated a Spanish
nominee, Antonio Sainz de Vicuna, head of legal services at the
ECB, as well as Mitja Gaspari, former head of Slovenia’s central
bank. As Luxembourg’s representative on the ECB’s wider policy-
setting Governing Council, Mersch has earned a reputation as an
inflation hawk. He is the only central banker in office
continuously since the euro debuted in 1999.  “Mersch will do his bit to reinforce the reputation of the
ECB as an inflation fighter,” said  Christian Schulz , senior
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “That could make markets
nervous at times.”  Rate Cut  The euro has fallen 4.7 percent against the dollar over the
past two months as governments struggled to contain the region’s
debt crisis and economic growth faltered. Mersch, who is head of
Luxembourg’s central bank, said in a report on June 14 the euro-
area economy probably contracted in the second quarter.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled yesterday policy makers
may be open to another  interest-rate  cut and said council
members “will do everything to maintain  price stability  -- from
both sides.” The central bank last week cut its benchmark
interest rate by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent, a record.  With the ECB now run by Italy’s Draghi with Vitor Constancio of Portugal vice president, northern countries backed
Luxembourg’s candidate as a way of arresting a perceived shift
of power toward southern  Europe .  Mersch “is extremely knowledgeable and highly respected,”
ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny , who is also head of Austria’s
central bank, told reporters in Brussels. “I am very glad that
finally this decision has been taken.”  Spain’s leverage to push through its lower-profile
candidate was hampered by its pursuit at the same time of as
much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) in aid for its banks.
Gonzalez-Paramo’s term ended on May 31.  Top Rated  Luxembourg, the European Union’s richest country in per
capita terms, is one of four euro-zone countries to emerge from
more than two years of fighting the debt crisis with its AAA
credit rating intact.  Mersch’s arrival will leave two top-rated countries,
Luxembourg and Germany, with board representation, while the
remaining seats are held by  Italy , Portugal, France and Belgium.
The six board members are joined by the 17 heads of national
central banks to set interest rates.  Before Mersch can begin his term, all 27 EU governments
must sign off on his appointment and the European Parliament
will hold a hearing and non-binding vote. The parliament has no
power to block ECB appointments and has never issued a negative
recommendation. Euro-region leaders will give the final nod.  The appointment is part of a personnel package that
includes new leaders for the panel of euro-area finance
ministers and the euro’s permanent rescue fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  