-- Varian Drops After CMS Plans Payment Cuts: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-07-09T19:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/varian-drops-after-cms-plans-payment-cuts-san-francisco-mover.html
Varian Medical Systems Inc. (VAR) , a maker
of equipment used to treat tumors with radiation therapy, fell
the most since April 26 after the government proposed cutting
payment rates to cancer clinics in 2013.  Varian declined 3.3 percent to $57.96 at 2:52 p.m.  New York 
time, after earlier dropping to as low as $57. The  Palo Alto ,
California-based company, which also makes and sells x-ray tubes
and flat-panel digital detectors, slumped 11 percent this year
through July 6.  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, known
as CMS,  announced plans  July 6 that would update payment
policies and rates for services to Medicare beneficiaries in
hospital outpatient departments and ambulatory surgical centers
beginning Jan. 1.  “When you look at the proposal, the first thing you look
at is the size of reimbursement cut and it’s almost like a slap
in the face,” Jeff Johnson, an analyst at  Robert W. Baird  in
 Milwaukee , said in a telephone interview today.  While he rates the stock outperform, Johnson reduced the
target price to $71 a share from $76. He estimates reimbursement
cuts of about 33 percent for radiation therapy in free-standing
centers and about 17 percent for proton therapy in hospitals.
Hospital radiation therapy payments would rise by a greater-
than-expected 5 percent, he said.  ‘Weigh on Shares’  While CMS’s proposed cuts for 2013 are “sizeable” and
“will weigh on shares today, investors should keep in mind the
near-to-intermediate term financial impact to Varian is
relatively modest,” Johnson wrote in a note to investors today.
He estimates the risk to earnings is 6 cents to 8 cents a year.  “The other part of the news that people are ignoring is
that there is an increase for hospital radiation therapy and
that accounts for about 85 percent of Varian’s U.S. orders,” he
said. “So their business there got a better outcome. You can’t
ignore bad news in 15 percent of the business, but you need to
keep perspective.”  Other analysts had different estimates of how much
reimbursement reductions would affect Varian.  Based on CMS’s proposal, cuts to payment rates for
radiation cancer therapy at free-standing clinics would be
“significantly greater than expected,” Citigroup Inc. analyst
Amit Bhalla wrote in a note to investors this morning.  29 Percent  Reimbursement for Varian’s radiation therapy at free-
standing clinics, based on 40 treatment sessions lasting six-to-
eight weeks, would drop 29 percent for the average patient,
compared with expectations for a 5 percent decline, Bhalla wrote
in his note. He cut the price target on Varian to $63 a share,
from $69, and reiterated a neutral rating on the stock.  At the same time, reimbursements for hospital outpatients
who receive the therapy would increase 8 percent, compared with
expectations of a 1 percent increase to 1 percent decrease,
Citigroup said in the note.  Varian is expected to weather the CMS proposals to cut 2013
reimbursement for radiation and proton therapy, in part because
“they have a strong balance sheet and strong  cash flow  so they
can buy back shares,” Johnson said. “It’s really a buying
opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  