-- Ming Yang Says It’s Not in Talks to Purchase Vestas Wind
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-07-09T16:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/vestas-wind-pares-losses-no-concrete-plans-to-sell-shares.html
China Ming Yang Wind Power Group
Ltd. (MY) , the nation’s third-largest wind-turbine maker, denied
being in talks to buy  Vestas Wind Systems A/S. (VWS)   “This is not happening so far,” Li Ruixiang, deputy
director of the Guangdong-based company’s news office, said by
phone yesterday.  Caixin reported yesterday that Ming Yang was seeking to
acquire Vestas for as much as 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) and
the deal could be completed by October. Mikkel Friis-Thomsen, a
spokesman for Vestas, said the company didn’t comment on
speculation.  “The low market share of China Ming Yang and the question
mark about financing of the deal make it a less likely
prospect,” said Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH &
Co. in Kronberg,  Germany . “This could be speculation by
interested parties seeking to move the share price.”  Vestas, along with General Electric Co. and Siemens AG, is
struggling with declining turbine prices and excess capacity as
nations from the U.S. to Germany rein in support for renewable
energy. Chinese competitors have considered a bid for Vestas,
Jyllands-Posten said in April. The newspaper didn’t identify its
sources and Vestas declined to comment at the time.  Potential Financing  Ming Yang was offered as much as $5 billion in “potential
financing” through 2015 from the state-owned China Development
Bank Corp. in October to develop its domestic and international
operations, the company said at the time.  BTM Consult ApS, a wind industry researcher based in
 Denmark  and a unit of Navigant Consulting Inc., said Ming Yang
was the 10th biggest turbine supplier in the world in 2011, with
2.9 percent of the market share. Vestas was the biggest with
12.9 percent.  Vestas fell 2.4 percent to 27.85 kroner at the close in the
Danish capital yesterday. The shares have lost 78 percent of
their value in the past 12 months.  The stock initially slumped as much as 10 percent yesterday
after Jyllands-Posten cited Michael Friis Jorgensen, an analyst
at Alm. Brand A/S., as saying that Vestas may need to sell
shares to raise capital for its “expensive” restructuring.  “Vestas has no concrete plans about raising capital
through a share sale,” Friis-Thomsen, the company’s spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Debt Concerns  The Sunday Times reported this month that Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc demanded Vestas submit
a comprehensive financial restructuring plan as concerns about
its debt mounted.  Vestas detailed restructuring plans in January after
issuing a second profit warning in three months. The company in
June agreed to sell a Danish turbine-tower factory to Titan Wind
Energy Suzhou Co., shelved a U.K. offshore-turbine factory and
closed a plant in  China  to save cash. Its first-quarter loss
almost doubled and a new chief financial officer was appointed
earlier this year.  “Due to the weak performance in the first quarter, the
company’s restructuring mode and the new CFO, the credit banks
of Vestas may be tempted to ask the company to raise more
capital to reduce their own risk,” Fairesearch’sSteffen said.
“If the present situation and weak market continues, sooner or
later they may be forced to do something,” he said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net  and Sally Bakewell in London at 
   Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  