-- Vivendi Reviews Due as Agency Toughens Policing of Mergers
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-09T17:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/vivendi-deal-review-due-as-agency-toughens-policing-of-mergers.html
France ’s  Antitrust Authority  will
decide by July 24 whether to approve the revised union of
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Canal Plus pay-television unit with Television Par
Satellite, its chief said today.  The regulator in September canceled the 2006 deal after
finding that Canal Plus hadn’t met all the conditions imposed to
ensure the merger didn’t harm competition.  Regulators in the deal are seeking diversity in the pay-TV
industry, a greater range of packages for consumers, and steps
that don’t “destabilize” the  film industry , Bruno Lasserre,
the agency’s chief, said today in Paris. The regulator won’t
require the company to sell off its CanalSat distribution arm,
he said.  The Authority has taken a tough stand on merger approval
since 2009, when it took responsibility for authorizing deals
from the  finance ministry . So far this year, it has imposed
conditions on seven deals, the same number as in 2011 and 2010
combined. The regulator has also fined companies for not living
up to the conditions of merger authorizations.  Its cancellation of the Vivendi merger was the first time
the Authority has done so for failure to comply with terms. The
authority also imposed a 30 million-euro ($37 million) fine on
 Canal Plus .  Meat Seller  Separately today, the Authority fined a French meat seller
1 million euros for ignoring conditions to a plan to acquire a
rival. Rather than divest a popular brand of beef, Groupe Bigard
changed the label’s name and then found no bidders when it put
the brand up for sale, the Authority said.  The regulator is scheduled to conclude by July 20 its
investigation into Vivendi’s purchase of Bollore Group’s
television assets, including channels Direct 8 and Direct Star.  The Authority’s review of Editions Gallimard SA’s purchase
of French publisher Flammarion SA, a unit of  RCS MediaGroup SpA (RCS) ,
should be concluded by early fall.  Scrutiny of  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) ’s offer for Groupe
Galeries Lafayette’s stake in the Monoprix supermarket chain may
take longer. The group said last month that it expects to have a
deal by October 2013.  Spokesmen for Vivendi, Canal Plus and Bigard didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the regulator’s
actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  