-- Volcafe Says Robusta Coffee Demand Has Climbed by 5 Million Bags
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-09T05:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/volcafe-says-robusta-coffee-demand-has-climbed-by-5-million-bags.html
Coffee roasters in  emerging markets 
and the developed world have increased their usage of robusta
beans by about 5 million bags, according to Volcafe Ltd.  Roasters in emerging markets are contributing to additional
demand of 3 million bags, while the replacement of Brazilian
arabica coffee with robusta beans in traditional markets has
created additional demand of 2 million bags, the coffee unit of
commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. said in a report e-
mailed on July 6.  Consumption of robusta coffee increased after the price
difference between the beans used in instant drinks and the
arabica variety, favored for specialty drinks such as those made
by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , rose to $1.89 last year, the highest since
at least 2008,  data  on Bloomberg show. Robusta coffee is
harvested mainly in Asia and parts of  Africa , while arabica
beans are grown mainly in  Latin America .  “We are just now seeing the concrete evidence of the
consequences of a wide arbitrage last year,” the Winterthur,
Switzerland-based Volcafe said in the report.  Vietnam , the world’s biggest robusta producer and second-
biggest grower of coffee overall, exported more beans than top
producer Brazil from February to May,  data  from the London-based
International Coffee Organization show. The  Southeast Asian (SHAEAFB) 
nation also exported more than  Brazil in  June, Volcafe said.  “What these export statistics show us is that in
aggregate, roasters are just using more robusta, in both
emerging markets and traditional markets,” the trader said.
“It is demand-driven, as inventories of Brazilian coffees in
Europe and Japan remain high, and robusta inventories remain
low.”  Rain Delays  The price difference between arabica and robusta coffee,
which had dropped as much as 62 percent this year to a low of
55.61 cents pound on June 14, rebounded to 83.69 cents a pound
on July 6, as rains delayed the arabica crop in  Brazil .  The current price difference is unlikely to reverse the
trend of more robusta demand in favor or Brazilian arabicas in
traditional markets, Volcafe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  