-- Volcker Says Europe Has Taken Small Step to Solve Crisis
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-07-09T12:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/volcker-says-europe-has-taken-small-step-to-solve-crisis.html
Former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker  said  Europe ’s planned permanent rescue mechanism is
only a small step toward a crisis solution and leaders must
battle nationalistic concerns to forge closer economic union.  “It’s only a baby step in that direction,” Volcker said
in an interview in Siena,  Italy . “You’ve got to talk about some
kind of budgetary limits, but I think it’s beyond budgetary
limits. And that is a very big deal because people think they’re
giving up central points of sovereignty.”  Euro-area finance ministers meet today in Brussels after
leaders agreed at a June 28-29 summit to ease the way to direct
recapitalization of banks from bailout funds and to start work
on Europe-wide bank supervision. Closer ties are necessary for
the future of the 17-nation euro region, Volcker said.  “I would argue that that’s essential to the concept of a
unified Europe and a unified currency,” he said. “And you’ve
got to be prepared to do that or the currency can’t hold
together.”  Volcker also said any debt mutualization and euro bonds can
only happen after more economic integration. “The basic big
issue is having unified economic control,” he said.  No Trust  Paul De Grauwe, a professor at the  London School of
Economics , said a lack of trust among euro members is hampering
leaders’ ability to implement more durable solutions.  “The Germans don’t trust the southerners; the southerners
don’t trust the Germans,” De Grauwe said in an interview with
 Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg Surveillance”
today. “As long as there is distrust there is also no
willingness to allow others to decide about your fate. You can
only do that if you trust each, and that unfortunately is
lacking in Europe.”  Asked if he was concerned about the  U.S. economy , Volcker
said: “I make a profession of being worried, so there’s lots of
reasons to be worried.”  “It’s a very slow recovery,” he said. “The world is not
in a situation where it’s easy to get out of too much debt, too
much leverage. It takes a long while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  