-- Wall Streeters Lose $2 Billion in 401(k) Bet on Own Firms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-09T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/wall-streeters-lose-2-billion-in-401-k-bet-on-own-firms.html
Wall Street employees, who dispense
financial advice to individuals and companies, aren’t following
a basic investing tenet with their own money: diversification.  Workers at the five largest Wall Street banks saw the value
of company stock in their 401(k) accounts, sometimes the biggest
holding of those plans, decline more than $2 billion last year,
according to annual filings. Those losses don’t include shares
received as bonuses.  The 2001 collapse of Enron Corp. led to warnings that tying
retirement funds to an employer’s stock could be more crippling
when a company fails, resulting in the loss of both a nest egg
as well as a source of income. Traders and bankers felt the pain
of last year’s decline in revenue from job cuts and lower
bonuses in addition to the shrinking of their 401(k) accounts.  “You’re already relying on that company for your job, your
income, benefits and everything else,” said Chris Baker, co-
founder of Carmel, Indiana-based Oaktree Financial Advisors
Inc., which manages $100 million and primarily advises employees
of drugmaker Eli Lilly & Co. “It’s not just another stock. It
can magnify the impact on your personal finances if your
portfolio takes a beating and your employer isn’t doing well.”  Current and former Morgan Stanley employees, who receive
company shares to match their 401(k) contributions, held 24
percent of retirement assets in the firm’s stock before last
year’s decline, the highest percentage of any of the banks. They
lost $570 million in 2011 as the shares plunged 44 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  employees lost the most, $1.37
billion, as the lender’s stock  dropped  58 percent last year.
Workers at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , both based
in  New York , also lost hundreds of millions of dollars.  Company Stock  JPMorgan employees, some of whom received stock in the
company until last year to match retirement contributions,
devoted 18 percent of their funds to the lender’s shares at the
end of 2010. Bank of America employees put 13 percent of their
assets in the bank’s stock, while the figures for Citigroup and
New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were 8 percent and 2
percent, respectively.  U.S. workers given the option of owning company stock held
about 13.4 percent of their 401(k) assets in employer shares at
the end of March, down from 22.4 percent at the beginning of
2006, according to data from Callan Associates Inc., a San
Francisco-based investment-consulting firm.  Concentrated Position  Any amount exceeding 20 percent is deemed a concentrated
position, said Jean Young, a senior research analyst at the
 Vanguard Center  for Retirement Research, a division of  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc., the biggest U.S.
mutual-fund company. Baker said he advises clients to hold no
more than 5 percent of their retirement accounts in their
employers’ shares, and no more than 10 percent in any one stock.  “It’s almost like a gamble when you have that
concentration of your retirement assets invested in your
employer,” Young said. “Participants do not understand the
risks they’re taking.”  Morgan Stanley, which owns a majority stake in Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney, the world’s largest brokerage, is the only
one of the five firms that matches retirement contributions with
company shares. The bank gives employees $1 of its stock for
every $1 put into a 401(k) plan, with a limit of $9,800 a year.
Once they receive the shares, employees are free to move the
funds into investments other than the stock, said  Sandra Hernandez , a spokeswoman for New York-based Morgan Stanley.  Until last year, JPMorgan matched in stock unless an
employee opted out. Now the company matches contributions with
money invested in the same way as the employee allocates funds.
The other banks provide a stock plan as an investment option.  Prudent Investment  Morgan Stanley is facing a lawsuit from former employees
claiming that the firm’s stock wasn’t a prudent investment for
their retirement accounts and that the risks associated with its
shares weren’t disclosed adequately. The suits, beginning in
December 2007, have been consolidated in federal court in New
York, and Morgan Stanley in March filed a renewed motion to
dismiss the complaint.  Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan have faced similar
lawsuits. Bank of America’s case was dismissed in 2010.
Citigroup had one consolidated complaint thrown out in 2009 and
faces other claims filed last year. JPMorgan settled for $10
million a suit brought over breaches of fiduciary duty in Bear
Stearns Cos.’ employee stock-ownership plan. JPMorgan purchased
Bear Stearns with assistance from the  Federal Reserve  in 2008.  The federal Pension Protection Act of 2006 required
companies to allow diversification away from company stock in
401(k) plans. Before then, employees sometimes were forced to
hold employer shares they received.  ‘Financially Astute’  The probability of having a concentrated position more than
doubles when contributions are matched in employer shares,
according to a  Vanguard study . While 49 percent of employees who
were in plans that offered their firms’ stock owned none, 5
percent allocated more than 90 percent of their portfolio to
company stock in 2010, according to data from the Employee
Benefit Research Institute, a Washington-based nonprofit.  Bank employees aren’t necessarily savvier than those in
other industries, said Vanguard’s Young.  “You’re talking about large banks that have a variety of
people that work there,” she said. “Even people that we’d
characterize as more financially astute aren’t necessarily
professional money managers.”  Shares Fall  Shares of the  largest banks  dropped in 2011 as trading
plummeted late in the year and the firms faced concern that the
 European debt crisis  would hurt U.S. investment banks. Bank of
America responded by announcing plans to cut 30,000 jobs,
Goldman Sachs reduced discretionary pay by more than 26 percent,
and Morgan Stanley capped cash bonuses at $125,000.  Goldman Sachs shares fell 46 percent, and the value of the
bank’s stock held in 401(k) accounts fell to $61 million from
$104 million. Citigroup shares dropped 44 percent, and those of
JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, decreased 22 percent.  While JPMorgan didn’t provide a figure in the fund’s annual
report, the total value of the bank’s stock held in employees’
401(k) plans fell more than $500 million last year. The plans
bought more of the stock than they sold during 2011, according
to the report. Employees received about $51 million in  dividends 
from the shares.  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank, also didn’t specify
a 2011 loss tied to its own shares. The value of its stock held
in employee retirement plans, accounting for purchases and sales
as well as paper losses, dropped $317 million during the year,
according to an annual filing. That leaves Citigroup stock held
in the plans down about $1.1 billion from the price at which
they were purchased, according to the filing.  Stock Bonuses  Employees typically hold the shares as long-term
investments, and the losses aren’t realized unless the stock is
sold. Still, financial workers are receiving more of their pay
in stock. Bank of America paid traders and investment bankers
who earned between $100,000 and $1 million for 2011 at least 80
percent of their bonus in company shares, people familiar with
the matter said earlier this year.  Bank of America shares have  rebounded  in 2012, gaining 38
percent this year through last week. Goldman Sachs shares have
 climbed  5.6 percent, JPMorgan’s 2 percent and Citigroup’s 0.2
percent.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has fallen 6.5 percent.  “The Bank of America 401(k) plan reflects the personal
investment choices of our employees,” said Ferris Morrison, a
spokeswoman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender.
“The bank offers a diversified mix of investment options, of
which Bank of America stock is just one option.”  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment,
as did Citigroup’s Jon Diat and Goldman Sachs’s  David Wells .  ‘Something Wrong’  About one-third of almost 1,700 firms in the Vanguard study
restricted the amount of company stock employees could hold.
Goldman Sachs limits its staff to investing a maximum of 20
percent of their accounts in the company’s stock fund, the only
one of the five banks that discloses such a restriction. Another
third have either shut their employer stock funds or closed them
to new investments, Young said.  Still, employers can face objections if they try to take
away their own stock as an option, said  Lori Lucas , defined-
contribution practice leader for  Callan .  “Many participants object if it’s taken away,” Lucas
said. “They see it as a way to participate in the upside of the
company, and it could even be perceived that there might be
something wrong with the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 