-- Wellpoint Bonds Rise After $4.9 Billion Deal to Buy Amerigroup
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-07-09T16:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/wellpoint-bonds-rise-after-4-9-billion-deal-to-buy-amerigroup.html
Bonds of  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  reached the
highest price since issued after the second-biggest U.S. health
insurer said it agreed to buy  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  for $4.9 billion
in cash to expand the number of Medicaid patients it serves.  The Indianapolis-based insurer’s $900 million of 4.625
percent notes maturing in 2042 increased to as high as 105.3
cents on the dollar to yield 4.31 percent before falling back to
104.4 cents as of 12:01 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. That’s the lowest yield since the debt was
issued May 2.  Obligations of WellPoint, whose debt outperformed
competitors last month, are rising even as  Fitch Ratings  said it
may cut the insurer’s credit grade by as many as two levels as
the company borrows to acquire Amerigroup and boosts its ratio
of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization to more than 2.5 times. That would be the highest
among any U.S. managed-care company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Fitch gives WellPoint an A- senior unsecured debt
rating, four levels above junk.  WellPoint’s acquisition of high-yield Amerigroup, which has
 $475 million  of obligations outstanding, will make it the top
private manager of Medicaid benefits in the U.S., with 4.5
million members in the program. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld
President  Barack Obama ’s plans to add 17 million patients under
Medicaid in a ruling two weeks ago, though it limited the
administration’s ability to mandate state participation in the
expansion.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.  WellPoint bonds returned 0.79 percent in June, the most
among industry peers that averaged 0.43 percent, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH)  is the nation’s largest health insurer by revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  