-- WellPoint to Buy Amerigroup for $4.9 Billion in Cash
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-09T20:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/wellpoint-to-buy-amerigroup-for-4-9-billion-in-cash.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, will buy  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  for $4.9 billion,
a move that may spur a wave of acquisitions as companies compete
to manage an expanding Medicaid market.  Amerigroup stockholders will receive $92 a share in cash,
43 percent more than the July 6 closing price, according to
today’s statement by the two companies. The agreement makes
Indianapolis-based WellPoint the biggest private provider of
Medicaid coverage for the poor with 4.5 million members,
eclipsing the 3.5 million served by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   President  Barack Obama ’s U.S. health-care law seeks to add
as many as 17 million patients under Medicaid, while individual
states have been increasingly turning to insurers to help them
manage existing programs at less cost. WellPoint Chief Executive
Officer Angela Braly said both aspects played a role in the
decision to purchase Amerigroup.  “The deal makes sense as it diversifies WellPoint’s
revenue away from its commercial business while expanding the
company’s participation in the substantial Medicaid growth
opportunity,” said  Jason Gurda , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst
in New York, in a note to clients.  WellPoint currently gets about a quarter of its operating
income from plans sold to small businesses and individuals,
markets where profit margins are likely to suffer under new
regulations from Obama’s health-care law, Gurda said. The
tradeoff in the deal may be less opportunity for share buybacks
and dividends, he wrote.  WellPoint Rises  WellPoint rose 3.4 percent to $61.95 at the close in New
York, while Amerigroup, based in Virginia Beach, Virginia,
climbed 38 percent to $88.79. UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,
 Minnesota , is the biggest U.S. health insurer.  The WellPoint move may also serve to boost acquisition
interest in other insurers specializing in Medicaid, a program
run jointly by the state and federal governments. said Thomas Carroll, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  “We’re somewhat surprised by Amerigroup’s willingness to
sell,” Carroll said by telephone. “There’s just so much growth
in the Medicaid space, why not do it yourself? But I guess the
price was just too good to pass up.”  Molina Healthcare Inc. (MOH) , based in  Long Beach , California,
gained 18 percent to $27.12. Tampa, Florida-based  WellCare
Health Plans Inc. (WCG) , increased 18 percent to $62.56, while  Centene
Corp. (CNC)  of  St. Louis , which jumped 20 percent to $34.76.  High Offer  WellPoint approached Amerigroup about the acquisition and
made a high offer to pre-empt any other bidders, a person
familiar with the deal said in a telephone interview. Amerigroup
wasn’t for sale or running an auction, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions were private.  There’s no provision for Amerigroup to shop itself to other
potential buyers, the person said.  Company officials declined to discuss how the deal came
together during a conference call with analysts today, saying
details will be revealed in a proxy statement.  The deal was planned “no matter what the  Supreme Court 
decided” on the fate of the 2010 health-law that includes the
Medicaid expansion, WellPoint’s Braly said in a conference call
with analysts.  That provision, set to take effect in 2014, “is only one
element here,” she said.  Court Ruling  While the Supreme Court upheld the Medicaid expansion in a
June 28 ruling, it also said the administration can’t strip
current Medicaid funding from states that don’t participate.
Republican governors in Florida,  South Carolina ,  Louisiana ,  Iowa 
and  Mississippi  have said they won’t be involved.  Even with the uncertainty still surrounding the law, which
Republicans have vowed to overturn if they can capture both
houses of Congress in the upcoming elections, insurers are
planning to gain from their Medicaid plans.  States seeking to cut costs are increasingly turning to
insurers to manage their programs, opening up new sources of
revenue for the companies, WellPoint’s Braly said. Medicaid, run
jointly by the state and federal programs, spends about $450
billion annually and only about a fifth of its members are in
private managed-care plans, the companies said.  Amerigroup may also help WellPoint grab a larger share of
the market serving so-called dual eligibles, enrollees who
receive both Medicaid and Medicare, the health plan for older
Americans. There are 9 million such people in the U.S.,
accounting for $300 billion in annual spending, Braly said.  Dual Eligibles  The dual eligibles opportunity “is tremendous, and was a
driving force for this transaction,” Braly said.  Braly said she didn’t expect a problem with antitrust
regulators, given that there’s little overlap between the two
insurers. While WellPoint owns 14 state Blue Cross plans across
the country, including in California and  New York , it has little
presence in states where Amerigroup is strong.  Another bidder for Amerigroup is unlikely given the “very
full price” WellPoint is paying, said Carl McDonald, a
Citigroup analyst in New York, in a note to clients. “And there
are still several other Medicaid assets out there like Centene,
Molina and WellCare that wouldn’t require a bidding war.”  The acquisition should be completed in the first quarter of
2013, the companies said. WellPoint will pay with $700 million
in cash on hand, commercial paper, and by selling new debt.  The deal should add to WellPoint’s earnings next year, even
with acquisition costs, with the benefit growing to more than $1
a share by 2015, the companies said. WellPoint reiterated its
prior profit forecast of $7.57 a share for 2012.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Linklaters LLP advised
WellPoint.  Virginia Beach , Virginia-based Amerigroup’s advisers
were Goldman Sachs & Co. And Barclays Plc, with Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP providing legal guidance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  