-- Wiggins Strengthens His Hold on Tour de France’s Yellow Jersey
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-10T00:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/wiggins-extends-his-tour-de-france-lead-by-winning-time-trial.html
Tour de France leader Bradley Wiggins extended his advantage over defending champion  Cadel Evans  by winning a time trial for his first stage victory in
cycling’s biggest event.  British rider Wiggins bent over his bike in exhaustion
after improving his 10-second lead over Evans to  1 minute, 53
seconds  following yesterday’s 41.5-kilometer (25.8-mile) ride
against the clock between Arc-et-Senans and Besancon.  “That’s what I do best: time-trialing,” Wiggins, who
posted a time of 51 minutes, 24 seconds, told Eurosport after
recovering. “I get into my zone.”  Chris Froome, Wiggins’s Team Sky teammate, finished second
yesterday to move up to third overall -- 14 seconds behind
Australian Evans, who was sixth in the Stage 9 time trial.  Wiggins is now the 1-3 favorite to become the U.K.’s first
Tour de France winner having started the  20-stage race  at odds
of 6-5, according to U.K. bookmaker Coral. Today is a rest day
before tomorrow’s 120-mile ride in the Jura mountain range that
includes an ascent of the Col du Grand Colombier.  The 178 remaining riders -- 20 have withdrawn injured --
raced against the clock yesterday in reverse order to their
place in the overall classification.  In bright sunshine, Wiggins started at 4:39 p.m. local
time, three minutes after Evans, and built a lead of more than a
minute over him after 10 miles.  Wiggins said Team Sky’s senior sports director Sean Yates
urged him on over the radio, reminding him he had missed his
children’s birthdays to train for the Tour.  “Bradley delivered, but there’s still a long way to
Paris,” Yates told Eurosport, referring to the last day of the
race on July 22.  Wiggins won two Olympic track-cycling gold medals at the
2008 Beijing Games. He matched a British-best fourth place at
the 2009 Tour de  France , missing last year’s edition after
breaking his collarbone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  