-- Williams Says Slowdown Demands ‘Extraordinary’ Fed Vigilance
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-07-09T17:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/williams-says-slowdown-requires-extraordinary-vigilance-by-fed.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco 
President  John Williams  said the U.S. central bank must maintain
“extraordinary vigilance” to see if the slowing economy
requires additional monetary stimulus.  “If further action is called for, the most effective tool
would be additional purchases of longer-maturity securities,
including agency mortgage-backed securities,” Williams said in
a speech in Coeur D’Alene, Idaho today. Last month’s decision to
extend the so-called Operation Twist program “will probably
have a relatively modest impact.”  Recent figures have fanned concern the economic outlook is
dimming, with a Labor Department report last week showing
employers added fewer workers to payrolls in June than forecast.
The employment report may add to the case for more stimulus,
after the Fed said last month that it’s “prepared to take
further action” to reduce unemployment.  “The pace of growth has been frustratingly slow, and we’ve
seen some loss of momentum in recent months,” Williams said at
a joint convention of the  Idaho ,  Nevada , and Oregon Bankers
Associations. “I expect little progress toward maximum
employment over the next year or more.”  The  unemployment rate  remained unchanged at 8.2 percent
last month, while employers added 80,000 people to payrolls,
Labor Department figures showed July 6. Economists projected a
100,000 gain, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Jobs Report  More stimulus will be needed if the economy makes little
progress toward maximum employment in the next year, as he
expects, Williams told reporters after the speech. The fact that
there are more downside risks reduces the potential costs of
“making the mistake of being overly aggressive,” he said.  “We’re at that edge of where we’re not really making
progress” on reaching maximum employment, Williams told
reporters.  “The jobs report was just part of the sequence” that
signals a “loss of momentum in the economy,” Williams said.  Still, Williams said he sees a “relatively low
probability” of another recession in the world’s largest
economy. “I don’t expect a recession” in the U.S. “It would
require a significant deterioration.”  Williams today said that the main forces weighing on the
outlook are cutbacks in  government spending  and the  European
debt crisis . The housing market has started to “show signs of
life” while banking conditions are mixed, he said.  Stocks Fall  U.S. stocks fell for a third day as  Spain ’s 10-year debt
yield topped 7 percent, fueling concern the debt crisis is
worsening as European finance ministers met to hammer out a bank
rescue plan.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,349.62 at 1:25 p.m. in  New York  and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
fell 0.4 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields fell to 1.52 percent
from 1.55 percent late last week.  At its June 19-20 meeting, the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee  expanded a program that extends the average
duration of assets on its balance sheet, aiming to lower longer-
term borrowing costs and in turn spur hiring.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of Treasuries and mortgage
debt in a bid to reduce long-term borrowing costs after reducing
its benchmark  interest rate  almost to zero in December 2008.  “These purchases have proven effective in lowering
borrowing costs and improving financial conditions,” Williams,
50, said in today’s remarks.  ‘Overly Optimistic’  Williams said in response to a question from the audience
that the Fed was “overly optimistic” before the housing
collapse and recession, when policy makers believed that the
natural rate of unemployment was about 4.75 percent. The natural
rate in the long run probably will be about 5.5 percent, or
about the postwar average, he said.  “The housing boom employed a lot of people who might not
otherwise have been easy to employ,” Williams said.
“Eventually this economy will get back to normal and eventually
we’ll get back to an  unemployment rate  that’s consistent with
the historic experience, it just won’t be quite as low as we
thought it would be.”  The so-called fiscal cliff, a total of more than $600
billion in higher taxes and reductions government programs that
will take effect in 2013 unless Congress acts, “is a negative
thing” for the already weak economy because it is introducing
“a lot of uncertainty,” Williams said.  Fiscal Decisions  “It would be good to have that uncertainty removed from
the situation,” the regional bank chief said. “We’re talking
about coming to significant decisions around fiscal policy right
after an election with a lame-duck Congress who will have either
the same president or a new one.”  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans today called for more
purchases of mortgage bonds, warning that the  U.S. economy  risks
incurring long-term damage from the current level of
unemployment if the central bank fails to act aggressively.  Eric Rosengren  of Boston said at the same forum in Bangkok
that hiring has slowed “fairly noticeably,” a development that
may further weaken the world’s largest economy.  Williams is a voting member on the FOMC this year while
Rosengren and Evans are not. The San Francisco Fed chief became
president of the district bank in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  