-- Xstrata Delays Glencore Vote to September, Sunday Times Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-09T05:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/xstrata-delays-glencore-vote-to-september-times-says-correct-.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , facing pressure from
shareholders to improve the terms of a merger with  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , will delay a vote on the deal until
September, the  Sunday Times reported  yesterday.  Talks with Qatar Holding LLC, the investment arm of the
country’s sovereign-wealth fund, on the price of the deal may
continue for weeks, the Financial Times reported today without
saying where it got the information. Xstrata will release a
document with updated terms as soon as this week, it said,
citing three unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Qatar, which has spent $4 billion amassing an 11 percent
Xstrata stake, on June 26 asked Glencore to raise its February
bid from 2.8 of its shares for each one in Xstrata to 3.25.
Standard Life Plc, Schroders Plc and Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC have also called for the initial bid to be
sweetened.  Qatar held a “firm” position in talks with  Glencore (805) ,
Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jabr al-Thani said
July 5. The merger is “positive for both sides,” he said,
declining to elaborate on the price as the companies are still
negotiating.  Glencore fell 1.5 percent to HK$37.25 at 13:59 p.m. local
time in Hong Kong trading, the same as the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index . Xstrata closed 1.4 percent lower on July 6 in  London .  Xstrata has court approval to reschedule the July 12
shareholders meeting to vote on Glencore’s offer, it said July
6. The miner earlier pushed back the meeting to allow for
changes to the merger documents after Xstrata executive
retention bonuses were linked to cost-saving targets, it said.  Glencore, the largest publicly traded commodities supplier,
is seeking to gain Xstrata’s copper, coal and zinc operations.
The 17 billion-pound ($26.3 billion) takeover by Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore is the biggest announced this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A rejection of the bid by 16.48 percent of shareholders is
enough to block it because U.K. takeover rules prevent Glencore
using its 34 percent stake in Xstrata to vote on the deal. There
is at least 14 percent of shareholders opposed to the current
deal. Xstrata’s board recommended shareholders approve the
offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  