-- Myanmar Army Backs General for Vice-President, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-09T05:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-09/myanmar-army-backs-general-for-vice-president-lawmaker-says.html
Myanmar’s army-appointed lawmakers
are likely to support an active-duty general to replace one of
two vice presidents who resigned this month, a ruling party
legislator said.  The military, granted 25 percent of parliamentary seats by
the constitution, will probably nominate either General Hla Htay
Win or General Soe Win for the post, according to Saw Hla Tun, a
member of President Thein Sein’s Union Solidarity and
Development Party. Parliament will start the process tomorrow to
replace Vice President Tin Aung Myint Oo, he said.  “This new government needs someone from military
leadership,” Saw Hla Tun, who is secretary of the lower house’s
bill committee, said in a telephone interview on July 7. Those
two generals “or other top military leadership” are preferable
to the army, he said without elaborating.  Myanmar’s shift toward democracy over the past year led the
U.S. and European Union to ease sanctions, prompting investors
to scout for opportunities in the country of 64 million people.
The constitution allows the military to nominate a replacement
for the vice president, making a cabinet shuffle that may occur
soon more significant, according to Thant Myint-U, an author of
two books on Myanmar.  “The reshuffle if it happens will almost certainly be part
of an attempt by the president to strengthen his reform
agenda,” he said by phone. “It’s not related to any factional
struggle or ideological struggle -- it’s purely about
performance and trying to make sure the president’s agenda is
carried forward as effectively as possible.”  Economic Challenges  Htay Oo, the ruling party’s General Secretary, and U Tin
Aye, chairman of the Union Election Commission, are also
candidates for the vice president post, Saw Hla Tun said. Nay
Zin Latt, an adviser to Thein Sein, declined to comment on the
cabinet reshuffle.  Thein Sein last month pledged to create jobs and increase
incomes while targeting economic growth of 7.7 percent per year
until 2016, addressing what opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi
has called a “time bomb” of youth unemployment. About a
quarter of the population lives in poverty, agriculture accounts
for 70 percent of employment and about three in four people
don’t have access to electricity, according to the  Asian
Development Bank .  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  said last month it would return to Myanmar
for the first time in 60 years once the U.S. government licenses
the investment, while Kevin Thieneman, president of Caterpillar
Asia, will co-lead a U.S. business delegation to the country
next month. The Senate on June 29 confirmed  Derek Mitchell  as
the first U.S. ambassador to Myanmar since 1990, part of moves
to reward the nation’s leaders after Suu Kyi won a parliamentary
seat in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  