-- ‘King’s Speech’ Goes Live: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-03-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/-king-s-speech-goes-live-powerhouse-duchess-london-stage.html
A man faces up to a crippling
disability. A friendship is tested. The fate of nations hangs on
difficult personal choices. “The King’s Speech” has everything
required for a great play, except a script.  With little bitty scenes tumbling over each other, it’s
clear that David Seidler’s screenplay hasn’t made a smooth
transfer to Wyndham’s Theatre in London.  When the character Myrtle Logue first appears she’s like an
express train hurtling through a station. A few lines of
dialogue and then off. Blink and you miss her.  It’s even odder because Myrtle’s part is ultimately the one
most expanded from the film. She’s the wife of unconventional
Australian speech therapist Lionel Logue. In 1930s London, he’s
hired by the Duke of York (the future King George VI) to cure
his debilitating stammer.  After initial frostiness, the therapy is slowly successful
and the men become friends. The homesick Myrtle (Charlotte
Randle), meanwhile, begs her husband to return to  Australia , and
forces him to choose between family and work.  Seidler has said that although he originally wrote the work
as a screenplay, he already had adapted it into a stage  play 
before it was made into a movie. After out-of-town trials, this
is the theater version’s world premiere.  A few more trials wouldn’t have hurt. It’s only when the
two main protagonists really begin to spar with each other in a
properly developed scene that it begins to feel like an
authentic stage vehicle.  Colonial Comedy  Charles Edwards (the Duke) and Jonathan Hyde (Logue) are
excellent, and relish playing the comedy of a stiff Briton
meeting a brash colonial without lapsing into caricature.  After a shaky start, things look promising by the end of
Act 1. Sadly, Act 2 takes that promise and throws it away.  The scenes get shorter again. The Archbishop of Canterbury
(Michael Feast) is portrayed as a mincing diva, with zero power
to generate conflict. The Duke’s brother David (the future King
Edward VIII) is reduced to a vaudeville villain. Every so often
 Winston Churchill  trundles on and off.  Director Adrian Noble uses little chunks of music as
cinematic underscore to link the bits of dialogue. One of them
is Elgar’s “Nimrod,” famous for its stirring climax. It’s
faded out at just the wrong moment. Ker-thud.  Designer  Anthony Ward  employs a huge panel that revolves to
create a sense of separation between scenes. Sometimes it
whizzes around so frequently it almost spins away, like a
propeller. Perhaps that’s the kindest thing that could happen.
Rating: *1/2.  Mannered Gore  After its recent smash hit with “Noises Off” (now
transferred to the Novello Theatre), the  Old Vic  steps down a
notch with a worthy, solid and slightly dull production of John
Webster’s “The Duchess of Malfi” (1613).  The plot is a tale of revenge. A noble duchess, having
married her lowly steward, is imprisoned, hounded and executed
by her rapacious brothers, one of whom is her twin. Bosola, the
malcontent hired to commit the murder, realizes what a terrible
deed he has done, and turns on his former employers.  Director Jamie Lloyd has tried to create a crowd-pleasing
period-costume production without, it seems, knowing what crowd
he wants to please. Fans of Jacobean gore will find his staging
too polite.  Bitter Anger  Admirers of early 17th-century dramatic prose will find
some of the delivery too mannered. Mark Bonnar (Bosola),
employing a thick Scottish accent, sounds every consonant and
plosive in an exaggerated fashion. His decision to highlight his
character’s anger and bitterness right at the beginning is
limiting too: There’s nothing left for him to do.  Eve Best (Duchess), on the other hand, commands every one
of her scenes. At first playful and skittish, she grows in
stature and depth. Her nobility in the face of death is both
moving and liberating. It’s a powerhouse performance.  In an odd bit of casting, her unhinged twin Ferdinand is
played by Harry Lloyd, an actor who looks about 10 years younger
than she does. He turns in an enjoyable performance.  It looks sumptuous on Soutra Gilmour’s clever set, which
offers three tiers of balconies and walkways made from gilded
ironwork. There are plenty of places to hide, observe or spy.
Dry ice, murky lighting and clouds of incense add atmosphere,
and the Duchess’s 17th-century costumes are a delight.  This is a respectable staging, with nothing to frighten the
horses, though a bit of horse-scaring might not have gone amiss.
Rating **.  “The King’s Speech” is at the Wyndham’s Theatre.
Information:  http://www.kingsspeechtheplay.com/  and
 http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5136.  “The Duchess of Malfi” is at the Old Vic, whose season
sponsor is Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
 http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 