-- H&M Profit Misses Estimates as Margin Reaches Eight-Year
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-03-29T09:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/h-m-first-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-textile-costs.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , Europe’s
second-largest clothing retailer, reported first-quarter profit
that missed estimates as increased textile costs and markdowns
led to the weakest profitability in eight years.  Net income rose 4.6 percent to 2.74 billion kronor ($411.9
million) in the three months through February from 2.62 billion
kronor in the year-earlier period, the Stockholm-based company
said in a statement today. The  average estimate  of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of 2.99 billion kronor.  H&M fell as much as 5.9 percent in Stockholm trading, the
most since August. The retailer, which sells jeans for less than
20 euros ($26.70) and underwear designed by soccer player  David Beckham , said the  gross margin  narrowed to 55.8 percent of sales
from 57.8 percent a year earlier. That was the lowest since the
first quarter of 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “H&M is having to give up margin to drive sales,” Richard Chamberlain, an analyst at Bank of America, wrote in a report.
“Going forward, we expect H&M to be less aggressive on price.”  H&M’s profitability waned as the company sought to keep
prices down, while paying more for raw materials such as cotton.
The retailer said it avoided raising prices to gain customers as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis eroded  consumer confidence .  Purchasing expenses increased because of higher cotton
costs and “long-term investments aimed at broadening our total
offering,” Chief Executive Officer Karl-Johan Persson said.  More Markdowns  The number of markdowns in the quarter was higher than a
year earlier because of an increase in inventory as mild fall
weather hurt demand for winter garments, the retailer said.  Sales in the quarter rose 14 percent to 27.8 billion
kronor, excluding value-added tax. Revenue at stores open at
least a year increased 3 percent, the company said.  Sales growth accelerated this month, according to the
statement, with revenue gaining 22 percent at local currency
rates, compared with 13 percent in the first quarter.  H&M said it plans to add about 275 stores in the financial
year through November 2012, with  China , the U.S. and the U.K.
being the largest areas of expansion. The retailer also sees
opportunities in Germany, France and Italy and will start online
sales in the U.S. in the fall, it said. The retailer will also
start up in  Bulgaria ,  Latvia , Malaysia,  Mexico  and  Thailand .  H&M will introduce a new chain next year, Persson said,
without elaborating. The chain won’t be a luxury version of the
upmarket Cos brand, he told journalists at a press conference in
Stockholm. on new name for chain: H&M won’t yet disclose the
name it has chosen for the chain, Persson said.  Inditex Declines  H&M  shares  were down 4.7 percent at 238.7 kronor as of
10:49 a.m. That pared this year’s gain to 7.9 percent, compared
with larger competitor  Inditex SA’s (ITX)  12 percent advance.  Inditex, the world’s largest clothing retailer, declined as
much as 3 percent in Madrid trading and was down 1.6 percent at
70.93 euros as of 10:49 a.m. The owner of the Zara chain
reported a 12 percent increase in full-year profit last week as
sales were boosted by openings in  Asia , while also unveiling
plans to maintain store expansion over the next three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  