-- ‘Rapper’s Delight’ Label Owners Plead Guilty in Tax Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-29T22:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/-rapper-s-delight-studio-owners-plead-guilty-in-tax-case-1-.html
Three brothers whose parents
started Sugar Hill Records, the  New Jersey  label that made many
of the first rap music albums in the late 1970s and early 1980s,
pleaded guilty to failing to file tax returns.  Leland, Rhondo and Joseph Robinson Jr. admitted today in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey, that they didn’t file
returns from 2005 to 2008 that would have declared royalties
from their ownership of Sugar Hill Music. The Englewood studio
was the birthplace of rap’s first Top 40 hit, “Rapper’s
Delight.”  The brothers collectively failed to pay $1.29 million in
taxes and also owe interest and penalties. Each pleaded to two
misdemeanor counts covering a different tax year and admitted to
related conduct for failing to file in two other years. They
face as many as two years in prison. Joseph Jr., 50; Leland, 46;
and Rhondo, 41, each declined to comment on the case.  “Joseph Robinson Jr. is making every effort to comply with
his past and present tax obligations and hopes the judge will
consider his efforts at sentencing,” his attorney, Henry Klingeman, said in an interview. The brothers didn’t file
returns, he said, because of “sloppy business practices.”  ‘Musical Legacy’  “They’ve been concentrating on protecting their parents’
musical legacy instead of fulfilling their tax obligations,” he
said.  Leland Robinson’s lawyer, Richard Sapinski, said his client
acknowledged his error.  “He’s trying his best to make amends for it and move on
with his life,” Sapinski said. An attorney for Rhondo Robinson,
Frank Agostino, apologized on behalf of his client and said
Rhondo hoped others will learn from his mistakes.  Sugar Hill Records was founded in 1979 by Joseph Sr. and
Sylvia Robinson. They recorded albums including 1982’s “The
Message” by Grandmaster Flash & the Furious Five, the self-
titled  debut album  by the Sugar Hill Gang, and the first studio
album by the Treacherous Three.  Beyond getting royalties, the brothers were involved in
music publishing and got payments for work as copyright
administrators, according to the criminal charges.  Joseph Robinson Sr. died in 2000 and Sylvia Robinson, a
rhythm-and-blues singer before forming a record label with her
husband, died last year. Sugar Hill Studio in Englewood was
destroyed in a fire in October 2002.  Joseph Robinson Jr. lives in Tenafly, New Jersey. Rhondo
and Leland Robinson live in Englewood. They were each released
on a $50,000 unsecured bond.  The cases are U.S. v. Joseph Robinson Jr., Leland Robinson
and Rhondo Robinson, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 