-- 3i’s Queen Steps Down as CEO After Investments Pace Stalls
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-03-29T16:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/3i-s-queen-steps-down-as-ceo-after-investments-pace-stalls-2-.html
3i Group Plc (III) , one of Britain’s
oldest private equity firms, said Chief Executive Officer
Michael Queen will step down amid criticism he failed to step up
the pace of investments and asset sales.  Queen, 50, will leave as soon as a successor is identified,
the London-based company said in a statement today. He took up
the job in January 2009.  He struggled to spend more money buying companies and reap
profits from selling them as the financial crisis and European
sovereign debt crisis crimped dealmaking. 3i dropped out of the
benchmark FTSE 100 index in September. Two months later, Queen
more than doubled the dividend to assuage shareholders, some of
whom had pushed for buybacks as 3i’s cash reserves swelled.  “Over the past couple of years, the company has been wary
of making investments, and realizations have been slow,” Iain Scouller, an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in  London  with a
buy rating on the shares said in a note to clients today. “A
change of leadership allows some reassessment of strategy, which
we view positively.”  3i  shares  climbed 2.8 percent in London trading. The stock
has dropped 29 percent in the past year, paring the company’s
market value to about 2.1 billion pounds ($3.3 billion).  Queen became CEO after the firm ousted Philip Yea after the
value of the firm’s holdings slumped and debt surged. Within six
months, Queen raised 700 million pounds in a rights offering.  ‘No Apologies’  “I absolutely make no apologies for the fact that I
believe that the business should be run with a conservative
balance-sheet and high level of liquidity,” he said in a
telephone interview today. “Nine months ago, some shareholders
were asking for share buybacks, but I was very resolute in
saying that wasn’t the right thing to do.”  He combined 3i’s leveraged buyout team with its growth
capital unit. The combination prompted Jonathan Russell, the
firm’s head of leveraged buyouts, to leave. Queen also agreed to
buy Mizuho Investment Management U.K. Ltd. to expand the firm’s
investments in corporate debt. He cut 50 jobs, mostly in London,
while opening an office in  Brazil  and adding employees in  China .  Queen said he waited for 3i to get out of its turnaround
phase before telling the board of his desire to step down in the
past few weeks. He plans to take a few months off, before
considering moving into a new executive role, he said today.  ‘Growth Phase’  “What the company needs now is somebody to take it on to
commit to five, six, seven years to take the business forward in
that growth phase,” he said.  3i spent 623 million pounds on new investments in the 11
months through Feb. 29, up from 581 million pounds in the year-
earlier period. It reaped 764 million pounds from asset sales,
up from 491 million pounds.  Since January, “ market sentiment  has improved,” 3i said
in a statement. “We expect a more positive economic outlook to
result in a stronger overall performance from our private equity
portfolio, although the effect of this is unlikely to have an
impact upon our results” for the fiscal full-year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  