-- Maanshan Steel 2011 Profit Tumbles on Slowing Demand, Writedown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-29T02:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/maanshan-steel-2011-profit-tumbles-on-slowing-demand-writedown.html
Maanshan Iron & Steel Co. (MAANIZ) , the
second-biggest Hong Kong-traded steelmaker, said profit tumbled
94 percent last year, missing analysts’ estimates, as slowing
demand cut prices and it wrote down inventory values.  Net income fell to 69.6 million yuan ($11 million), or
0.009 yuan a share, in 2011, from 1.1 billion yuan, or 0.143
yuan a share, a year ago, the  Maanshan (323) , Anhui province-based
company today said in a statement that used Chinese accounting
standards. The result missed the 337.5 million  mean estimate  of
six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit margins for Chinese steelmakers dropped to a record
low of 0.43 percent in November, as housing curbs and the
withdrawal of stimulus measures for the automobile industry
limited demand,  China ’s steel association said. The nation’s
production may be unchanged or slightly higher this year as
waning demand and rising competition weigh on prices, Gu
Jianguo, Chairman of Magang Group Holding Co., Maanshan’s
parent, said in an interview in March.  “Steelmakers’ profit may be further squeezed as the
Chinese government has lowered development targets and iron ore
prices remain high,” Maanshan said in the statement.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pared China’s annual economic growth
target to 7.5 percent this month, compared with a goal of 8
percent over the past seven years, as part of efforts to lessen
China’s reliance on investment and exports for growth and
increase the role of domestic consumption. That shift is slowing
steel production growth, said  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
third-biggest iron ore exporter.  Maanshan set aside 677 million yuan last year for a drop in
the value of raw material and product inventories, it said,
without giving further details.  Maanshan gained 0.9 percent to HK$2.17 at 9:47 a.m. in  Hong
Kong . The stock has lost 49 percent in the past year. Its stock
in Shanghai fell 2.7 percent yesterday.  Still, railway construction in China may rebound from an
investment trough last year, boosting demand for the company’s
products, Magang’s Gu said in March. Maanshan, also China’s
biggest maker of train wheels, received approval from the
Ministry of Railways to start trial production of wheels for
high-speed trains that can run at 200 to 250 kilometers per
hour, the official Xinhua News Agency reported this week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in  Shanghai  at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  