-- Macau Casinos Bet on Winning as Adelson Expands: Retail
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-03-29T09:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/macau-casino-owners-bet-everyone-wins-as-adelson-expands-retail.html
Sheldon Adelson is adding a fourth
casino in Macau, the world’s largest gambling hub, drawing
almost six times the revenue of the Las Vegas Strip. The
billionaire’s rivals are cheering him on.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Asian arm of Adelson’s Las Vegas
company, next month will open the Cotai Central resort with a
300,000-square-foot casino, almost 6,000 hotel rooms and
cascading waterfalls tailored for the 16 million mainland
Chinese tourists who visited Macau last year.  Competitors see the additional rooms and novelty of a fresh
resort drawing more Chinese to gamble on the island, where
gaming revenue is estimated by CLSA Ltd. to top $100 billion by
2020 and where hotels are near capacity. Success for Sands would
expand the industry in Macau, the only place in China where
casinos are legal and where  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883) ,  Wynn
Macau Ltd. (1128) ,   Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,  MGM China Holdings
Ltd. (2282) ,  SJM Holdings (880)  Ltd. and Sands China get almost all their
revenue.  “We welcome the competition and we think this will bring
more traffic to Macau and helps grow the market and drive our
business,” said Francis Lui, deputy chairman of Galaxy
Entertainment Group.  New Visitors  At the heart of the gaming companies’ push is a tiny swath
of reclaimed land called the Cotai Strip, the Asian equivalent
of the Las Vegas Strip, where local and global casino operators
are spending billions on resorts that combine shopping centers,
entertainment shows and hotel rooms to draw middle-class Chinese
visitors. In doing so, they are recreating a center that
historically catered mainly to professional gamers making bets
on crowded, smoky floors.  Deutsche Bank AG estimates gambling revenue in Macau, a
former Portuguese colony on the South China coast that’s less
than half the size of Manhattan, will rise 25 percent this year,
driven by more tourist arrivals. Adelson’s newest resort may
propel a big part of that growth.  Macau, which had $34 billion in gambling revenue last year,
has 20,000 hotel rooms, a fraction of the almost 150,000 that
Vegas has, researcher CLSA estimated in a September report
titled “Raining Cash.” The Las Vegas Strip had revenue of
$6.07 billion in 2011, according to Nevada’s Gaming Control
Board.  “We think the market is grossly underpenetrated,” said
Robert Drake, chief financial officer at casino operator Galaxy
Entertainment. “We do six times as much revenue as Las Vegas,
but they have six times as many hotel rooms.”  Adelson’s Winning Hand  Adelson’s casino operator may win the most market share in
Macau in 2012 because of the new resort, expanding 9 percentage
points to 24 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
said Karen Tang, an analyst at Deutsche Bank.  That would also solidify Sands’s position on the
increasingly popular Cotai Strip, where it already has the
island’s largest resort, the  Venetian Macau  that boasts singing
gondoliers, a grand canal and an artificial blue sky.  Sands China, which is a unit of  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  where
Adelson is chairman, reported a 44 percent jump in profit in the
fourth quarter. The latest success and new project is a reversal
from 2008, when Sands stopped construction in Cotai as credit
markets froze and revenue growth slowed.  The 78-year-old Adelson, who made his money in the casino
business, ranked 11th on the Bloomberg billionaires list with an
estimated net worth of $26.8 billion as of March 27.  The new resort gives the American billionaire a chance to
lure more customers from SJM Holdings, the Hong Kong-listed
casino operator that has dominated Macau for four decades.
Deutsche Bank’s Tang sees market share for SJM, founded by Hong
Kong billionaire Stanley Ho, falling from 31 percent in the
second quarter of 2011 to 25 percent in the fourth quarter this
year.  Making Room  Sands Cotai Central, which opens April 11, will have about
5,800 hotel rooms when completed in 2013 under the brands
Conrad, Sheraton and Holiday Inn. In April, the resort will
offer 1,800 rooms.  More hotel rooms translate into longer stays and ultimately
higher gambling revenue on the island, CLSA wrote. When Macau
added hotel rooms between 2005 and 2010, the average length of a
tourist’s stay increased to 1.5 nights from 1.2 nights, the
analysts found.  “It’s a market that has been driven, since its inception,
by capacity,” said Edward Tracy, chief executive officer of
Sands China. “The addition of hotel rooms, casino capacity and
retail and entertainment is going to drive significant growth.”  Galaxy executives say they had a spillover effect on the
industry when they opened the doors of a Macau resort in May.
“When we launched Galaxy Resorts last year, we did grow the
market,” said Deputy ChairmanLui.  Richer Chinese Visitors  Investors betting that new casinos and more visitors will
increase gambling revenue have pushed up shares of Sands China
38 percent this year and Galaxy Entertainment 51 percent. MGM
China Holdings, a unit of  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , has jumped
42 percent. Wynn Macau, a unit of Stephen Wynn’s  Wynn Resorts
Ltd. (WYNN) , has added 19 percent and Melco Crown, the venture between
Australian billionaire James Packer and Stanley Ho’s son
Lawrence, has climbed 47 percent on the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange. The benchmark Hang Seng Index is up 12 percent.  They have been aided by increasingly affluent Chinese, who
have more money to bet as incomes have risen. Urban disposable
income in China rose 14 percent to 21,810 yuan ($3,460) last
year.  To draw the growing number of middle-class tourists, the
casinos are adding long stretches of retail stores and
entertainment shows like Melco Crown’s House of Dancing Water, a
love story set in China that is enacted on a stage filled with
water and includes stunts on bikes.  For Li Chun, a 44-year-old businessman from Tianjin in
China, the side attractions are a bonanza. “You are able to put
your wife and kids in a shopping mall while you can just
concentrate on the gambling table,” Li said while visiting
Macau. He planned to gamble as much as 200,000 yuan at the
Venetian Macau.  Macau gets roughly 70 percent of gambling revenue from VIP,
or high-stakes gamblers, according to Aaron Fischer, CLSA’s head
of Asian consumer and gaming research in Hong Kong. The “mass
market” - usually the term for middle-class visitors - is still
the most profitable because casino operators pay commissions to
professionals bringing in high-stakes gamblers.  Regulatory Restrictions  As Macau casino operators push for growth, they face some
restrictions from local government policies, Fischer said.  The Macau government has limited the number of gaming
tables and hands out land permits at intervals to prevent the
industry from growing too fast.  Wynn Macau, MGM China and SJM are awaiting approval of land
leases for construction on the Cotai strip even as Melco Crown,
which already operates the City of Dreams casino on Cotai, waits
for permission to begin the $1.9 billion Studio City resort.  Even Sands could face hurdles if investors are disappointed
in the early performance of its new casino or if it experiences
any delays in expanding the resort, said Deutsche Bank’s Tang.  Sands also faces added risks if there are “unfavorable
outcomes” from a U.S. regulatory investigation related to its
Macau operations, she said.  Las Vegas Sands last year said it received a subpoena from
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to produce documents
relating to its Macau operations’ compliance with the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  The casino operator said it believed the subpoena
“emanated from allegations” in a lawsuit by former Sands China
Chief Executive, Steven Jacobs, who has alleged, among other
things, that Las Vegas Sands demanded that he use improper
“leverage” to win government concessions. Sands China
spokeswoman Mabel Wu declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The
company “intends to defend this matter vigorously,” Las Vegas
Sands said while discussing the suit in a U.S. regulatory
filing.  For now, the limits on expanding in Macau have some
advantages for investors because casino operators can’t go on a
spending binge, said CLSA’s Fischer.  “They can’t keep building and wasting money,” he said.
That has prompted Sands China and SJM to pay  dividends , saying
they have enough cash to keep expanding.  The dividends are partly a bet that Macau’s gambling
revenue will keep increasing. Fischer sees gaming in Macau
benefiting from its local monopoly.  “Macau has no competition,” said Fischer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  