-- Lacker Calls for Law to Curtail Fed Aid to Funds, Brokers
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-30T00:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/lacker-urges-congress-to-curtail-fed-loans-to-funds-brokers.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  urged Congress to curtail the central
bank’s authority to lend to brokers and insurers facing
financial stress.  “To improve the credibility of a commitment to greater
market discipline, we should further restrict the means
available to use public funds to rescue private creditors,”
Lacker said today in a speech in  Charlotte , North Carolina.  Lacker commented just hours after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said financial stability is no longer a “junior
partner” to monetary policy, and central banks should try to
defuse threats in the future. The 2008 financial crisis
highlighted the importance of anticipating threats, he told
students in a lecture at George Washington University.  The Richmond Fed president told reporters after his speech
he continues to expect U.S. growth of 2 percent to 2.5 percent
this year. He said current policy is “appropriate,” and he
opposes additional easing to try to generate faster job growth.  “The labor market is facing some serious impediments,”
Lacker said. “They are real in nature and not monetary. I
haven’t been convinced that more monetary stimulus would help
the labor market improve materially more rapidly.”  Lacker also told reporters he isn’t currently worried about
inflation. While price measures have been higher than the Fed’s
target of 2 percent annually, that reflects “a temporary bulge
in energy prices” that occurred last year, he said.  Inflation Rate Acceptable  “My reading of where inflation is going in the near term
is closer to 2 percent,” he said. “I think we are OK on
inflation right now.”  Lacker said in his speech that while Congress has
restricted the Fed’s powers to lend to firms other than banks,
the “restrictions do not go far enough.”  “I would favor further tightening restrictions on Federal
Reserve lending by eliminating section 13(3) entirely,” he
said, referring to lending to nonbanks in “unusual and exigent
circumstances.”  Further strengthening of “living wills” that show how
financial companies could be unwound in an orderly way without
destabilizing the financial system and changes in the U.S.
bankruptcy code tailored to the financial sector are needed,
Lacker said to bankers, lawyers and law students from the
University of  North Carolina  School of Law’s Center for Banking
and Finance.  Stressed Firms  “We should critically re-examine bankruptcy law in light
of recent events, looking for ways to improve its effectiveness
for stressed financial firms and reassure policy authorities,”
Lacker said. “We should take a very rigorous approach to the
Dodd-Frank provisions requiring credible resolution plans for
large financial firms.”  Recipients of emergency aid have included U.S. branches of
overseas banks, including Switzerland’s UBS AG; corporations
such as General Electric Co. and McDonald’s Corp.; and investors
like Pacific Investment Management Co.  Lacker praised Fed regulators work with “stress tests” to
ensure banks are prepared for future recessions, while saying
they can’t replace competitive market forces.  The Fed said this month that 15 of the 19 largest U.S.
banks could maintain adequate capital levels even in a severe
recession while they continue to pay dividends and buy back
stock.  The stress tests are now a standard part of the Fed’s
oversight of financial risk.  Rescue of Firms  Fed presidents including Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  and
 Richard Fisher  say the Dodd-Frank Act enacted in 2010 won’t
necessarily end bailouts because it gives regulators discretion
to provide such rescues. Plosser has also called for a
bankruptcy law that would set rules for how a large financial
company is to be wound down.  The Dodd-Frank law gave the Fed and other regulators powers
to take over and wind down failing institutions, mandated that
the central bank look for evidence of emerging risks to
financial stability and required annual stress tests of the
largest U.S. banks.  Lacker didn’t comment on monetary policy in his prepared
speech. He has dissented twice this year from the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s statements that subdued inflation and
economic slack will probably warrant exceptionally low rates
through late 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  