-- Aeroportuario Pacifico Falls as Offer Pulled: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-29T21:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/aeroportuario-pacifico-falls-as-offer-pulled-mexico-city-mover.html
Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico
SAB  tumbled after  Grupo Mexico (GMEXICOB)  SAB withdrew its offer to buy the
regional airport operator after a nine-month legal dispute.  The shares fell 3.1 percent to 48.64 pesos at close in
Mexico City, after earlier dropping as much as 4.8 percent, the
biggest intraday decline since Oct. 30, 2009. The benchmark IPC
index of 35 Mexican companies rose 0.6 percent today. Grupo
Aeroportuario del Pacifico, or GAP operates a dozen Mexican
regional airports.  Grupo Mexico, the country’s largest mining company,
withdrew a request for authorization to buy GAP, the company
said in a statement to the Mexican stock exchange today.  GAP said its bylaws limit non-controlling investors from
holding more than 10 percent of its shares.  Grupo Mexico  offered
to buy as much as all of GAP’s shares on June 13, 2011.  Grupo Mexico had increased its stake in GAP to 28.7 percent
from about 20 percent since June. GAP successfully halted the
offer through lawsuits.  Mexican law requires companies that have a stake above 30
percent to bid for the entire company.  The acquisition would have expanded Grupo Mexico’s
transportation holdings, which include railroads Ferrocarril
Mexicano SA and Ferrosur SA.  The mining company controlled by billionaire German Larrea
may sell about $467 million of GAP shares after pulling its
offer, according to a research note sent today from Citigroup
Inc. analyst Stephen Trent.  Juan Rebolledo , a spokesman for Grupo  Mexico , wasn’t
available to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  