-- Africa’s Pension Fund to Step Up Investments Across Continent
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-03-29T14:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/africa-s-pension-fund-to-step-up-investments-across-continent.html
South  Africa ’s Government Employees
Pension Fund will invest as much as 50 billion rand ($6.5
billion) in the rest of the continent this year after reaping a
return of more than 18 percent on the holdings in 2011.  “We have made returns in excess of 18 percent by investing
in Africa and we’ve had a taste of its challenges and rewards,”
Arthur Moloto, chairman of the Pretoria-based  Government
Employees Pension Fund , said in an interview today. “We have
over 1 trillion rand in funds and have mandated that 5 percent
be invested in Africa outside of South Africa.”  The fund already invests in Africa through the Pan-African
Infrastructure Development Fund, he said. It has backed projects
including international airports in  Tunisia , under-sea optical
fiber cabling in Nigeria as well as power stations in Kenya and
Zambia. The Pan-African fund, which is managed by Johannesburg-
based  Harith Investment Managers , accounted for 0.1 percent, or
825 million rand, of the pension plan’s assets as of March 2011.  Pension fund managers are under pressure to boost returns
to meet their obligations to an increasing ageing population.
The GEPF, which has 1.2 million active members and 345,000
pensioners and beneficiaries, posted a total  return  of 12
percent in the 12 months through March 2011. While the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for South African
economic growth for 2012 to 2.5 percent, sub-Saharan Africa’s
economy will probably expand 5.5 percent this year.  South Africa ’s Public Investment Corp., which manages about
90 percent of the GEPF’s assets, has been asked to find targets
across Africa for the GEPF’s 50 billion rand this year, Moloto
said.  “It’s a three-pronged approach which includes finding
medium-sized companies looking for funding, infrastructure and
property development, and stock market investments,” he said.  The GEPF also plans to invest as much as a further 50
billion rand in  emerging markets  including Brazil, Russia, India
and  China , he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  