-- AIG Targets China Drivers in $50 Billion Insurance Market
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-03T16:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/aig-targets-china-drivers-in-50-billion-insurance-market.html
(Corrects PICC premium revenue in sixth paragraph of story
published March 30.)  Soon-to-be-relaxed rules in  China 
have firms including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
 Allianz SE (ALV)  eager to grab a bigger share of the $50 billion that
the country’s drivers spend each year on auto insurance.  Both insurers are making plans to offer more products as
China lifts a ban on foreign companies selling mandatory
policies for drivers. On a recent two-week trip, Kevin Goulding,
the Shanghai-based head of Chartis China, AIG’s property-
casualty business in the country, scouted four municipalities
and provinces with a combined population of 500 million, as he
weighs where to open the company’s next branch and lays plans to
sell car coverage for the first time.  “We’re definitely looking forward to moving into the auto
market in China,” he said in a phone interview. “It’s an
extremely large market and will also allow us to offer other
products to consumers.”  The policy shift,  announced  in February during Chinese Vice
President  Xi Jinping ’s visit to the U.S., may be a boon for
foreign insurance companies, which have struggled to gain a
foothold in the world’s largest auto market, where an average of
about  40,000 cars  are sold a day. Non-Chinese property-casualty
carriers’ share of premiums has been stuck at  1 percent  since
2004, a December report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP shows.  The compulsory coverage, which protects drivers against
third-party liability, is a loss leader for Chinese insurers.
The companies often bundle the policies with more-lucrative
voluntary insurance that covers damage to cars. Taken together,
the protection has been a profitable business in China since
2009, representing about 70 percent of all property-casualty
insurance sold in the country.  Compulsory Coverage  Based on that ratio, auto would account for more than $50
billion in premiums in what the China Insurance Regulatory
Commission said was a  478 billion yuan  ($75.8 billion) property-
casualty market last year. PICC Property & Casualty Co., China’s
largest non-life insurer, with about one-third of the market,
generated more than 100 billion yuan in premium revenue from the
auto segment in 2011.  The rule that limited foreign insurers only to sales of the
optional coverage has stymied their growth in the country, said
Sally Yim, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in  Hong Kong .  “If a customer wanted to buy motor insurance, why would
they want to choose a foreign company that can’t provide the
compulsory coverage,” she said by phone. Being able to offer a
comprehensive package will “help them build their brand
recognition and gradually build scale.”  Underwriting Profit  Chinese regulators have protected the domestic industry,
still in its early stages of development, from foreign
competitors, said Yim. About 60 percent of PICC’s 8.02 billion
yuan total underwriting profit came from auto coverage in 2011.  The largest local companies made at least 5 cents for every
premium dollar on underwriting auto insurance in the first half
of 2011, according to a Moody’s report in February. Insurers in
the U.S. lost 1 cent per premium dollar on consumer auto
policies in 2010, the last year of available data, according to
a report by the  National Association of Insurance Commissioners .
Insurers also make money by investing float, or the premiums
held before paying claims.  Allianz, which got about 5 million euros ($6.7 million) in
auto premiums from China in 2011 after five years of selling
voluntary coverage, plans to offer the compulsory policies and
invest to increase its market share once it’s permitted, said
Peter Nestmann, chief executive officer of the Munich-based
insurer’s property-casualty unit in the country. The company’s
strategy is to sell coverage at  car dealerships  and target
buyers of luxury brands, such as Mercedes-Benz and BMW.  ‘Not Easy’  “If you’re not allowed to sell the most basic liability
coverage, it’s not easy to compete,” Nestmann, who’s based in
Guangzhou, said by phone.  For now, non-Chinese insurers are awaiting rules from
regulators detailing when, where and how they’ll be able to sell
the mandatory coverage.  Liberty Mutual  Holding Co. projects that
it will take six to 18 months before it will be able to offer
the products, according to Jackson Tang, CEO of the Boston-based
insurer’s China subsidiary.  The company began selling voluntary auto coverage in the
country in 2005 in Chongqing on the expectation that the rules
would be relaxed for foreign insurers selling compulsory car
policies, said Tang. Liberty Mutual has more than 90,000 auto
policyholders in the country and plans to enter areas where
there are few foreign rivals, he said.  Tokio Marine  The insurer may have competition as it expands. Japanese
firms including  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766) , Sompo Japan
Insurance Inc., Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., and  South Korea ’s
Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co. all expressed interest in
selling the policies as soon as regulators permit. Mitsui, like
Liberty Mutual and Allianz, already offers voluntary auto
insurance in China. Sompo said it will begin providing that
coverage in  Shanghai  as early as June.  For AIG’s global property-casualty insurer Chartis, the
move into China’s auto market compliments a shift toward selling
more coverage to individuals. Consumer insurance accounted for
38 percent of the unit’s policy sales in 2011, compared with 30
percent two years earlier, according to a regulatory filing.
Chartis China is the largest foreign property-casualty insurer
in the Asian country, on sales of commercial coverage and
accident-and-health policies.  AIG traces its roots to an insurance agency founded by
Cornelius Vander Starr in Shanghai, after the American
entrepreneur arrived in the city in 1919. More recently, the New
York-based insurer has been invested in China’s auto insurance
market through a 9.9 percent stake in PICC. The two firms have
had a strategic relationship since the Chinese insurer’s initial
public offering in 2003.  AIG’s Hancock  Peter Hancock , who heads Chartis globally, is relying on
growth in developing economies to boost returns, as AIG seeks to
attract private investors to replace government funds from its
2008 U.S. rescue. Asset sales to pay back the bailout led AIG to
retreat from selling  life insurance  in China in 2010, when the
company sold a majority stake in  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the Hong Kong-
based insurer with operations across  Asia .  Hancock personally thanked Xi for the decision to lift the
auto-insurance ban at a luncheon at the Marriott Wardman Park
hotel in  Washington  on Feb. 15, during the Chinese vice
president’s visit. After years of lobbying by the  insurance
industry , Chinese regulators are relaxing regulations to benefit
from foreign companies’ expertise and improve service.  Still, building an auto business in the country faces
hurdles. The government sets rates for the mandatory coverage.
And foreign insurers face restrictions on where and how fast
they can open new branches.  It takes about 18 months to win approval to sell coverage
in a new province or municipality, said Liberty Mutual’s Tang,
who’s based in Chongqing. And the licenses are granted one at a
time. Chinese firms don’t face the same requirements.  ‘Can You Imagine’  “Can you imagine, if I wanted to open 10 provincial
branches, it would take me 15 years,” said Tang in a phone
interview. “Local companies can apply for 10 branches, 15
branches in the first year and just open them.”  One way for foreign insurers to distinguish themselves from
local companies, said Moody’s Yim, is on service. Domestic
carriers have struggled to process and settle claims as the
number of vehicles surged to 228 million, China’s insurance
regulator said in a work plan posted on its website this month.
Companies were ordered to submit plans for how to improve
service by the end of March.  Even with better service, foreign insurers may find it
tough to steal customers in cities like Beijing. Local companies
such as Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., China’s second-biggest
insurer, have claims staff at car dealerships to handle almost
everything after an accident.  Service Quality  “We drove back to the dealership where we bought the car,
they took pictures of the broken part, had us fill a form, they
paid the bill, and we drove home after the repair,” said Dong
Xuan, 34, a manager at a Beijing-based construction company.
“It’s simpler than we thought,” she said of her experience
last year after her Ping An-insured Toyota Corolla smashed its
front light hitting a taxi.  “The first thing I look at is convenience, then service
quality,” said Yang Guang, 35, an English teacher at a Beijing-
based college who won the right to buy a car in the otherwise-
restricted city as part of a government monthly car-license
lottery in February. “I’ll see what foreign insurers have to
offer, but I doubt they can elbow their way into the dealerships
that have already partnered with local insurers.”  Figuring out which customers are the best risks may also
pose a challenge. The number of drivers in the country climbed
to  239 million  at the end of February, according to the Ministry
of Public Security. Chartis’s Goulding said it would take a few
years before the company has enough data to make accurate
forecasts about the business.  Profiling Customers  “Worldwide, auto has small margins, so you have to be very
smart on how you profile your customers,” he said.  Official statistics show that China’s roads have gotten
safer in recent years, even as the country has added more cars
and drivers. Road fatalities fell to about 2.8 for every 10,000
vehicles from 3.2 in 2010, according to the State Administration
of Work Safety.  Still, that’s more than  twice the rate  in the U.S. in 2010,
according to the most recent data from the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration . Further, a  study  of death records
published in the January 2011 Bulletin of the  World Health
Organization  showed that the rate of fatalities from road
traffic may not have declined and could be double what’s
reported by the police.  ‘Crazy’  China is adjusting to the increase in motorists, said Peter Hessler, a New Yorker staff writer and author of “Country
Driving: A Journey Through China from Farm to Factory,” which
chronicles how the car is transforming the country. Driver
education in China is “the blind leading the blind,” he said
in a phone interview from Cairo, where he now lives.  “In the developing world people drive in ways that people
in the States think is crazy,” said Hessler. “The difference
in China is that they all learned in the last five years,
basically. I don’t think you’ve ever had a country that’s had
this scale of the automobile suddenly becoming a part of life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  