-- Amylin Options Signal 26% Gain After Bristol-Myers Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-03-29T20:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/amylin-options-signal-26-gain-after-bristol-myers-bid-real-m-a.html
Options traders are betting
potential acquirers from  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  to Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. will have to spend 26 percent more than its current price to
buy  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)   Amylin, which surged 54 percent to $23.77 yesterday after
Bloomberg News reported the company rejected a $22-a-share
proposal from Bristol-Myers, could now get offers for as much as
$30, according to options data compiled by Bloomberg. Traders
who bought Amylin yesterday also sold  contracts  that give buyers
the option to buy Amylin stock for $28 to $30 a share as part of
a “collar” strategy, Newedge Group SA said.  “The Bristol bid may be just a starting point,” said Alec Levine, an equity derivatives strategist at Newedge in  New York .
Some options traders are “hoping that that they will have to
increase the offer to seal the deal,” he said.  With the largest drugmakers losing patent protections on
their own medicines, the San Diego-based biopharmaceutical
company could get $28 to $37 a share in a takeover, according to
Piper Jaffray Cos. AstraZeneca and Sanofi may also bid for the
maker of the diabetes drug Bydureon, Leerink Swann LLC said.  Alice Izzo, a spokeswoman for Amylin, said it doesn’t
comment on market speculation when asked whether it is willing
to sell itself or has been approached by other potential buyers.  Shares of Amylin surged by the most in more than a decade
yesterday after two people with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the approach was private, said
the company’s board rejected a $3.5 billion unsolicited takeover
bid from  Bristol-Myers (BMY)  last month.  Takeover Bet  The bid was 43 percent higher than Amylin’s  share price  of
$15.39 before Bloomberg reported the news.  Today, Amylin jumped 4.3 percent to $24.80, the second-
biggest advance in the Bloomberg Americas Biotechnology Index.  Bristol-Myers hasn’t approached Amylin since it was
rejected and Amylin is speaking with several drugmakers about a
partnership for its products outside the U.S., the people said.  Even so, traders are using options, which give the right,
without the obligation, to buy or sell a security at a set price
by a specific date, to bet on further gains in Amylin as
takeover speculation increases.  Call contracts expiring in July to buy Amylin at $28 and
$30 a share were among the company’s 10 most  actively traded 
options yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Most of the volume in the $30 call contract came from a
trader who sold the calls to finance purchases of lower-priced
puts, a strategy known as a “collar,” said Newedge’s Levine
and Joe Kunkle, founder of OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-based
provider of options-market analytics.  Relative Value  The strategy, which involves buying shares, selling calls
and purchasing puts, enables traders to bet on further gains for
a company that’s risen on takeover speculation while limiting
losses if no deal emerges, said Steve Sosnick, equity risk
manager at Timber Hill LLC, the market-making unit of
Interactive Brokers Group Inc. in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  An investor yesterday sold 10,000 July $30 calls of Amylin
and traded $20 and $16 puts expiring in July, according to  Henry Schwartz , president of Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based
provider of options-market data and analytics.  The transactions, which protect against losses if Amylin
falls, indicate that the investor is willing to bet the stock
will climb to $30 a share but no further, he said.  “$28 to $30 is a reasonable price” in an acquisition,
Terry Wilson, an equity derivatives strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in New York, said in an e-mail. “It makes sense to cap
your upside at $30 in order to help fund some protection between
$20 and $15 if no deal materializes.”  Patent Expiration  Acquiring Amylin could help pharmaceutical companies facing
a decline in revenue as they lose patent protections on their
best-selling treatments. The world’s 10 largest drugmakers by
sales, which include AstraZeneca of  London  and Paris-based
 Sanofi (SAN) , have U.S. patents expiring this year or next, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Pharmaceutical companies have either already been through
the patent expiry or they’re going to face it in a couple of
years,” Ian Somaiya, a New York-based analyst for Piper
Jaffray, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “That’s true
of really any pharmaceutical company out there.”  By the end of 2014, Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca will both
lose exclusive rights on treatments that accounted for more than
40 percent of their sales last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. They include Bristol-Myers’ best-selling Plavix blood
thinner and AstraZeneca’s Seroquel, for treating schizophrenia.  Sanofi, which co-developed Plavix with Bristol-Myers, will
lose that drug and at least three other medicines that generated
more than 12 percent of its revenue, the data show.  Diabetes Treatments  Jennifer Mauer , a spokeswoman for Bristol-Myers, said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation, when asked
whether it is still interested in acquiring Amylin and would
consider increasing its price.  Sarah Lindgreen , a spokeswoman at AstraZeneca, said “we
don’t comment on specific rumors or speculation.” Marisol Peron, a spokeswoman for Sanofi, declined to comment on whether
it is interested in Amylin.  Amylin is an attractive takeover candidate because it has
three drugs that focus on  treating diabetes , Piper Jaffray’s
Somaiya said. It won regulatory approval for Bydureon, a once-
weekly formulation of another diabetes drug Byetta, in January.
Revenue from the drugs may reach at least $1.5 billion, he said.  The company also sells Symlin, which is used with insulin
to control blood-sugar levels in those with Type 1 or  Type 2
diabetes . It accounted for 16 percent of Amylin’s $651 million
in  sales  last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  100 Million Chinese  Almost 9 percent of Americans had diabetes as of 2010 and
the prevalence of Type 2 diabetes in the U.S. will jump more
than  40 percent  to 34.9 million people by 2020, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In  China , the world’s most-populous
country, almost 100 million people already have the disease.
Two-thirds are undiagnosed, the data show.  “The diabetes market is tremendously big because there are
tens of millions of patients with diabetes in the U.S. alone and
then more beyond that,”  Joshua Schimmer , a New York-based
analyst for Leerink Swann, said in a telephone interview.  Still, Amylin’s  revenue  has fallen in each of the last four
years. Its diabetes drug Byetta, the twice-daily shot approved
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2005, also competes
with Victoza from  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s biggest maker of
insulin. Both encourage the pancreas to make insulin, the
hormone that diabetics need to break down sugar that builds up
in the blood stream.  Risk-Reward Analysis  “I don’t understand why you would turn down that bid,”
from Bristol-Myers,  Michael King , a New York-based analyst at
Rodman & Renshaw LLC, said in a telephone interview.  He said Amylin faces increased competition for insulin-
related treatments and also has a debt burden that could deter
other potential buyers.  Amylin has $1.4 billion in  net debt , more than 90 percent
of biotechnology companies with at least $1 billion in market
value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  King recommends investors sell Amylin, which he estimates
is worth less than $10 a share.  An acquirer that already has a sales force selling
diabetes-related drugs can still wring out enough costs to
justify paying as much as $31 a share for Amylin, Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a report
yesterday. Bristol-Myers, AstraZeneca and Sanofi all have units
that sell diabetes treatments.  “If you have a diabetes sales force, you can literally get
rid of the cost structure of Amylin and realize the synergy,”
Piper Jaffray’s Somaiya said. “As an acquirer, you’re taking on
no regulatory risk because the drugs are approved globally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 