-- Explosive Device Seized From United Passenger, U.S. Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-29T21:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/man-charged-with-attempting-to-carry-explosives-on-united-flight.html
A  Pennsylvania  man was charged with
attempting to take an explosive device onto a  United Airlines 
flight from Philadelphia to  San Francisco , U.S. prosecutors
said.  Joseph Picklo, 29, of  Dallas , Pennsylvania, tried to get on
the aircraft with two homemade M80s, or firecrackers, a plastic
bottle wrapped in electrical tape and partially filled with a
powdery mixture, and a test tube with a wick containing another
substance, prosecutors said in a statement.  Picklo was stopped at about 6 a.m. as he went through
security at Terminal D in the Philadelphia International
Airport. Agents with the Transportation Security Administration
found the items, including a cigarette lighter, after searching
Picklo’s carry-on backpack, according to a criminal complaint
filed in federal court in Philadelphia.  Picklo is in federal custody in Philadelphia after
appearing in a magistrate’s court today, according to the
statement. He faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison if
convicted on the charges.  Self-Employed Salesman  Picklo described himself to authorities as a self-employed
salesman who experimented with explosives, and told them he
forgot he was carrying the fireworks, the Fox News affiliate in
Philadelphia reported earlier today.  “The training and alertness of the officers at the
Philadelphia checkpoint prevented these items from being brought
on board an aircraft,” Philadelphia TSA Federal Security
Director Robert Ellis said in a statement.                  The
incident closed the TSA checkpoint for about 40 minutes, the
agency said in a statement. Philadelphia is the 19th-busiest
airport in  North America , with 30.8 million passengers in 2010,
according to  Airports Council International , a trade group. It’s
also a hub for US Airways Group Inc., which controls almost half
the flights there, according to data compiled by the U.S. Bureau
of Transportation Statistics.  United Airlines is a unit of  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)   The case is U.S. v, Picklo, 12-538-m, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  