-- Anshan Scraps Plan for Indian Steel Plant, Continues U.S. Talks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-29T12:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/anshan-scraps-plan-for-indian-steel-plant-continues-u-s-talks.html
Anshan Iron & Steel Group (ANSHZ) ,  China ’s
second-largest steelmaker, scrapped a plan to build its first
factory in  India  because of “risk” concerns and is continuing
with talks for a planned plant in the U.S.  “We see some risks after careful study of the project” in
India, Chen Ming, vice chairman of listed unit Angang Steel Co.,
said in an interview after a press conference today in  Hong
Kong , without giving details. The parent is “still in talks for
the U.S. steel project and, so far, no progress has been made,”
he said.  Anshan, based in Liaoning province, is facing hurdles in
its global expansion effort as it grapples with overcapacity and
a shortage of raw material at home. Its proposed plant in Amory,
 Mississippi , China’s first steel project in the U.S., poses a
national security risk because Anshan is controlled by the
Chinese government, U.S lawmakers had said in a letter to
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  in July 2010.  Talks had been held on an Indian steel project with an
annual capacity of as much as 3 million metric tons, Anshan said
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions on Oct. 13. The
project would require an investment of about $2 billion and
Anshan may also plan for a plant in an African country, the
Financial Times reported then, citing Anshan President  Zhang Xiaogang .  India Demand  India’s steel ministry in November estimated the country’s
demand may grow at 9 percent per annum over the next five years.
Global rivals  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and Posco, which have at least $32
billion of planned projects in India, have seen delays for years
in securing approvals and land.  Anshan is diversifying its markets as domestic demand slows
and raw-material costs remain high. China’s major steelmakers
incurred combined losses of 2.8 billion yuan ($445 million) in
the first two months of this year, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported today, citing the China Iron and Steel
Association. Angang, the biggest Hong Kong-traded steelmaker,
this week posted a second-half loss of 1.93 billion yuan.  Angang is in talks with Anshan Steel about shortening the
pricing period for  iron ore  amid expectations the spot rates may
fall 10 percent to 20 percent due to slowing demand, Chen said.
The unit bought the raw material from its parent at a 5 percent
discount to the average spot price in the previous six-month
period, paying more than rivals at a time of declining ore
prices. Angang is seeking to peg the rates to a monthly or
quarterly basis, Chen said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  