-- AOL Inc.’s Patent Sale May Yield $290 Million
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-29T14:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/aol-inc-s-patent-sale-may-yield-290-million.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s patent portfolio would
be valued at about $290 million in a sale, less than a third of
the amount that shareholder Starboard Value LP has estimated it
could generate, according to patent-advisory firm  M-Cam Inc.   “That is the absolute ceiling price,” David Pratt,
president of Charlottesville, Virginia-based M-Cam, said
yesterday. “It’s worth much less than what investors have
estimated, based largely on the fact that most of AOL’s patents
are not commercially viable, or junk grade.”  AOL, based in New York, has hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to
explore strategic options and find a buyer for its more than 800
patents. While Starboard has said the portfolio may yield more
than $1 billion in licensing income, some of AOL’s patents are
variations on existing technologies that companies, including
Google Inc., could license from others, Pratt said.  The ceiling price of $290 million for the patents reflects
a “Google-like transaction,” Pratt said, referring to the
search company’s proposed $12.5 billion purchase of Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., from which it could draw on more than
17,000 patents.  A lower valuation on AOL’s patents could hurt the company’s
chances to generate enough dollars to spur a sale of the whole
company, Pratt said.  Caroline Campbell, a spokeswoman for AOL, declined to
comment.  AOL fell 1.8 percent to $18.95 at 10:30 a.m. in New York.
The stock had gained 28 percent this year before today.  ‘Strategic Buyer’  Evercore is also helping AOL explore other strategic
options. Private-equity firms, including Providence Equity
Partners Inc., TPG Capital and  Silver Lake , have approached AOL
about taking the company private, yet those overtures haven’t
resulted in a deal, according to people with knowledge of the
situation.  A strategic buyer could bid a much higher price for the
patents than M-Cam’s estimate, said Erin-Michael Gill, chief
intellectual property officer for  MDB Capital Group LLC .  “There’s a difference between a pure financial value for
patents and a strategic value,” Gill said by telephone
yesterday. “A strategic buyer could bid higher because they
realize the long-term value of licensing those patents.”  Many of AOL’s patents cover Internet advertising and
communications services, and the portfolio could fetch as much
as $1 billion from a large technology company, Christopher Marlett, co-founder of  Santa Monica , California-based MDB, said
last week.  AOL, led by Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong , posted
declining sales for each quarter last year. The company’s
revenue for the first quarter of this year is estimated to drop
4.6 percent to $526.1 million, according to analyst projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  Armstrong had been in talks with private-equity firms as
recently as September, when the CEO approached potential
financial partners about combining AOL with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , two
people said at the time.  Starboard, which increased its stake to 5.2 percent from
4.5 percent late last year, said in a Feb. 24 statement that
it’s “increasingly uncomfortable” with the direction the
company and the board leadership are taking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  