-- Apple’s Tim Cook Visits Foxconn IPhone Plant in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-29T03:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/apple-says-cook-visited-new-foxconn-plant-in-zhengzhou-china.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  visited Foxconn Technology Group’s newly built
manufacturing facility for the iPhone in Zhengzhou, China, as
the U.S. company seeks to improve working conditions.  The iPhone  production line  is at the new Foxconn Zhengzhou
Technology Park, which employs 120,000 people, Carolyn Wu, a
Beijing-based Apple spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today. She
didn’t provide other details on Cook’s visit or say how much
longer he’ll be in China after having held high-level talks in
Beijing earlier this week.  Apple, which contracts Foxconn to make its iPhones and
iPads, became the first technology company to join the Fair
Labor Association in January, opening up suppliers’ factories to
inspections by the Washington-based group after complaints by
human rights organizations. The group found “tons of issues,”
while also seeing “dramatic” improvements, FLA Chief Executive
Officer Auret van Heerden said last month.  “Apple has had a string of negative publicity this year
with Foxconn factory issues,” said Mark Natkin, managing
director of Marbridge Consulting Ltd., a Beijing-based market
research firm. “Apple is trying to demonstrate how seriously
they take these issues, and how strong their commitment is to
 China .”  Cupertino, California-based Apple has been criticized by
organizations including China Labor Watch for conditions at its
suppliers, and the company has found infractions including
excessive overtime and environmental violations. It didn’t
specify which companies breached its supplier code of conduct.  Foxconn, founded by Chairman Terry Gou in 1974, raised the
base pay for junior workers by as much as 25 percent last month
and said its wages exceed government mandates.  ‘Great’ Meetings  Cook’s trip to Zhengzhou followed a meeting with Beijing
Mayor Guo Jinlong on March 26 and with Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  on March 27. Apple’s Wu said earlier those meetings were
“great,” without providing details on their content.  Vice Premier Li told Cook China will strengthen
intellectual property rights, according to the official Xinhua
news agency. He also told Cook multinational companies should
pay more attention to caring for workers and share development
opportunities with the Chinese side, Xinhua reported.  Cook told Li Apple “will strengthen comprehensive
cooperation with the Chinese side and conduct business in a law-
abiding and honest manner,” Xinhua reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  