-- Apple’s Patent War Seen Leading to Retaliatory Strikes
-- B y   P a u l   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-03-29T13:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/apple.html
In her black robe and strand of
white pearls, Lucy Koh projects the serious, deliberate demeanor
befitting a U.S. District Court judge. The Harvard-educated
former federal prosecutor has served on the  California  state
bench and as a partner in a Silicon Valley law firm, where she
litigated technology patent lawsuits.  For all her earnestness, Koh, 43, couldn’t resist needling
the lawyers skirmishing before her at a hearing last June in  San
Jose , California.  “Last time you were here,” the judge noted, “you said
that you had a business relationship -- I forget what the number
was -- $8 million, $8 billion?”  “I think it was in excess of $7 billion,” said attorney
Harold McElhinny.  That’s how much McElhinny’s client,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , pays
annually for components made by Samsung Electronics Co., the
company Apple is suing for patent infringement. Apple is
Samsung’s single biggest  customer , responsible for 7.6 percent
of the Suwon, South Korea-based company’s revenue, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Samsung reported 2011 consolidated
revenue of $149 billion. The dependence runs both ways: Apple’s
absurdly lucrative iPad and iPhone operations would grind to a
halt without Samsung’s parts, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its April 2 issue.  Yet in Koh’s courtroom, the companies were bashing each
other’s brains out.  Chocolates  “Seven billion,” Judge Koh mused. “Can we all just get
along here? Can I send you out to ADR?” she wondered, referring
to alternative dispute resolution, a form of private mediation.
“I will send you with boxes of chocolates,” the judge said.
“I mean, whatever.”  Nine months later, the case of Apple v. Samsung shows no
sign of abating. Rather than conciliate, Apple returned in
February to the federal courthouse in San Jose to sue Samsung
again, claiming the Korean manufacturer “slavishly copied”
Apple. An unrelenting recidivist, in Apple’s portrayal, Samsung
has “continued to flood the market with copycat products,
including at least 18 new infringing products released over the
last eight months.”  The clash reflects life in the tech big leagues: Apple
sharply reminding a formidable rival who’s boss. At the same
time, Apple v. Samsung is remarkable for its scale. The
combatants barely notice the millions of dollars in legal
expenses they’re each spending annually to flog the other in an
epic struggle that will surely test their multibillion-dollar
symbiotic relationship.  Motorola Mobility  The battle also signals a broader conflict pitting Apple
against multiple mobile-device manufacturers in some three dozen
legal and regulatory actions pending in 10 countries. Beyond
Samsung, Apple’s notable antagonists include  Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. (MMI)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  As Silicon Valley sophisticates
underscore, however, the phone and tablet makers are mere
proxies for another foe -- Android, the operating system  Google (GOOG) 
Inc. gives away to manufacturers. Google employs a come-one,
come-all business model radically at odds with Apple’s and, in
the late  Steve Jobs ’s view, existentially threatening to his
company.  In the last 18 months of his life, Jobs, who died on Oct. 5
at age 56, was obsessed with crushing Android. He explained to
his authorized biographer, Walter Isaacson, that the litigation
against device manufacturers was meant to communicate an
unmistakable message: “Google, you f--king ripped off the
iPhone, wholesale ripped us off. Grand theft.”  ‘Dying Breath’  Jobs swore he would “spend my last dying breath” and
“every penny” in  Apple’s coffers  “to right this wrong. I’m
going to destroy Android, because it’s a stolen product. I’m
willing to go to thermonuclear war on this.”  One problem with nuclear attacks, even those of the
metaphoric variety, is that the targets may retaliate with nukes
of their own. That is precisely what has happened.  For every Apple allegation, a rival has countered that
Apple isn’t as uniquely innovative as Jobs liked to boast. To
the contrary, Samsung, Motorola and others insist that some of
Apple’s most valuable patents -- such as those protecting the
minimalist design of the iPhone and iPad -- were never valid in
the first place.  By pushing the launch button on his legal ICBMs, Jobs
bequeathed a significant risk to his successors. Apple may
succeed in forcing competitors to deactivate a few phone
features, or maybe even yank an entire model or two from a major
market. But Apple has many rivals: If one falters, others will
step in.  134 Phones  Samsung’s website lists no fewer than 134 phone models.
Apple, by contrast, has only two core products at issue in the
patent war: the iPhone and iPad. Unlikely as it might seem, if a
competing manufacturer manages to convince a judge or a trade
commission somewhere in the world that Apple has relied on a
faulty patent for something important, the Cupertino,
California-based juggernaut could suffer profound reputational
damage and -- more important to stakeholders -- market-share
erosion.  From a distance, the mobile-device patent wars resemble a
mad free-for-all, but the salient strain of conflict can be
traced to Cupertino in early 2010.  With Apple’s iPhone continuing to sell millions of units,
Jobs in January of that year introduced the slender iPad tablet
computer. Both devices run iOS, Apple’s proprietary operating
system that coordinates individual software programs and enables
Apple devices to communicate with one another.  Closed System  Jobs famously sought to keep Apple’s operating systems
exclusive -- closed off from rivals--and tightly integrated with
Apple hardware. Google designed Android, by contrast, based on
open-source code, which Google makes available for free to
multiple hardware manufacturers to install on phones and
tablets.  Google spreads Android to make money from the online
advertising that trails Android wherever it goes, not from
device sales. It’s the same strategy Google uses with its
ubiquitous Internet search service.  Android’s very existence offended Jobs. “We did not enter
the search business,” he told Apple employees during a meeting
at the company’s headquarters in January 2010, according to the
Isaacson biography. “They entered the phone business. Make no
mistake. They want to kill the iPhone.”  Jobs’s outrage reflected his formative corporate experience
in the 1980s, when he refused to license the Macintosh operating
system for Apple’s stylish desktop computer. His nemesis, Bill Gates, licensed  Microsoft Inc. (MSFT) ’s competing Windows operating
system and DOS before that to numerous PC manufacturers.  Microsoft Products  Jobs disdained Windows as an inferior product, but snob
appeal notwithstanding, Microsoft stomped Apple in the desktop
software marketplace. Would something similar come to pass with
iOS and Android?  What particularly irked Jobs about Google’s operating
system was that Android phones offered so many features he felt
Apple had created, including the overall look of the devices and
their use of multitouch finger swiping.  In 2008, Jobs had visited Google’s Palo Alto offices to
tell founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin that if they backed
off, perhaps Apple would grant Google access to a couple of
icons on the iPhone’s home screen. If they developed Android to
compete with iOS, Jobs warned, he would go to court.  Apple’s Share  While Apple remains the world’s most valuable business, as
measured by market capitalization, and its iPad dominates rival
tablets, Android has blown past Apple’s share of the phone
operating-system business. Phones with Android software
accounted for almost 51.6 percent of smartphone shipments
worldwide in the final quarter of 2011, according to research
firm Canalys. The iPhone had 23.4 percent.  Jobs’s notion of channeling his pique into a federal case
faced several obstacles. As a practical matter, a judge couldn’t
order Google to stop selling copycat phones because Google, now
based in  Mountain View , California, didn’t sell phones in the
first place. Likewise, Google couldn’t be forced to pay money
damages related to allegedly contraband phones manufactured and
marketed by other companies.  On a symbolic level, stabbing straight at Google’s jugular
might have provoked antipathy toward Apple among consumers and
the Silicon Valley elite.  So in March 2010, Jobs attacked an Android proxy, accusing
HTC, based in Taoyuan City, Taiwan, of violating 10 patents in
products such as the Nexus One, Touch Pro and Droid Eris.  “We can sit by and watch competitors steal our patented
inventions,” Jobs declared at the time, “or we can do
something about it.”  HTC Partnership  Founded in 1997, HTC had used its Android partnership with
Google that began in 2007 to evolve from a contract manufacturer
of gear for other brands to a major smartphone seller in its own
right. It punctuated its advertising with the understated
slogan, “Quietly Brilliant.”  Apple chose to accuse HTC before the International Trade
Commission, a quasi-judicial  Washington  agency that moves more
quickly than congested federal courts and has authority to
exclude imports by intellectual-property wrongdoers.  “Apple went after what looked like a soft target,” said
Willy Shih, an intellectual property scholar and professor of
management practice at Harvard Business School. Wounding HTC
would send a signal to other Android-affiliated manufacturers.  HTC turned out to be tougher than expected. It hired
topflight outside legal counsel, including the San Francisco-
based firm  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP (496224L) , which also had
represented Google.  Undercutting Competition  The Taiwanese company contended in its filings that it had
done nothing wrong and Apple was fighting in court to undercut
its competition.  Before trial, Apple began to back off, dropping several of
its allegations. An ITC administrative law judge further
narrowed the case when he found preliminarily that HTC infringed
just two Apple patents.  In December, the full commission whittled the case down
again, concluding that HTC violated only a sole patent covering
a minor feature allowing a smartphone to recognize a number so
it can be called instantly. HTC met this news by announcing that
it had designed a work-around that would allow it to avoid the
import ban Apple sought.  Following the final commission decision and a  stock-buyback 
announcement, HTC’s shares shot up 7 percent, the maximum
permitted during a single day’s trading on the  Taiwan Stock
Exchange .  Dubious Outcome  For this dubious outcome, Apple paid a price: HTC and other
phone makers began filing patent claims against Apple.  Motorola Mobility didn’t wait for Jobs to move first. In
October 2010, the Libertyville, Illinois-based manufacturer,
represented by Quinn Emanuel, filed a trio of lawsuits and an
ITC complaint accusing Apple of infringing its patents.  Apple responded with an ITC action that Motorola phones
running Android -- the Droid, Droid 2, Droid X -- copied the
iPhone. For procedural reasons, Apple’s claim moved more
swiftly, and in January of this year, an ITC administrative law
judge ruled that Apple had failed to show any violations by
Motorola Mobility. On March 16, the commission upheld Motorola
Mobility’s victory.  In this tit-for-tat fashion, the patent war spread from
Washington to Chicago to Delaware, and on to Britain, France,
 Germany , Holland, Italy and  Australia . New motions, hearings,
and appeals occur on a daily basis.  Mannheim Court  In one ruling, a court in Mannheim, Germany, decided in
February that Apple had infringed a Motorola patent for a
feature that automatically “pushes” incoming e-mail messages
onto a phone’s screen. Days later, in a court in Munich, Apple
won an injunction against Motorola related to “slide-to-
unlock” technology. Each side is appealing each ruling, with no
end in sight.  A mobile-phone pioneer for decades, Motorola Mobility
possesses a trove of basic patents essential to building most
digital devices. So valuable is the company’s intellectual
property that in August, Google announced it would pay $12.5
billion to acquire its mobile-phone operation and its 17,000
patents.  The deal, said Google CEO Page, will “enable us to better
protect Android from anticompetitive threats from Microsoft,
Apple and other companies.”  In other words: You sue us, we sue you. In February, Apple
lodged a complaint with the European Commission, alleging that
Motorola Mobility is using so-called standard essential patents
to try to block competing products -- a claim that  Motorola
Mobility (MMI)  contests.  ‘Copycats’ Year  In March 2011, during the gala unveiling of the iPad2,
Steve Jobs turned his often-cruel attention to Samsung. He made
fun of its Galaxy Tab and gave the Korean company top billing in
a chart proclaiming 2011 the “Year of the Copycats.” A month
later, Apple sued Samsung in San Jose.  Until the turn of the 21st century, Samsung and other
family-controlled Korean conglomerates, or chaebols, were widely
viewed as congenital imitators: manufacturers of unimaginative
electronics, kitchen appliances and cars. Without much fanfare,
Samsung grew into the world’s largest tech company as measured
by revenue and one of the biggest suppliers of memory chips,
microprocessors and smartphone displays.  Today Samsung generates about one-fifth of all Korean
exports and wields extraordinary influence in its home country.
In 2008, Chairman Lee Kun-hee, one of Korea’s richest men, was
charged with tax evasion and breach of trust. Convicted of both
crimes, he managed to avoid prison, receive a presidential
pardon, and return to the company’s helm.  Samsung’s Galaxy  Unlike HTC, which embraced the Android operating system in
2007, Samsung waited another couple of years to introduce its
Android-equipped Galaxy line of phones.  According to an Apple legal filing, Samsung skipped the
difficult task of original research and development and simply
aped “Apple’s innovative technology, distinctive user
interfaces, and elegant and distinctive product and packaging
design.”  Apple alleges that when Samsung announced its Galaxy i9000
phone in March 2010, it had copied “every aspect of the
distinctive and minimalist Apple iPhone 3G trade dress: a
rectangular product with four evenly rounded corners, a flat
clear face covering the front of the product, (and) a large
display screen under the clear surface.”  ‘Steal Our Ideas’  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, said, “This kind of
blatant copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple’s
intellectual property when companies steal our ideas.”  Samsung doesn’t deny that, at some level, its smartphones
look and function like Apple’s. The Korean company instead
argues in legal papers that competing products -- be they
microwave ovens or the latest, coolest phones -- often resemble
each other. And, anyway, just how amazingly innovative are
rounded corners on a rectangular communication device?  Apple, according to Samsung, is trying to use litigation to
obtain something no competitor should have: “perpetual
domination of the smartphone and mobile-computer market.”  James Chung , a Samsung spokesman, said, “Samsung will
continue to defend our intellectual property to serve our
customers and ensure our continued innovation and leadership in
mobile communications.”  Several Asian manufacturers were noodling around with
similar-looking rectangular smartphones before the iPhone came
to market. Tipping its hat to a fellow Korean manufacturer,
Samsung said that in 2006, almost a year before the iPhone
appeared, LG Electronics announced the round-cornered LG
Chocolate, with “virtually all of the (design) features Apple
claims” to have patented.  ‘Naturally Evolving’  In December 2006, before Apple released images of the
iPhone, Samsung itself filed a design patent in Korea for a
similar rectangular phone called the F700. Smartphone and
tablet-computer design was “naturally evolving” in the
direction Apple claims it has exclusive rights to use, according
to Samsung.  If true, that matters because patent law states that if an
idea is “obvious” to an “ordinary observer” at the time of
its invention, it doesn’t deserve patent protection. By
attacking Samsung, Apple has inadvertently put its own patents
into play.  “Patent suits are a double-edged sword,” said Harvard’s
Shih.  J&J Verdict  If anyone has any doubt, they need only look at the largest
patent-infringement verdict in history. In 2009,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Centocor unit won a $1.67 billion victory over  Abbott
Laboratories. (ABT)  But J&J overreached.  Last year an appellate court threw out the verdict, ruling
that the J&J patent for human antibodies used in arthritis drugs
had been invalid all along.  The appeals court disparaged the J&J patent as, at most,
“a wish list of properties” that the antibodies might possess
and, in the process, provided critical legal protection for
Abbott’s competing remedy, Humira.  Shih himself bears some scars from IP fights during a long
corporate career as an executive at  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , Digital Equipment Corp.,  Silicon Graphics
International Corp. (SGI)  and  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)   Since joining the faculty at Harvard five years ago, Shih
has turned a cozy, book-lined campus office into an informal
museum of digital gadgetry. His shelves and closets contain
rudimentary computer motherboards, intricate telephone chip sets
(genuine and Chinese fakes), anachronistic pocket cameras, and,
incongruously, a scale model of an F-18 fighter jet.  ‘Pyramid of Innovation’  “Most modern technology exists at the top of what I like
to call a pyramid of innovation,” Shih said. A smartphone has
so many components building on earlier inventions that “it’s
implicating countless patents someone could sue over,” he said.
“It’s genuinely difficult to look down the pyramid from the top
and see comprehensively all of the building blocks.”  “It’s a recipe for litigation,” he said.  Since the early 1600s, Anglo-American law has granted
tinkerers and visionaries temporary monopolies on inventions.
Someone willing to disclose an innovation via the modern U.S.
patent system generally may exclude others from exploiting it
for 20 years.  Public disclosure, in theory, alerts others who might want
to take advantage of a patented advance, for which they could
offer a licensing fee. And this theory has often held up in
practice -- especially in computer technology -- but not always.  License Negotiations  For one thing, license negotiations sometimes break down.
Apple said in its legal papers that it approached Samsung in
2010 to seek licensing fees, but the discussions concluded
without agreement. Samsung lawyers have confirmed in court there
were such negotiations, without going into detail.  Shih suggests that a mobile-device patent war may have been
inevitable. Gargantuan rivals with deep pockets converged on the
market from several directions: Apple and Microsoft out of the
computer business, Google from the Internet search-and-
advertising business, Asian manufacturers from
telecommunications. Suing over patents became just another
weapon, like marketing or pricing.  Another factor has contributed to a boom in tech
litigation. Beginning in the early 1990s, the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office instituted policies that encouraged patent
proliferation. One required examiners to provide written
justification for denying applications but not for granting
them. Annual patent grants have risen 150 percent since 1990 --
from 99,077 to 247,713.  Ties Continue  Odd as it may seem to outsiders, Shih said, Apple and
Samsung will probably continue their  supply-chain  relationship
even as they slug it out in court. Although the companies
generally decline to discuss their ties, just last year, in the
midst of all the high-volume litigation, Samsung began shipping
A5 logic chips -- the brain of the latest iPhones and iPads --
from a new factory in Austin, Texas. The A5 is twice as fast as
its predecessor, the A4, which is also made by Samsung.  In addition, the Korean company sells Apple the highly
touted screens that provide supervivid images on the third-
generation iPad. Apple turned to Samsung after  LG Display Co. (034220) 
and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  didn’t meet its stringent quality requirements,
an analyst with iSuppli said in March. “The display
specifications on the new iPad are very demanding in terms of
the very high resolution,” the analyst, Vinita Jakhanwal, said.
For all the scorn Apple heaps on Samsung as an also-ran tech
innovator, it remains reliant on it.  ‘Irreparable Harm’  Four months after Judge Koh joked about sending the lawyer
to a mediator with boxes of chocolate, she held another hearing,
this one on Apple’s motion for a preliminary injunction to stop
Samsung from selling three phones -- the Galaxy S 4G, Infuse 4G
and Droid Charge -- and the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet in the U.S.
Apple claimed that without the judicial order it would suffer
“irreparable harm.”  “There is a battle going on between the Android operating
system and the iOS,” explained McElhinny, Apple’s lead attorney
and a partner with the San Francisco-based law firm  Morrison &
Foerster LLP (1124L) .  “A large percentage of the American public has yet to
choose a smartphone,” he said. “Once people make that choice,
they remain loyal to that operating system, and they are likely
to make their future purchases in that environment.”  Worldwide, Apple shipped a top-ranked 37 million
smartphones in the fourth quarter of 2011, a 128 percent
increase over 2010, according to research firm IDC. Samsung
shipped 36 million smartphones, for an even more impressive 275
percent gain.  ‘Earthshakingly New’  In the preliminary injunction hearing, Apple relied on four
of its patents to argue that its phones are “earthshakingly
new, completely novel.” For good measure, McElhinny said the
iPad tablet had “created an entirely new product category.”  Two of the patents cover the iPhone’s exterior design.
Patents are referred to by their last three digits, and this
pair is known as the D’087 and the D’677. The claim covered by
the D’087 is simply that of “the ornamental design of an
electronic device,” as depicted in a series of 48 schematic
drawings.  A third patent, D’889, covers the visual characteristics of
a tablet device, as described by similarly basic schematic
drawings.  A fourth patent, ‘381, issued on Dec. 23, 2008, has no
“D” prefix because it covers a function rather than a design -
- specifically, a method “for list scrolling and document
translation, scaling, and rotation on a touchscreen display.”  Bounce Back  For shorthand, this function is known as “bounce back.”
When a user places her finger on a device screen and drags an
image or document past the screen’s edge, and then releases her
finger, the image or document bounces back to fill the full
screen. All three of the Samsung phones, as well as the Galaxy
Tab 10.1, have bounce back.  Kathleen M. Sullivan, a Quinn Emanuel partner speaking on
behalf of Samsung, pointed out to Koh that all kinds of devices
predating Apple’s products -- phones and tablets -- look, and in
some regards, work like the iPhone and iPad. Apple is seeking an
unjust monopoly on rectangular smartphones and tablets with a
flat surface and rounded corners, Sullivan said.  The judge interrupted at one point and held up the
competing Samsung and Apple tablets. Could Sullivan tell them
apart?  “Not at this distance, your honor,” the lawyer admitted.
Judge and attorney were about 10 paces apart.  Closer View  “All right, I’ll bring it up closer,” the judge said.
“Which one is which?”  Finally, Sullivan correctly identified the iPad.  “It took a long time to make that distinction,” the judge
said. Her point was that inattentive consumers might confuse the
Samsung for an Apple. Consumer confusion is an important
criterion in determining whether patent infringement has
occurred.  “Your Honor,” Sullivan protested, “with respect, I’m
standing far away from you and you covered up the brand logo.”  Sullivan said, “The D’889 patent is for the whole device,
and you didn’t show us the back.”  Koh, as it turned out, hadn’t made up her mind. Samsung,
she suggested, may have imitated Apple, but Apple may have
imitated a much earlier and commercially unsuccessful device
introduced in 1994 by the newspaper publisher Knight-Ridder.  “Well, then, we’ll accept that, your honor,” Sullivan
responded.  Clear Ruling  On Dec. 2, Koh issued a 65-page ruling that for its
clarity, if nothing else, could be the core text for a law
school patent course.  “Judge Koh was an IP litigator before she joined the
bench, so she is very knowledgeable about these issues,” said
 Mark Lemley , a professor at Stanford Law School and director of
its program in law, science and technology.  The judge’s findings were tentative. All she ruled on was
Apple’s request for a preliminary injunction blocking the sale
in the U.S. of Samsung devices pending a final determination at
a trial scheduled to begin in July. Koh’s opinion avoided both
Apple’s heroic self-regard and Samsung’s irreverence toward
Apple’s singular aura as a brand.  As a first step, the judge reaffirmed that while a product
design is patentable, aspects “dictated by functionality”
aren’t.  Obvious Design  Apple’s patents  don’t give it ownership of the idea of
making smartphones small enough to hold conveniently. If they
could, no one else would ever be able to sell a usable
smartphone. Similarly, Apple can’t preclude rivals from having a
screen large enough for the user to control with the touch of a
finger, or a speaker in the upper portion of the device’s front
face so it can be placed next to the ear.  Turning to the concept of “obviousness,” Koh showed
sympathy for Samsung’s argument that Apple’s claims of
“earthshaking” innovation may be exaggerated. She analyzed a
Japanese patent issued to the Japanese company Sharp on June 6,
2005, well before Apple obtained its relevant patents.  Foreign patents can be cited as “prior art” to undercut
U.S. patents. Illustrating her opinion with sketches from U.S.
Patent Office records, Koh said the Sharp patent, like Apple’s
D’087, has “rounded corners, a bezel, a similarly shaped
speaker, and similar proportions of screen and border.” The
Sharp patent “discloses an overall simple, minimalistic
design.”  She added, “An ordinary observer would likely consider
(Apple’s) D’087 to be substantially the same” as  Sharp (6753) ’s
patent.  Summer Trial  Without reaching a firm conclusion -- that will come at
trial this summer -- the judge ruled that “Samsung has met its
burden and raised substantial questions regarding the validity
of the D’087 patent.”  By picking this fight, Apple jeopardized a potentially
crucial piece of intellectual property. In practical terms, that
means the company’s belligerence may have diminished its
leverage in future litigation or cross-licensing negotiations.  Patent law analysis follows convolutions that can leave the
layman with a headache.  Assuming that the other Apple design patent would be found
valid at trial, Koh said it was likely that Samsung’s S 4G and
Infuse 4 phones infringed it. But she chose not to halt the
sales of those phones, in part because she saw the issue of
infringement as a “close question” requiring more evidence.  Apple Loss  Samsung, she continued, “faces the distinct possibility of
wrongly having to withdraw two of its cell phones from the
market.” For the moment, she denied Apple’s bid to bar the two
Samsung phones from being sold in the U.S.  Apple got even more discouraging results on its iPad
design. Again peppering her ruling with handy graphic
illustrations, Koh showed how the crude-looking 1994
Fidler/Knight Ridder tablet, designed for reading newspapers
digitally, created “the same basic visual impression” as
Apple’s D’889 patent for the iPad.  “The court,” she wrote, “therefore finds that Samsung
has raised a substantial question regarding the validity of the
D’889 patent on obviousness grounds.” That could mean the
iPad’s design is up for grabs. In any event, Koh declined to
enjoin Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1.  Undeterred, Apple hired an additional law firm, Los
Angeles-based  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP (1128L) , and dispatched it
along with Morrison & Foerster to file the new suit in February,
alleging that Samsung’s latest products infringe additional
Apple patents.  Claims, Counterclaims  The inevitable counterclaims and replies to counterclaims
ensued; Koh’s docket for smartphones and tablets continues to
expand, as do corresponding dockets in courts in other cities
and countries.  People familiar with the situation note that top-level
executives at both Apple and Samsung have communicated lately
about potential settlement options. Apple CEO Tim Cook doesn’t
seem to share his predecessor’s passion about laying all foes to
waste. Cook appears to view litigation as a necessary evil, not
a vehicle of cosmic revenge.  Still, the larger contest between Apple and Google is
nowhere near resolution. And it isn’t just about smartphones and
tablets. While they struggle for dominance in mobile devices,
Apple and Google are protecting their flanks from Microsoft and
girding for a coming clash over the market for digital hubs that
integrate the Internet with television.  In the short run, the tech giants could save themselves
considerable legal fees and distraction if they were to lock
their lawyers in a hallway of conference rooms and refuse to
release them until they had crafted a series of comprehensive
cross-licensing pacts. This process eventually resolved similar
litigation in the desktop computer field.  Such a solution “is still probably what will happen
here,” said Stanford’s Lemley. “But in the meantime, these
companies have paid their lawyers more than $400 million” over
the last several years. “It’s not clear what they’re getting
for that money.”  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , 11-
01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul M. Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock   epollock@bloomberg.net  