-- April Will Start Warm in the Central U.S., Cool on Coasts
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-29T12:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/april-will-start-warm-in-the-central-u-s-cool-on-coasts.html
April’s first week will be warm
through the central U.S. with seasonal weather cooling the East
and West coasts, forecasters said.  Temperatures will range 5 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8 to
3.9 Celsius) above normal from the  Rocky Mountains  to the
Appalachians from April 3 to April 7, according to  MDA EarthSat
Weather  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  In the upper Great Plains, temperatures may be 8 to 14
degrees above normal in the same time period, according to MDA.  “The forecast has turned warmer overall within this time
frame,” MDA’s forecast said.  Commodities traders watch temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand. About 51 percent of U.S. households use
natural gas for heating, according to the Energy Department.  Computer models used to predict the weather out to 15 days
in advance have been trending warmer, which has caused the
forecasts to call for warmer weather in the 6- to 10-day time
frame corresponding with April 3 to April 7.  “We continue to find the models frequently pushing back
stronger cooling chances, and the cooling events that do manage
to push forward are easily outweighed by warmer days,” said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland.  Rogers calls for the western U.S. to have more seasonal
temperatures from April 8 to April 12, while East Coast
temperature may be at least 5 degrees above normal.  In  New York , the normal average temperature for April 3 is
48, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland. It’s 44 in
 Boston , 45 in Chicago, 53 in  St. Louis , 59 in Atlanta, 62 in
Dallas, 67 in Houston, 49 in Seattle and 60 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Baker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  