-- Arcapita Bank Wins Permission to Manage Cash, Pay Wages
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-29T17:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/arcapita-bank-wins-permission-to-manage-cash-pay-wages-1-.html
Arcapita Bank BSC, an Islamic-
compliant fund manager overseeing about $7 billion in
investments, won permission to use cash within a budget and pay
employees in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  today approved
Arcapita’s requests on an interim basis to avoid “irreparable
harm” to the company. Euroville Sarl, one of Arcapita’s largest
creditors with $88.8 million of a $1.1 billion syndicated loan,
objected that there wasn’t enough transparency about expenses.  “What interim means is, what has to be paid. Now,” Lane
said at a court hearing. He told a lawyer for Euroville that he
would hear objections at a later date, after a creditors
committee has been formed in the case.  Arcapita, formerly known as First Islamic Investment Bank,
filed for Chapter 11 March 19 along with five affiliates. It was
forced to seek bankruptcy after  hedge funds , including
Euroville, derailed restructuring talks on its $1.1 billion loan
due in March, attorney Michael Rosenthal told Lane on the
company’s first day in bankruptcy.  Rosenthal told Lane today that Arcapita owns 39 portfolio
companies, all with their own credit facilities and investors.
Some co-investors in those companies have tried to take
advantage of Arcapita’s bankruptcy by claiming an event of
default on the portfolio companies’ loans, or by trying to buy
out Arcapita’s stakes at below-market rates, Rosenthal said.  Employee Expenses  Arcapita, founded in 1996 and based in Manama, Bahrain,
said it needed to pay its 191 employees and reimburse their
expenses to continue operating. Gross monthly payroll is
$1.18 million and average monthly expenses are $308,000,
Arcapita said. The company also won permission today to pay
business partners it deemed “critical.”  “The debtors’ public filings and the motions before the
court provide scant justification for the debtors’ enormous
operating expenses, lavish employee benefits and exorbitant rent
obligations to an insider landlord,” Euroville said in court
papers.  Euroville said in its objection that on March 5, two weeks
before the bankruptcy filing, Arcapita sold a real estate asset
called Lusail to  Qatar Islamic bank  for less than half its book
value of $317.4 million. The company received money to keep
operating that should go to repay creditors, Euroville said.  Arcapita listed assets of $3.06 billion and liabilities of
$2.55 billion in its Chapter 11 petition in Manhattan. Arcapita
Investment Holdings Ltd., already in U.S. bankruptcy, also has
filed a bankruptcy in the  Cayman Islands .  The company’s investments include Irish power utility
 Viridian Group Ltd. (VRD)  and U.S.-based Falcon Gas Storage Co.  The case is Arcapita Bank BSC, 12-11076,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  