-- Mark Lane of Lazard Dies at 44 in Turks and Caicos Boat Mishap
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-03-29T22:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mark-lane-of-lazard-dies-at-44-in-turks-and-caicos-boat-mishap.html
Mark Lane , a managing director at
Lazard Capital Markets LLC who recently returned to work after a
3 1/2-year hiatus to help raise four young sons, has died after
being hit by a boat in Turks and Caicos Islands. He was 44.  Lane was on a family vacation when he was struck by a motor
boat March 24 while swimming off Grace Bay beach on
Providenciales, said Paul Baker, a spokesman for the Royal Turks
and Caicos Police. He was snorkeling, his wife, Lisa Craig, said
yesterday in an interview. After the collision, which occurred
around 3:30 p.m. local time, he was taken to a hospital and
pronounced dead. The incident is under police investigation.  Since joining New York-based  Lazard  as head of fixed-income
trading in November, Lane was helping to expand the business’s
relationship with  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the world’s largest independent
merger adviser. He had been working on Wall Street for almost
two decades, and ran debt trading desks at firms including
Merrill Lynch & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG in New York and
 London .  “He touched every aspect of the credit world, and he did
so very successfully,” said Robert Okun, a senior partner at
New York-based Oak Hill Advisors LP and a friend of Lane’s. “He
had an excellent sense of risk and understanding risk and
 managing risk .”  Lane was on Providenciales with his wife and their sons
Wiley, 13, Peyton, 12, Grant, 9, and Trevor 8. The incident
happened within the first couple of days of their visit to the
British islands about 500 miles southeast of Miami.  Priorities in Life  In 2008, Lane quit his job as co-head of global distressed
trading at Zurich-based UBS to spend more time with his family,
friends and relatives said.  “Mark got it very early on that priorities in life are not
necessarily about how hard you can work or how much money you
can make or what level of career achievement you get to, but
about the contributions that you have with your family,” said
Michael Vitale, a professor and chief of pediatric spine surgery
at  Columbia University Medical Center  in New York, who attended
 Trinity College  with Lane.  Lane, who lived in a townhouse in the Park Slope
neighborhood of  Brooklyn , didn’t need to keep working for
financial reasons, his father, Andrew Lane, said in an
interview. Before UBS, Mark Lane was a managing director at
 Deutsche Bank (DBK)  and Merrill Lynch, where he helped expand the
European leveraged finance business. Lane was also a high-yield
trader at Salomon Brothers Inc. in the mid-1990s.  Born in Boston  “It was the trust and the capabilities that made Mark a
great asset and a great partner for me,” said Tim Grell, head
of global fixed income at Lazard Capital. “He traded high-
grade, he traded high-yield, he traded emerging markets, he ran
businesses and desks in each of those, he ran a distressed
business, which got him into trading loans as well.”  Mark Wiley Lane was born in  Boston  on April 14, 1967, to
Andrew and Margo Lane. His father was an attorney and his mother
an admissions director at the Advent School in Boston. They are
both retired.  Lane grew up in Newton,  Massachusetts , a Boston suburb, and
graduated from Trinity College in Hartford,  Connecticut , in
1989, his father said. He earned a master’s in business
administration from the University of  California ,  Los Angeles ,
in 1993.  After  UCLA , he went to work as a high-yield trader at
 Salomon Brothers  under Okun. It was there that Lane met Craig,
then an associate in corporate finance. They were married in
1997.  Career Path  Lane left Salomon in 1996, Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority records show, and went to Merrill Lynch. He left that
New York-based firm in 2001 and joined Deutsche Bank in 2002,
where he worked until 2004. Lane was hired by UBS in 2006 and
left in February 2008.  “He was taking the kids to school and picking them up and
hanging with them and making sure they were doing their
homework,” Okun said. “He definitely got into that job.”  In the neighborhood, Lane stood out at 6-foot-5, 245 pounds
(111 kilograms).  During the last six months of his hiatus, Lane started
thinking about returning to work, Okun said. He considered jobs
outside of  Wall Street  and turned down several offers from other
financial firms before joining Lazard Capital, Okun said.  Grell said Lane was a “critical hire” as a trader and
recruiter. Their objective was to sell capital markets products
to Lazard Ltd. clients, Grell said.  “He wanted to find something where he could be a part of
the build, be on the ground floor,” Grell said.  The boat driver is being “very cooperative” with
authorities, Baker, the Turks and Caicos police spokesman, said.
He is a native of the islands and his name isn’t being released,
Baker said.  In addition to his parents, wife and children, Lane’s
survivors include a brother, Drew Lane, and two sisters, Sara
Lane and Julie Lane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  