-- Hartford Says Annuity-Block Sale More Likely as Markets Gain
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-03-29T20:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/hartford-mulls-securitization-reinsurance-as-ceo-limits-risk.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer narrowing its focus under pressure from
billionaire investor  John Paulson , said it is more likely to
divest its annuity business after stock markets rose.  Hartford is considering sales, securitizations and
reinsurance transactions to reduce risk tied to liabilities on
the equity-linked products it sold in the U.S. and  Japan  in
prior years, Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  said today at a
conference in  New York  organized by JPMorgan Chase & Co. Deals
become appealing as markets advance, McGee said.  “There are the beginnings of markets that are appearing to
be receptive to transactions on annuity, particularly U.S.
books,” McGee said. “And if the yen continues to weaken we
would expect there might be some interest in the Japanese book
as well.”  Hartford will stop selling individual annuities and seek
buyers for its individual life, Woodbury Financial Services and
retirement-plan operations, the company said last week.  “The phones are ringing off the hook for all three
businesses,” McGee said today.  Paulson, who controls the  largest stake  in the insurer,
said last month that the company should be split to free
Hartford’s property-casualty business from  life insurance  and
the risks associated with annuity liabilities.  “Our ultimate goal is to isolate that  risk  from the
ongoing businesses,” McGee said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained about 11 percent
since Dec. 31 and is up 20 percent over the last six months. The
dollar has gained more than 6 percent against the yen this year.  Share Rebound  McGee’s firm climbed 31 percent this year through
yesterday, the  third-best  performance in the 24-company  KBW
Insurance Index. (KIX)  The company slipped 32 cents to $21.03 at 4:01
p.m. in New York. Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the
same name, needs to reach about $24.71 to recoup Paulson’s
investment, filings to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg showed last month.  The insurer traded for more than $100 a share in 2007
before investment losses at the life insurance unit and costs
tied to annuity contracts pushed the company to take a capital
injection from  Germany ’s Allianz SE and a U.S. bailout. McGee,
who took over for Ramani Ayer in late 2009, repaid the
government rescue the next year.  Paulson told McGee in a February conference call to “do
something drastic” to boost the company’s stock price. Hartford
trades at less than half its book value while  Travelers Cos. (TRV) ,
which focuses on property-casualty coverage, was at more than 90
percent of the measure of assets minus liabilities yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Ludtke in New York at 
 aludtke@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  