-- S&P 500 Trims Losses as Treasuries Gain While Oil Tumbles
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-29T20:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/asian-stocks-fall-on-u-s-durable-goods-oil-kiwi-climb.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
trimmed losses in the final two hours of trading ahead of data
forecast to show growth in consumer confidence and spending
tomorrow, the final day of the best first-quarter rally since
1998. Treasuries and the dollar rose, while oil tumbled.  The S&P 500 slipped less than 0.2 percent to close at
1,403.28 at 4 p.m. in New York after tumbling as much as 1
percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 19.61 points
to 13,145.82. The yen appreciated against all 16 most-traded
peers and the dollar climbed versus 11. Ten-year Treasury yields
fell five basis points to 2.16 percent, while Italian and
Spanish bonds slid. Oil lost 2.5 percent, the biggest drop of
the year, as France said governments are moving closer to
releasing stockpiles from emergency reserves.  U.S. benchmark equity indexes recovered from their lows of
the session, with the Dow reversing a 94-point loss, amid
speculation a three-day slump was overdone given improving
economic data and as investors prepared for the final session of
the quarter. More than $5.6 trillion has been added to equity
values worldwide this year on signs of a U.S. economic recovery
and efforts to contain Europe’s debt crisis.  “The market’s momentum is decidedly upward,”  David Sowerby , a Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based portfolio manager at
Loomis Sayles & Co., which oversees about $160 billion, said in
a phone interview. “The decline that we’ve had is normal after
the run-up in stocks. The better economic news is winning a tug-
of-war with any concerns about the economy.”  U.S. stocks followed  global equities  lower earlier after
S&P said Greece may have to restructure its debt again and
lower-than-forecast profits fueled concern  China ’s growth is
slowing.  U.S. Movers  Alcoa Inc.,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and Coca-Cola Co. climbed more
than 1.5 percent for the biggest gains in the Dow. Red Hat Inc.
surged 20 percent to a 12-year high of $61.43 after profit and
sales topped projections. Aetna Inc. and  Cigna Corp. (CI)  added at
least 4 percent as investors speculated the U.S. Supreme Court
will overturn aspects of the Affordable Care Act, benefitting
the health-insurance industry.  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the largest consumer-electronics retailer,
slumped 7 percent as sales missed estimates.  American Express
Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, dropped 2
percent as  Wells Fargo & Co . cut its  recommendation  on the
shares.  Retreat From Four-Year High  The S&P 500 has retreated for  three straight days  after
reaching an almost four-year high on March 26. The index will
likely remain stuck in the 500-point range where it’s been four-
fifths of the time since 2000 until the  Federal Reserve  allows
interest rates to rise, according to Piper Jaffray Cos.  The  benchmark gauge  of U.S. stocks has traded between 1,000
and 1,500 for about 80 percent of the time since 2000, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Equity gains stalled in the past
12 years as the economy suffered from the bursting of bubbles in
technology and real estate, forcing the central bank to cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to near zero from 6.5 percent to spur
growth. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has pledged to keep
borrowing costs low through at least late 2014.  “The  S&P 500  is approaching the upper end of the secular
trading range,” Craig W. Johnson, a Minneapolis-based technical
market strategist with Piper Jaffray, wrote in a note yesterday.
“This resistance will likely remain intact until 2014-2015, and
will correspond with a secular change in bond yields.”  Treasury Auction  Thirty-year U.S. bonds also rallied today, sending their
yield down four basis points to 3.27 percent. Rates on two-year
notes slipped one basis point to 0.34 percent. Treasuries
remained higher after the U.S. auctioned $29 billion in U.S.
seven-year securities, the last of three note offerings this
week totaling $99 billion. The notes drew a yield of 1.590
percent, compared with a forecast of 1.572 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the Federal Reserve’s primary
dealers.  S&P 500 futures  extended losses  before the open of
exchanges in  New York  today as government data showed initial
jobless claims fell by 5,000 to 359,000 last week, the lowest
since April 2008 while above the 350,000 median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The government data also
contained revisions dating back to 2007.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer confidence is forecast to rise to 74.5 in March, near
the highest level in a year, after a preliminary reading of
74.3, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Personal
income is projected to have grown 0.4 percent and  consumer
spending  rose 0.6 percent, economists predicted before
government data tomorrow.  GDP Growth  The economy in the U.S. grew at a 3 percent annual rate in
the last three months of 2011, the same as previously estimated,
while corporate profits climbed at the slowest pace in three
years, raising the risk that business investment and hiring will
cool.  The increase in gross domestic product was the biggest in
more than a year and followed a 1.8 percent gain in the prior
period, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed
today. Company earnings were up 0.9 percent from the third
quarter, the smallest advance since the last three months of
2008.  About ten shares fell for every one that advanced in the
 Stoxx 600 (SXXP) . Hennes & Mauritz AB,  Europe ’s second-largest clothing
retailer, slid 4.9 percent as increased textile costs and
markdowns led to the weakest profitability in eight years. Banks
led declines among 19 industries, falling 2.9 percent as a
group. Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, Italy’s third-
biggest bank, tumbled 11 percent after posting a record loss.
FirstGroup Plc, Britain’s biggest train operator, sank 14
percent amid “challenging trading conditions” at its bus unit.  European Bonds  In European bond markets, rates on 10-year Italian, Spanish
and Portuguese debt climbed at least 10 basis points. The
Italian 10-year bond yield rose 11 basis points to 5.21 percent
even as borrowing costs fell at the sale of 3.25 billion euros
($4.3 billion) of bonds due in September 2022. The yield on
similar-maturity German bunds, Europe’s benchmark government
security, fell three basis points to 1.81 percent.  Greece will probably have to restructure its debt again and
this may involve bailout partners such as European governments,
said  Moritz Kraemer , head of sovereign ratings at S&P.  European governments are preparing for a one-year increase
in the ceiling on rescue aid to 940 billion euros to keep the
debt crisis at bay, according to a draft statement written for
finance ministers before a meeting in Copenhagen tomorrow. The
European Union had its AAA long-term issuer default rating
affirmed by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the support from the EU’s
27 member states, nine of which are rated AAA by Fitch. The
outlook is stable.  Oil fell to a six-week low of $102.78 a barrel in New York,
extending yesterday’s 1.8 percent decline. French Prime Minister
Francois Fillon said the prospects of an accord on tapping
strategic reserves are good and the International Energy Agency
said it’s ready to act if supplies are disrupted.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slumped 1.6 percent
after China’s PICC Property & Casualty Co., Sany Heavy Industry
Co. and Zijin Mining Group Co. reported net income that trailed
estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1.1 percent. Russia’s
Micex tumbled 1.7 percent as oil retreated. Benchmark gauges in
Taiwan, Israel, Poland and the  Czech Republic  sank at least 1.4
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  