-- Rupee Leads Drop in Asian Currencies on Global Recovery Concern
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-03-29T08:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/asia-currencies-drop-led-by-ringgit-on-global-recovery-concern.html
Asian currencies fell after worse-
than-expected economic data from the U.S. and  Europe  heightened
concern the global recovery is losing momentum.  India ’s rupee led declines with the biggest drop in a week
as the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares fell the most since
March 21. Official reports showed the U.K. economy shrank more
than previously estimated in the last quarter of 2011, while
expansion in  France  trailed estimates. Orders placed with U.S.
factories for durable goods rose 2.2 percent in February, less
than the 3 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  “The data came with some disappointment and was not
conducive for risky assets to perform,” said Choong Yin Pheng,
manager for economic and bond research at Hong Leong Bank Bhd.
in  Kuala Lumpur . “The prospect of money flowing back to the
U.S. means Asian currencies are going to face some temporary
weakness.”  The rupee slumped 0.6 percent to 51.095 per dollar as of
1:45 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Thailand’s baht depreciated 0.3 percent to 30.86,  South Korea ’s
won fell 0.1 percent to 1,136.90 and Malaysia’s ringgit dropped
0.1 percent to 3.0655.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, lost 0.1
percent. The gauge is still up  1.2 percent  this year, the most
in three quarters. Its 60-day historical volatility was little
changed at 3.38 percent.  Slower Exports  “With demand from the developed world uncertain, and
concerns over  China ’s hard landing not going away, emerging-
market assets are under pressure,” Darius Kowalczyk, a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note
to clients today. “Such an environment is negative for
emerging-market exports and growth prospects.”  The won touched a two-month low earlier this week. A
government report on April 1 may show exports increased 1.8
percent in March from a year earlier, compared with a revised
20.6 percent gain in February, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  The ringgit has slumped 2.5 percent this month, the second-
worst performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies, after
official data showed annual export growth slumped to 0.4 percent
in January from 6.1 percent in December.  China PMI Data  China’s yuan fell 0.01 percent to 6.3069 per dollar,
according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System, after the
People’s Bank of China weakened its daily  reference rate  for a
second day. An  index (MXAP)  measuring China’s manufacturing growth
declined to 50.6 in March from 51 in February, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before data due April
1. Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  “Investors are waiting for the PMI data for a clearer
picture on the economy,” said Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based
currency analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd. “There will be less
appreciation pressure for the yuan if the economy slows
further.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.1 percent to 9,199
per dollar and Taiwan’s dollar were little changed against the
greenback at NT$29.582. Vietnam’s dong strengthened 0.6 percent
to 20,725.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  