-- Last-Place Montreal Canadiens Fire General Manager Gauthier
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-29T16:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/last-place-montreal-canadiens-fire-general-manager-gauthier.html
Pierre Gauthier was fired as
general manager of the  Montreal Canadiens  with five games
remaining in the National Hockey League season and the club in
last place.  Gauthier, 58, has been relieved of his duties effective
immediately and the search for a successor is under way,
Canadiens owner Geoff Molson said today in a televised press
conference from the team’s practice facility in Brossard,
Quebec. The team is 29-34-14, worst in the Eastern Conference,
and is on pace to have more losses than wins for the first time
in eight years.  “It goes without saying we’re all very disappointed with
our performance this season,” Molson said. “Everyone in this
organization, including our players, expected better.”  Bob Gainey, who played for the Canadiens and was an adviser
under Gauthier, was also fired, Molson said. Serge Savard,
another former  Montreal  player and the team’s general manager
from 1983 to 1995, was hired to assist Molson with the search
for Gauthier’s replacement.  Gauthier worked in the Ottawa Senators and Anaheim Ducks
organizations before coming to Montreal in 2003, and became
general manager in February 2010. In his first full season as
GM, the Canadiens finished sixth in the Eastern Conference and
lost in the first round of the playoffs to the eventual Stanley
Cup-champion Boston Bruins.  The team opened the 2011-12 season 1-5-2, its worst start
in 70 years, and Gauthier fired coach Jacques Martin in
December. His hiring of Randy Cunneyworth as Martin’s
replacement was met with protest from many fans because the new
coach didn’t speak French,  Quebec ’s official language.  The Canadiens have won a record 23  Stanley Cup 
championships, 10 more than the next-closest team, the  Toronto
Maple Leafs . Montreal’s most recent title came in 1993, the last
time the team reached the finals.  “Just qualifying for the playoffs cannot be our goal or
our standard,” Molson said. “This organization going forward
must set its sights on competing for the game’s ultimate prize
every season, and no lesser standard should be accepted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  