-- AstraZeneca Wins Ruling on Extended-Release Seroquel Patent
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-29T22:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/astrazeneca-wins-ruling-on-extended-release-seroquel-patent-1-.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  won a U.S. court
ruling that will help ward off some generic competition to the
extended-release version of its Seroquel antipsychotic drug
until a patent expires in 2017.  U.S. District Judge Joel Pisano in Trenton, New Jersey,
ruled today that four generic-drug makers, including  Mylan Inc. (MYL) ,
were infringing a patent on the recipe for making the extended-
released version of the drug. The judge rejected their arguments
that the patent was invalid.  AstraZeneca, based in  London , is relying on sales of
Seroquel XR after low-cost versions of the immediate-release
version of the medicine entered the market this week. Seroquel
generated $5.83 billion in global sales last year, with $1.4
billion from Seroquel XR, the company said in a statement Feb.
2.  The other generic-drug makers are Par Pharmaceutical Cos.’s
Anchen Pharmaceuticals Inc., Osmotica Pharmaceutical Corp. and
 Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (TRP)   A spokesman for Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan,  Nina
Devlin , declined to comment on the ruling. A spokesman for
Wilmington, North Carolina-based Osmotica, Tim Albury, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment. A spokeswoman for
Woodcliff, New Jersey-based Par, Allison Wey, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Pisano conducted a trial in October that focused mostly on
the validity of the patent, which covers a sustained-release
formula for quetiapine, the active ingredient in Seroquel.  Gelling Agent  The generic-drug makers had argued it was common to use a
gelling agent so drugs are released over the course of a day and
patients take fewer doses.  In his 100-page ruling, Pisano sided with AstraZeneca’s
argument that doctors originally thought a sustained-release
version of Seroquel wouldn’t provide enough medicine to be
effective. He also said it wouldn’t have been obvious to use a
gelling agent because of the unique properties of quetiapine.  The XR version had an unexpected result of being effective
in treating bipolar disorder, which causes massive mood swings,
in people who need to have a consistent ability to function, for
instance, during a work day, the judge said.  On Sept. 29, AstraZeneca settled its patent infringement
case against Handa Pharmaceuticals LLC. Handa, which won’t
dispute that two AstraZeneca patents are valid and enforceable,
will get a license to launch a generic version in the U.S. on
Nov. 1, 2016, or earlier if certain conditions are met,
according to a company statement at the time.  On Oct. 5, AstraZeneca settled its patent infringement case
against Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Under the settlement,
AstraZeneca gave Intas’s Accord Healthcare Inc. unit a license
to sell generic Seroquel starting Nov. 1, 2016.  The case is AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP v. Torrent
Pharmaceuticals Ltd., 10-cv-4971, U.S. District Court for the
District of  New Jersey  (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  