-- Tata Said to Get Deadline Extension for Cable & Wireless Bid
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-29T07:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/tata-said-to-get-deadline-extension-to-bid-for-cable-wireless.html
Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  was given
more time to make a bid for  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/) , the
fiber-network operator that is also being evaluated by  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Indian company, a unit of Tata Group, was granted
another two to three weeks to make an offer, said one person,
who asked not to be identified because the process is private.
An original deadline for bids expires today.  Cable & Wireless climbed 2.4 percent to 34.82 pence at 8:13
a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of 956 million
pounds ($1.5 billion).  Tata Communications said March 1 it may make a cash offer
for  Cable & Wireless . Before today, the London-based company’s
shares had jumped 72 percent since Feb. 10, the last trading day
before Vodafone said it was in the early stages of evaluating a
potential bid. The stock was down 9 percent this week.  Divya Anand, a Tata Communications spokeswoman based in
Mumbai, said the company doesn’t have any update on the bidding
process. Representatives at Cable & Wireless and Vodafone
declined to comment.  Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone operator, has
until 5 p.m. today in London to decide whether to extend the
deadline, make a formal offer, or walk away from a bid for Cable
& Wireless, the owner of Britain’s largest business network.  Traffic Surge  Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line acquisition for
the first time since 2010, when it ended talks with  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s largest cable-operator. The
Newbury, England-based company wants Cable & Wireless’s fiber
network to boost its fixed-line system in the U.K. and relieve
the strain of surging data traffic.  Tata Communications has arranged four banks to help finance
a $2 billion loan in advance of a possible offer, people
familiar with the matter said yesterday. The company said March
1 it may make a cash offer for Cable & Wireless.  Purchasing Cable & Wireless would complement Tata
Communications’s operations in  emerging markets  including South
Africa, the  Middle East  and Asia. Tata Group, which controls the
telecommunications company, has acquired companies in the U.K.
including Jaguar Land Rover and Corus Group Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  