-- Tata Said to Attract ING to $2 Billion Loan for C&W Bid
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-03-29T10:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/tata-said-to-attract-ing-to-about-2-billion-loan-for-c-w-bid.html
Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM) ’s
acquisition loan of as much as $2 billion to help finance a
possible bid for  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  has attracted
ING Groep NV, according to two people familiar with the matter.  ING has received internal credit approval to help
underwrite the facility, along with Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., DBS Bank Ltd., State Bank of India and
Standard Chartered Plc, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private.  Tata Communications was given more time today to make a bid
for Cable & Wireless, the U.K. fiber-network operator that is
also being evaluated by  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  The companies now
have until April 19,  Cable & Wireless  said in a statement today.
The original deadline for bids was today.  Divya Anand, a Tata Communications spokeswoman based in
Mumbai, declined to comment on the potential financing when
contacted by telephone today. Ong I Ling, a spokeswoman for ING
in Singapore, also declined to comment.  Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line acquisition for
the first time since 2010, when it ended talks with  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s largest cable-operator. The
Newbury, England-based company may use Cable & Wireless’s fiber
network to boost its fixed-line system in the U.K. and relieve
the strain of surging data traffic. Cable & Wireless is the
owner of Britain’s largest business network.  For Tata Communications, purchasing Cable & Wireless would
complement its operations in emerging markets including  South
Africa , the Middle East and Asia. Tata Group, which controls the
telecommunications company, has acquired companies in the U.K.
including Jaguar Land Rover Plc and Corus Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  