-- ATP Diverts Default in Iran-Fueled Oil Rally: Corporate Finance
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-03-29T16:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/atp-diverts-default-in-iran-fueled-oil-rally-corporate-finance.html
ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPG)  bonds are
generating the biggest returns this month among junk-rated U.S.
energy companies as the driller takes advantage of higher  oil
prices  and a recovering credit market to stave off default.  ATP’s debentures have gained 12.9 percent through
yesterday, even as speculative-grade debt from energy companies
posted a 0.3 percent loss, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index of 276 securities with a market value of
about $129 billion. Energy suppliers that derive most of their
revenue from natural gas production have lagged behind after
prices for the commodity plunged to a 10-year low.  The driller is  benefiting  as a threat by  Iran  to shut the
transit route for about 20 percent of the world’s oil supplies
contributed to a 37 percent rise in crude prices. The revenue
boost and rebound from last year’s credit-market strains helped
the Houston-based company raise an expected $350 million from
asset sales, commodity hedges and an expanded loan this year,
according to a March 15 statement.  “The company’s recent earnings were a lot more favorable
than anyone expected,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a
telephone interview. “Investors have definitely become yield-
seeking over the past couple of months. That’s flowed into their
desire to own ATP debt.”  Par by Year-End  The company’s $1.5 billion of 11.875 percent bonds due in
May 2015 have risen 12.75 cents to 72.75 cents on the dollar
since the start of February, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “Our expectation is that by the end of the year you’ll see
over par value for the bonds,” said Dwayne Moyers, chief
investment officer at  Fort Worth , Texas-based SMH Capital
Advisors Inc., which owns ATP bonds with a face value of almost
$100 million. “Their cash flows are up significantly this year
and will continue to grow substantially over the years.”  ATP, the third driller permitted to resume work in the  Gulf
of Mexico  after the Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010, is
winning back some of the investor confidence lost in 2011.  The notes dropped to as low as 60 cents on the dollar on
Nov. 15 a week after ATP said it wouldn’t reach its year-end
target after facing mechanical problems in offshore wells, Trace
data show.  The debt sunk to as low as 59 cents on Feb. 1 as investors
lost faith that the driller would be able to make an $89 million
interest payment in May.  Negative Outlook  Moody’s Investors Service, which has its fourth-lowest
 rating  of Caa2 on the company with a “negative” outlook, said
in September that the ATP showed a “high likelihood” of having
to restructure its finances because  cash flow  was insufficient
to cover the bonds.  Isabel Plume, communications chief for ATP, didn’t return a
telephone message seeking comment.  The company had $2.01 billion of long-term debt at the end
of 2011, compared with $1.88 billion a year earlier, according
to a March 15  filing  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. It reported cash and cash equivalents of $65.68
million in December, down 58 percent from 2010, the filing said.  “Their operating performance has been poor,” said Ravi Kamath, a Houston-based debt analyst at Global Hunter Securities
LLC, an investment bank that focuses on energy, mining and
health-care sectors.  The analyst has a target price of 50 cents on the dollar
for the bonds and recommends investors sell.  “There’s somewhat of a chance that they have to file in
November,” when a $90 million coupon payment comes due, he
said. “They’ve been able to do these liquidity enhancing
transactions, which has kept them out of bankruptcy.”  Oil Surge  ATP sold oil at an average price of $105.07 per barrel last
year, a 35 percent increase from 2010, according to a March 16
filing with the SEC. During the same time, natural  gas prices 
dropped 15 percent, to $4.12 per modified energy factor,
according to the filing.  Oil in New York surged 8.7 percent last month on concern
European Union and U.S. sanctions aimed at  Iran’s nuclear
program  will disrupt oil shipments. The Persian Gulf nation has
threatened to shut the  Strait of Hormuz  in response to an
embargo.  Prices on ATP’s notes reached as high as 78.25 cents on
March 15 as ATP solidified plans to sell a percentage of the
revenues and profits tied to its Gomez and Clipper drilling
projects in the Gulf of Mexico to raise $280 million. It
completed an expansion of its first-lien loan this month, to
$155 million from $140 million, according to a March 9
statement.  Natural Gas Companies  At the same time, bonds of speculative-grade companies that
rely more on natural gas for their revenue have dropped. Rockies
Express Pipeline LLC bonds a 3.3 percent decline in and a 2.3
percent loss for Energy Transfer Equity LP notes.  ATP has lost money every year since 2008, with its interest
expenses rising to $326.4 million last year from $100.7 million
three years earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Its revenue grew to $674.6 million last year from $435.3 million
in 2010, the data show.  The company’s bonds declined to 72.75 cents on the dollar
as of 10:49 a.m. as a gas leak from Total SA’s Elgin platform in
the U.K.  North Sea  entered its fifth day and as its shares
retreated 4.6 percent to $7.45 as of 12:55 p.m. in New York.  Kenneth Duffel, an analyst at KDP Investment Advisors Inc.,
changed his recommendation on ATP’s 11.875 percent bonds to
“buy” from ”hold” in a March 16 note, citing the company’s
“enhanced liquidity” and higher oil prices.  ‘Never in Danger’  ATP may produce 48.3 billion cubic feet of oil this year,
up from 36.7 billion last year, according to Duffel’s estimates.
About 70 percent of the driller’s production will be in the form
of oil rather than natural gas this year, his estimates show.
Most of the company’s debt comes  due  in 2015, according to
Bloomberg data.  “This company was never in danger of bankruptcy,” Moyers
said. “They can hedge off future production at very healthy
levels. They can lock in their cash flow for a two-, three-year
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  