-- Australian Dollar Gains for Quarter on Domestic Economy
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-03-30T17:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/aussie-kiwi-set-for-monthly-drops-on-china-concern.html
Australia ’s dollar advanced for a
second straight quarter against its U.S. counterpart as signs of
improvement in the domestic economy eased concern that a
slowdown in  China  will curb demand for resource exports.  The Aussie rose from a two-month low this week after
figures showed new home sales increased and bank borrowing rose
in the South Pacific nation. New Zealand’s dollar advanced as
Asian stocks erased an earlier decline, bolstering demand for
currencies linked to global growth.  “I’m bullish on the Australian dollar for the medium
term,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director in Tokyo at
 FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company. “I don’t expect to
see a sudden slump” in Australia’s economy.  The Australian currency slipped 0.1 percent to $1.0372 at
1:10 p.m. in  New York , trimming its first-quarter advance to 1.6
percent. It lost 0.9 percent this week and fell 3.4 percent in
March.  The New Zealand dollar, known as the kiwi, gained 0.4
percent today to 82.03 U.S. cents. It climbed 5.6 percent from
January through March, after dropping 1.7 percent this month and
rising 0.3 percent this week.  From October through December 2011, the Australian dollar
climbed 5.7 percent and the kiwi strengthened 2.1 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks increased 0.2 percent
this week, and the MSCI World Index added 0.3 percent.  Loans provided by Australian banks and finance companies
gained 0.4 percent last month from January, the most since
September, according to figures from the central bank today. A
report from the Housing Industry Association showed  new home
sales  rose in February for the first time in three months,
increasing 3 percent.  Australian Central Bank  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, whose benchmark interest
rate is 4.25 percent after being cut in November and December,
is scheduled to hold a policy meeting on April 3.  “Lower  interest rates  may finally be leading to rising
credit growth and better demand for new housing,” Spiros Papadopoulos, senior economist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,
wrote in an emailed note. Recent economic reports “suggest the
RBA can afford to wait another month and does not need to rush
into another interest rate cut next week.”  China, Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest, is scheduled to release a  purchasing
managers index  for manufacturing on April 1, with economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicting a reading of 50.6 for
March, compared with 51 in February. A flash reading of a
separate, private gauge came in at 48.1 on March 22, below the
50 level that divides expansion from contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  