-- Australia Plain-Pack Law Challenged by Tobacco Companies
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-29T08:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/australian-cigarette-law-sterilizes-property-rights-bat-says.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  said
an Australian law prohibiting the display of tobacco companies’
logos, labels and trademarks “sterilizes” their intellectual
property rights and must be declared unconstitutional.  “The Commonwealth has assumed control over a substantial
aspect of the plaintiff’s property, business, goodwill and
reputation,” the cigarette maker said in a March 26  filing  to
the  High Court  of  Australia .  BAT,  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc (IMT)  are challenging the validity of the Australian law and
will present their arguments against it in Canberra beginning
April 17. Australia is the first country in the world to ban
logos on cigarette packaging, with the law slated to go into
effect in December.  The Australian Constitution, like its U.S. counterpart, was
drafted recognizing the right of the state to acquire private
property for public purposes only if “full indemnification” is
provided to the former owner, rather than with the view based on
the feudal notion that all property ultimately belonged to the
sovereign, Imperial Tobacco’s Australian unit said in its
submission to the court.  The  tobacco companies  have said they will seek billions of
dollars of damages from the Australian government should they
lose the right to their trademarks.  ‘Aggressive Litigation’  The companies’ “aggressive litigation against Australia
for implementing plain packaging is just another example of how
big tobacco continues to try to intimidate countries,” John
Stewart, a senior organizer with the lobby group Corporate
Accountability International, said in an e-mail.  “Plain packaging is a cost-effective way to protect the
health of children,” Stewart said.  BAT makes Dunhill,  Pall Mall  and Australia’s best-selling
cigarette brand, Winfield. Philip Morris is the maker of
Marlboro cigarettes.  At the hearing scheduled for April, the companies will ask
the High Court to declare that the plain-packaging legislation
results in acquisition of property without proper compensation
and that the law is unconstitutional, according to the filing
posted on the court’s website yesterday.  The Australian government announced the plan to ban
branding on cigarette packs in April last year, along with a 25
percent increase in tobacco taxes and an A$85 million ($88
million) advertising campaign to combat smoking.  Brown Packs  Cigarettes will have to be sold in dark brown packages,
with no company logos and the same font for all brands,
according to a government statement.  The law passed through the Australian Senate on Nov. 10.  Smoking kills 15,000 Australians each year and costs the
nation about A$31 billion annually in health and workplace
expenses, according to the government. With 15.1 percent of the
population at least 14 years old smoking daily, it is the
country’s top drug and preventable illness issue, the government
said.  “We won’t be bullied by tobacco companies threatening
litigation and we are prepared to fight them if they do,” then-
Health Minister Nicola Roxon said after the passage of the law.  Written Submissions  The government is to give its written submissions to the
High Court by April 5.  Philip Morris  is also pursuing the case in international
arbitration. The Australian proposal violates a treaty with  Hong
Kong  and may cause billions of dollars in damages, the maker of
Marlboro cigarettes said.  Cigarette packs in Australia already contain graphic
warnings including pictures of diseased lungs that cover half
the back of a package.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v the
Commonwealth of Australia. S389/2011. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  