-- Avaya Said to Delay IPO on Concern Over Tepid Demand
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-30T01:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/avaya-said-to-delay-ipo-on-concern-sale-would-meet-tepid-demand.html
(Corrects reference to Reuters report in second
paragraph.)  Avaya Holdings Corp. (AV-W) , the
communications-gear maker owned by private-equity firms, is
delaying its initial public offering on concern the sale may
meet with tepid demand, a person with knowledge of the matter
said.  The sale, previously planned for as early as April, won’t
happen until later this year, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the deliberations are private. Reuters
reported previously that the IPO may not happen until 2013.  Avaya, owned by  Silver Lake  and TPG Capital, filed in June
to raise $1 billion in an IPO. It might have found itself vying
for investors’ attention with other companies, including
Facebook Inc. and Carlyle Group LP, which have filed to go
public. Facebook, which intends to raise $5 billion in the
largest-ever Internet IPO, is targeting an early May sale, a
person with knowledge of the matter said this week.  Avaya put off its IPO last year amid stock-market swings
that left some investors reluctant to buy shares in newly minted
companies.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the top manufacturer of
networking equipment and a competitor to Avaya, slumped 11
percent in 2011, while rival  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)   dropped  45
percent. The weakness reflected concerns that customers would
delay networking upgrades amid economic turmoil.  Avaya Inc., which is owned by Avaya Holdings, reported on
Feb. 13 that its fourth-quarter net loss narrowed to $26 million
from $180 million a year earlier, while sales rose 1.5 percent
to $1.39 billion. The company cut costs in fiscal 2011 by
eliminating jobs and consolidating facilities.  Avaya Inc. is also growing through acquisitions. It’s
 buying  RadVision Ltd., an Israeli maker of videoconferencing
systems, for about $230 million, RadVision said on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  