-- U.S. Lawmakers Target Iran Energy Sector for Expanded Sanctions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-30T00:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/lawmakers-target-iran-s-energy-sector-for-expanded-sanctions.html
U.S. lawmakers are seeking to
expand sanctions on  Iran ’s energy sector by banning the purchase
of its natural gas and prohibiting investment in oil and gas
services, exploration and new pipelines.  Representatives Ted Deutch, a Florida Democrat, and Robert Dold, an Illinois Republican, introduced the Iran Energy Sector
and Proliferation Sanctions Act in Congress yesterday. The
measure is the latest in a stepped-up campaign to tighten
sanctions aimed at depriving Iran’s government of revenue that
may be used for its nuclear and missile programs.  Iran is the second-largest crude producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. It also has the
world’s second-largest  natural-gas reserves , which are largely
undeveloped.  “We must not allow the Iranian regime to use the nation’s
vast energy resource as a financial pipeline for its nuclear
ambitions,” Deutch said in an interview. The legislation is
intended to “put the world on notice that the entire Iranian
energy sector is off limits so long as Iran continues to defy
the international coalition.”  The new measure declares Iran’s energy sector “a zone of
proliferation concern with which no legitimate international
business should be conducted,” according to a copy of the
legislation provided by Deutch.  The proposed legislation expands on existing laws by making
the Iranian energy sector a “no-go zone” for any foreign
investment in energy, any imports of natural gas and the sale of
energy-related technology, goods and services, said  Mark Dubowitz , who advised Deutch on the bill and is executive
director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a
research group in  Washington .  ‘Blacklisting’ Energy Sector  “Blacklisting Iran’s entire energy sector would reduce the
number of companies willing to trade in Iranian oil and natural
gas, thus forcing Iran to reduce its prices for whatever it can
still sell,” Dubowitz said. “If aggressively enforced, these
sanctions also would discourage most foreign companies from
investing in Iran’s energy sector.”  Dubowitz said the idea is based on a 2010 United Nations
Security Council resolution that refers to a “potential
connection” between Iranian oil and gas revenues and “the
funding of its proliferation-sensitive nuclear activities.”  In November, the U.S. Treasury Department declared the
Iranian financial sector a zone of money-laundering concern, and
lawmakers said they are following that model by trying to
identify Iran’s energy sector as a source of funding for nuclear
and missile technology.  Bipartisan Consensus  For decades, U.S. companies have been forbidden from doing
any business with Iran’s energy sector. Since 1996, a U.S. law
has sought to ban foreign companies from making investments of
more than $20 million in Iran’s energy sector. In 2010, the U.S.
imposed sanctions to prohibit foreign countries from selling
refined gasoline to Iran.  A law enacted Dec. 31 demands that foreign nations
“significantly reduce” Iranian oil imports. Financial
institutions in those countries that fail to do so may be cut
off from the U.S. banking system if they pay for oil through
Iran’s central bank.  Iran derives more than half of its government revenue from
oil exports, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The
IMF forecasts that Iran’s oil income for 2011 will be $97
billion, a $25 billion increase over the previous year.  A Bipartisan Consensus  Dold, the Republican co-sponsor of the bill, said in an
interview that there is a bipartisan consensus in Congress “to
ratchet-up pressure on this Iranian regime’s nuclear weapons
ambition” by “further depriving Iran’s government of energy
revenues it uses to fund its nuclear program.”  The U.S. and European Union have adopted dozens of
financial, insurance and energy-related restrictions since
November in an effort to squeeze Iran’s economy and force its
leaders to abandon any illicit aspects of their nuclear program.
The U.S., EU and  Israel  say Iran is seeking the capability to
produce a nuclear weapon. Iran says its program is for civilian
energy and medical research.  Aides to Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, said he
plans to introduce similar legislation in the Senate.  Crude oil for May delivery dropped $2.63, or 2.5 percent,
to $102.78 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
lowest settlement since Feb. 16. It was the biggest decline
since Dec. 14. Prices are up 4 percent this year and set for a
second quarterly gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  