-- Bank of America’s Countrywide Wins Walnut Place Dismissal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-03-29T18:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/bank-of-america-s-countrywide-wins-walnut-place-dismissal.html
Bank of America Corp.  won dismissal
of a lawsuit by investors in mortgage-backed bonds that said the
bank should buy back defective loans underlying more than
$1 billion in securities.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick
dismissed the complaint filed last year by Walnut Place LLC and
related entities, saying the lawsuit was “premature,”
according to a decision dated yesterday.  Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit was accused of
making false representations and warranties about the loans
backing the bonds, according to the complaint. Walnut Place owns
about $1.4 billion in face value of the securities at issue, it
said in court papers.  Walnut Place is a pseudonym used by hedge fund Baupost
Group LLC, according to Theodore Mirvis, a Bank of America
attorney. Boston-based Baupost, founded by Seth Klarman, is the
“real plaintiff” in the case, Mirvis said at a court hearing,
according to a transcript.  Elaine Mann, a spokeswoman for Baupost, said the firm’s
general policy is not to comment on specific investments,
whether the fund holds them or not.  Walnut Place had said in court papers that it was suing
because  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp., as trustee for
bondholders, “unreasonably failed” to sue Bank of America to
enforce the obligation to repurchase loans.  ‘Premature’ Filing  Bank of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson said the 
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender was pleased with the 
decision. David Grais, a lawyer for Walnut Place, didn’t return 
a phone message seeking comment.  In her decision, Kapnick said the filing after of lawsuit
was “premature under the circumstances” because it came just
days after  BNY Mellon  said it needed more time to evaluate the
matter. Walnut Place had directed BNY Mellon to sue Countrywide
over the loans.  In addition, BNY Mellon “did, in fact, act upon” Walnut
Place’s complaints, as demonstrated by an $8.5 billion
settlement with Bank of America and a group of institutional
investors over Countrywide mortgage bonds, the judge wrote. That
settlement, which Walnut Place has challenged, awaits court
approval.  “We are pleased the court recognized that BNY Mellon acted
properly in this matter,” bank spokesman Kevin Heine said in a
statement. “As we’ve said in the past, we believe that at all
times we’ve acted in accordance with our duties as trustee.”  The case is Walnut Place LLC v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 650497-2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  