-- BayernLB Says Full-Year Net Income Declines 84% on MKB Bank
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-03-29T10:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/bayernlb-says-full-year-net-income-declines-84-on-mkb-bank-1-.html
Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ) , Germany’s
second-biggest state-owned lender, said net income declined 84
percent last year because of a loss at its Hungarian subsidiary.  BayernLB posted net income of 104 million euros ($139
million) compared with 635 million euros a year ago, it said in
an e-mailed statement today.  MKB Bank (MKB) , the lender’s Hungarian
unit, had a loss of 392 million euros last year as the nation’s
government forced banks to absorb mortgage losses.  The Munich-based lender, led by Chief Executive Officer
Gerd Haeusler, is the last of Germany’s so-called Landesbanken
to await a verdict from the  European Commission , the EU’s
executive arm in Brussels, on conditions for its bailout by the
German state of Bavaria that included 10 billion euros in fresh
capital. BayernLB scrapped its full-year earnings forecast in
November, citing the new law for banks in  Hungary .  “The bank performed successfully in its core business
areas and proved its business model once again,” Haeusler said
in the statement. “In the non-core business areas, several
instances of government interference counteracted progress in
restructuring BayernLB.”  Bank levies in  Europe  cost BayernLB 74 million euros last
year, while the company’s participation in the restructuring of
WestLB AG required provisions of 62 million euros, BayernLB
said. It booked 140 million euros of writedowns on Greek
 government bonds . Since January 2012, the lender hasn’t held any
Greek government bonds, it said.  Loan-Loss Provisions  Loan-loss provisions were cut by 21 percent to 548 million
euros last year, BayernLB said. The lender aims for a “clearly
positive” pretax result at its core business this year.  A book value writedown on the lender’s Budapest-based MKB
Bank subsidiary, which BayernLB plans to sell as part of its
restructuring, resulted in a 2011 loss under German accounting
standards, BayernLB said on Jan. 12.  MKB Bank’s book value now stands at 350 million euros,
Chief Financial Officer Stephan Winkelmeier said at a press
conference in Munich today.  Because of the expected full-year loss based on German
rules, BayernLB has said it doesn’t plan to make payments on
non-voting capital instruments such as profit participation
certificates and silent partner contributions for 2011.  Bailout Aftermath  BayernLB has been in negotiations with the European
Commission since it was bailed out in 2008. The commission wants
asset sales given that the bank accepted state aid, and that
Bavarian savings banks, which owned a 50 percent stake before
the bailout, contribute through measures including acquiring
BayernLB’s mortgage-lending unit,  LBS Bayern .  The company aims to pay back 5 billion euros in capital to
 Bavaria  over the next five to seven years, Haeusler said at a
press conference in Munch today.  “This could be done by using future profits, by freeing up
capital through a reduction of risk-weighted assets, and by
swapping from one capital provider to another, like from Bavaria
to the Bavarian savings banks,” he said.  The EU is demanding Bavaria’s 72 regional savings banks
share the burden as they didn’t participate in the lender’s
capital increase, which resulted in a reduction of their stake
to about 6 percent. Bavaria now  owns  94 percent.  As part of its reorganization, BayernLB earlier this week
agreed to sell its DKB Immobilien AG real estate unit to
Hamburg-based  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  for 160 million euros in cash.  BayernLB also plans to sell its  GBW AG  real estate unit, of
which it owns 92 percent. GBW owns about 32,000 homes in
Bavaria, according to its  website . The lender has agreed to hold
exclusive talks with Bavarian municipalities about a sale.  The restructuring unit, which BayernLB has set up to wind
down non-core assets including some asset-backed securities and
loans, reduced its risk-weighted assets by 3.5 billion euros to
11.5 billion euros during last year.  Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,  Germany ’s biggest state-
owned lender, said on March 15 that it returned to an annual
profit of 87 million euros in 2011 as reduced provisions for
risky loans helped snap three years of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  