-- Beatles Can Block Wheelchair’s ‘Ticket to Ride’ in EU Case
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-29T12:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/beatles-can-block-wheelchair-s-ticket-to-ride-in-eu-court-case.html
The Beatles’ Apple Corps can block
a Dutch wheelchair manufacturer from selling “Beatle” electric
mobility aids, a European Union court ruled.  The  EU’s general court  rejected a lawsuit by You-Q BV that
sought to register a trademark for its Beatle wheelchairs. The
court said the Beatles name is “still synonymous with youth and
a certain counter-culture of the 1960s” and its “very positive
image of freedom, youth and mobility” would likely attract
people who needed to use mobility aids, according to a statement
from the Luxembourg-based tribunal.  The EU’s trademark office “did not err” in refusing You-
Q’s application for a trademark because it was likely that the
company “would take unfair advantage of the repute and the
consistent selling power of Apple Corps’ trademarks,” the court
said.  Apple Corps, owned by  Paul McCartney ,  Ringo Starr , John Lennon’s widow  Yoko Ono  and the estate of  George Harrison , have
defended their trademarks with decades of litigation, including
a long dispute against Apple Inc., which ended in 2010, clearing
the way for it to distribute Beatles’ songs such as “Ticket to
Ride” and “Drive My Car” through the Cupertino, California-
based company’s iTunes music store.  You-Q, based in Helmond, the Netherlands, isn’t trying to
profit in any way from the Beatles trademark and is considering
an appeal to the EU’s highest court, said Gino van Roeyen, a
lawyer at Banning NV, who represented the company.  “You-Q is convinced that the public doesn’t link its
Beatle product to The Beatles,” van Roeyen said. “The decision
rests for great part on fiction.”  Apple Corps’s London office didn’t immediately respond to
two voicemail messages.  The case is  T-369/10  You-Q BV vs. OHIM  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in  Luxembourg  at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 