-- Bernanke Says Central Banks Should Defuse Financial Threats
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-29T21:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/bernanke-says-central-banks-should-defuse-financial-threats.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said financial stability is no longer a “junior
partner” to monetary policy and central banks should try to
fend off threats in the future.  “The crisis underscored that maintaining financial
stability is an equally critical responsibility,” Bernanke said
today in Washington. “As much as possible, central banks and
other regulators should try to anticipate and defuse threats to
financial stability and mitigate the effects when a crisis
occurs,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke’s comments represent a break from the Fed’s past
hands-off stance toward asset bubbles such as the housing boom
that triggered the 2007-2009 crisis. Former Chairman  Alan Greenspan  was skeptical of the Fed’s ability to identify bubbles
or decide when asset prices were too high, and he said it should
focus on cleaning up the damage after bubbles popped by lowering
 interest rates .  That approach was criticized by officials such as  Otmar Issing , the former chief economist for the  European Central
Bank , who argued that leaning against credit-fueled financial
bubbles was a responsibility of central banks.  Fed officials may still not use interest-rates as a first
tool to pop a bubble, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at
Wrightson ICAP in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  “They have seen the costs of ignoring incipient bubbles
can be unacceptably high,” said Crandall. Fed officials “have
a variety of other resources” they can bring to bear against
bubbles before using monetary policy, which is likely to be
reserved for the objectives of stable prices and full
employment, Crandall said.  Three Tools  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley has said regulators have three tools to respond to
bubbles: talk, regulatory policy, and monetary policy. Dudley,
in a 2010 speech, said monetary policy was “inferior” to
regulatory tools, although he didn’t rule out using tighter
credit to reduce leverage in the financial system.  The Fed has set up an Office of Financial Stability Policy
and Research headed by Nellie Liang, who was co-leader of the
Fed’s 2009 stress tests intended to see if banks had adequate
capital. The office was instrumental in spotting falling
standards in the leveraged loan market, prompting the Fed this
week to issue tougher guidance to banks involved in high-risk,
high-yield corporate lending.  Explaining Policies  Bernanke commented today in the last of four lectures to
undergraduates at George  Washington  University. He is using the
 lectures  as part of a broader effort by the Fed to explain its
policies and role to the public as lawmakers and political
candidates scrutinize its actions. The chairman has also started
holding press conferences after meetings of the Federal Open
Market Committee.  Bernanke defended the Fed’s $2.3 trillion of large-scale
asset purchases, or quantitative easing, saying they had helped
“promote recovery, though the effect on housing was weaker than
hoped.” He said the purchases reduced the risk of deflation, or
a general decline in prices and wages.  The Fed embarked on the asset purchases after lowering its
target overnight interest rate to a record of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008 as it battled the 18-month recession,
which ended in June 2009.  Operation Twist  Last September, the  Federal Open Market Committee  announced
a move, dubbed Operation Twist, to replace $400 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in
an effort to reduce borrowing costs further and support the
economic rebound. In January, the panel said rates were likely
to stay low at least through late 2014, extending an earlier
date of mid-2013.  While Fed policy has helped the economy heal, the pace of
expansion has been “extremely sluggish” compared with previous
recoveries since World War II, he said, and unemployment remains
“quite high” at 8.3 percent.  At the same time, banking system is “significantly
stronger” than it was three years ago, in part because of
strengthened oversight by the Fed and other regulators, and
credit is more available to households and businesses.  Bernanke used his March 27 lecture to focus on the Fed’s
response to the financial crisis, asserting that policy makers
helped prevent it from becoming a worldwide catastrophe. In
previous lectures, he examined the roots of the crisis,
including the boom and bust in  home prices  and the Fed’s failure
to recognize vulnerabilities in the financial system.  Today, Bernanke, a scholar of the Great Depression,
received a gift from the students: a framed front page of the
April 20, 1933, edition of The New York Times, with a four-
column headline that said: “Gold Standard Dropped Temporarily
to Aid Prices and Our World Position; Bill Ready for Controlled
Inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Craig
Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  