-- Best Buy Profit Tops Estimates as Store Closings Planned
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-03-29T20:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/best-buy-profit-tops-estimates-as-company-plans-50-closings.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, plans to close 50 U.S. big-box
stores this year to reduce costs after fourth-quarter sales
trailed analysts’ estimates. The shares slid.  Revenue in the three months ended March 3 rose to
$16.6 billion, Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy said today in
a statement. The average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was $17.1 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  trimmed discounts after
the  holiday shopping season , sacrificing sales to maintain
profitability, and is now accelerating efforts to spur growth.
He’s closing large stores, cutting jobs and adding 100 smaller-
format Best Buy Mobile stores in the U.S. in this fiscal year.  “I believe I absolutely am the right person to lead the
company forward,” said Dunn, 52, in a telephone interview.
“I’m really not spending a lot of time looking in my rearview
mirror. I believe wholeheartedly in what we are doing. I know
that we can create an experience that is second to none for our
customers.”  Investor discontent may increase if Dunn can’t revive
financial results in time for the upcoming holiday season,
according to  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in
 Des Peres ,  Missouri . He recommends buying Best Buy shares.  “There is discontent among investors, no doubt about
that,” Arnold said in a telephone interview. “If the company
doesn’t demonstrate progress, that conversation becomes more
real. Investors will definitely be watching most closely come
holiday time given its seasonal importance and the realistic
time frame that a lot of these things won’t be fully in place
before then.”  Shares Fall  Excluding some items, fourth-quarter profit was $2.47 a
share. That topped the $2.15 average  estimate  of 24 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Best Buy fell 6.9 percent to $24.77 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have gained 6 percent this year.  The company incurred charges of $2.6 billion in the fourth
quarter related to the writeoff of Best Buy Europe’s goodwill
and costs from its purchase of  Carphone Warehouse Group Plc (CPW) ’s
share of their U.S. mobile-phone joint venture. As a result,
Best Buy posted a net loss of $1.7 billion, or $4.89 a share,
compared with net income of $651 million, or $1.62 a share, a
year earlier.  The closing of the 50 big-box stores in the U.S., where
Best Buy operates about 1,100, is part of planned cost cuts
totaling $800 million in the next three years, including $250
million this year. The retailer closed 11 big-box stores in the
U.K. last year as well as outlets in Turkey and  Shanghai , Dunn
said today on a conference call with analysts.  Job Cuts  Best Buy also said it is cutting about 400 jobs in its
corporate and support areas and reducing the use of outside
consulting services. The savings will go toward a 40 percent
increase in employee training and other steps to boost growth
such as opening more mobile-phone outlets, Dunn said on the
call.  The retailer will expand its Best Buy Mobile stores to 600
to 800 outlets by its fiscal 2016 from 305 now as part of Dunn’s
plan to generate revenue from warranties, accessories and
connections between phones, tablets and other electronics.  The retailer projected full-year  profit  excluding some
items of $3.50 a share to $3.80 a share. Analysts’ average
estimate was $3.70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Chris Burritt} in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  