-- Bhutan’s Leader Says Land of Happiness Index Leaves Him Unhappy
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-29T20:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/bhutan-s-leader-says-land-of-happiness-index-leaves-him-unhappy.html
While  Bhutan  is known for the
“happiness index” it uses to measure well-being, Jigme Y. Thinley says he is often unhappy as prime minister of one of the
world’s poorest nations.  “It’s difficult” to be content “because of the
frustrations and challenges that I, as prime minister, face in a
country with limited resources, with all kinds of constraints
and where a good section of our population tries to survive in
conditions of poverty,” Thinley told reporters today in  New
York .  Forest-laden Bhutan, sandwiched between  China  and  India  and
with a population of 725,000, uses a  “Gross National
Happiness”  index to gauge the success of its economy. The
index, praised by fans such Nobel laureate economists  Joseph E. Stiglitz  and Amartya Sen, takes into account elements such as
stress and physical exercise to measure the standard of living.  At the United Nations to promote this “holistic approach”
to development, Thinley said he recognizes Bhutan’s harsher
realities by more conventional barometers of well-being. More
than a quarter of Bhutan’s population lives on less than $1.25 a
day, and 70 percent of the population is without electricity.  Thinley said the Occupy Wall Street movement was justified,
giving added impetus to Bhutan’s push to convince world leaders
to consider broader measures of prosperity.  It has to do with “the growing discontent on the basis of
the reality and truth that resources are not equitably
accessible and distributed,” Thinley said in an interview.  A priority for Bhutan is ensuring that the country’s
development doesn’t damage its culture or its environment, he
said. Until 1974, no tourists were allowed into the Buddhist
nation, nestled in the Eastern Himalayas, and ruled by a 32-
year-old monarch known as the “Dragon King.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  