-- Billionaire Li Says He Is Committed to Hong Kong After Leung Win
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-03-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/billionaire-li-says-he-is-committed-to-hong-kong-after-leung-win.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,  Hong
Kong ’s richest man, pledged to keep his investments in the city
and urged support for the next chief executive, Leung Chun-ying,
after backing the candidate he defeated in an election.  “I definitely won’t” withdraw investments from Hong Kong,
the 83-year-old told reporters after his companies announced
earnings yesterday. “I’ve been in Hong Kong since 1940. I have
a special feeling for this place and I love my country and Hong
Kong, and I have a strong sense of identity as a Chinese.”  Li, who helms Hong Kong’s second-biggest developer by
market value and has business interests that span retail, ports
and mobile phones, in 1998 said he scrapped a planned HK$10
billion ($1.3 billion) project because of the bad “political
environment” in the city. Two years later, he said he would
consider reducing investment in the former British colony if
“the media and politicians” work together against him.  A 1,193-member panel made up of mostly billionaires,
businessmen, lawmakers and academics on March 25 picked former
government adviser Leung to be the city’s next chief executive
over  Henry Tang  following a campaign marred by scandals and
protests in a city with a widening wealth gap. Li said the day
of the election he had voted for Tang.  “I hope everyone will support the government,” Li said
yesterday.  “The government is not just about one person.”  Li, 14th on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index with a net
worth of $24.7 billion, has been nicknamed “superman” by the
local media for his investing prowess. The former refugee from
 China  forecast in 2007 that China’s stock-market bubble would
burst and in 2009 predicted the rally in Hong Kong home prices.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 65 percent in 2008, the
most among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets. Hong Kong’s
housing prices rose more than 70 percent between the start of
2009 and mid-2011.  Good Health  Li said he was in good health and had no plans to retire.
“I exercise every day, eat well, sleep well.”  In the long term, there still hasn’t been a complete
solution reached in  Europe , while the  U.S. economy  has been
slowly recovering, he said.  The 7.5 percent economic growth target for China this year
was “very good for a country so big,” Li said. Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  has set the nation’s lowest annual growth goal in
eight years.  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1) , the developer controlled by Li,
said yesterday 2011 net income rose 72 percent, beating
analysts’ estimates, after it sold more properties in the city
and other parts of China, and contributions from unit  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  increased.  Hutchison, Li’s biggest company, said 2011 profit more than
doubled from a year earlier to HK$56 billion after boosting
earnings from U.K. utilities, Canadian oil production and
cosmetics stores in China.  Freedom Value  Shares of  Cheung Kong , the world’s third-largest developer
by market value, rose 1.1 percent to HK$103.40 at the close in
Hong Kong, before earnings were announced. The stock has risen
12 percent this year and is the second-worst performer in the
seven-member  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which has gained 15
percent.  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory after World War II,
began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots
from China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices to build
Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of $31 billion.  “Hong Kong has its core value in freedom,” he said
yesterday in the televised press conference that follows his
companies’ earnings announcements. “It has democracy and the
basic law. Premier Wen said again a few days ago that he will
have one country, two systems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  