-- BlackRock to Start Junk Bond ETF Amid Record Inflows
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-03-29T14:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/blackrock-to-start-junk-bond-etf-amid-record-inflows.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, is planning a global junk-bond exchange-traded
fund after its first high-yield debt ETF grew to include
$14.3 billion of  assets  in four years.  The IShares Global ex-USD High-Yield Corporate Bond Fund
will track an index composed of speculative-grade bonds
denominated in euros, pounds and Canadian dollars, according to
a prospectus filed today with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The fund aims to invest at least 40 percent of its
assets in companies located or doing business outside the U.S.,
the document said.  “Indexing may eliminate the chance that the fund will
substantially outperform the underlying index but also may
reduce some of the risks of active management, such as poor
security selection,” according to the filing from BlackRock.  The fund, which won’t try to beat the index it tracks or
position itself defensively when markets decline or appear
overvalued, will charge a management fee of 0.55 percent and be
overseen by James Mauro and Scott Radell, the prospectus said.  BlackRock’s  IShares IBoxx High-Yield Corporate Bond Fund (HYG) ,
which was started in April 2007, has grown to be the world’s
largest junk-bond ETF.  ETFs allow individual investors to speculate on debt ranked
below investment-grade, less than Baa3 at Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , without owning the bonds.
Unlike mutual funds, whose shares are priced once daily, ETFs
are listed on exchanges and are bought and sold like stocks.  Inflows in 2012  High-yield bond ETFs have reported inflows of $6 billion
this year, about 33 percent of the total volume of money flowing
into funds that buy the notes this year, according to a March 23
JPMorgan Chase & Co. report. Demand for the bonds has been
unprecedented, with investors funneling $23.5 billion into junk
funds in the past 16 weeks, said the report, written by analysts
led by  Peter Acciavatti  in New York.  Speculative-grade debt globally has gained 7 percent this
year, compared with 3.8 percent during the same period in 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  