-- Boeing Lobbies for $2 Billion in Jets as Lockheed Delayed
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-03-29T20:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/boeing-lobbies-for-2-billion-in-jets-as-lockheed-delayed.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is pressing U.S.
lawmakers to back production of as many as 37 additional Super
Hornet fighter jets valued at about $2.5 billion, as the
Pentagon delays Lockheed Martin Corp.’s new F-35.  Boeing is lobbying for a $60 million increase in the Navy’s
fiscal 2013 budget for advance purchases of materials to keep
building F/A-18 E/F Super Hornets beyond 2015. The money would
avert a shutdown of the fighter’s assembly line and might help
reduce a shortage in jets the Navy needs, according to a
document the company distributed on Capitol Hill.  Current Navy plans call for completing funding for the
Super Hornet program in 2014, with deliveries of planes
continuing through 2015. Boeing’s supporters in Congress are
seizing on budgetary and production delays for  Lockheed (LMT)  Martin’s
new F-35, the Joint Strike Fighter, as a rationale for buying
more Super Hornets.  Adding Super Hornets would be “a bargain to the Navy,”
said Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill of  Missouri , where
Boeing builds the Super Hornet in its St. Louis plant.  “We need the jets on the carriers,” McCaskill, who serves
on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said in an interview.
“Obviously it is much less expensive than the JSF, and the JSF
is way behind.”  Super Hornet Jobs  The Super Hornet program supports 100,000 direct and
indirect jobs and has 1,900 suppliers across the U.S., according
to Boeing’s document circulating on Capitol Hill. Among
suppliers are  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , which makes the aft and
center fuselage;  General Electric Co. (GE) , which makes the engines;
and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , which makes the radar.  Chicago-based Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace
company, has fought to remain a producer of U.S. military
tactical aircraft alongside Lockheed Martin. Bethesda, Maryland-
based Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, is
building versions of the F-35, the Pentagon’s costliest program,
for the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps.  In February, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  proposed
delaying the purchase of 179 F-35s beyond 2017 to save $15.1
billion as the Pentagon seeks to cut $487 billion from its
budget over the next decade. The first 63 F-35 fighters are
exceeding their combined target cost by $1 billion, and aircraft
deliveries are on average more than a year late, according to
the Government Accountability Office. Full-rate production has
been delayed five years, according to GAO testimony to Congress
on March 20.  F-35 Development  Michael Rein, a Lockheed spokesman, cited in an e-mail
yesterday a statement by Panetta that the Defense Department is
“100 percent committed to the development of the F-35.”  The Navy’s program for the Super Hornet, the most modern
version of the aircraft carrier-based F/A-18, calls for 565
aircraft. Boeing says it will shut down its St. Louis  production
line  unless there are additional planes, leading to a loss to
the U.S. industrial base, according to the company document
distributed to Congress.  Boeing currently has a multiyear contract ending in fiscal
2013 and valued at $5.3 billion for 124 aircraft, including an
electronics-jamming version of the aircraft called the Growler.
The final delivery for aircraft that the Navy will buy in 2013
will come in 2015, according to Defense Department budget
documents.  Multiyear Contract  Navy leaders would like to extend the multiyear contract
and buy 13 more of the latest F/A 18 models in 2014, according
to March 20 congressional testimony submitted by Navy officials
including Vice Admiral Mark Skinner, the principal military
deputy to the assistant secretary of the Navy for research,
development and acquisition.  For fiscal year 2013, the Navy requested about $30.2
million in advance procurement of materials for the aircraft,
according to Defense Department documents.  Boeing wants the additional $60 million for advance
procurement of 24 more aircraft in the budget that Congress will
write in coming months, according to the document circulated in
Congress.  Continuing with a multiyear contract “is going to save us
a lot of money,” McCaskill said.  Cost Projections  The Pentagon projects the current multiyear contract for
the Super Hornets will save $852.4 million compared with
procuring aircraft through annual contracts. The “flyaway”
cost of a Super Hornet averages $67 million this year, according
to Pentagon budget documents. The flyaway cost doesn’t include
research and development, support and training equipment,
technical data or spare parts.  Boeing also wants Congress to put language in its annual
defense authorization measure encouraging the Navy to keep the
production line open to meet future needs.  The Super Hornet “offers unmatched capability,
availability and affordability for naval aviation,” Boeing
spokesman Sean McCormack said in an e-mailed statement. The
fighter offers “date-certain deliveries, cost-certain
production and proven combat capability,” McCormack said.
McCormack declined to comment on the company document circulated
on  Capitol Hill .  Combat Missions  Super Hornets and older Hornets have conducted more than
148,000 combat missions since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11
and continue to provide support to deployed U.S. troops,
according to the Navy. Two Super Hornet versions -- the single-
seat E model and the two-seat F model -- have been in service
with the Navy since November 1999.  The Super Hornet “provides great leverage for those that
are building the Joint Strike Fighter,” Admiral Jonathan
Greenert, the chief of naval operations, told members of the
U.S. House Appropriations committee this month. “I think that
we need to keep an eye on it.”  The Navy and the Marine Corps, which is part of the
Department of the Navy, each operate hundreds of strike
fighters, aircraft that can conduct both air-to-ground and air-
to-air operations. F/A-18s are the principal strike fighters
operated by the Navy and Marines, according to the  Congressional
Research Service .  Retiring Older Planes  The Navy plans to retire older versions of the F/A-18 and
shift to a combination of Super Hornets and carrier-based F-35s.
The Marines are seeking a strike-fighter fleet made up solely of
the F-35 version designed for short takeoffs and vertical
landings and carrier-based jets once it can no longer extend the
life of its Hornets and Harrier aircraft. The Marine Corps is
looking at ways to keep its AV-8 B Harriers flying for as much
as 20 more years, according to Skinner.  The Navy estimated last year that it sees a fighter
shortage for its 11 aircraft carriers starting in 2015. Pentagon
officials, including Panetta, said last year that the Pentagon
needed to buy more Super Hornets as a hedge against delays in F-
35 production.  The Navy projects its shortage of strike aircraft to
“remain below a manageable 65 aircraft through 2028, with some
risks,” said Captain Cate Mueller, a Navy spokeswoman. The
shortage is affected by use of the aircraft fleet and deliveries
of fighter jets as well as the Navy and Marine Corps force
structure, according to Mueller.  “The Department of the Navy continues to meticulously
manage the fatigue life and flight hours of our tactical
aircraft,” Mueller said in an e-mailed statement. The Navy
“continues to evaluate all options to manage the strike fighter
inventory,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  