-- Bond Sales Top $1 Trillion on Record-Low Yields
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-29T16:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/bond-sales-top-1-trillion-on-record-low-yields.html
Corporate bond sales from the U.S.
to Europe and  Asia  are challenging a first-quarter record set in
2009 with investors willing to lend at unprecedented low rates
on signs the global economic recovery is taking hold.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s state-owned oil producer,
and London-based  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  are leading $1.14 trillion of
offerings worldwide, approaching the $1.16 trillion sold in the
first three months of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
the U.S., sales soared to a record $427 billion, beating a
previous quarterly high set a year ago.  Issuance is surging as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  holds to his plan to keep  interest rates  near zero
through at least late 2014. While offerings slumped after the
first three months of 2010 and 2011, confidence that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis may be contained has been building since
December as the region’s central bank injected more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the financial system.  “We are extremely encouraged by the current tone of credit
markets,” said Brendan Hanley, a New York-based managing
director of investment-grade capital markets at  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest underwriter of corporate bonds
worldwide. “Events in Europe caused the previous market
disruptions. The threat of a repeat appears to have
diminished.”  Yields on investment-grade debt in the U.S. declined to a
record low 3.4 percent on March 2, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index. Yields have
since climbed to 3.47 percent.  Globally, yields on bonds from the most creditworthy to the
neediest have declined to 4.13 percent from last year’s high of
5.08 percent on Oct. 10, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  ‘Smart Guys’  “Corporate treasurers are smart guys,” Kam Tugnait, a
managing director at Babson Capital  Europe  Ltd., said in a
telephone interview from  London . “In absolute yield terms, they
can lock in relatively low rates for seven to 10 years.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose for a third day,
with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbing 2.5 basis points to a mid-price of
93.25 basis points as of 11:52 a.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bank of America  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, added 1.25 basis points to 24.75 basis
points as of 11:53 a.m. in  New York , The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America 
are the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers today, with 82 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:54
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
second-largest U.S. bank by assets sold $1.25 billion of 3.875
percent, five-year debt on March 19.  First-quarter corporate bond offerings have climbed 14.5
percent from $991.5 billion in the corresponding period last
year, Bloomberg data show. Sales in the U.S. compare with $397
billion in the first quarter of 2011.  Petrobras, SABMiller  Optimism about the economy being self-sustaining is
boosting returns, encouraging investors to accept lower relative
yields to provide cash to companies worldwide. Moody’s Investors
Service lowered its trailing 12-month speculative-grade default
rate forecast on March 8 to 2.6 percent by year-end from a
previous estimate of 2.8 percent.  Company bonds have returned 3.85 percent this year, poised
for the strongest period since the third quarter of 2010 when
the debt gained 4.33 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield
Index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold company bonds
rather than government debt has declined to 268 basis points
from 351 basis points at year-end, according to the index.  Rio De Janeiro-based Petrobras sold $7 billion of bonds on
Feb. 1 in the nation’s largest corporate debt offering ever,
Bloomberg data show. Demand was so robust that the sale
attracted about $25 billion in bids, according to Itau BBA USA
Securities, which helped manage the transaction.  Accommodative Policy  SABMiller, the second-biggest brewer in the world, issued
$7 billion of notes on Jan. 10 in its first offering in the U.S.
since July 2008, Bloomberg data show. The sale included $1
billion of three-year notes with a coupon of 1.85 percent, the
lowest on record for the maker of Miller Lite and Peroni beers.  “What we have really seen is a panic to get invested,”
Tom Mercein, global head of syndicate and  capital markets  at
Credit Suisse, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“The demand side has been very robust.  Borrowers are tapping the  bond market  after ECB President
 Mario Draghi  staved off a liquidity crunch in the region with
the three-year loans. Investor sentiment was further bolstered
after  Greece ’s 130-billion euro bailout in February.  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Copenhagen on March
30 are likely to increase the ceiling in rescue aid to 940
billion euros, according to an official speaking to reporters in
Brussels.  In the U.S., Bernanke said this week that while he’s
encouraged by the unemployment rate’s decline to 8.3 percent,
continued accommodative monetary policy will be needed to make
further progress.  Jobless Rate  The drop in unemployment to a three-year low may reflect
“a reversal of the unusually large layoffs that occurred” in
2008 and 2009, and this process may now be over, Bernanke said
in a speech on March 26 in Arlington, Virginia.  The U.S. jobless rate may fall to as low as 6 percent by
the first half of 2013, a bigger decrease than most economists
currently project, according to research from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York .  Confidence among U.S.  consumers  in March held close to the
highest level in a year. The Conference Board’s confidence index
dropped to 70.2 from a revised 71.6 reading in February that was
higher than initially reported, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed.  Reducing Expenses  “The data we have seen coming out of the U.S. has been
better than expected,” Babson’s Tugnait said. “We are by no
means looking for strong economic growth but a lot of companies
since 2008 that have survived, have taken out a lot of costs and
have been managing and improving their balance sheet.”  Junk bond sales in the U.S. have soared to an unprecedented
$91.6 billion this quarter, compared with $90.2 billion in the
first three months of last year, the previous record, Bloomberg
data show.  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the chemical maker that
emerged from bankruptcy in 2010, sold $3 billion of bonds on
March 26 to buy back higher-cost debt.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  While the pace of issuance tailed off in each of the past
two years, with offerings of $1.24 trillion in the second half
of 2011 exceeding the first quarter by 17 percent, conditions
may be better this year, Bank of America’s Hanley said in an
interview at the lender’s New York office.  “Most economic indicators point to a robust environment
for issuance,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  