-- Bovespa Falls as Santander Brasil Drops on S&P’s Greek Warning
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-29T21:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/bovespa-futures-fall-on-concern-europe-crisis-to-derail-recovery.html
The Bovespa index dropped to a
seven-week low as Brazilian banks tumbled on concern the global
financial system may be hurt by a worsening credit crisis in
 Europe  after  Standard & Poor’s  said Greece may have to
restructure its debt again.  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest lender by
assets, dropped the most in a week. State-controlled oil company
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  slipped to the lowest in six weeks after
average production fell 1.1 percent in February from the
previous month and as crude prices sank.  The Bovespa declined 0.3 percent to 64,871.99 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, paring this quarter’s advance to 14
percent. Forty-two stocks fell while 28 advanced. The real
gained 0.2 percent to 1.8214 per  U.S. dollar .  “Not only is Greece still not done with its problems, but
other countries in the region, such as Spain and  Portugal , still
face some challenges,”  Felipe Casotti , who helps manage 1.2
billion reais ($654 million) at Maxima Asset Management, said by
phone from Rio de Janeiro. “In the U.S., where things seemed to
be better, it looks like the recovery may be stalling. And if
the world grows at a slower pace, so will  Brazil .”  Moritz Kraemer, head of sovereign ratings at S&P, said at
an event in  London  late yesterday that Greece will probably have
to restructure its debt again and this may involve bailout
partners such as the  International Monetary Fund .  Brazilian Banks Drop  Banco do Brasil fell 2.1 percent to 26.36 reais.  Banco
Santander Brasil (SANB11) , the Brazilian unit of  Spain ’s biggest bank,
slid 1 percent to 17.02 reais.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin
America’s biggest lender by market value, lost 1 percent to
35.63 reais.  Some consumer stocks gained as President Dilma Rousseff
told reporters today in New Delhi the government will announce
measures next week to boost growth in Latin America’s biggest
economy. The central bank also said today that the annual
inflation rate will fall below its 4.5 percent target this year.  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas , Latin America’s largest
brewer, climbed 0.7 percent to 76.16 reais.  SLC Agricola SA (SLCE3)  gained 3.1 percent to 18.79 reais after
Banco Itau BBA SA raised its recommendation on the agriculture
company to outperform, which means the stock is expected to
perform better than market average.  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, fell 0.3
percent to 23.32 reais. Crude oil for May delivery tumbled to a
six-week low on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Quarterly Gain  Brazil’s benchmark equity index is headed for its biggest
quarterly gain since the period ended September 2010. Stocks
have been buoyed by interest-rate cuts in Latin America’s
largest economy, signs of growth in the U.S. and speculation
Europe may be closer to solving its debt crisis.  The Bovespa trades at 10.8 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, which compares with a 10.6 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s
measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Traders  moved  7.06 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.19 billion reais this year through March 16,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  