-- Brazil Real Falls to Three-Month Low on S&P Greek Debt Warning
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-29T15:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/brazil-real-drops-as-s-p-greek-debt-warning-saps-risk-appetite.html
Brazil’s real fell to the lowest
level in almost three months as  Standard & Poor’s  warning that
Greece may have to restructure its debt again intensified global
growth concern, deepening losses caused by government measures
to curb gains in the currency.  The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.8348 per U.S. dollar at
12:13 p.m. in Sao Paulo, and earlier touched 1.8379, the weakest
level since Jan. 9. It has gained 1.7 percent this quarter.
Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January 2013
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.89 percent  The real, the worst-performer among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg this month, declined after S&P’s comments
raised concerns the global economic recovery may falter. That
added to the real’s losses after the government expanded taxes
on foreign borrowing this month and stepped up intervention to
weaken the currency and protect exporters, said Marcelo Fonseca,
an economist with M.Safra & Co.  “Today there’s more concern with  Europe , the scenario in
 China  is still very uncertain -- the real’s behavior is in line
with peers,” Fonseca said by phone from Sao Paulo.  A Greek debt restructuring may involve bailout partners
such as the  International Monetary Fund ,  Moritz Kraemer , head of
sovereign ratings at S&P, said at an event in  London .  Chinese stocks fell today, dragging the benchmark index to
its lowest level in more than 10 weeks, on concern the slowing
economy is spurring earnings shortfalls.  Growth Forecast  Brazil’s central bank said today it expects gross domestic
product to expand 3.5 percent in 2012, following a 2.7 percent
expansion last year and 7.5 percent in 2010.  Brazil  will miss
its inflation target next year even if policy makers resume
interest rate increases after cutting borrowing costs to a near
record low, the bank said in its quarterly inflation report.  Policy makers said inflation will slow to within the 4.5
percent target by year’s end, and then quicken to 5.3 percent in
2013, should the central bank fulfill economists’ forecast for
it to cut the benchmark rate to 9 percent this year and raise it
to 10 percent in 2013.  “If the central bank errs in its inflation projection of
4.4 percent for 2012, inflation in 2013 would be closer to 6
percent than 5 percent,” Luiz Eduardo Portella, a fund manager
at Modal Asset Management, said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro .
“The central bank emphasized that the confidence of businesses
and consumers is improving and this could make economic activity
heat up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  