-- Brazil Real Gains as U.S. Growth Prospects Erase Earlier Losses
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-29T22:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/brazil-real-gains-as-u-s-growth-prospects-erase-earlier-losses.html
Brazil ’s real gained, erasing
earlier losses in the final two hours of local trading before
the publication of data tomorrow that is forecast to show growth
in U.S. consumer confidence and spending.  The real had touched the lowest level in almost three
months as  Standard & Poor’s  warning that Greece may have to
restructure debt again intensified concerns about the global
economy and deepened this month’s losses caused by government
measures to curb dollar inflows.  The real advanced 0.2 percent to 1.8214 per  U.S. dollar 
today in Sao Paulo, after earlier touching 1.8379, the weakest
level since Jan. 9. Yields on the interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2013 increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 8.92 percent.  “U.S. stocks brought up the real by showing some
resistance in the waves of coming-and-going concerns over world
growth,” said Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez Dtvm
Ltda. in  Sao Paulo .  U.S. benchmark equity indexes recovered from their lows of
the session, with the Dow reversing a 94-point loss, amid
speculation a three-day slump was overdone given improving
economic data.  A Greek debt restructuring may involve bailout partners
such as the  International Monetary Fund ,  Moritz Kraemer , head of
sovereign ratings at S&P, said at an event in  London .  Growth Forecast  Brazil’s central bank said today it expects gross domestic
product to expand 3.5 percent in 2012, following a 2.7 percent
expansion last year and 7.5 percent in 2010. Brazil will miss
its inflation target next year even if policy makers resume
interest rate increases after cutting borrowing costs to a near
record low, the bank said in its quarterly inflation report.  Policy makers said inflation will slow to within the 4.5
percent target by year’s end, and then quicken to 5.3 percent in
2013, should the central bank fulfill economists’ forecast for
it to cut the benchmark rate to 9 percent this year and raise it
to 10 percent in 2013.  “If the central bank errs in its inflation projection of
4.4 percent for 2012, inflation in 2013 would be closer to 6
percent than 5 percent,” Luiz Eduardo Portella, a  fund manager 
at Modal Asset Management, said by phone from Rio de Janeiro.
“The central bank emphasized that the confidence of businesses
and consumers is improving and this could make economic activity
heat up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  