-- Brazil to Miss Inflation Target in 2013 Even If Rates Go Up
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-03-29T18:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/brazil-to-miss-inflation-target-in-2013-even-if-rates-go-up-2-.html
Brazil  will miss its inflation
target next year even if policy makers resume  interest rate 
increases after cutting borrowing costs to a near record low,
according to central bank estimates.  The bank, in its quarterly inflation  report  today, said
inflation will slow to the 4.5 percent target by year-end, and
then rebound to 5.3 percent in 2013, should policy makers
fulfill economists’ forecast for them to cut the benchmark rate
to 9 percent this year and raise it to 10 percent in 2013.  Policy makers reiterated today they see a “high
probability” of reducing the  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate to slightly above the
record low of 8.75 percent to protect  Latin America ’s biggest
economy from slower  growth  in advanced economies. The government
is relying on a mix of tax cuts and lower interest rates to fuel
growth of 4.5 percent this year after the economy expanded 2.7
percent in 2011.  “If it was me, I wouldn’t cut rates further,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil, said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “But the central bank will
continue to cut. It has a short term view. It wants to stimulate
the economy this year.”  The central bank said today it expects the gross domestic
product to expand 3.5 percent in 2012.  The yield on interest rate future contracts rose today
after the report. The yield on the January 2014 contract, the
most traded in Sao Paulo, gained two basis points to 9.52
percent at 2:24 p.m. local time.  More Stimulus  Since August, Brazil has cut the benchmark interest rate by
2.75 percentage points to 9.75 percent, more than any other
member of the Group of 20 most industrialized nations. At the
same time, the government this month extended tax cuts announced
in December to boost sales of home appliances and other labor-
intensive products.  “The focus of monetary policy was, is and will continue to
be inflation,” central bank’s economic policy director Carlos Hamilton said.  More efforts to stimulate investment will be announced next
week, President Dilma Rousseff said today in  New Delhi , where
she is attending a summit of leaders from  Russia , India,  China 
and  South Africa , the so-called BRICS.  Should the central bank keep the benchmark interest rate
unchanged, consumer prices will rise 4.4 percent this year and
5.2 percent in 2013, according to the bank’s inflation report.
In the previous report in December, policy makers forecast
prices this year would rise 4.7 percent.  Inflation Outlook  Inflation in 2013 may be slower than the forecast published
today given the favorable “balance of risks,” Hamilton said,
when asked whether policy makers would have to raise interest
rates next year.  “We still see important risks in the international
scenario,” Hamilton told reporters in Brasilia today.  Consumer prices rose 0.25 percent in mid-March, less than
all 42 analysts in a Bloomberg survey had predicted, taking the
annual rate to 5.61 percent, the lowest since 2010. Consumer
prices will rise 5.28 percent in 2012 and 5.5 percent next year,
according to the median forecast in a March 23 central bank
survey.  The real, which fell 0.3 percent to 1.8317 per  U.S. dollar ,
was the biggest gainer of 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg in the first two months of the year. This month, it
declined more than all major currencies after the government
raised taxes on foreign investment to help manufacturers being
hurt by the currency gains.  Rousseff, in  India , criticized today the response of the
U.S. and  Europe  to the global financial crisis, saying monetary
stimulus and budget cuts would not repair the world economy.  At the same time, monetary expansion in rich nations
results in “artificial devaluations” that “introduce grave
currency imbalances,” that hurt faster-growing  emerging markets 
like Brazil, Rousseff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  