-- Brevan Howard Asked RBS to Change Libor, Lawsuit Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-03-30T04:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/brevan-howard-asked-rbs-to-change-libor-lawsuit-says.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
a $33 billion hedge fund, asked Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to
change the London interbank offered rate five years ago,
according to a trader suing the lender for wrongful dismissal.  “Brevan Howard telephoned on 20 Aug. 2007 to ask the
defendant to change the Libor rate,” Tan Chi Min, a trader
fired by the bank for allegedly trying to manipulate the rate,
said in court papers filed March 23 with the  Singapore  High
Court. The bank “received this request without objection,”
according to the document. The hedge fund isn’t a party in the
suit and isn’t being sued for wrongdoing.  Scott Nygaard, listed as head of short-term markets finance
on an  RBS website , knew about the call from Brevan Howard, Tan
said in his filing. No further facts or particulars supporting
Tan’s allegation were given in the court papers.  Regulators around the globe are probing whether banks
colluded to manipulate rates including Libor, the basis for $360
trillion of securities worldwide. RBS has  “substantial and
credible”  defenses to claims it tried to rig interest rates,
the Edinburgh-based bank said in its annual report March 9.  Suresh Nair, an attorney at Straits Law Practice LLC in
Singapore who represents Tan, declined to elaborate further on
the fired trader’s claims about Brevan Howard. Nygaard, who
remains an RBS employee, declined to comment. Patricia Choo, a
Singapore-based RBS spokeswoman, as well as officials at London-
based Brevan Howard declined to comment on the case.  Daily Survey  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in  London . RBS and
other lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from each other for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a predetermined number of quotes are excluded,
those remaining are averaged and published for each currency by
the BBA before noon.  Three-month dollar Libor rose to a six-and-a-half-year high
of 5.73 percent on Sept. 7, 2007 as concern that losses on
securities linked to U.S. subprime mortgages would escalate
prompted lenders to hoard cash. The three-month dollar Libor is
currently at 0.47 percent, according to data from the BBA.  Because outlier rates are discarded, it would be difficult
for a single bank to manipulate Libor to benefit its trading
positions or those of clients, said Christopher Rieger, head of
interest-rate strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  “If only one bank was involved, then it would be very
difficult to manipulate the Libor in a meaningful way,” Rieger
said in a telephone interview.  Wrongful Dismissal  Tan, RBS’s former Singapore-based head of short-term
interest rate trading for the Japanese yen, sued the lender for
wrongful dismissal in December. He’s seeking $1.5 million in
bonuses and 3.3 million RBS shares that he says he’s owed.  In his suit, Tan said it was “common practice” among the
bank’s senior employees to make requests on Libor to its rate
setters. This was known to RBS’s senior management including
Nygaard, according to the court filing.  RBS responded in January, saying in court filings that it
terminated Tan because he tried to improperly influence the
bank’s rate setters from 2007 to 2011 to persuade them to offer
Libor submissions that would benefit his trading positions.  Tan first claimed that RBS employees “took requests from
clients such as” Brevan Howard “in relation to the fixing of
Libor,” in his complaint dated Dec. 27. The hedge fund was the
only company identified as a client of RBS in the lawsuit.  RBS responded to Tan’s complaint on Jan. 18, rejecting his
claim it took such requests from clients and asked for “strict
proof” of the allegation.  Libor Rates  Tan said further information on allegations that rate
requests made by clients to the bank’s employees would be given
as evidence and RBS wasn’t entitled to them at this stage,
according to his March 23 filing.  Regulators including the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, the U.S. Justice Department and the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission are probing whether banks lowballed
their Libor submissions to hide difficulties they faced in
borrowing money. Investigators are also focusing on whether
traders urged rate setters to offer submissions that would
benefit their interest-rate derivative positions.  Brevan Howard was founded in 2002 by  Alan Howard  with four
other traders from Credit Suisse Group AG’s proprietary fixed-
income trading desk. The firm’s biggest pool, the $26.6 billion
Master Fund, returned 12 percent last year after it made a
bullish bet on U.S. Treasuries and U.K. gilts. The Master Fund
has never posted a negative calendar year return since its
inception in April 2003.  The case is Tan Chi Min v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
S939/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  