-- BRICS Exchanges Start Futures Aimed at Wealthy Individuals
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-03-30T12:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/brics-bourses-start-futures-venture-aimed-at-wealthy-individuals.html
Exchanges in the biggest emerging
economies began trading futures based on each other’s benchmark
stock indexes today as rising wealth spurs demand for new
investment products.  The five members of the BRICS Exchanges Alliance will
cross-list futures on Brazil’s  Bovespa Index , Russia’s  Micex
Index , the  BSE India Sensitive Index , Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index, the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  and South Africa’s
JSE Top40 Index. Traders engaged in arbitrage will be able to
buy and sell futures based on the same index on multiple venues,
boosting liquidity, according to Mumbai-based BSE Ltd.  The products may appeal to the growing number of wealthy
individual investors in developing nations who want to access
foreign markets, said  Bruce Weber , dean of the Lerner College of
Business and Economics at the University of Delaware in Newark.
Per-capita gross domestic product in emerging markets has jumped
104 percent during the past decade to about $6,980, according to
the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.  “The exchanges are doing well in local markets and want to
be seen as international for their local investors, who can then
go to another BRIC country easily,” Weber, who co-wrote “The
Equity Trader Course” in 2006, said in a phone interview.
“BRIC countries have generated a lot of growth for investors.”  Tripling Assets  The grouping joins Brazil, Russia, India and China --
nations identified by the acronym BRIC in 2001 by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s  Jim O’Neill , representing countries the New York-
based bank predicted two years later would join the U.S. and
Japan as the world’s biggest economies by 2050 -- with South
Africa. The BRIC nations held their first summit in 2009 and
invited South Africa to join the group in December 2010.  Financial assets in developing countries may triple to $141
trillion, or 36 percent of the global total, by 2020 from 21
percent in 2010, according to a December report by the McKinsey
Global Institute. Investors in Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa have an average 16 percent of their assets in
equities, compared with 42 percent in the U.S. and 29 percent in
western Europe, McKinsey said.  Emerging-market investors have grown richer as their
economies expanded at a mean annual rate of 6.3 percent during
the past decade. Growth will probably average 6.5 percent in the
next five years, compared with 2.5 percent in developed
countries, according to September estimates by the Washington-
based International Monetary Fund.  Volatility Concern  “From a portfolio diversification point of view, it’s
certainly a nice strategy,”  Bluford Putnam , chief economist at
CME Group Inc., which operates the world’s largest futures
exchange and owns a stake in Sao Paulo-based BM&FBovespa SA,
said in a March 29 interview in London. “Growth rates in Europe
and the U.S. are going to be lower.”  The  Bovespa  climbed 14 percent this year through yesterday,
while the  Micex  gained 6.6 percent and the  Sensex  increased 10
percent. The  Hang Seng China Index  rose 6 percent and South
Africa’s  Top40 index  advanced 3.9 percent. The  MSCI All-Country
World Index  of shares in developed and emerging countries
climbed 11 percent.  New futures products may encourage investors to focus on
shorter-term returns and lead to increased  volatility  in stock
markets, said  Allan Conway , who oversees about $24 billion as
the head of emerging market equities at Schroders Plc in London.  Today’s Trading  “That could actually be counterproductive,” Conway said
in a March 29 phone interview.  In Hong Kong, only contracts on the Sensex index attracted
enough bids and offers to complete trades, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Five Sensex futures expiring in April
changed hands, with the contracts settling at 17,491, the data
show. The Sensex closed at 17,404.20 in Mumbai today.  Futures on the Bovespa, Micex, Hang Seng and Top40 indexes
traded on India’s BSE, with a total of 882 contracts changing
hands, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only one trade
linked to the BRIC gauges completed on the South African bourse
as of 1:38 p.m. in Johannesburg, an April contract on the Hang
Seng Index that was priced at 20,445. The gauge closed at
20,555.58 in Hong Kong today.  Initial trading in the contracts may be “quite light,”
 Charles Li , the chief executive officer of Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd., told reporters at a conference in Boca Raton,
Florida on March 13. All the exchanges, except for the Russian
bourse, won’t charge users to trade the index products being
cross-listed for the first six months, Li said.  Revenue Sharing  Half the revenue from trading futures based on another
exchange’s index will be shared with that market operator, Li
said. The Hong Kong exchange, for instance, will give half the
revenue it eventually produces from trading futures on India’s
Sensex Index to BSE Ltd.  Russia’s Micex has delayed listing the index futures until
May.  The project’s next phase will include the development of an
index representing the member countries, Marta Alves, a senior
adviser to  BM&FBovespa , said at the March 13 conference.
Products such as exchange-traded funds based on that gauge will
probably generate more liquidity and interest from investors,
she said.  “It shows a good level of partnership and collaboration,”
said Weber. “They could move forward with a combined index.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  