-- BRICS Leaders Seek to Spur Trade, Call for More Global Sway
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-03-29T13:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/brics-leaders-seek-to-spur-trade-call-for-more-global-sway-1-.html
Leaders of the biggest  emerging
markets  agreed on steps to increase lending in local currencies
to foster trade, while calling on Western nations to give them
more sway in global finance.  The BRICS economies of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and
South Africa signed an accord to boost credit for trade
transactions, according to a joint declaration issued after
their summit in New Delhi today. The countries also authorized a
study into the feasibility of establishing a multilateral bank
for funding projects in the developing world.  “The agreement signed today by development banks of BRICS
countries will boost trade among us by offering credit in our
local currencies,” Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said at
the summit. “A suggestion has been made to set up a BRICS
 development bank . We have directed our finance ministers to
examine the proposal and report back at the next summit.”  The initiatives come as the BRICS group, which accounts for
more than 40 percent of the world’s population, seeks greater
influence in bodies such as the World Bank to match its rising
economic heft. The bloc today called on advanced nations to
avoid creating “excessive global liquidity” that hurts emerging
markets by stoking swings in capital flows and commodity prices.  ‘Work in Progress’  “The signature initiatives of more use of local currencies
and a new development bank are very much work in progress,”
said  Madan Sabnavis , chief economist at Mumbai-based Credit
Analysis & Research Ltd. “The vision of BRICS as a powerful bloc
acting cooperatively with a single voice remains more hope than
reality. These countries are too different for that.”  The accord on local-currency lending aims to reduce demand
for “fully convertible currencies” for trade and cut transaction
costs, the Indian government said.  The BRICS group said it accounted for 15 percent of global
trade in 2010, up from 3.6 percent in 1990, and that its share
of world gross domestic product rose to almost 25 percent in
2010 from 16 percent in 2000 in purchasing power parity terms,
which adjusts for exchange rates.  The study into the BRICS bank builds on a pledge leaders
from the five nations made at their meeting in April 2011 in
China, when they promised to “strengthen financial cooperation
among the BRICS Development Banks.”  Efforts by the emerging world to end the practice of naming
 World Bank  presidents from the U.S. and the head of the
 International Monetary Fund  from  Europe  have so far failed. The
positions should be filled on merit, the BRICS leaders said in
today’s declaration, adding the World Bank should give greater
priority for meeting development-finance needs.  Iran, Syria  China’s President Hu Jintao said at the summit that BRICS
nations should enhance coordination at the Group of 20 and the
 United Nations . The world recovery faces challenges, he said.  The summit declaration flagged risks to the global recovery
from swings in oil and food prices and Europe’s debt crisis.  The leaders met following a jump of about 28 percent in the
price of crude in the past six months, partly on concern that
international tensions with Iran may disrupt supplies.  The situation there can’t “be allowed to escalate into
conflict,” they said in the communique. The leaders also called
for “an immediate end to all violence and violations of human
rights” in Syria, where the UN estimates more than 8,000 people
have been killed since unrest began a year ago.  Singh hosted Hu, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff and South African President
Jacob Zuma at the fourth BRICS summit.  South Africa  has attended
since 2011. The term BRIC was coined by Goldman Sachs Asset
Management Chairman Jim O’Neill a decade ago to refer to major
emerging markets with growth potential.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in New Delhi at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  