-- Arabs, UN Chief Urge Syria to Implement Plan to End Violence
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 2012-03-29T17:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/britain-adds-to-support-for-opposition-in-syria-hague-says.html
Arab leaders and United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged Syrian President Bashar al- Assad to act immediately on a UN plan to end violence in his
country that threatens to spread through the region.  “We assert the necessity of an immediate and complete
implementation” of the six-point United Nations plan, according
to an e-mailed declaration issued after the  Arab League ’s annual
summit meeting in  Baghdad  today. The organization called for a
peaceful solution to the crisis and rejected any foreign
intervention in Syria.  “We offer our complete support for the aspirations and the
legitimate demands of the Syrian people for freedom, democracy,
their right to decide their own future and the peaceful transfer
of power,” according to the Baghdad Declaration.  The international community should send arms to the Syrian
opposition because the Assad regime is “criminal” and will not
heed the Arab League declaration or implement the UN peace plan,
Haytham al-Maleh, an opposition leader, said in an interview
with Al Arabiya television from Istanbul.  Assad should implement the UN-backed plan to end the
violence because it may become a danger for the region, Ban
said. The Syrian opposition also should cooperate with  Kofi Annan , the UN and Arab League envoy for Syria, he said.  On March 27, Syria accepted the six-point UN peace plan
that includes demands for a UN-supervised cease-fire, secure
access for humanitarian missions and a Syrian-led transition to
democracy. Syrian security forces killed 43 people today, Al
Arabiya television reported. The UN said on March 27 that more
than 9,000 people have been killed in the yearlong conflict.  ‘Annihilation’ Campaign  Arab leaders should adopt a firm stance to end the
government’s “annihilation” campaign to crush domestic
protests, said Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the head of  Libya ’s National
Transitional Council. He also pressed Arab governments to
safeguard Libyan money and investment and hand over wanted
people from the regime of former leader  Muammar Qaddafi , one of
four longstanding Arab leaders who were ousted by popular
protests in the region since last year.  The opening of the summit was marred by explosions in the
Iraqi capital and by mostly low-ranking participants, with just
10 of 21 invited heads of state from the Arab League. Among the
oil-rich Gulf powerhouses, only  Kuwait ’s emir is attending the
summit, becoming his country’s first head of state to visit  Iraq 
since 1990, when Iraqi President  Saddam Hussein ’s forces invaded
Kuwait.  Iraqi leaders intended to use the one-day gathering to mark
their nation’s return as a prominent member of the Arab world.
Attendance was hurt by Iraq’s political chaos, continued
violence and differences with its neighbors and the U.S.  Syria , which has been suspended from the Arab League,
wasn’t invited to the summit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  