-- Cable Across Atlantic Aims to Save Traders Milliseconds
-- B y   M a t t h e w   P h i l i p s
-- 2012-03-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/cable-across-atlantic-aims-to-save-traders-milliseconds.html
In April, the Canadian research
ship Coriolis II will set out from Halifax to survey parts of
the continental shelf stretching 1,000 miles off the east coast
of  Nova Scotia .  The ship has been hired by Hibernia Atlantic, a Summit, New
Jersey-based company that operates undersea telecom cables, to
map out a new $300 million trans-Atlantic fiber-optic line
called Project Express. The cable will stretch 3,000 miles
beneath the North Atlantic, connecting financial markets in
 London  and New York at record transmission speeds. A small group
of U.S. and European high-speed trading firms will pay steep
fees to use the cable.  When it opens in 2013, Project Express will be the fastest
cable across the Atlantic, reducing the time it takes data to
travel round-trip between New York and London to 59.6
milliseconds from the current top speed of 64.8 milliseconds,
according to Hibernia Atlantic, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its April 2 edition.  Those five milliseconds might not seem like a big deal, but
to the handful of electronic trading firms that will have
exclusive access to the cable, it will be a huge advantage.  “That extra five milliseconds could be worth millions
every time they hit the button,” says Joseph Hilt, senior vice
president of financial services at Hibernia Atlantic.  Sworn to Secrecy  Hilt has sworn to keep secret the identities of his
trading-firm customers, who use high-powered  mainframe computers 
and sophisticated algorithms to sift through volumes of
financial data flows in search of price discrepancies and split-
second trading opportunities.  The quant-driven world of computerized trading has received
some unflattering attention lately, thanks to the botched
initial public offering by Lenexa, Kansas-based  Bats Global
Markets Inc. (BATS) , which operates two electronic exchanges, and a new
Securities and Exchange Commission probe into the business
practices of high-frequency firms.  Yet there’s no putting this genie back into the bottle.
About 55 percent of U.S. equities trading volume now comes from
firms using high-frequency strategies, according to financial-
market research firm Tabb Group LLC. And the incessant desire to
sift through stock and bonds pricing data at ever-more
blistering speeds has high-frequency trading firms willing to
pay millions for access to new or upgraded fiber-optic
communications networks.  Shorter Is Faster  In electronic trading, speed is measured by latency -- the
time it takes from when a trade is started to when it’s
executed. The farther a signal has to travel, the higher the
latency, which is why a shorter cable is a faster cable. By
connecting to Hibernia’s existing fiber-optic network along the
northeastern coast of the U.S. and departing from Halifax
instead of New York, Project Express will cut 310 miles off the
shortest trans-Atlantic path.  “We spent seven months making sure this was the shortest
route,” says Mike Saunders, Hibernia Atlantic’s vice president
of business development. The fastest trans-Atlantic cable,
called AC-1, was laid in 1998 by Global Crossing Ltd., now owned
by  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT) , which claims that through
continuous improvements AC-1 will maintain its market position
by the time Project Express opens.  Much of the Project Express cable line will stretch across
the shallow waters of the continental shelf, something most
fiber-optic cables were built to avoid. In shallower waters, the
cables are vulnerable to damage or disruption from fishing and
attacks from sharks drawn to their electrical currents.  Buried in Steel  Cables on the continental shelf have to be wrapped in
protective layers of steel and, where possible, buried several
feet into the sand and sediment to protect the repeater devices
that amplify the light signal traveling through them. Typically,
they are about the size of a “double-barreled beer keg,” says
Hilt. Those used on Project Express will be about the size of
two beer cans, making portions of the line easier to bury.  Saunders got the idea for Project Express in February 2010
when he read about a similar cable being built between  Chicago 
and New York by the Mississippi-based company Spread Networks.
From 2007 to 2010, 155 construction crews built an 825-mile
underground route from New York to Chicago, boring through
largely rural, mountainous terrain. The project cut three
milliseconds off the previously fastest route.  The work was so secret that Spread Networks didn’t announce
it until it was almost done.  “We didn’t want any copycats,” says Chief Executive
Officer David Barksdale. Like Hibernia Atlantic, Spread Networks
charges a premium -- it won’t say how much -- to trading firms.
And like Hibernia, it refuses to divulge the identities of these
firms.  “They’re very secretive,” says Saunders.  Questioning the Expense  Some trading firms question whether these high-speed
networks are worth the expense.  “Nobody’s making extra money because of them; they’re a
net expense on the industry,” says Manoj Narang, founder and
CEO of Tradeworx, a firm that also operates a high-speed trading
platform that handles more than 3 percent of the U.S. stock
market’s daily volume. Narang says the only firms that can
afford access to the faster cables are already among the fastest
trading firms.  “All they’ve done is impose a gigantic tax on the industry
and catalyze a new arms race,” he says.  Not to be left behind, Narang’s Tradeworx will soon start a
wireless trading network open to other firms. It will be based
on microwave technology that may deliver speeds 30 percent
faster than fiber-optic cables between Chicago and  New York ,
according to Narang.  “We’re reaching a point where firms can build their own
routes,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Philips in New York at 
 mphilips3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Bremner at 
 bbremner@bloomberg.net  