-- California Republicans Urge Payroll Cuts Before Trimming Schools
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-03-29T19:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/california-republicans-urge-payroll-cuts-before-trimming-schools.html
California (STOCA1)  should trim state worker
pay by 4.6 percent and use funds set aside for low-income
housing to help balance the state’s budget instead of reducing
funds to schools, Republican lawmakers said.  Republicans, who are the minority in both chambers of the
Legislature, today proposed a $4.4 billion package that they
said would eliminate the need for so-called trigger cuts that
Governor  Jerry Brown  has proposed if voters reject his November
ballot measure seeking temporary sales and income-tax increases.  “The state budget is a reflection of priorities and there
is no reason to hold our schools hostage to the uncertainties of
the proposed tax increase initiative that may not benefit our
students,” Republicans in the Senate and Assembly said in a
letter to Brown and fellow Democrats. “With political will, we
can work together in a bipartisan manner to ensure that our
schools are protected” whether the taxes pass or fail.  Brown and the state’s second-biggest teachers’ union are
pushing a ballot measure to raise the  sales tax , already the
highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent, and boost
rates on income starting at $250,000. Those making $1 million or
more, now taxed at 10.3 percent, would pay 13.3 percent, the
most of any state.  Brown wants the added revenue, coupled with spending cuts,
to offset a projected $9.2 billion deficit over the next 15
months. If voters reject the plan, he’s proposed cutting almost
$5 billion from school budgets next year.  Housing, Mental Health  The Republican proposal includes taking $1 billion
earmarked for affordable housing, $1.33 billion from mental
health and $131 million from early-childhood health programs. It
would get $400 million by requiring the equivalent of one unpaid
day off a month from state workers, and $316 million by
extending the repayment of internal loans used in previous years
to fix deficits.  Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from
 Sacramento , said the proposal amounted to one-time fixes that
won’t help solve continuing budget problems.  “It sounds like a rehash of what we’ve heard before from
them,” he told reporters. “I understand that their purpose is
to show that you don’t need the trigger cuts. We want to avoid
deep cuts to schools more than anyone else, but we also want to
be the last year of budget deficits in  California .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  