-- California’s Harris Seen as Doing Better Than Madoff Creditors
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/california-s-harris-seen-as-doing-better-than-madoff-creditors.html
California  Attorney General  Kamala Harris  may have a better chance of winning the right to pursue
her lawsuit to recoup illegal profit from Bernard Madoff’s fraud
than creditors who were overridden by a bankruptcy trustee,
lawyers said.  Irving Picard , the bankruptcy trustee liquidating Madoff’s
assets to recover funds for the con man’s investors, won a court
ruling in another case giving his lawsuit priority over one by
Madoff creditors. Picard is now trying to block Harris’s
$270 million state enforcement action against investment adviser
 Stanley Chais ’s estate, saying that under U.S. bankruptcy law he
alone can take money stolen from Madoff customers.  Harris’s position is different from that of creditors who
lost their arguments in federal court because she is exercising
her policing power under state law, said Jonathan Landers, a
lawyer for investors in Madoff-related suits including Picard’s
case against Harris.  “When the state acts under its police power, bankruptcy
law doesn’t apply to that,” said Landers of Milberg LLP in  New
York . “There’s a distinction between enforcing police power and
acting as a creditor with pecuniary interests.”  If Harris was collecting taxes, she would be an ordinary
creditor, subject to bankruptcy law, Landers said yesterday in a
phone interview.  U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  in Manhattan this week
upheld a $5 billion settlement between Picard and the estate of
Jeffry Picower, one of Madoff’s biggest individual investors.
Koeltl, saying the agreement benefited the Madoff estate, said a
bankruptcy court judge correctly decided that the individuals
who sued Picower’s estate had violated bankruptcy law.  ‘Investment Wizard’  Harris, a Democrat, wants to press a 2009 complaint in
state court in  Los Angeles  that alleges Chais passed himself off
as an “investment wizard” and earned $270 million in fees from
1995 to 2008 for “doing nothing more than funneling all of his
investors’ capital into an epic Ponzi scheme” without their
knowledge or authorization. She is seeking to recover illegal
profits and other penalties.  Picard sued Harris Jan. 4 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan , alleging her lawsuit interferes with the collection
of assets needed to help compensate Madoff victims.  The clash between federal and state powers in Picard’s suit
against Harris might eventually go to the U.S. Supreme Court and
make new law, said Michael Clark, a former federal prosecutor
who has handled financial fraud cases.  U.S. law, which includes the  bankruptcy code , is supreme,
although it gives the federal government only limited authority,
he said.  State Prerogative  “The only power it can exercise is that which is not
expressly reserved for the states,” Clark said. “We haven’t
often seen federal courts enjoin the states from performing what
is their prerogative.”  Answering Picard’s lawsuit against her last month, Harris
said her legal action against Chais’s estate makes no attempt to
recover money belonging to the Madoff brokerage trustee.  “While the trustee’s desire to maximize the amount of
money available to the victims of  Bernard Madoff  is laudable,
his attempt to interfere with the people’s action in order to
achieve that goal finds no support in the Bankruptcy Code, and
thus, must be rejected,” she said.  Harris’s problem as her case goes through court may be that
she is mounting a similar suit to Picard’s, said Clark, now with
the  law firm  Duane Morris LLP in Houston.  ‘Drill Down’  “Her argument is that she is not seeking damages,” he
said. “But if you drill down, she is seeking damages on behalf
of the citizens of California.”  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the dispute with Harris.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, said he couldn’t
immediately comment on the lawsuits.  Picard sued Chais and related entities in 2009, demanding
return of $1 billion allegedly withdrawn fraudulently from the
 Ponzi scheme . The  money manager  died in 2010.  Madoff, 72, is serving 150 years in prison after pleading
guilty to orchestrating the fraud that destroyed his New York-
based firm, which collapsed in December 2008. Picard and his law
firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged about $273 million for
liquidating the estate.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Hall, 12-01001, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  