-- Cameron Licks Self-Inflicted Fuel-Strike, Pastygate Wounds
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-30T16:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/cameron-presiding-over-shambles-on-fuel-strike-miliband-says.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
had one of his worst weeks since coming to power. Now he’s
looking to Britain’s biggest union and trucking companies to
sort out a dispute that threatens even bigger trouble.  The Labour opposition said a cut in the top  tax rate  in the
March 21 budget only helped Tory millionaires. The Conservative
treasurer quit after suggesting access to Cameron could be
bought. The press branded a freezing of pensioners’ tax
allowances a “granny tax.” Cameron and his finance minister
looked out of touch on another budget measure that slapped tax
on hot take-out snacks -- “pastygate.” Then ministers
contradicted each other on whether motorists should stockpile
gasoline as a fuel-truck drivers’ strike loomed.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  called it “a shambles.” With
local elections a month away, his party has stretched its lead
over Cameron’s Conservatives in the opinion polls. Ministers are
anxious to avert a strike that might cut gasoline supplies,
aware of the damage done to business and the government when
fuel-price protesters blockaded refineries in 2000. As panic
buying hit gas stations, the Unite union ruled out any strike
until after the Easter weekend.  “The week after the budget, the government should be in
control of the agenda, and instead they’ve had a series of
largely self-inflicted wounds,”  Philip Cowley , professor of
politics at Nottingham University, said in an interview. “While
many of the issues are trivial, ministers should be troubled by
the hostility they’ve seen from usually supportive papers.”  ‘Made in Downing Street’  “Total Panic,” ran the front-page headline on The Sun,
Britain’s best-selling newspaper, this morning. The Times
headline told of a “A fuel crisis made in Downing Street,”
Cameron’s official  London  residence.  Cameron urged Unite to “call off the strike entirely” in
a recorded statement after a meeting of the government’s
emergency committee in London today.  The Conservative share of the vote in a House of Commons
special election yesterday in Bradford, northern  England ,
slumped to 8 percent from 31 percent in the 2010 general
election. Still, Labour failed to retain the seat in a district
with a large Muslim electorate, surprisingly losing to a former
party lawmaker who now represents the anti-war Respect Party.  Long queues formed outside many gas stations for a second
day amid fears of a strike. Demand for gasoline rose 172 percent
yesterday from a week earlier, while that for  diesel fuel 
increased 77 percent, the RMI Petrol retailers’ group  said in a
statement .  Government Advice  Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude said two days ago
that drivers would be wise to keep their cars topped up and have
a spare jerry can of gasoline or diesel at home to prepare for a
possible strike that could hit supplies to 90 percent of
Britain’s 8,700 gas stations.  Yesterday morning, Roads Minister Mike Penning said Maude’s
advice was wrong. “It was a mistake,” Penning told  BBC  Radio
4. “He didn’t understand the size of a jerry can.”  RMI Petrol’s chairman, Brian Madderson, said that “thanks
to Francis Maude,” many stores had sold out of jerry cans.  “The fuel companies are working flat out to resupply
petrol stations,” Cameron said today. “Everything that can be
done is being done.”  A woman in the northern city of York had to be hospitalized
yesterday with 40 percent burns after gasoline that she was
decanting from one container to another in her kitchen ignited,
the local fire service  said in a statement .  ‘Extreme Dangers’  “The public do not understand the extreme dangers posed by
petrol handling or storage,” Matt Wrack, who heads the Fire
Brigades Union,  said in a statement  today. “Government needs to
issue urgent professionally based advice to warn the public
before we have another incident, perhaps with far worse
consequences.”  “It was a political invention, the panic of the last
couple of days, and the nation and some people are paying a
very, very heavy price for that,”  Ed Balls , Labour’s finance
spokesman, told the BBC.  “This is obviously a desperate incident and a terrible
thing that has happened to this woman and my heart goes out to
her and her family,” Cameron said.  Drivers in Unite working for fuel-distribution companies
whose customers include  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , J. Sainsbury Plc,  BP Plc (BP\)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)   voted this week to strike  in protest at
working conditions and changes to their pensions.  ‘Substantive Talks’  The union said in a statement today it won’t strike over
the four-day Easter holiday April 6-9 and was ready to hold
“substantive talks” mediated by the government-funded
 Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service  “as soon as
possible.” ACAS said today it hopes formal discussions can
begin early next week. The union needs to give seven days’
notice of a strike.  Energy Secretary Ed Davey met with haulage-company
officials in London today to discuss contingency planning,
including training more military drivers, his department said in
an e-mailed statement.  Budget measures to cut the top rate of income tax and
freeze allowances for pensioners drew accusations from Miliband
that “millions will be paying more while millionaires will be
paying less.” Five days later, Cameron was forced to disclose
the occasions he’s dined with major Conservative donors after
the Sunday Times published secretly filmed comments of a
fundraiser appearing to offer access to the premier in exchange
for 250,000 pounds ($397,000).  VAT on Pasties  “Pastygate” came about as ministers tried to deflect
complaints from bakers including  Greggs Plc (GRG) , the U.K.’s biggest
such chain, about a budget decision to extend value-added tax to
cover hot food that they sell.  Cameron used a joint news conference with International
Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge two days ago to say
the levy created a level playing field with other hot take-out
food. He then assured reporters of his own enthusiasm for the
Cornish pasty, a West-country snack consisting of meat and
vegetables baked in a pastry case.  The premier, who has spent vacations in Cornwall and whose
youngest child was born there, even described the last pasty
he’d eaten, a large one from a stand at Leeds railway station in
Yorkshire. Local reporters discovered it closed at least two
years ago.  Osborne Quizzed  A day earlier, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
told the House of Commons Treasury Committee as it quizzed him
on the budget that he couldn’t recall the last time he’d eaten a
pasty from Greggs, drawing accusations from Labour that he was
out of touch with ordinary people’s concerns.  “I think that there haven’t been the best of headlines for
us,” the Tory chairwoman, Sayeeda Warsi, told BBC Radio 4 this
morning.  With elections including that for the mayor of London
scheduled for May 3, Labour has opened up a 10 percentage-point
lead in opinion polls over the Tories. A YouGov Plc poll for
today’s Sun put Labour at 44 percent and the Conservatives at 34
percent. Labour’s lead was only five points in a similar survey
published on budget day. YouGov questioned 1,701 voters March 28
and yesterday for the latest poll, for which no margin of error
was given.  “They look at the front bench, they see them all very
well-dressed, well turned out, well-fed, and perhaps feel that
they’re in a different world to them,”  David Davis , a former
Conservative minister, told Radio 4, summing up what he sees as
the average voter’s view of Cameron’s Cabinet. “Unfortunately
that’s a very dangerous allegation to make against a political
party, if it sticks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  