-- Canada Dollar Falls for 3rd Day on Growth Concern Before
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-29T16:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/canada-dollar-falls-for-3rd-day-on-growth-concern-before.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for a third
day against its U.S. counterpart as concern that the rate of
global economic growth is slowing dulled appetite for the assets
that benefit from expansion.  The currency was headed for a 1.1 percent loss this month
versus the greenback, which has gained against all of its 16
most-traded counterparts except the Mexican peso as concern
Chinese output is slowing and the European debt crisis isn’t yet
resolved spurred refuge demand. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  is
due to deliver the nation’s 2012 budget at about 4 p.m. in
Ottawa.  “It’s a little bit of a risk-off day, and historically
dollar-Canada has been very correlated with risk-on, risk-off,”
said David Grad, a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of
America Corp. in  New York . “With the more disappointing recent
data, people are a little worried, and you are seeing the
Canadian dollar take a hit.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, weakened 0.1 percent to 99.93
cents per U.S. dollar at 12:44 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0007.  The loonie is up 0.2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The U.S. dollar is down 2.2
percent.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on the
benchmark  10-year (GCAN10YR)  note down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.09 percent. It touched 2.08 percent, the
lowest since March 13. The 3.25 percent securities maturing in
June 2021 rose 24 cents to C$109.63.  Yield Curve  The  yield curve , or the difference between two- and 10-year
note yields, narrowed to 91 basis points after reaching more
than 99 basis points on March 19, the highest level in more than
a month. A narrowing yield curve indicates investors anticipate
slower economic growth and inflation.  Flaherty lowered government-revenue projections in
November, forecasting a C$31 billion ($31 billion) deficit for
the fiscal year that ends this month. That update projected the
elimination of the deficit by the year starting April 2015, and
yesterday Flaherty reiterated the budget will be balanced “in
the medium-term.”  An improving fiscal outlook may accelerate a return to
balance and ease pressure for austerity measures, which may slow
economic growth. The deficit for the fiscal year ending this
month will be C$26 billion,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  estimated in a
March 21  report . Royal Bank of Canada estimated the deficit will
be in a C$20 billion to C$25 billion range.  ‘Knee-Jerk Reaction’  “There’s not likely to be a significant knee-jerk reaction
to the budget,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy
in Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, in a
telephone interview. “In the more medium term, it’s likely to
be positive. Canada is likely to reach a balanced budget much
sooner than its peers. The budget will highlight the stronger
aspects of Canada.”  The Canadian dollar may fall toward a 10-week low versus
the greenback should it break through a key resistance level,
Royal Bank of Canada said, citing trading patterns.  A close above C$1.0051 per  U.S. dollar  could weaken the
loonie all the way to C$1.0215, a price level last reached on
Jan. 16, according to a note written by  George Davis , chief
technical analyst at the bank’s  RBC Dominion Securities  unit in
Toronto. Resistance refers to a level where sell orders may be
clustered.  Davis advised investors to short the dollar against
Canada’s currency with a target of 99.30 cents per greenback and
a stop-loss above C$1.0030 on an hourly closing basis. A short
is a bet that a security will decline in value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  