-- Canada Eliminates Penny Costing Penny-and-a-Half to Make
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   T h o r p e
-- 2012-03-29T20:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/canada-eliminates-penny-that-costs-penny-and-a-half-to-make.html
Canada  will withdraw the penny from
circulation this year, saving taxpayers about C$11 million ($11
million) annually and forcing retailers to round prices to the
nearest nickel, the government announced in  its budget  today.  The Royal Canadian Mint, which has produced 35 billion
pennies since it began production in 1908, will cease
distribution this fall due to the coin’s low purchasing power.
Production and handling cost for the one-cent coin are a C$150-
million drag on the economy, according to a 2006 study by
Desjardins, a Levis, Quebec-based financial institution.  “Pennies take up too much space on our dressers at home,”
Finance MinisterJim Flaherty said in the text of his budget
speech in Ottawa. “They take up far too much time for small
businesses trying to grow and create jobs.”  Business groups welcomed the move, which follows other
countries such as Australia, Brazil and  Sweden , and economists
said it would have little impact on inflation.  “If there’s a rounding up, you’d see a rounding down
somewhere else,” said  Craig Wright , chief economist at Royal
Bank of Canada.  The savings to financial institutions alone may be about
C$20-million a year, as banks reduce transportation, storage and
handling costs, the study estimated.  It costs the government 1.6 cents to produce  one penny ,
which has been made of copper-plated zinc and copper-plated
steel since 1997.  Stuck Down the Sofa  “It’s a cost to the government that can be easily saved,
given that most pennies get stuck down the back of the sofa or
under the streetcar,” said  David Tulk , chief Canada
macroeconomic strategist at TD Securities Inc., a unit of
 Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   The penny, with two maple leafs on one side and  Queen
Elizabeth II  on the other, can continue to be used in payments.
As they are gradually withdrawn from circulation, price rounding
on cash transactions will be required, the government said.  The calculation of the federal goods and services tax and
provincial sales taxes will continue to be calculated to the
penny and added to the price, with rounding only taking place on
the total payment.  Non-cash payments on checks and credit cards will continue
to be rounded to the nearest cent.  “If businesses round cash transactions to the nearest
five-cent increment, any gains or losses relating to cash
transactions (a maximum of two cents per transaction) will
balance out over time,” the government said in its budget
documents.  Increase Efficiency  Retailers and other businesses can continue to price goods
and services in one-cent increments and there will be no need to
reprogram cash registers, according to the government.  Catherine Swift, president and chief executive officer of
the Canadian Federation of Independent Business, said the move
will increase efficiency.  “It has been a long time coming,” she said. “It’s been a
real pain more than anything else. We’ve actually polled our
members on this and they’re supportive.”  The mint used 1.5 million kilograms of steel, 70,000
kilograms of copper and 23,000 kilograms of nickel last year to
make pennies at its facility in Winnipeg, Manitoba. It put 1.3
billion coins in circulation in 2011, half of which were freshly
minted and half made from recycled materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe in Toronto at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Badertscher at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  