-- Canada Budget Offers C$3 Billion to Boost Investment and Hiring
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-03-29T20:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/canada-budget-offers-c-3-billion-to-boost-investment-and-hiring.html
Canadian Finance MinisterJim Flaherty is aiming to boost flagging  job growth  and investment
with C$3 billion ($3 billion) over two years for research and
job subsidies.  The  federal budget  set aside C$1.1 billion over five years
to support research and development and offered another C$500
million for venture capital. The government’s export-financing
agency will extend its temporary authorization to make domestic
loans for another year, a plan that has already allocated C$6
billion since 2009.  “We need to promote innovation more effectively, to keep
creating good-quality jobs,” Flaherty said in his budget speech
today in Ottawa.  Prime MinisterStephen Harper said his main focus is
sustaining job growth that has slowed since the middle of last
year after hiring gains led the world’s 10th-largest economy out
of recession in 2009. Bank of  Canada  Governor Mark Carney has
kept his  key interest rate  at 1 percent since September 2010 in
the longest pause since the 1950s and said companies must take
advantage of low borrowing costs to invest and boost lagging
productivity growth.  “This budget will go some way positively to increase
confidence,” said Catherine Swift, president of the Canadian
Federation of Independent Business, adding the plan addressed
eight of 12 of the group’s priorities including changes to
jobless benefits. “The confidence challenges are really coming
from outside the country.”  Changes to the country’s jobless benefits program were the
most expensive items aimed at jobs and investment over two
years, at C$482 million. They include limiting the increases in
premiums paid by employers and workers to 5 cents a year until
the benefits fund eliminates a deficit, and altering a system
that bases payouts on regional unemployment.  Tax Credit  Flaherty in 2010 froze employment insurance rates at a cost
of C$3.5 billion and lowered the maximum increase to 5 cents
from 15 cents.  Another C$205 million will extend a C$1,000 tax credit for
small businesses hiring new workers for another year, the budget
said. At the same time, the government said it will ease
regulations to allow more skilled foreign workers to enter
Canada where there is sufficient demand.  The research and  venture capital  funds follow
recommendations by an expert panel studying federal funding on
science and technology, which was headed by Open Text chairman
Thomas Jenkins.  “Canada continues to lag behind peer countries in terms of
overall innovation performance” such as lower business research
and development spending as a share of the economy, the budget
document said.  Labor Costs  Canadian labor costs in U.S. dollars have doubled since
2002 because of weak  productivity  gains and an increase in the
currency, which has traded for about parity this year.  Canadian businesses will need to take over from indebted
households and boost investment to sustain the country’s
expansion amid slumping global growth, Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  said in a Dec. 12 speech.  The government said the productivity measures would help to
offset the 19,200 federal government jobs that will be
eliminated after a spending review aimed at helping the
government eliminate a  budget deficit .  The national  unemployment rate  will rise to 7.5 percent
this year from 7.4 percent in 2011 and decline to 7.2 percent in
2013, according to a survey of 14 private economists polled
ahead of the budget.  The budget also proposed extending a 15 percent mineral
exploration tax credit for another year through the end of March
2013 at a cost of about C$100 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 