-- CFTC Should Narrow Swap-Dealer Rule, Bipartisan Lawmakers Say
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-29T20:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/cftc-should-narrow-swap-dealer-rule-bipartisan-lawmakers-say.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  should narrow its regulation determining which
companies will face the highest capital and margin costs under
Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules, Republican and Democratic
lawmakers said.  The agency, which is writing rules for the global swaps
market, should exclude from a dealer definition rule companies
that use the transactions to hedge volatile prices in their
products’ raw materials, said Senator  Debbie Stabenow  of
 Michigan , the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture
Committee, and Representative Frank D. Lucas of  Oklahoma , the
Republican chairman of the House Agriculture Committee.  “We would urge the commission to consider that many
commercial end-users, particularly those with inherent physical
commodity price risk, actively trade in swaps to facilitate
hedging of those risks, and to otherwise anticipate changing
market prices,” they wrote in a letter today to CFTC Chairman
 Gary Gensler . “These entities do so for their own trading
objectives and not for the benefit of others, and the final rule
should clarify that these activities do not constitute ‘swap
dealing’ and will not require swap dealer registration.”  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
preparing to complete the swap-dealer regulation, which will
lead banks,  hedge funds  and possibly energy companies to face
higher capital and margin requirements. The dealer regulation is
among the most contentious rules the agencies have yet to
finish. The CFTC has delayed a series of scheduled votes on the
regulation since January.  Energy Companies  Shell Energy North America LP and Vitol Inc. are among
energy companies that have told the CFTC they use swaps and
other derivatives to hedge risks tied to oil, natural gas and
other underlying assets.  Gensler said March 2 that the commission should limit the
costs on commercial companies without creating a loophole for  BP
Plc (BP)  and other energy firms.  “In the past some entities were left out of regulation
just because of what they called themselves,” Gensler said. “I
think it would be a mistake to end up with this era’s Enron
loophole, and something that might be a loophole for others.”  In 2000, certain electronic markets were excluded from
commission oversight under the so-called Enron loophole, named
for the energy company that collapsed in late 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  