-- Chateau Petrus Joins Diamonds in Hong Kong Sale
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-03-29T23:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/chateau-petrus-joins-diamonds-in-233-million-hong-kong-auction.html
Bottles of  Chateau Petrus , a Ming-
Dynasty plate and an eight-carat diamond ring will test Chinese
demand for luxury items as economic growth slows.  Sotheby’s estimates its sale starting tomorrow, now
comprising more than 3,100 lots, may raise as much as HK$1.9
billion ($240 million) in the first major Hong Kong auctions of
the year.  The five-day marathon includes everything from contemporary
Indonesian paintings to Qianlong-era porcelain and  Patek
Philippe  watches. Wealthy buyers may have less appetite to buy
at a time when  China  pared the nation’s economic growth target
to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  “We will probably have fewer Chinese buyers,” said Sam
Lin, a Hong-Kong-based wine collector. Aggressive bidding from
mainland collectors in the past two years scared off more mature
buyers from  Singapore ,  Malaysia  and  Indonesia , he said. “The
likelihood is some regional buyers might come back if you don’t
have crazy Chinese buyers bidding up prices anymore.”  In addition,  Acker Merrill & Condit  has a two-day wine sale
today and tomorrow that may raise as much as HK$50 million,
while  Seoul Auction  offers as much as HK$64.3 million of
contemporary Asian and western art on April 3.  The Sotheby’s two-day wine sales feature cases of 1982
Petrus and Chateau Lafite, each carrying high estimates of
HK$380,000.  Mainland Buyers  A year ago, surging demand from mainland buyers for
premiers crus French Bordeaux sent prices soaring to a July peak
before falling 15 percent last year, according to the  Live-ex
Fine Wine 100 Index (LIVX100) .  Chinese buyers are broadening their purchases to Burgundies
including Domaine de la Romanee-Conti as well as less expensive
second-and-third-growth Bordeaux, said Robert Sleigh, senior
director and head of wine for  Asia  at  Sotheby’s (BID)  in Hong Kong.  “There’s a demand for a more diverse range of wines,”
said Sleigh. “People are looking for something other than the
commodity big-brand Bordeaux.”  That’s one reason Sotheby’s decided to include wines sold
directly from California boutique wine maker  Colgin Cellars . The
Napa Valley-based winery’s 2007 Colgin Cellar IX Estate Red Wine
is estimated to sell for as much as HK$4190 a bottle.  Zhang’s Bloodline  Sotheby’s April 2 contemporary Asian-art sale will be
headlined by an oil painting by Chinese artist  Zhang Xiaogang 
from his 1993  Bloodline  series. The work may fetch as much as
$4.5 million. An oil-based work by Zao Wou-Ki, a 20th-century
Chinese abstract painter, has a high estimate of $HK28 million.  On April 4, Sotheby’s has its third sale of the Meiyintang
collection of Imperial porcelains, assembled over the past six
decades by Swiss pharmaceutical tycoon Stephen Zuellig.
Highlights of the 52-lot sale include a blue-and-white Ming-
Dynasty plate and a dragon stem bowl from the Xuande period that
both carry high estimates of HK$80 million.  The day before, Sotheby’s will offer the 8.01-carat
emerald-cut blue diamond flanked by two diamonds together
weighing about one carat set in a platinum ring. It may sell for
as much as HK$110 million, according to the high estimate
without premium.  For the first time, the New York-based auction house took
highlights of its watch and fine-jewelry sales on the road to
the Chinese city of  Chengdu , reflecting the spread of strong
buying power beyond markets in Shanghai and Beijing.  Buyer’s premium, the commission added to the hammer price
of works sold, is 25 percent for the first HK$400,000, 20
percent for lots fetching as much as HK$8 million, and 12
percent above that. The wine premium is a flat 22.5 percent.  Potential buyers who aren’t represented at the  Hong Kong
Convention and Exhibition Centre  sale can bid via the Sotheby’s
 online bidding system .  (Frederik Balfour is a Reporter at Large for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 