-- Chelsea Therapeutics Falls on FDA Rejection of Northera
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-29T20:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/chelsea-therapeutics-plunges-on-fda-rejection-of-northera-drug.html
Chelsea Therapeutics International
Ltd. (CHTP)  fell as much as 29 percent after failing to get the U.S.
regulatory approval needed to bring its first drug to market.  The  Food and Drug Administration  wants more data on
Northera, a medicine intended to treat a cause of dizziness and
fainting in people with nervous-system disorders, Chelsea said
in a statement yesterday. Chelsea tumbled 29 percent to $2.62 at
the close in New York, the biggest single-day decline since Feb.
13.  The  FDA  requested information from an additional study of
Northera, which can curb drops in blood pressure, Chelsea said.
The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said it’s conducting
a clinical trial that may provide the additional data about the
drug’s “efficacy and durability” sought by the FDA.  The trial “may not be sufficient for approval” because
the FDA is likely to ask for more information about a range of
symptoms instead of measuring only a decrease in falls, Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities in  New
York . wrote in a note to clients today.  Another trial may cause a two-year delay and lead to a late
2014 product introduction, assuming approval, Scott Henry, an
analyst with Roth Capital Partners LLC in  Newport Beach ,
 California , wrote in a note to clients.  Black Box Warning  The agency also suggested that if the medicine were to gain
approval, it may carry a so-called black box warning, the FDA’s
strictest, related to a type of hypertension that could occur,
the company said.  An FDA reviewer last month recommended against Northera’s
approval, linking the therapy to a life-threatening neurological
disorder and saying it wasn’t proven to work long term. A panel
of outside advisers voted Feb. 23 in favor of the drug because
few treatments exist for the  blood-pressure  drop known as
neurogenic orthostatic hypotension.  “We believe there continues to be an important unmet
medical need in addressing the symptoms associated with
neurogenic OH and remain committed to working with the FDA to
determine the appropriate next steps,” said Simon Pedder, the
company’s president and chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  About 180,000 patients in the U.S. suffer from the blood-
pressure condition that leads to symptoms such as dizziness,
becoming light-headed, blurred vision and fainting,  Keith Schmidt , sales and marketing vice president for Chelsea, told
analysts on a Nov. 2 conference call.  Available in Japan  Northera is available in  Japan  as part of a marketing
agreement with  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506)  and generates
annual revenue of $50 million, Chelsea said on its website. The
FDA is concerned that the drug has been associated with 28
reports of a life-threatening neurological disorder known as
neuroleptic malignant syndrome in patients in Japan, agency
reviewer Melanie Blank told advisers. The reports don’t contain
enough detail to determine whether the condition is related to
the drug, she said.  No incidents of the disorder have been reported in the
company’s studies, Chelsea said in a Feb. 13 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  