-- China Cosco Surges on Container Outlook: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-03-30T11:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/china-cosco-posts-1-7-billion-fy-loss-on-shipping-slump.html
China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  jumped the
most in more than two months in Hong Kong trading after
predicting an end to a container-rates slump that contributed to
it losing 10.5 billion yuan ($1.7 billion) last year.  The company, the operator of  Asia ’s largest container line,
 jumped  8.4 percent, the most since Jan. 17, to close at HK$4.91.
China Shipping Container Lines Co. climbed 6.4 percent and
Orient Overseas (International) Ltd. rose 2.6 percent.  ‘We should have reasonable rates coming back,’’ Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Wei Jiafu told reporters in Hong
Kong today via video-link. “Shippers, shipping companies and
ports have reached a consensus that no party in the chain should
collapse.”  The company, based in Tianjin,  China , was largely
successful in pushing through a rates increase on Asia-Europe
routes this month, said Executive Vice President Wan Min, as
lines pare overcapacity that contributed to price wars last
year.  AP Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s largest container line,
has said it will cut Asia-Europe capacity 9 percent this year.  “Industry fundamentals are rapidly improving,” Credit
Suisse AG analysts Davin Wu and Timothy Ross said in a note to
clients today, as they reiterated an outperform rating on the
stock.  The analysts also predicted that Cosco’s container-shipping
unit will break even in the second quarter. The operations lost
6.4 billion yuan in the whole last year, while average rates
fell 20 percent, based on a  Hong Kong  stock exchange statement
yesterday.  Dry-Bulk Outlook  China Cosco’s dry-bulk vessels also had a 5.4 billion yuan
loss last year as expansion in the global fleet outpaced China’s
demand for coal and iron-ore shipments. The company has merged
units to pare costs and begun targeting new markets to revive
the business.  The dry-bulk market will “remain weak” this year, said
President Jiang Lijun. “The second half may be better than the
first.”  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a benchmark for commodity-shipping
rates, has dropped 40 percent in the past year. China Cosco had
a fleet of 374 dry bulk ships as of Dec. 31, compared with 450 a
year earlier.  The company’s container-shipping sales dropped 11 percent
to 41.4 billion yuan last year, even as volumes rose 11 percent
to 6.9 million boxes. Average rates on Asia-Europe routes
tumbled 33 percent, while trans-Pacific fees dropped 16 percent,
based on Bloomberg calculations.  The price of 380 Centistoke Bunker Fuel, used by ships,
also averaged 40 percent higher last year than a year earlier in
Singapore trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company had 157  container ships  at the end of 2011. The
combined capacity was 667,970 boxes, an 8.8 percent increase
from a year earlier. The shipping line is due to receive 10
owned vessels able to carry 4,250 boxes each this year, along
with four leased 13,000-container vessels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 