-- China’s Developers Rebound on Policy Outlook: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-29T09:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/china-s-developers-rebound-on-policy-outlook-shanghai-mover.html
China ’s property shares rose,
rebounding from yesterday’s slump that sent a measure tracking
real estate stocks to a seven-week low, on speculation the
government may hold back further housing curbs as growth slows.  The  gauge  tracking developers on the Shanghai Composite
Index added 0.7 percent at local closing after rising the most
in three weeks earlier.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest listed
developer on the mainland, climbed 2.4 percent to 8.19 yuan in
Shenzhen, and  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the second largest,
also gained 2.4 percent to 10.8 yuan.  China’s biggest copper producer and its largest airline
posted profits that missed estimates, joining banks and energy
companies in providing evidence that slower economic growth is
dragging down corporate earnings. The reports drove the Shanghai
Composite down 2.7 percent yesterday, while the property measure
lost 1.9 percent. The benchmark gauge declined 1.4 percent today.  “The country’s growth is slowing down, so investors are
speculating that the government may not maintain an absolute
stance on the tightening of the housing market,” said Dai Fang,
a Shanghai-based property analyst at Zheshang Securities Ltd.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced at the beginning of a national
lawmakers’ congress on March 5 an economic growth target of 7.5
percent for this year, down from 8 percent over the past seven
years. He also said easing the property measures could cause
“chaos.”  Chinese corporate profits won’t grow at all this year,
according to Societe Generale SA.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  