-- China Repo Snaps 3-Day Gain on Speculation Banks Closing Books
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-29T09:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/china-repo-snaps-3-day-gain-on-speculation-banks-closing-books.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell, snapping a three-day advance, on speculation most
financial institutions have built up enough cash to prepare for
the end of the quarter and public holidays.  The People’s Bank of China probably injected a net 19
billion yuan ($3 billion) into the financial system this week
before a three-day holiday that starts April 2, according to
 Frances Cheung , a Credit Agricole CIB strategist in Singapore.
The monetary authority will sell 20 billion yuan of 91-day
 repurchase agreements  today, according to traders at primary
dealers required to bid at the auctions.  “The preparation for month-end and quarter-end cash is
almost done, while there is no specific relief of the overall
liquidity situation,” said Cheung.  The seven-day  repurchase rate  decreased two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.51 percent as of 5 p.m. in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, declined 209 basis points
this quarter, the most since the first three months of 2011.  The PBOC has reduced banks’  reserve requirements  twice
since the start of December to prop up a slowing economy.  Bank of China Ltd. said the country’s economy may grow by
about 8.4 percent in the second quarter, according to a research
report posted on the bank’s website today. China may cut the
reserve-requirement ratio at least one more time in the first
half as the growth of yuan positions for foreign-exchange
purchases is at a lower level, according to the report.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell two basis points to 3.13 percent,
taking this quarter’s advance to 21 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  