-- China Picks Wenzhou for Small-Business Funding Experiment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-29T01:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/china-picks-wenzhou-for-small-business-funding-experiment.html
Wenzhou, the Chinese city where
more than 80 indebted businessmen committed suicide or went
bankrupt in six months last year, was chosen for a trial program
that aims to improve funding and broaden investment.  Under a plan approved by the State Council yesterday, the
coastal city will lead the nation’s task of regulating private
funding, a practice that helped boost the growth of Wenzhou’s
small businesses and is sometimes illegal in China. It will also
develop more types of bonds and allow trading of unlisted
equities, technology and cultural products, according to a
 statement  on the government’s website.  The plan, first mentioned by Premier  Wen Jiabao  this month,
is part of the government’s economic reform package to develop a
more market-based economy after Wen visited Wenzhou in October.
It seeks to create more funding opportunities for for private
companies, which often resort to off-the-books lending as they
struggle to get loans from state-owned banks.  “This is a big deal,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-
based strategist with Credit Agricole CIB, said in an e-mail.
“This will facilitate access to credit by the private sector,
which is key for sustaining GDP growth at a time of overall
economic slowdown.”  Investment Abroad  Individual investors in Wenzhou, who make 90 percent of
China’s eyeglasses and exported lighters, will also be allowed
to make direct investments abroad. The State Council also said
it will encourage private capital to participate in setting up
“innovative financial organizations,” including village and
county banks, loan companies and rural  credit unions , according
to the statement.  The government also encouraged banks in Wenzhou to extend
more loans to small enterprises after a collapse in some Wenzhou
companies’ funding chains “exerted a certain impact on economic
and social stability,” the Cabinet said in the statement.  Wen visited Wenzhou, in Zhejiang province, in the midst of
private lending collapse, when more than 80 indebted businessmen
in Wenzhou, a city of 9 million people, committed suicide or
declared bankruptcy from April through September in 2011 because
they were unable to repay informal lenders, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported in October.  Wu Ying Case  In January, the Zhejiang Provincial Higher People’s Court
upheld the death sentence for Wu Ying, a businesswomen convicted
of defrauding investors of 380 million yuan ($60.2 million) from
private lending channels.  China ’s Supreme People’s Court is
reviewing her case.  The Wenzhou pilot program will help the city’s “healthy
development” and is “significant” to the country’s financial
reforms and economic growth, it said.  The proposal is “a positive step toward bring informal
lending into the sunshine,” said Dong Tao, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Credit Suisse AG. “This will help control
financial risk, but success will depend on detailed measures.”  China’s economy  expanded 9.2 percent last year after
growing 10.4 percent in 2010. The country posted its largest
trade deficit since at least 1989 in February as  Europe ’s debt
crisis hurt exports.  The Cabinet asked Wenzhou to “regulate and develop”
private financing, encourage individual funds to set up village
banks or small lending companies, and support state-owned and
commercial banks in setting up micro-lending institutions for
small businesses.  Interest Rate Liberalization  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001)  said on March 8 that its
fourth-quarter bad loan ratio climbed 26 percent due to
increased lending to smaller businesses. Among its branches, the
ratio was highest in Wenzhou, reflecting the difficulties faced
by the city’s entrepreneurs, the bank said.  The statement didn’t give details on the trial of
investment abroad by individuals. China Business News on March
22 quoted Zhou Xiaoping, head of the Wenzhou commerce bureau’s
foreign economic cooperation department, as saying residents may
receive a $200 million investment quota in the first year after
approval of the plan.  Wang Qinwei, a London-based economist at  Capital Economics ,
said even with the trial he doesn’t expect the government will
move quickly on opening the capital account.  “Policy makers have good reason for caution,” Wang said,
because rapid cross-border money flows may be “destabilizing”
before the yuan is allowed to change value freely and the
financial system is developed further.  Interest rate liberalization, which is “a precondition”
for relaxing  capital controls , didn’t appear in yesterday’s
statement, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  