-- China Buys Five Cargos U.S. of Corn, State Researcher Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-29T06:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/china-buys-five-cargos-u-s-of-corn-state-researcher-says-1-.html
China , the second-biggest corn
consumer, bought five cargos of U.S. corn this week after
declines in  Chicago  prices made imports cheaper than domestic
supply, researcher Grain.gov.cn said.  The purchases were by livestock feed mills in southern
China for shipment in May to August, according to an e-mailed
report from the researcher, a unit of state-controlled China
National Grain & Oils Information Center. With these orders,
China’s imports in the year through Sept. 30 will total 4.2
million metric tons, the researcher said.  China’s expanding livestock is increasing demand for feed
grain and soybean meal, sending domestic corn futures to an all-
time high this month and boosting optimism that its orders may
help soak up an expected record U.S. crop. Still, China’s
imports will be limited by state-issued quotas, said Cherry
Zhang, analyst at  Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co.  “I would expect continued purchases in the next few days
at the current price of $320, cost-and-freight, for imports,”
Zhang said by phone from  Shanghai . This year’s imports may total
6.6 million tons, she said, reiterating her company’s forecast.  U.S. Crop  May-delivery corn in Chicago rose as much as 0.5 percent to
$6.235 per bushel before trading at $6.215 at 1:40 p.m. Beijing
time. The contract had declined 4.1 percent this week before
today on speculation that a report by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  tomorrow will show farmers planted the most acres
since World War II.  China issues 7.2 million tons of low-tariff quotas a year,
with state-owned companies controlling the majority, while
private companies split less than 3 million tons, Zhang said.
Many companies only have quotas of a few thousand tons, not
enough to enable them to purchase by bulk carriers, which
usually carry 60,000 tons each, she said.  For China to have large-scale purchases, such as when it
bought 3 million to 4 million tons last year, the orders will
have to be by state-owned companies, Zhang said. “The impact on
the market is limited” so long as the government remains
sidelined, she said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  