-- China’s Stocks Poised to Extend Drop on Profit, Baer Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-03-29T10:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/china-s-stocks-poised-to-extend-drop-on-profit-says-julius-baer.html
Chinese stocks  are poised to extend
their slump as the slowing economy hurts earnings, according to
Bank  Julius Baer  & Co., which has about $286 billion in client
assets worldwide.  Chinese equities will probably retreat unless there is
“significant” easing of monetary policy, Alan Lam, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Julius Baer, said by phone yesterday. His
comments came after the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 2.7
percent, the most in four months, as Societe Generale SA said
Chinese corporate profits won’t grow at all this year. The gauge
has gained 3.9 percent this year, headed for the biggest
quarterly gain in four.  “In the coming three months, the rally has ended,” Lam
said. “The economic slowdown will continue for a while and
there are overexpectations on policy. It’s a fact that the
economic slowdown in  China  is negative on profitability.”  The Shanghai Composite sank 7.9 percent since March 5 after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced a 2012 economic growth target of
7.5 percent, down from 8 percent over the past seven years. The
gauge has slumped 7.3 percent this month after rallying 10
percent in January and February. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks has tumbled 11 percent
in March, the second-biggest drop among 93 primary indexes
tracked by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai Composite fell 1.4 percent today to the lowest
level since Jan. 16. The Hang Seng gauge declined 1.6 percent,
the biggest drop since March 19.  ‘Far Too Optimistic’  Industrial companies posted their first January-February
profit decline since 2009, with  net income  dropping 5.2 percent
compared with a 34.3 percent gain a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics reported on March 27. Companies from Air
China Ltd., the nation’s biggest international carrier, to
Jiangxi Copper Co., the largest producer of the metal, reported
earnings this week that trailed analysts’ estimates.  The industrial profit figures suggest 2012 consensus
earnings estimates for Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies are
“far too optimistic,” Guy Stear and Anthony Lee, strategists
at  Societe Generale , wrote in a March 27 report. John-Paul Smith, Deutsche Bank AG’s London-based emerging-market
strategist, said “recent corporate data appears to support our
bearish case.”  “At the very least we are at the start of a transition or
consolidation period for both the economy and the corporate
sector, which is likely to focus investor attention on the
deteriorating outlook for profits and  cash flow ,” Smith wrote
in an e-mail yesterday. The strategist cut Chinese stocks to
underweight from neutral last month.  Time To Buy  Of the 505 companies in the Shanghai Composite that have
released annual earnings, profits have risen 17 percent on
average, trailing analyst estimates by 3.6 percent, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an increase of 38
percent in the previous year.  The Shanghai Composite was the worst performer among the
world’s 10 biggest markets in 2010 and 2011, tumbling a combined
33 percent, as the central bank increased  interest rates  and
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios to tame inflation.  The sell-off in equities may be a good time to buy as the
government has room to cut rates and reserve ratios to avoid a
“hard landing” for the economy, said Saharat Chudsuwan, chief
investment officer at Bangkok-based Tisco Asset Management Co.,
which manages about $4.6 billion including Chinese equities.  Discount Valuations  Companies in the Shanghai Composite trade at 9.4 times
estimated profit, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The Shanghai
gauge trades at a 30 percent  discount  to the  Standard & Poor’s
500  Index’s 13.5 times, the data show.  Stocks dropped across  Asia  yesterday on concern slumping
earnings will be the latest drag on a Chinese economy that’s
already facing risks from a European debt crisis that’s eroding
demand for exports and Premier Wen’s campaign to rein in  home
prices . The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slumped 0.9 percent today,
extending yesterday’s 0.5 percent drop.  “A lot of Asian economies are intertwined with China,”
Bharat Joshi, who helps oversee $10 billion as an assistant
investment manager at Aberdeen Asset in  Kuala Lumpur , said in a
phone interview yesterday. “Everyone is quite dependent on the
big brother there. When China reports bad numbers and
disappointments in the market, it affects the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  