-- Coal India Set to Miss Fuel Supply Deadline, Prolonging Shortage
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-03-29T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/coal-india-set-to-miss-fuel-supply-deadline-prolonging-shortage.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s
largest producer of the commodity, will miss a government
deadline to sign supply agreements with power utilities, an
official said, delaying attempts to ease a fuel shortage.  The board of the state-owned company hasn’t agreed on a
clause in the accord requiring Coal  India  to supply at least 80
percent of the contracted amount of fuel or pay a penalty, the
government official said yesterday, declining to be identified
because he wasn’t authorized to comment on the matter. The
company will submit a fresh assessment of the agreement to the
coal ministry today, the official said.  The government had given Coal India until March 31 to sign
the agreements with utilities in  Asia ’s second-fastest growing
major economy. A group of industrialists who stalled plans to
spend $36 billion on building  power plants  met Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  in January and urged him to take steps to reduce
fuel shortages.  Coal India gained 0.4 percent, the most since March 22, to
332.80 rupees at the close in Mumbai yesterday. The stock has
climbed 11 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent
increase in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The government ordered Coal India on Feb. 15 to sign the
supply agreements with power plants and import the fuel if
needed to overcome local production hurdles. The mining company
hasn’t signed accords since April 2009, saying it could provide
only 50 percent of the requirements of utilities.  The government has the power to order Coal India to sign
the agreements, the official said.  The nation had 192,792 megawatts of installed capacity as
of yesterday, the government said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  