-- College Football Tournament Not Preferred by Public, Poll Says
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-03-29T19:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/college-football-tournament-not-preferred-by-public-poll-says.html
College football’s current format
for crowning a  national champion  is preferable to holding a
postseason tournament like college basketball, according to
almost half of the people questioned by the  Seton Hall  Sports
Poll.  The poll, conducted among 779 people by telephone across
the U.S. from March 26 to 28, found 44 percent of the
respondents said they would keep the Bowl Championship Series
system, while 37 percent opted for a national tournament. The
remaining 19 percent said they didn’t know. The poll had a
margin of error for the full sample of plus or minus 3.6
percent.  The poll results were reported as executives from college
athletic conferences and the BCS are discussing possible
alternatives to the  current system , which combines voting polls
and computer rankings to determine the No. 1 and No. 2 teams
that play for the national title in college football’s highest
tier.  “I think the problem with a football playoff is that no
one has been able to figure out what that would look like,”
 Rick Gentile , director of the poll at  Seton Hall University  in
South Orange,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “Every
proposal that has been laid out has been fairly unacceptable and
this year’s game was controversy free. I think the problem is
that people can’t envision how it would work.”  The University of  Alabama , ranked No. 2 going into the
game, beat No. 1 Louisiana State University 21-0 in the
Superdome in  New Orleans  to win the national championship this
past season.  Sports Fans  When Seton Hall’s poll focused on people who identified
themselves as sports fans, 37 percent said they would prefer a
tournament. Among those who said they followed sports
“somewhat,” the number rose to 50 percent. Among people who
said they watched sports closely, 61 percent said they would
prefer a tournament.  “People are still leaning toward, ‘Yeah, it kind of
works,’” Gentile said. “That’s what you are getting from the
general population. That would probably change if you get into
December and there are a few undefeated teams left out of the
mix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  