-- Collective Brands Reaches 10-Month High on E-Land Bid Report
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-03-29T14:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/collective-brands-surges-to-10-month-high-on-e-land-bid-report.html
Collective Brands Inc. (PSS)  jumped to a
10-month high after South Korean clothing company E-Land Group
said it will bid for the owner of the Payless ShoeSource chain.  “E-Land seeks to buy Collective Brands,” Ro Byung Gyoo, a
spokesman for E-Land Group, said by phone today. He declined to
give details of the offer, including its price. Collective
Brands rose 8.9 percent to $20.09 at 10:19 a.m. in  New York ,
after reaching $20.19, the highest intraday price since May. The
stock has climbed from a close as low as $9.35 in August.  Maeil Business Newspaper earlier reported that E-Land Group
is preparing a $1.8 billion joint offer for the company with
institutional investors such as National Pension Service and
 Korea  Development Group. Mardi Larson, a spokeswoman for Topeka,
Kansas-based Collective Brands, declined to comment on the Maeil
report and didn’t immediately return a phone message left today.
today that the company is preparing a $1.8 billion joint offer.  Acquiring Collective Brands would help E-Land reach its
target of 6 trillion won ($5.3 billion) from footwear sales by
2015, 5 trillion won of which would come from outside  South
Korea , according to Maeil.  Collective Brands, which also makes Saucony and Sperry Top-
Sider shoes, said in August that it would work with Perella
Weinberg Partners and Kurt Salmon to explore strategic options.
Last month, the company winnowed the pool of potential buyers to
about 10, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Much of Collective’s growth has come in  Asia , with the
company last month announcing plans to open its first Payless
stores in Vietnam, Thailand and Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  