-- Colombia Needs U.S. to Invest More in Counterinsurgency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   O ’ H a n l o n
-- 2012-03-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/colombia-needs-u-s-to-invest-more-in-counterinsurgency.html
How do successful
counterinsurgencies evolve over time? Understanding the answer
is paramount as the Obama administration tries to sort out the
next steps on  Afghanistan .  A rule of thumb is that even successful campaigns against
insurgent groups typically take a decade or longer, as with the
classic  British campaign  in Malaya after World War II or the
U.S. effort in the  Philippines  a century ago or  Brazil ’s
internal struggle half a century ago. For a more recent example,
 Colombia ’s ups and downs of the last two decades in its fight
against drug cartels and powerful insurgencies provide a useful
guidepost.  A good deal of progress against the big cartels occurred in
the 1990s, and after Alvaro Uribe Velez was elected president in
2002, the government had remarkable success in dealing with two
insurgency movements, the  FARC  and  ELN . Uribe stepped up attacks
on insurgent forces and leaders, while the U.S. provided the
helicopter support and precision munitions that the Colombian
military units needed.  Fatality rates from violence declined by roughly half, as
did the estimated size of the insurgencies (the  FARC  is thought
to have fewer than 10,000 adherents now). The amount of
territory held by insurgents declined substantially, and major
cities became much safer.  Right-wing paramilitaries scaled back operations even more,
and the country’s economy experienced healthy growth rates,
averaging more than 4 percent annually over the last dozen
years.  Violence Returns  Since 2010, however, when Uribe’s former defense minister,
 Juan Manuel Santos , became president, some degree of anxiety
has crept back in. Santos has made strides in certain areas,
partially defusing testy relations with neighboring Venezuela
and  Ecuador  -- where insurgents still seek refuge -- and
continuing Colombia’s impressive economic performance.  But there are signs that violence is on the gradual
increase again. The insurgents have learned from their reverses,
a regrouping that began in Uribe’s tenure, and adopted more
effective tactics of shielding themselves from the government’s
new methods of pursuit.  A few statistics, based on raw data from the Colombian
police and presented at a recent Bogota conference by Alfredo Rangel of the  University of Sergio Arboleda , highlight these
growing worries. After declining to about a dozen incidents a
year in 2007 and 2008, attacks on oil infrastructure jumped to
47 in 2011, similar to the level in 2004.  Guerrilla ambushes on Colombian security forces rose to 367
in 2011, almost identical to the 2002 tally, after having
declined to about 150 annually five years ago. Kidnappings have
increased modestly over the last two years, as well. The
homicide rate is not increasing, but it has reached a plateau at
almost 15,000 in a population of 45 million (by contrast, we
view the higher level of 20,000 deaths a year in  Mexico  as a
crisis, even though Mexico’s population is more than twice that
of Colombia’s).  Santos’s new minister of defense, Juan Carlos Pinzon, is
now making efforts to adapt. He is combining the military skills
that Colombian forces already possess in spades -- for jungle
and mountain warfare -- with the organizational changes and
integrated counterinsurgency operations promoted by U.S.
commanders such as David Petraeus and Stanley McChrystal in
American-led missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. The hope is to
reduce insurgent strength and activity by 50 percent in the 10
key areas of the country where they are now strongest, by the
end of President Santos’s term in mid-2014.  Obama’s Obligation  It is too soon to say how successful Pinzon and Santos will
be. The Obama administration needs to stay attuned to ways it
can help. Congress finally approved a free-trade accord with
Colombia last year, but so far, the administration’s policies
toward Colombia in particular, and  Latin America  more generally,
are not very path-breaking or concentrated. We can learn from
the experience of the Clinton and Bush administrations, which
among other things helped bring about and support the  Plan
Colombia  aid initiative.  No huge new aid package is required. But even if additional
forms of U.S. assistance and cooperation are limited in size and
scale, they are hardly unimportant. They should include:  -- Providing greater technical reconnaissance support as
Colombia seeks to track down insurgent leaders more efficiently.  -- Helping Colombia’s special forces better organize
themselves.  -- Teaching skills to deployed soldiers and police in the
field, as NATO has done in Afghanistan, where counterinsurgency
advisory and assistance teams, known as  CAAT , went on patrol
with forces to train them in actual operations. Such education
and cooperation can be a two-way street, as Colombia continues
to have more expertise in areas such as jungle warfare than U.S.
forces do.  -- Granting temporary aid increases to support  development
efforts  for violence-prone parts of the country, such as a five-
year road-construction plan.  A successful Colombia is important not only in its own
right. It can also be a regional pillar for the U.S. -- a role
that Colombia is already starting to play as Central American
and even  Mexican leaders seek  its counsel on how to confront
violent extremists. The U.S. can and should do more to help. We
know from past success that our investments in Colombia are
worth it.  ( Michael O’Hanlon , a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution , is co-author, with  Martin Indyk  and  Kenneth Lieberthal , of “ Bending History : Barack Obama’s  Foreign Policy .”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Europe’s firewall  and
converting the  U.S. truck fleet to natural gas .  Jonathan Alter 
on  stand-your-ground laws .  Jonathan Weil  on vital new  accounting
rules . Stephen L. Carter on arguing about health care. Brian
Calle on Orange County,  California ,  opting out of Obamacare .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael O’Hanlon at  mohanlon@brookings.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 