-- Colombian Peso Falls on Oil Drop, Outlook for Currency Measures
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-29T19:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/colombian-peso-falls-on-oil-drop-outlook-for-currency-measures.html
Colombia ’s peso dropped to a six-
week low amid declines in oil, the nation’s biggest export, and
on speculation policy makers may take additional measures to
ease gains in the currency.  The peso weakened 1 percent to 1,792 per  U.S. dollar  in
Bogota, the largest decline this year. It earlier touched
1,799.10, the weakest level since Feb. 16. The loss curbed this
year’s increase to 8.2 percent as the currency heads to its
third consecutive quarterly advance.  Oil fell to a six-week low as France said governments are
moving closer to an agreement on releasing emergency stockpiles.
Investors are speculating Colombian policy makers may take more
measures to ease the peso’s rally after Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said he supports more intervention. The central
bank should consider boosting dollar purchases and study
possible “surprise” moves along with its announced plans,
Echeverry told reporters yesterday in Bogota.  “The market is much more nervous and investors are more
watchful of what could happen,” said  Camilo Perez , the head
economist at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s second-biggest bank.
“A lot of investors were short the dollar, and with the peso’s
reversal they’re going out to buy dollars to close the position,
and that leads to much larger movements.”  In so-called short-covering, investors purchase securities
to close out bearish bets.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated bonds
due in 2024 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
7.26 percent in Bogota, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in New York at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  