-- Commerzbank Can Boost Capital to Outsrip EBA Target
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-03-29T09:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/commerzbank-can-boost-capital-to-outsrip-eba-target.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , which was assigned
the largest capital gap of six German lenders by  Europe ’s top
banking regulator, said it can raise about 2.9 billion euros
($3.9 billion) in the first half, outstripping its target.  The bank will reap cost savings and seek to pay bonuses to
a “large proportion” of eligible employees with stock in the
company, Frankfurt-based Commerzbank said today in a statement
on its website. The lender reduced its capital requirement by
more than 80 percent to about 1 billion euros after swapping
capital instruments trading below their face value with
investors at the beginning of March, the bank said.  Europe’s leaders sought to restore confidence in the
banking industry’s ability to withstand the region’s sovereign
debt crisis by ordering lenders to boost capital. The European
Banking Authority told Commerzbank,  Germany ’s second-largest
bank, to close a 5.3 billion-euro gap.  The 2.9 billion-euro target is based on “current business
planning” and assumes “that the economic fundamentals, and in
particular the debt crisis, do not deteriorate further,”  Martin Blessing , Commerzbank’s chief executive officer, said in a
letter to shareholders in his annual report.  In December, the EBA told European banks to raise 114.7
billion euros in fresh capital by the end of June. The regulator
called for lenders to have core Tier 1 capital, a measure of
financial strength, of at least 9 percent of risk-weighted
assets after accounting for writedowns on some European
sovereign bonds.  Commerzbank expects to have a capital ratio of more than 11
percent after implementing the measures and comply with EBA and
Basel III requirements, Blessing said. The bank has additional
options to boost capital if necessary, he said.  The lender expects earnings next year to be an
“improvement” on 2012, a year in which the debt crisis will
continue to cloud its forecast, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  