-- Unemployment Claims in U.S. Fall to Four-Year Low: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-29T22:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/consumer-confidence-reaches-second-highest-level-in-four-years.html
Claims for  unemployment benefits 
fell to the lowest since April 2008 and consumer confidence
reached the second-highest level in four years, indicating the
labor-market recovery is helping sustain demand.  Applications for jobless insurance dropped by 5,000 last
week to 359,000, the Labor Department said today in Washington.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was little changed at minus
34.7 in the period to March 25, close to the minus 33.7 reading
two weeks earlier that was the strongest since March 2008.  “The labor-market improvement is unambiguous,” said
 Richard DeKaser , deputy chief economist at Parthenon Group LLC
in  Boston , the third-best forecaster for gross domestic product
in the two years through February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News. “We are going to see consumer spending
improving. The big drivers -- jobs and wealth -- are moving more
favorably, and confidence is as well.”  Six months of the strongest job growth since 2006 are
underpinning the sentiment of consumers, whose spending accounts
for about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy. At the same
time, gasoline near $4 a gallon leaves Americans with less to
spend on other goods, posing a risk to sales at retailers like
 Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)   The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.2 percent to
1,403.28 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The index earlier fell as much
as 1 percent as S&P said  Greece  may have to restructure its debt
again.  Smoothing Out Claims  The Labor Department revised the claims data to reflect
updates to the seasonal adjustments used to help smooth out
week-to-week changes. The result of the adjustment led to higher
levels of initial claims over recent weeks, while leaving intact
the trend of declining dismissals over the past year. The
revision also made it difficult to compare with economists’
projections before the report.  The median forecast in the Bloomberg survey of 46
economists called for 350,000 claims. The Labor Department
revised the previous week’s figure to 364,000 from an initially
reported 348,000.  In the U.K.,  house prices  fell the most in two years, and
mortgage approvals dropped to an eight-month low as economic
uncertainty hurt demand for property and banks tightened lending
conditions.  Home values decreased 1 percent in March, the biggest
decline since February 2010,  Nationwide Building Society  said in
an e-mailed statement today. Lenders granted 48,986 property
loans to Britons in February, compared with 57,899 in January,
the  Bank of England  said separately.  Fourth Quarter  Another report on the U.S. economy today showed gross
domestic product expanded at a 3 percent annual rate from
October through December, the same as previously estimated.  Corporate profits climbed 0.9 percent in the fourth
quarter, the slowest pace in three years, the figures from the
Commerce Department showed. Business spending on new equipment
and software rose more than initially reported, while consumer
purchases grew at a 2.1 percent pace to match the previous
estimate.  The Bloomberg survey of confidence showed that over the
past three weeks, at least 30 percent of households said they
had a  favorable  view of the buying climate, the longest stretch
since early 2008.  Fewer firings and more hiring “has bolstered  consumer
confidence  despite rising gasoline prices,” said  Joe Brusuelas ,
a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “The
improvement in the labor market does suggest that households
expect to increase purchases of big-ticket durables to replace
worn-out stock.”  Index Average  The comfort index was minus 34.9 in the week ended March
18. Since its inception in December 1985, the comfort index has
averaged minus 15.2.  The Bloomberg comfort survey has a three-point margin of
error, and the index has been above minus 40 -- the level
associated with recessions or their aftermath -- for seven
straight weeks.  The index of whether it’s a  good time  to buy increased to
minus 37 from minus 38.6. The measure of Americans’ views of the
 state of the economy  dropped to minus 66.7 last week from minus
64.9 the prior week. The gauge of personal finances was little
changed at minus 0.4 compared with minus 1.3 the prior week.  Brighter job prospects and rising wages are giving
consumers the wherewithal to sustain spending in the face of
higher prices at the gas pump. Retail sales climbed 1.1 percent
in February, the biggest gain in five months, after a 0.6
percent advance a month earlier that was larger than previously
estimated, figures from the Commerce Department showed this
month.  Auto Sales  Clothing stores and auto dealers were among those showing
improving demand last month. Cars and light trucks sold in
February at the  fastest pace  in four years, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  “We are beginning to see some signs that the economy is
slowly starting to improve,”  Howard Levine , chairman and chief
executive officer at Matthews, North Carolina-based Family
Dollar Stores, said in a conference call with analysts on March
28. “Yet consumers still face some headwinds, especially from
rising gas prices, which could strain discretionary purchases
and impacts the pace of recovery.”  A gallon of regular  unleaded gasoline  has increased to a
10-month high of $3.92 as of yesterday, according to AAA, the
nation’s largest automobile association.  Jobless Rate  The labor market is helping cushion the hit to pocketbooks.
Payrolls grew by 227,000 in February after a 284,000 gain in
January. The  unemployment rate  held at a three-year low of 8.3
percent following five consecutive declines. Worker pay jumped
in the last six months of 2011 by the most in almost five years.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said while he’s
encouraged by the unemployment rate’s decline, continued
accommodative monetary policy will be needed to make further
progress.  “A wide range of indicators suggests that the job market
has been improving, which is a welcome development indeed,”
Bernanke said March 26 to the National Association for Business
Economics. “Still, conditions remain far from normal, as shown,
for example, by the high level of long-term unemployment and the
fact that jobs and hours worked remain well below pre-crisis
peaks, even without adjusting for growth in the  labor force .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  