-- Consumer Protection Bureau Can Teach Financial Self-Help
-- B y   R o b e r t   H .   G e r t n e r
-- 2012-03-29T00:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/consumer-protection-bureau-can-teach-financial-self-help.html
The long gestation of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, which was mandated by the Dodd-
Frank Act, is over.  Now that the bureau’s chairman,  Richard Cordray , is in
place and it is rolling out programs, it is a good time to think
about how government intervention can improve outcomes in the
financial products consumers buy. Regardless of whether one
prefers caveat emptor, a paternalistic federal government or
something in between, the  CFPB  is a reality. Improving financial
decisions by consumers is a worthy goal, but it will not be easy
to design effective government actions to help them do so.  When consumers make poor financial decisions, they often do
so because they lack information and understanding of product
features. Financial literacy and sophistication is shockingly
low: About one-third of the  U.S. population  understands the
concepts of compound interest or how credit-card debt works.
Such financial illiteracy is correlated with high levels of debt
and high fees for financial services, and is greater among
people with low incomes and low education, as well as minorities
and the elderly.  Poor Judgment  Almost as distressing is the body of research that
demonstrates poor judgment in financial decision-making.
Experiments with people making real decisions show that changes
in the way choices are presented can have large effects on
outcomes, such as portfolio composition in retirement accounts.
Consumers often focus on subsets of terms for mortgages,
insurance policies, bank accounts and credit cards, rather than
the financial impact of all the relevant terms. Default rules,
which require consumers to actively opt in to employer-sponsored
retirement programs, have dramatic effects on the levels of
savings in 401(k) plans.  In many areas of life, people make mistakes, bad outcomes
result and a lesson is learned. But financial decisions are
important and infrequent. Feedback often occurs only when it is
too late -- for example, when variable-rate increases make a
mortgage unaffordable, or when suffering a financial setback
leads to huge fees from banks, or when retirees discover that
they have insufficient savings.  Seller sophistication can exacerbate these problems.
Financial-services firms collect and analyze consumer
information, including detailed transactions data. They then
design highly tailored offerings that may exploit behavioral and
decision-making weaknesses. For example, those identified as
procrastinators end up with products loaded with high late fees.
This expanded menu of offerings and customization makes it more
difficult for consumers to rely on the market choices of others:
Just because my sophisticated neighbor chooses to use Bank X
doesn’t mean that the services and prices I get from that
institution will be good for me.  Regulations that restrict product offerings are rarely
effective. They can prevent many beneficial products from being
sold and stifle innovation. In addition, the costs of required
regulatory reviews are enormous, and poor decisions among the
available choices would persist. Fortunately, this doesn’t seem
to be the CFPB’s approach.  Instead, it prefers a regime of transparent disclosure of
prices and other terms. The CFPB’s website states that “this
means ensuring that consumers get the information they need to
make the financial decisions they believe are best for
themselves and their families -- that prices are clear up front,
that risks are visible, and that nothing is buried in fine
print.”  Disclosure Mandates  But there are problems with relying on disclosure. For one
thing, it doesn’t ensure transparency. Given complexity, the way
in which terms are disclosed is critical and must be regulated.
The experience of APR -- a single summary interest rate in loan
disclosures -- shows how such information mandates can be
manipulated by providers, and allow insufficient data to be
passed on to consumers. To create transparency, all  fees  would
need to be presented in clear language upfront; perhaps fees
should be presented in their order of importance to a provider’s
revenue, much as food labeling requires the most heavily used
ingredients to be listed first.  It is even more difficult to make fee increases
transparent, and these might be even more important as consumers
are not always attentive to such rises and perceived or real
switching costs may be substantial.  Even if regulations could achieve transparency, they won’t
ensure comprehension. Improved information without improved
consumer understanding and judgment may accomplish little.
Disclosure will only be effective if it improves consumer
decision-making. The usual regulatory approach is to educate
consumers to avoid manipulation and make better choices. The
flaw with this approach is one of scale. Financial illiteracy is
rampant, and Congress is unlikely to provide sufficient
resources to make even a dent, even with well-designed programs.  Simply put, the problem of poor consumer financial
decision-making is large, and current regulatory solutions won’t
solve it. The only alternatives are market-based solutions.
Consumers need advice. If the value of better financial
decisions is great and the cost of education is large, consumers
should simply pay for financial counseling. Yet the market for
consumer financial advice seems small and ineffective.  One of the reasons is that biased advice -- provided by
advisers who are pushing a product for which they get a
commission -- can drive out fair and neutral counsel. Biased
advice often appears to be cheaper, and consumers may be
ignorant of the bias or discount it. Disclosure of conflicts may
not be mandated and, even if it is mandated, there is evidence
to suggest that such disclosure may be ineffective.  Market-Based Solutions  The only regulatory regime that has a chance of making
substantial progress is one that helps the market-based solution
for advice work better. Structuring disclosure regulation to
make advice markets more efficient rather than to make
disclosure more understandable to consumers should be a goal.
For example, my Chicago Booth colleague  Richard Thaler  has
recommended requiring standard machine-readable disclosure of
all financial terms to reduce the costs of comparisons across
offerings. In a world of individualized offerings, the savings
could be huge.  A second policy is for the government to develop an
effective certification program for consumer financial advisers.
In addition to knowledge requirements, the government would
require that advisers have no financial incentives to prefer
some products to others. Rather than teaching financial
literacy, outreach programs could focus on educating consumers
on the need for a competent, unbiased, certified financial
adviser.  (Robert H. Gertner, a professor of strategy and finance at
the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, is a
contributor to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .   Today’s highlights: The editors on  Medicare’s payment board .
 Ezra Klein  on mandates, taxes and  saving Obamacare.   Amity Shlaes 
on  Barack Obama and FDR .  Caroline Baum  on the  national-debt time
bomb . Robert H. Gertner on the  Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau . Oleg Kashin on  Russia’s protest problem .  Steven Greenhut 
on  Californians for higher taxes .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert H. Gertner at  Robert.Gertner@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 