-- Copper Traders Most Bearish in Two Months on China: Commodities
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-03-30T15:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/copper-traders-most-bearish-in-two-months-on-china-commodities.html
Copper traders are the most bearish
in two months after stockpiles tracked by the biggest metals
bourse rose for the first time in five weeks and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut its recommendation on commodities to neutral.  Eleven of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect copper
to drop next week, the highest proportion since Jan. 6. Seven
were neutral. Inventories reported by the  London  Metal Exchange
rose 1.4 percent on March 27, the first gain since Feb. 22. They
retreated the following two days and rose again today. Reserves
in  Shanghai ’s bonded warehouses tripled since November and any
strengthening in demand next quarter may be “tepid,”  Barclays
Capital  said in a report March 28.  China is the biggest copper buyer, using two in every five
metric tons, and Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut the nation’s growth
target to 7.5 percent earlier this month, the lowest since 2004.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg anticipate a recession in
 Europe , which accounts for 18 percent of copper demand. That’s
outweighing signs of an accelerating U.S. expansion and paring
this year’s rally in prices of as much as 15 percent.  “There is a disconnect between the physical and economic
evidence coming out of  China  and what’s happening within the
industrial metals,” said Jeremy Baker, who helps manage $925
million of assets for the Belvista Commodity Fund, part of the
Vontobel Group in Zurich. “The U.S. is improving, but the U.S.
is still a very small proportion of a total consumption equation
for metals. We need to have some kind of a shakeout.”  Commodity Research  Copper fell 3.9 percent from this year’s peak of $8,765 a
ton on Feb. 9, paring its advance to 11 percent, as the LMEX
 index (MXWD)  of six industrial metals dropped 7.1 percent. The Standard
& Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities climbed 6.8 percent this
year and the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities added 11
percent. Treasuries lost 1 percent, a Bank of America Corp.
index shows.  Goldman’s commodity research team, led by  Jeffrey Currie  in
London, reduced its three-month recommendation on raw materials
to neutral from overweight on March 28. Prices already reached
the bank’s targets and the economy will “soften” next quarter,
they wrote in a report. They advised clients to remain
overweight in commodities over a 12-month period.  Traders in China now have as much as 650,000 tons in bonded
warehouses in Shanghai, which are exempt from a value-added tax
and import duties, from 200,000 tons in November, Barclays
estimates. That coincided with a decline of about 46 percent in
LME stockpiles since October, suggesting not all of the metal
was actually consumed, bourse data show. Growth in Chinese
copper demand will slow to 5 percent this year, from 9.5 percent
in 2011, Barclays estimates.  Consecutive Quarters  European consumption will drop to 3.71 million tons in
2012, from 3.78 million tons last year, the bank predicts. The
17-nation euro economy will contract for three consecutive
quarters through September, the median of 18 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prices rallied this year on prospects for shortages, with
Barclays forecasting a deficit of 323,000 tons, more than the
256,275 tons left in LME-monitored warehouses. Mining companies
have failed to keep up with global demand that jumped about 38
percent in the past decade, according to Barclays.  Hedge funds  and other money managers are getting more
bullish, raising their bets on higher prices by 20 percent to
17,060 futures and options in the week ended March 20, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. That’s the biggest so-
called net-long position since August. Goldman’s research team
is forecasting a copper price of $9,000 in six months.  Economic Cooperation  Chinese growth of 7.5 percent would still be more than
twice the anticipated expansion in the U.S., whose economy may
gain 2.9 percent in the first quarter and 2.8 percent in the
second, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said yesterday. North America accounts for 11
percent of copper demand, according to Barclays.  “For those willing to take a risk on Chinese growth, there
is potential value in the base metals,” said Nic Brown, head of
commodities research at Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. in
London. “The market could be much tighter than people expect.”  Nine of 18 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect gold to gain next week and three were neutral. Futures on
the Comex in New York increased 6.2 percent to $1,663.50 an
ounce this year, for a 12th consecutive annual advance. Holdings
in gold-backed exchange-traded products are about 0.5 percent
below the record 2,410.2 tons reached March 13, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Ben S. Bernanke  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said March 26 that
while he’s encouraged by the decline in the  unemployment rate ,
continued accommodative monetary policy will be needed. The
central bank bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
quantitative easing that ended in June 2011, during which gold
appreciated about 70 percent.  Growth is also being threatened by rising energy costs,
with New York-traded crude oil advancing about 33 percent to
$103.51 a barrel since the start of October on mounting tensions
over  Iran , the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Five of 10 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to
decline next week. The commodity climbed 6 percent this year to
24.68 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Seventeen of 23 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week and three were neutral, while 11 of 22 said
soybeans will climb and eight predicted a decline. Corn dropped
1.9 percent to $6.3425 a bushel this year as soybeans advanced
16 percent to $13.9675 a bushel.  “While the  U.S. economy  does appear stronger as of late,
the specter of higher oil, and therefore gasoline, prices has
been hanging over everything,” said Mark Lewon, the president
of Utah Metal Works Inc., a Salt Lake City-based company
recycling industrial scrap. That “could easily slow down this
part of the recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  