-- China Cotton Demand to Recover, Lifting Prices, Weiqiao Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-29T10:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/cotton-demand-in-china-to-recover-lifting-prices-weiqiao-says.html
Cotton demand in  China , the largest
user, may rebound this year, increasing imports and stemming a
decline in prices, said Zhang Hongxia, president of Hong Kong-
listed Weiqiao Textile Co.  Consumption may rise to 9.58 million metric tons this year
from an estimated 9 million tons in 2011 amid a recovery in the
textile industry, Zhang said in an interview on March 26.
Shandong-based Weiqiao is China’s biggest cotton-textile
manufacturer, according to its website.  China, which uses about 40 percent of the world’s cotton,
will import 18.5 million bales this season, the most in six
years and 54 percent more than a year earlier, according to a
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimate on March 9. Cotton
prices in  New York  have slumped 57 percent from a record in
March 2011 amid record global crops and prospects for slowing
global economic growth.  “Things are looking to pick up in the industry at the
beginning of this year, as far as we can see we are running at
full capacity in the first two months and our end-product cotton
yarn inventory has been reduced by 12 percent during the
period,” Zhang said. “Cotton demand is set to rise this year
and the price gap between foreign and local cotton will narrow
steadily.”  Imports have gained 64 percent to 942,400 tons in the first
two months, according to customs data. Shipments to China are
rising as the government diverts domestic supplies to state
reserves that may represent 25 percent of global stockpiles by
July, according to  International Cotton Advisory Committee  in
 Washington .  ‘Too Pessimistic’  “Some investors are too pessimistic about the Chinese
textile industry,” Kuang Bo, analyst at Yong An Futures Co.,
said by phone from  Shanghai  yesterday. “Overall cotton demand
will recover this year as the domestic consumption will more
than make up for the loss in the export market.”  When spring re-stocking begins and seasonal demand picks
up, there will be a recovery in textiles, Kuang said.  Cotton for September delivery on the Zhengzhou Commodity
Exchange gained 0.2 percent to 21,265 yuan ($3,372) a ton today.
Prices have fallen 39 percent since reaching a record 34,870
yuan in February 2011. In New York, cotton futures for May
delivery were little changed at 94 cents a pound. The commodity
posted the sixth straight gain, the longest rally since early
January, on speculation demand will remain robust for U.S.
supplies.  An expected oversupply in the global market and slowing
economic growth have lead some analysts to predict continued
declines in prices and demand.  Global Surplus  “The cotton market in my opinion doesn’t have much
potential for profit for investors this year due to the overall
weakness in the  textile industry ,” Lou Zhi, general manager at
Dalian-based hedge fund Hunter Capital Co., said in Beijing
yesterday. “There haven’t been many signals of a strong
recovery and the prices are most likely to stay range-bound.”  Farmers will reap 123.6 million 480-pound bales in the 12
months ending in July, exceeding demand by 15 million bales and
expanding stockpiles by 32 percent to the second-biggest on
record, the U.S. government estimates. Global inventories as of
July 31, 2013, will climb 11 percent from a year earlier, the
International Cotton Advisory Committee said on March 1. The
surplus is equivalent to 60 percent of global mill use, the
largest stocks-to-use ratio since the late 1990s, the
Washington-based group said.  The appreciating Chinese currency and rising costs
including labor and transportation have eroded China’s
competitiveness in the low-end textile market compared with
India and  Bangladesh ,  Weiqiao (2698) ’s Zhang said. “We are trying to
boost sales in the domestic market and also upgrade our products
to better compete in the high-end market.”  Profit Tumbles  Weiqiao’s net profit tumbled 85 percent last year on
declining value of exports and low demand overseas, leading to
higher inventory levels, according to a company statement on
March 26. The company’s  shares  have dropped 24 percent to
HK$3.85 from a seven-month high on March 6. Weiqiao produced
61,800 tons of cotton yarn and almost 1.2 billion meters of raw
cloth in 2011, Zhang said.  China’s domestic cotton prices haven’t fallen as much as
those in overseas markets because the government purchased more
than 3 million tons of local crops at 19,800 yuan a ton to
protect farmers, said Dong Shuzhi, trader at PKU Founder
Commodities Co.  “The government issued a quota of about 2 million tons at
the beginning of the year, of which some still remains unused,”
Zhang said. “There’s also speculation that China will issue
another quota of 1 million tons in April, which will boost
foreign cotton prices when Chinese users start importing.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  