-- Credit Suisse Asked by Regulator for Details of ETN Crash
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-03-29T21:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/credit-suisse-asked-by-massachusetts-for-details-of-etn-crash.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  was asked by
Massachusetts’ chief securities regulator for information about
an exchange-traded note that whipsawed investors last week, and
Senator Jack Reed, a Democrat of  Rhode Island , said he will hold
a hearing on the industry.  William F. Galvin, secretary of the commonwealth, told the
Zurich-based bank in a March 23 letter his office was conducting
an inquiry into its  VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN. (TVIX) 
Galvin demanded the names of investors who purchased the ETN
from Feb. 20 to March 23, and information about the firm’s March
22 announcement that it would resume issuing notes.  The ETN became unhinged from the index it seeks to track in
an episode that highlighted the risks of complex exchange-traded
products. After the bank said Feb. 21 it had temporarily halted
issuing new shares, the market price of the notes rose to a
premium above their indicative value that reached 89 percent on
March 21 before crashing to 7 percent on March 23.  Reed, who held a hearing in October that examined whether
exchange-traded products posed risks to financial markets and
investors, said he was closely monitoring the issue.  ‘More Attention’  “I think this market deserves more attention from both
domestic and foreign regulators and I plan to hold another
hearing on ETFs and related issues in the near future,” Reed
said in an e-mailed statement.  The Galvin letter focused partly on the timing and
rationale of the bank’s decision to resume issuing shares. The
ETN’s share price began falling hours before Credit Suisse made
the announcement. The letter, which was reported earlier today
by Dow Jones Newswires, asked for the names of those who
participated in the decision.  Galvin gave Credit Suisse until April 5 to respond.  “Credit Suisse is cooperating with regulatory
authorities,” said  Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman for the
bank in  New York .  ETNs are unsecured debt instruments that track an index and
trade on an exchange, like stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  