-- Cruzeiro do Sul to Use FGC Cash to Pay Debt, Moody’s Says
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-29T22:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/cruzeiro-do-sul-to-use-fgc-asset-sale-to-pay-debt-moody-s-says.html
Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA , the
Brazilian payroll lender downgraded today by Moody’s Investors
Service, plans to pay off its dollar bonds maturing in September
by selling asset-backed securities to the nation’s deposit
insurance fund, the ratings company said.  Cruzeiro do Sul’s long-term foreign currency senior
unsecured debt  rating  was cut two notches to B2, five steps
below investment grade, Moody’s said. The lender plans to sell
repackaged loans to  Brazil ’s deposit insurance fund to pay off
$175 million of 8 percent dollar bonds maturing in September,
Moody’s said in an e-mailed report today.  “Given the current price conditions in the external
market, we are exchanging our external maturities for funding
sources that are cheaper in local currency,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement. “However, we consider overseas
borrowings an important source of funding for the bank, and we
will return to access the market as soon as it becomes
attractive again.”  Moody’s downgraded Cruzeiro do Sul as Brazilian consumer
banks with less than 2.2 billion reais ($1.2 billion) in equity
struggle to obtain cheap long-term funding needed to finance
consumer loans. Banco BMG SA, a Belo Horizonte-based payroll
lender, was downgraded by  Fitch Ratings  yesterday. Sao Paulo-
based Cruzeiro do Sul, which last sold international bonds in
April 2011, relies on debt instruments backed by the country’s
deposit insurance fund for 25 percent of funding, according to
Moody’s.  ‘Moderating Loan Growth’  The payday lender faces “an environment of moderating loan
growth and increasing competition in its target market, combined
with an expensive and poorly diversified funding structure,”
Moody’s analysts wrote in the report.  The company will replace its dollar bonds maturing in
September with “committed securitization tranches to be sold to
the FGC,” or the Fundo Garantidor de Creditos, Brazil’s deposit
insurance fund, Moody’s said.  Asset-backed funds, known in Brazil as fundos de
investimento em direitos creditorios, or FIDCs, are typically
backed by trade receivables, mortgages and other consumer or
corporate loans.  2012 Yields Fall  Yields on Cruzeiro do Sul’s bonds due in 2012 fell three
basis points to 8.81 percent at 5:14 p.m. in  Sao Paulo . The
yield on the company’s dollar bonds due in 2016 rose 14 basis
points to 12.67 percent.  The outlook on Cruzeiro do Sul’s rating is negative,
Moody’s said.  Banco BMG was cut two notches to B, five steps below
investment grade, according to an e-mailed Fitch report
yesterday.  The Fitch downgrade will have a minimal impact on BMG’s
borrowing costs because it was spurred by changes in  capital
ratios  following the bank’s recent acquisitions and by temporary
accounting changes, said Ricardo Gelbaum, the bank’s financial
director.  “The report does not question the sustainability of
funding nor the quality of operations,” Gelabum said by phone
from  Rio de Janeiro . The Fitch report “will have no impact” on
BMG’s ability to sell loan portfolios to other banks to raise
cash, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net.net  