-- Delaware River Agency Cited for Lax Oversight, Waste
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-29T18:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/delaware-river-agency-cited-for-lax-oversight-waste.html
The  Delaware River Port Authority (26496MF) ,
which runs Philadelphia-area bridges and trains, improperly
borrowed to fund a $440 million economic-development program
while ignoring work on its facilities, an audit found.  Oversight was haphazard, with development projects missing
applications and approvals, while the program shifted from loans
to outright grants, the audit released today by New Jersey
Comptroller Matthew Boxer shows.  Borrowed money went into a social fund that underwrote
$10,000 for cocktail hours and carriage rides with lawmakers,
while $15,000 paid for three galas, including an “Argentina-
Night of Tango,” the audit shows. The funds spent on groups
linked to commissioners and agency executives “largely went to
organizations that provided a personal benefit” to authority
officials, according to the report.  “To state the obvious, commuters who pay to cross the
 Delaware River  every day should not have their toll money used
for DRPA officials to enjoy a carriage ride through Philadelphia
or a ‘night of tango and wine,’” Boxer said in a statement
distributed with the report.  Governors Sought Audit  The bi-state agency, which operates river crossings linking
 New Jersey (STONJ1)  and Philadelphia, is funded mainly through tolls on
the Ben Franklin, Walt Whitman, Betsy Ross and Commodore Barry
bridges, amounting to $248.6 million in 2010. The agency, which
also runs the Patco commuter-rail line, raised bridge tolls by
$1 to $5 in July to fund a $1 billion capital program.  In 2010, Republican New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  and
Democratic Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell  sought tighter
controls and the audit at the agency. Republican Pennsylvania
Governor Tom Corbett, after taking office in January 2011,
replaced six board members and appointed himself the chairman.  Christie, 49, pushed to end toll breaks and car allowances
at the agency. The audit showed that authority officials, and in
some cases their friends and relatives, were able to avoid more
than $1 million in tolls during 10 years after being put on a
free-pass program.  “As soon as Governor Christie took office, he zeroed in on
the DRPA as among the worst offenders in terms of abusing toll
payer money for employee and commissioner perks and large-scale
spending outside the agency’s core mission,”  Michael Drewniak ,
a Christie spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Governor Christie
fully supports the comptroller’s findings and recommendations
and will continue to work with Governor Corbett in enforcing
reforms at DRPA.”  Regional Development  The agency’s charter limits spending on regional
development projects to funds left after maintenance work. In
the absence of a surplus, the authority sold bonds for more than
$440 million of development, “while ignoring a backlog of
bridge and capital facility projects,” the audit said.  In response to a draft of the findings, authority Vice
Chairman Jeff Nash told the auditors that “at no time did DRPA
postpone for the benefit of economic development efforts any
project that involved public safety or security.”  The authority also let insurance brokers share $1.5 million
in commissions during the past decade in deals described in the
audit as “ambiguous and nontransparent.”  The agency has already overhauled how it awards insurance
contracts, halted economic development, taken away the free-toll
perks and ended the civic fund, Tim Ireland, an authority
spokesman, said in an e-mail. It hired an inspector general to
review the audit and suggest changes, he said.  “We take the concerns expressed by the OSC very seriously,
and we will be taking steps to evaluate and address
recommendations in the report as promptly as possible,” Ireland
said.  Insurance Commissions  Among the companies that took part in the splitting of
insurance fees was  Conner Strong & Buckelew , whose executive
chairman, George E. Norcross III, is a Democratic party leader
in southern  New Jersey . According to Boxer’s report, the firm
was paid $455,000 by another broker from 2003-09 as “referral
payments” to obtain authority business.  While sharing insurance commissions isn’t illegal in New
Jersey, it “has been the subject of substantial criticism” by
oversight agencies and has been banned in New York and at least
one other state, the audit found. Investigative agencies in New
Jersey and New York have called the practice “politically
motivated and wasteful of taxpayer money,” Boxer said.  “Commerce Insurance Services and its successor companies
acted in an entirely proper, legal and ethical manner in full
compliance with all statutory, regulatory, industry and
professional standards,” Hugh Braithwaite, a spokesman for
Conner Strong, said in a statement.  ‘A Personal ATM’  Boxer said his investigation “revealed a history and
culture of weak policies, procedures and internal controls that
have contributed to wasteful spending and mismanagement.”  “We found people who treated the DRPA like a personal ATM,
from DRPA commissioners to private vendors to community
organizations,” Boxer said. “People with connections at the
DRPA were quick to put their hand out when dealing with the
agency, and they generally were not disappointed when they
did.”  Almost $60,000 from the social fund paid for ads in a
newspaper where a commissioner was the chief executive officer,
according to the report. The fund, set up in 2004, also paid for
tickets to sports events used by authority officials.  In one “egregious” incident of improper use of agency
expense accounts, two authority employees charged up more than
$2,000 for a Pennsylvania Society Weekend at  New York ’s Waldorf-
Astoria hotel in 2009. The event bore no connection to managing
bridges and mainly consisted of political fundraisers and
receptions sponsored by lobbyists, according to the report.  “It’s as much getting the mindset back to our mission:
It’s not economic development; it’s not taking care of political
contributors,” Kevin Harley, a spokesman for Corbett, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s about moving people back and forth
across the Delaware River in a safe and efficient manner. Its
that simple.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  