-- Dolby Said to Seek Oscars Theater Rights After Kodak Exit
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-03-29T22:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/dolby-said-to-seek-oscars-theater-rights-after-kodak-exit.html
Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB) , the sound
and video pioneer, is in talks to acquire naming rights to the
former Kodak Theatre in Hollywood, home to the annual Oscars
ceremony, two people with knowledge of the situation said.  Dolby, based in  San Francisco , is negotiating with building
owner CIM Group for long-term naming rights to the 3,332-seat
theater at the Hollywood & Highland Center, said the people, who
requested anonymity because the talks are private.  The discussions may end without an agreement, one of the
people said, because Los Angeles-based CIM remains open to more
offers as it seeks to secure the best price and terms. 
Photography icon  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  won bankruptcy court 
approval in February to end its 20-year sponsorship deal.  Any deal could be complicated because the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences, which puts on the annual awards show,
is in negotiations to renew its pact to stage the Oscars at the
venue. The academy could seek a bigger role in determining the
winning bidder, one person said.  Sean Durkin, a spokesman for Dolby, didn’t respond to a
telephone message seeking comment. Karen Diehl, an outside
spokeswoman for CIM Group with Casey & Sayre, declined to
comment. Natalie Kojen, a spokeswoman for the academy, said she
wasn’t authorized to discuss the negotiations and no one who
was authorized was immediately available.  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , signed a $74 million
deal to gain naming rights in 2000, a year before the theater’s
official opening. The company declared bankruptcy in January,
after digital picture technology ate into its core photography
business.  The same has happened in film, where suppliers like Kodak
have been partially sidelined in a push by studios and movie
theaters toward digital projection.  Dolby in Hollywood  Dolby has a long history of working at the Academy Awards,
with equipment and sound engineers onsite for the show. The
company’s audio formats are standard in most films and high-
definition television shows.  Video and digital cinema, particularly the 3-D format, have
become key growth areas for Dolby. The company lags behind  RealD
Inc. (RLD) , based in  Beverly Hills ,  California , and  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , of
Mississauga, Ontario.  Dolby’s system can be used on regular projection screens,
allowing theaters that haven’t made the transition to show 3-D
movies.  The Hollywood & Highland Center, housing the theater, the
Hollywood Renaissance hotel and a shopping mall, forms the heart
of the area’s tourist district.  In addition to the Oscars, the venue has hosted “American
Idol” finals, the Daytime Emmy Awards and ESPY Awards, as well
as a 2008 Democratic Party Presidental debate. In 2011, Cirque
du Soleil began production of a cinema-inspired show called
“IRIS.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  