-- DP World Profit Climbs 82% on Australia Sale, Cargo Volumes
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-03-29T12:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/dp-world-full-year-profit-rises-82-to-683-million.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the world’s third-
biggest port operator, posted an 82 percent increase in full-
year profit, helped by gains from the part-sale of its terminals
in  Australia  and as container volumes rose.  Net income climbed to $683 million from $375 million a year
earlier, the Dubai-based company said in  statement  to Nasdaq
Dubai today. Profit before separately disclosed items rose 23
percent to $459 million, it said.  “We have benefited from the improvement in global
container volumes whilst retaining a very clear focus on
generating additional revenue, driving productivity and
upholding a disciplined approach to cost management,” Chief
Executive Officer Mohammed Sharaf said in the statement.  DP World last year completed the sale of a 75 percent stake
in its Australian unit to Citi Infrastructure Investors and one
of Citi Infrastructure’s investors for $1.5 billion. The
company, which operates more than 60 terminals across six
continents, said on March 26 that it will repay a $3 billion
revolving credit facility six months ahead of schedule with its
own cash and set up a $1 billion facility for investments.  Cargo Volumes  “The most positive thing is that cargo volumes are up 11
percent in the first two months of the year, so they’ve had a
strong 2011 and a good start to 2012,” Redwan Ahmed, a Dubai-
based equity analyst at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE,
said in a phone interview today. “That should be taken
positively by the market.”  DP World will be investing in an additional 1 million
twenty-foot equivalent units of capacity at its Jebel Ali port
in Dubai this year and in a new 4 million TEU container terminal
scheduled to become operational in 2014, it said. The London
Gateway project in the U.K. will start operations in the fourth-
quarter of 2013.  On opportunities in  Iraq , DP World Chairman Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem told a press conference in Dubai today: “We look at
all ports. Of course, if there is an opportunity why not? They
desperately need a port.”  The company’s board recommended a dividend of 24 cents a
share for last year. “The board is confident of the company’s
ability to continue to generate cash and support our future
growth whilst maintaining a stable dividend payout,” it said.  The  shares  listed on Nasdaq Dubai have risen 20 percent
this year and closed 0.2 percent higher at $11.6. The stock
traded on the London Stock Exchange gained 14 percent during the
same period and were at 720 pence today. The yield on DP World’s
6.25 percent sukuk due July 2017 has fallen 81 basis points this
year to 5.11 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  