-- Dubai Duty Free Said to Seek $1.1 Billion Through Bank Loan
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-03-29T11:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/dubai-duty-free-said-to-seek-1-1-billion-through-bank-loan.html
Dubai Duty Free is raising a $1.1
billion loan backed by the airport retailer’s future cash
earnings and hired lenders including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to help with
the plan, two bankers familiar with the deal said.  Dubai Duty Free’s parent, Investment Corp. of Dubai, the
emirate’s main state-owned holding company, also mandated  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA) ,  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  to
help with the fundraising, the people said, declining to be
identified because the information is private. The five-year
financing plan pays a margin of 3.5 percentage points over the
London interbank offered rate, they said. A spokeswoman for
Dubai Duty Free, who didn’t wish to be identified because of
company policy, declined to comment.  Dubai Duty Free, which began operations in 1983, operates
18,000 square meters of retail space at Dubai International and
is the world’s single-largest airport retailer based on 2010
revenue. It reported a 15.6 percent rise in 2011 revenue to
$1.46 billion.  No one at Investment Corp. of Dubai was available to
comment. Spokesmen for Citigroup, HSBC and Emirates NBD in
Dubai, who didn’t wish to be identified because of company
policy, declined to comment. A spokesman for Dubai Islamic Bank
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Dubai Recovery  Dubai, the second-biggest of the seven emirates that make
up the  United Arab Emirates , is recovering after the global
credit crisis pushed property prices down by more than half from
2008 peaks, and frozen credit markets forced some state-owned
companies to delay loan payments. The emirate had to borrow $20
billion from the central bank, the Abu Dhabi government and its
banks to help state-owned companies through the crisis.  Dubai Airports, home to the biggest Arab airline Emirates,
reported a 19 percent jump in passenger traffic in February from
a year earlier to 4.56 million. Total passenger traffic in 2011
grew 8 percent to 50.98 million, making it the world’s fourth-
busiest airport by international passenger and cargo traffic,
 Airports Council International  data show.  Dubai’s default risk has declined as the prospects of debt
repayments by state-owned companies improves. Five-year credit
defaults swaps for Dubai were at 334.5 basis points yesterday,
down 25 percent this year and outpacing the 14 percent average
decline among Persian Gulf nations, according to data provider
CMA. CMA is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  