-- Dutch Ruling Parties See Scope for Deal on Budget Cuts
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-03-29T15:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/dutch-ruling-parties-see-scope-for-deal-on-budget-cuts-1-.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s
minority government sees “sufficient perspective” to reach a
deal on additional austerity measures needed to meet European
Union budget rules.  The coalition parties made the comment in a joint statement
today as talks resumed on new spending cuts after being
suspended yesterday. The parties said that they won’t comment
further until an agreement is reached.  Rutte’s coalition of Liberals and  Christian Democrats  has
been negotiating with Freedom Party leader  Geert Wilders  since
March 5 about the extra budget cuts. Wilders’ lawmakers have
supported the minority government since it took office in
October 2010, allowing it to pass legislation in parliament.  “The Netherlands, which can still boast a relatively good
economic performance, faces big challenges,” Dutch Central Bank
Governor Klaas Knot said today, urging the party leaders to
quickly agree on the necessary reductions and on reforms of the
labor and housing markets. “With the highest  credit rating  and
relatively low unemployment, we have much to lose.”  The government has to find more than 9 billion euros ($12
billion) in additional cuts to meet EU deficit rules by 2013 and
protect the top credit grade that France and Austria lost in
January. The budget shortfall is forecast at 4.6 percent of GDP
in 2013, exceeding the 3 percent EU limit for a fifth year.  ‘Worrying’ Development  In light of structurally lower growth in the coming years,
the development of state finances is “worrying,” Knot, who
also sits on the  European Central Bank ’s governing council, said
at the presentation of his bank’s annual report in Amsterdam.  The  risk premium  demanded by investors to own Dutch 10-year
bonds relative to  Germany ’s has more than doubled since January.
Dutch yields surpassed those of AAA rated Finland in February
for the first time since August. The spread between Dutch and
German yields was at 58 basis points, or 0.58 percentage point,
as of 4:02 p.m. in Amsterdam, from 57 basis points yesterday.  “If the Netherlands wants to continue to profit from a low
 interest rate , it has to seriously reduce the deficit,” Knot
said. “If the political developments would be of such a nature
that the answers to the economic challenges we’re facing are
delayed or weakened, we will definitely see a response in
financial markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  