-- Health-Care Law, S&P, Morgan Stanley, BNY, Ryanair in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/health-care-law-s-p-morgan-stanley-bny-ryanair-in-court-news.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices
indicated they may throw out other parts of President Barack
Obama’s health-care law if they strike down its core requirement
that Americans obtain insurance.  A day after the justices cast doubt on the insurance
mandate’s survival, they tangled yesterday over the consequences
such a ruling would have. The court concluded its third and
final day of arguments on Obama’s signature domestic
achievement, a law that would extend health coverage to 32
million people.  Justices across the ideological spectrum expressed interest
in overturning at least the provisions that require insurers to
cover people with pre-existing conditions. The administration
and the insurance industry say those rules are so closely linked
to the mandate that they can’t be separated.  The justices were divided on whether to go further and
throw out everything that remains of the health-care law if they
void the mandate. The court’s four Democratic appointees urged a
limited ruling and the Republican appointees offered various
levels of support for toppling all remaining provisions.  Yesterday afternoon, justices heard arguments on the law’s
expansion of the  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  program for the poor. Justices
appointed by Democrats defended Congress’s power to expand the
Medicaid program over objections from 26 states.  The afternoon session wrapped up more than 6 hours of
arguments. The justices probably will rule in late June, months
before the November election. A ruling against the measure would
give ammunition to Obama’s Republican challengers, who have said
the law should be repealed.  For more, click here and here.  S&P Says Investors Shouldn’t Rely on Letters in Ratings Alone  Standard & Poor’s  said 13 Australian townships that lost
almost all of their A$17 million ($17.7 million) investment in
derivative-linked notes shouldn’t have relied just on the AAA
rating issued by the U.S. company.  That’s exactly what S&P said in an accompanying report,
that you can’t rely on the rating as investment advice, Steven
Finch, the company’s lawyer, said in closing submissions in
Federal Court in Sydney yesterday. “We don’t put the ratings
out in three letters.”  The dispute over S&P’s letter ratings is part of the first
suit accusing the company of misleading investors with its
system for labeling a borrower’s creditworthiness, according to
IMF ( Australia ) Ltd., which is funding the litigation. Twelve
Australian townships, suing as a group, claim they lost A$15
million of A$16 million they invested in so-called Rembrandt
notes rated AAA by S&P. A 13th township sued separately after
losing more than 90 percent of its A$1 million investment.  Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot, who will decide the
case, questioned S&P’s argument that ratings alone can’t be
relied on.  “So it’s meaningless,” Jagot said of the ratings.  “It’s not meaningless; it’s just attended by conditions
which say ‘you can’t sue me if you rely on it,” Finch said.  The towns claimed in court documents that they relied on
the AAA rating to make their investment decision. Town officials
said during the trial they hadn’t read all of the accompanying
documents.  The towns failed to make responsible efforts to understand
the risks involved in investing in the notes, S&P said in
written submissions to the judge.  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Strauss-Kahn’s Lawyers Argue for Immunity in Maid’s Suit  Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers asked a Bronx judge to
dismiss on diplomatic immunity grounds a lawsuit filed by the
hotel maid who accused the former International Monetary Fund
head of trying to rape her.  Lawyers for Strauss-Kahn, 62, said he was entitled to such
protection as head of the IMF and requested  New York  Supreme
Court Justice Douglas McKeon throw out the complaint. Attorneys
for Nafissatou Diallo, the maid, have said Strauss-Kahn is using
the argument as a delay tactic.  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer said yesterday that the complaint
must be dismissed because federal and state courts have thrown
out similar suits “for decades” based on diplomatic immunity.  Strauss-Kahn didn’t assert immunity at the time of his
arrest and wasn’t entitled to it when his lawyers were served
with Diallo’s suit because he had already resigned his position
at the IMF, Douglas Wigdor, one of Diallo’s attorneys, said in
court yesterday.  The motion to dismiss was filed “to deny Miss Diallo a
right to trial in this case and to delay these proceedings,”
Wigdor said. “Strauss-Kahn doesn’t have immunity and Miss
Diallo will have her day in court.”  Strauss-Kahn was pulled off an  Air France (AF)  flight at John F.
Kennedy International Airport on May 14, arrested and charged
with trying to rape Diallo, a housekeeper at the Sofitel in
midtown Manhattan. He resigned as head of the IMF four days
later. Diallo sued Strauss-Kahn on Aug. 8, seeking damages for
what her lawyer called “violent and deplorable acts.”  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. decided to drop
the criminal charges against Strauss-Kahn after concluding that
Diallo had lied about events surrounding the alleged attack. The
case was dismissed on Aug. 23.  The likelihood that Strauss-Kahn’s argument will prevail is
“slim to nil,” said Sarah H. Cleveland, a professor of human
and constitutional rights at  Columbia Law School  in New York and
an expert on international law.  “He was a managing director of the IMF and there’s this UN
Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized
Agencies that would give diplomatic immunity to the head of a
specialized agency, but the U.S. isn’t a party to it,”
Cleveland said in a phone interview. “And so he has the
challenge of proving that absolute immunity for the heads of
specialized international organizations is a rule of customary
international law. And that’s a tough row to hoe.”  Strauss-Kahn told police he had diplomatic immunity when he
was first detained at the airport in New York, and declined to
assert the defense when he was interviewed by detectives later
that day, Manhattan prosecutors said in a court filing in June.
The IMF and the U.S. State Department said days after Strauss-
Kahn’s arrest that he wasn’t entitled to diplomatic immunity.  “He failed to assert diplomatic immunity at the time of
the criminal case,” Paul Callan, a former prosecutor in the
 Brooklyn  District Attorney’s Office said in a telephone
interview. “If he indeed had it and asserted it he could have
returned to  France  immediately. Instead he did not assert it, so
he’s facing an argument that he’s waived his diplomatic immunity
by failing to assert it in the criminal case. I think that’s a
very tough argument for him to get around.”  The case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New York
State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  For more, click here.  Morgan Stanley’s Jennings Asks Court to Toss Stabbing Case  William Bryan Jennings, the  Morgan Stanley (MS)  U.S. bond-
underwriting chief accused of stabbing a New York cab driver
over a fare, asked a  Connecticut  judge to dismiss the
prosecution, according to a copy of the filing provided by
defense lawyer Eugene Riccio.  The motion to dismiss the case was filed yesterday in state
court in Stamford, Connecticut, Riccio said. It couldn’t be
immediately confirmed in court records.  “The motion speaks for itself,” Riccio said in a phone
interview. “It’s my belief that there are serious deficiencies
in the application for the arrest warrant.”  Jennings, 45, is accused of attacking the driver, Mohamed
Ammar, on Dec. 22 with a 2 1/2-inch blade and using racial slurs
after a 40-mile ride from New York to the banker’s Darien,
Connecticut, home. He faces assault and hate-crime charges,
which each bring a maximum of five years in prison. He pleaded
not guilty March 9.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut (Stamford).  BNY Asks to Toss U.S. Fraud Case Over Currency Trading  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the world’s largest custody
bank, contested claims by the U.S. that it defrauded clients in
foreign-exchange transactions and asked a court to dismiss the
government’s lawsuit.  BNY Mellon  said disclosures that it made to clients about
the trading negate the claim that the bank engaged in a “scheme
to defraud,” according to a court filing March 26 in federal
court in Manhattan.  “The purported scheme to defraud is implausible,” BNY
Mellon said. “A party that knows exactly what it is getting,
and at what price, cannot have been defrauded.”  The U.S. Attorney in Manhattan said in an amended complaint
that BNY Mellon defrauded clients, including public pension
funds, of more than $1.5 billion through foreign-currency
trades. The bank is also facing claims by several states over
the same issue.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office,
declined to comment on BNY Mellon’s filing.  The case is U.S. v.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , 11-6969,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Murdoch Faces New Hacking Claims as Lawmakers Probe Piracy  Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., already engulfed in a U.K.
phone-hacking scandal, faces fresh investigations in Australia
and Britain as lawmakers said police should probe an alleged
piracy scheme to topple pay-TV rivals.  NDS, a pay-TV software maker co-owned by News Corp., set up
a unit in the mid-1990s to hack smartcard codes and leak them
online, giving viewers free access to competitors’ programs, the
Australian Financial Review newspaper said March 27. The report,
which cites internal documents and e-mails, echoes allegations
made by the  BBC ’s Panorama program this week.  News Corp. (NWSA)  denied
the claims.  “If these allegations are true they mark a sinister new
low in the hacking scandal,” said U.K. lawmaker Tom Watson,
who’s on a parliamentary committee preparing a report about News
Corp.’s handling of the phone-hacking probe. Britain’s media
watchdog Ofcom “has a duty to investigate,” he said.  The claims increases pressure on James Murdoch, the deputy
chief operating officer of News Corp. and chairman of U.K. pay-
TV company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , as he seeks to
move on from the phone-hacking scandal at News Corp.’s British
tabloid unit. Murdoch, 39, was a non-executive director of NDS
when the alleged smartcard hacking took place.  Murdoch, the son of Chairman Rupert Murdoch, has already
faced calls from investors to step down from News Corp.’s board
and resign from his role at BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV
company. The BBC said there’s no evidence he was aware of the
NDS scheme.  “If the allegations are proven, then it makes a mockery of
the regulations that protect viewers,” said Mark Lewis, a
lawyer for victims of News Corp.’s phone hacking who testified
before the parliamentary committee. The claims “stretch the
definition of ‘fit and proper,’” under U.K. law, he said.  News Corp.’s Australian unit, News Limited, said in a
statement the Australian Financial Review’s report is “full of
factual inaccuracies, flawed references, fanciful conclusions
and baseless accusations which have been disproved in overseas
courts.”  “NDS has consistently denied any wrongdoing,” News Corp.
spokeswoman Miranda Higham said March 26. A federal jury and
appeals court that heard similar allegations “rejected” the
claims, as did the U.S. Department of Justice, she said.  For more, click here.  Argentine Funds Can’t Be Seized by Bond Holders, Judge Says  A U.S. court order restraining $2.2 billion held at the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York for Citibank NA and an
Argentine bank was lifted by a federal judge in Manhattan.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York yesterday
lifted an order he issued in August in the Argentine bond
litigation, that funds in accounts of Banco Central de la
Republica  Argentina  and Citibank at the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York can’t be transferred. Griesa said the plaintiffs, who
are investment funds, had alleged the assets were for payment to
holders of some Argentina defaulted bonds.  Griesa yesterday reversed that decision, saying no accounts
of Banco Central and Citibank at the New York Fed are being used
by Argentina for “commercial activity” in the U.S., and
therefore can’t be seized by the plaintiffs in satisfaction of
prior judgments issued by the judge.  The judgment stems from Argentina’s 2001 default on $80
billion owed to foreign creditors. The country hasn’t made
principal or interest payments since the default.  Griesa criticized Argentina for failing to honor what he
called “its lawful judgment debts.”  “This is yet another situation growing out of the
Republic’s continued intransigence in failing to honor its
lawful judgment debts,” Griesa said. “The plaintiffs in these
cases, in seeking to vindicate their legal rights, are not able
to do so by any regular and clear-cut devices. They are
virtually forced to use methods of attempted recovery which are
strained and uncertain.”  Argentina “is defying its obligations under the law,”
Griesa said.  Aurelius Capital Partners LP and Blue Angel Capital I LLC
and EM Ltd., which own defaulted Argentine bonds, had been
seeking the securities to collect on judgments awarded by
Griesa. Aurelius and Blue Angel were awarded 11 final judgments
against Argentina for a total of $1.2 billion, Griesa said. EM
Ltd. has been awarded a final judgment of about $595 million,
Griesa said.  Charles Platto, a lawyer representing EM Ltd., said he was
reviewing the ruling. “I don’t have any other comment except to
refer you to Judge Griesa’s remarks in his ruling as to
Argentina’s continuing failure to pay its obligation,” Platto
said.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for Citigroup, and Jeffrey W.
Smith, a spokesman for Federal Reserve Bank of New York, didn’t
return calls seeking comment about the ruling.  The cases are Aurelius Capital Partners LP v. Argentina 07-
cv-2715; EM Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 03-CV-2507; U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  U.K. Supreme Court Says Insurers Should Pay Asbestos Victims  Thousands of workers who fell ill from exposure to asbestos
can receive compensation after the U.K. Supreme Court ruled
insurers should cover their claims.  The judges decided that employers’ liability insurance was
triggered the moment workers came into contact with hazardous
material, rather than years later at the onset of mesothelioma,
a cancer caused by asbestos inhalation.  “It would be remarkable if the insurers were not liable
under the policies,” said Justice Jonathan Mance, one of five
Supreme Court judges who dismissed the insurers’ appeal.  Companies including  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZO)  and  Amec Plc (AMEC)  and a group
of local governments and individual claimants have been trying
since at least 2006 to force four insurers, some of which are
insolvent, to pay compensation on claims arising from the point
at which workers inhaled the asbestos fibers.  “The result will be a relief to thousands of disease
victims and their families,” whose insurance claims have been
on hold because of the litigation, said Leon Taylor, a lawyer at
 DLA Piper LLP (1191L)  who represented two insurers, BAI (Run Off) Ltd.
and Independent Insurance Company Ltd. Both companies are
insolvent and being wound down by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “For the insolvent insurance companies involved, their
administrators and liquidators now have the judicial guidance
they needed to satisfy their obligations,” Taylor said in an e-
mailed statement.  Ryanair Loses EU Court Challenge Over Alitalia Rescue Loan  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  lost a court challenge that may have
forced  Alitalia SpA (AZA) ’s owners to repay a 300 million-euro ($401
million) loan from the Italian government.  The European Union General Court dismissed Ryanair’s case
and confirmed the European Commission’s approval of the sale of
Alitalia’s main assets to Compagnia Aerea Italiana, a group of
Italian investors, after the airline’s 2008 bankruptcy,
according to a statement from the Luxembourg-based tribunal.  CAI, including  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , wasn’t
required to repay the state loan that the EU said was illegal
aid, the court confirmed. Air France-KLM Group,  Europe ’s biggest
airline, bought 25 percent of Alitalia from CAI in 2009.  “The sale did not have the effect of circumventing the
obligation to recover the aid or of granting aid to the buyers
of Alitalia,” the court ruled.  Ryanair, based in Dublin, said it will appeal the ruling.  “Today’s decision allows Alitalia and CAI to avoid
repaying 300 million euros of state aid, which the EU Commission
has already -- in 2008 -- ruled to be illegal,” Stephen
McNamara, a Ryanair spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This highlights the commission’s bias towards flag-carrier
airlines, who repeatedly receive illegal state aid but never
have to repay it.”  Alitalia said in a statement that it isn’t liable for any
of the aid because it isn’t seen as a legal successor to the
airline that sought bankruptcy protection. It also said it paid
the market price for the carrier’s assets.  The case is  T-123/09  Ryanair v. Commission.  Algeria Court Fines Orascom Telecom Unit $1.3 Billion  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , North Africa’s biggest mobile
phone company, said an Algerian court fined its Djezzy unit
about $1.3 billion for violations of foreign exchange
regulations.  Orascom said its unit plans to appeal the ruling, which
would temporarily halt implementation of the judgment, according
to a statement on the company’s  website .  Orascom and Algeria have been locked in an ownership
dispute over Djezzy since early 2010. The Algerian government
agreed to pay $6.5 billion to buy 51 percent of Djezzy, Reuters
reported yesterday. An adviser to the Algerian Finance Minister
said he had no information about the deal when contacted by
Bloomberg for comment. Orascom Telecom’s press office said it
didn’t have any information on the deal. The Egyptian exchange
said it was seeking an explanation from Orascom.  “The court ruling is fact and it’s negative for the
company while the Algerian government’s offer to buy Djezzy
hasn’t yet been confirmed,” Amr El-Alfy, deputy director of
research at Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage Co.,
said by telephone. “It’s still not clear whether the
government’s offer applies to 100 percent or 51 percent of
Djezzy shares.”  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 