-- Health-Care Case Injects High Court Into Election Debate
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-03-29T14:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/health-care-case-injects-high-court-into-election-debate.html
The U.S. Supreme Court’s pending
ruling on the health-care law will put a rare judicial stamp of
repudiation or endorsement on an incumbent president’s most
prominent achievement just as he faces re-election.  “There’s been no measure this central to an administration
knocked down by a court just a few years after it passed,”
including when parts of President  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s New
Deal were ruled unconstitutional in the 1930s, said  Julian Zelizer , a presidential historian at  Princeton University . On
the other hand, if the court should uphold the law, “it’s
significant affirmation,” he said.  Striking down the health-care overhaul that President
 Barack Obama  pushed through Congress would be a blow to the
legacy of a president who used to teach constitutional law and
who pursued the health legislation at a heavy political cost --
the Democrats lost control of the House in the next election.  It also may bring into sharp relief the nation’s partisan
divide. The law passed Congress on a party line vote, and the
court may also divide between its Republican and Democratic
appointees when it rules.  Still, in a testament to the depth of voter concern about
the economy, academic experts and political strategists say they
expect the decision to generate mostly short-term turmoil rather
than a sea-change in the presidential race.  “Right now, the economy is pushing every other issue out
of the center of the campaign,” said  Bill Carrick , a Democratic
political consultant.  Republican Candidates  Republicans seeking their party’s nomination to challenge
Obama in November have all vowed to dismantle the law. The
leading contender for the nomination,  Mitt Romney , won passage
when he was governor of Massachusetts of a health-care law that
Obama’s aides have said was the model for their plan. Former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , his chief rival, said Romney
is “the worst person” to debate Obama on the law.  A decision against the federal health care law would
produce “a little turbulence for Obama,” Carrick said. “Over
the long course of the campaign, I don’t think it will be a plus
or minus for either one of them.”  The  Republican National Committee  released a  video 
yesterday attacking the performance of Solicitor General Donald
Verrilli Jr. in defending the health care plan before the
Supreme Court. Titled “ObamaCare: It’s a Tough Sell,” it
features Verrilli coughing and mumbling “excuse me” as he
began his statement to the court.  White House Cautions  Obama advisers at the White House and on his campaign staff
declined yesterday to discuss the political ramifications of
potential rulings. Deputy White House Press Secretary  Josh Earnest  cautioned reporters against making predictions of the
court’s decision “based solely on the tenor of the questions”
from the justices.  He cited lower court cases in which “conservative judges,
despite their tough questions, ended up ruling” in favor of the
health care law.  The political split in the country that surfaced in the
health care debate shows signs of spilling over into public
confidence in the neutrality of the nation’s highest court.  In a  Bloomberg National Poll  conducted March 8-11, 75
percent of respondents said they expect politics will influence
the court’s ruling while only 17 percent said they believe the
case will be decided solely on its legal merits. Eight percent
said they weren’t sure.  Court Legitimacy  While that may feed a negative view of the  Supreme Court 
from supporters of the law if it’s overruled, the court’s
institutional legitimacy probably is not threatened, said
Michael Klarman, a Harvard Law School professor who specializes
in constitutional law.  The health care law does not command majority support from
the public and feeling among its backers is not as intense as
was public sentiment surrounding the 2000 presidential election,
Klarman said. The Supreme Court intervened in 2000 to stop a
vote recount in  Florida , effectively delivering the election to
Republican  George W. Bush  over Democrat  Al Gore , who won the
national popular vote by more than 500,000 ballots.  “It didn’t have any ramifications for the court,” Klarman
said. “If Bush versus Gore didn’t do it, this won’t do it.”  Public Skeptical of Law  Seventy-two percent of Americans said the health care law’s
individual mandate to buy insurance is unconstitutional in a  USA
Today /Gallup  Poll  conducted February 20-21 that found the
country evenly split on the merits of the law. Even among those
who thought the law was a “good thing,” 54 percent said they
thought the requirement to buy insurance is unconstitutional.  Among Democratic activists, rumblings of a political attack
on the court surfaced hours after four of the Republican
appointees hinted in questions during oral arguments that they
might strike down the law.  James Carville , a veteran Democratic strategist and adviser
to former President  Bill Clinton , said on CNN March 27 that a
Supreme Court ruling against the law would be perceived as
political and provide Democrats a boost.  “Just as a professional Democrat, there’s nothing better
to me than overturning this thing 5-4 and then the  Republican
Party  will own the health care system for the foreseeable
future,” Carville said. “I really believe that. That is not
spin.”  Previous Rulings  Tad Devine, a Democratic strategist who advised the party’s
2004 presidential nominee, Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts ,
said a charge of partisanship might gain traction because of two
prior rulings that divided the court along ideological lines:
the Florida recount case and the 2010 Citizens United decision
that opened the way for the use of corporate funds to influence
elections.  “A lot depends on the nature of the decision, how it comes
down and how it reflects the polarization of politics that
people resent so much today,” Devine said.  Still, George Terwilliger III, a deputy attorney general
under Republican President  George H.W. Bush , said a Supreme
Court ruling overturning the health law would validate
Republican criticism that the Obama administration has
overreached its authority.  “If it says to independents in the middle this is a
president who is willing to overreach on a lot things, unbridled
in the second term that may scare them,” Terwilliger said.  Conversely, a ruling that upholds the health care law would
provide affirmation to Obama, even if the decision doesn’t
persuade the most ardent opponents.  “If the law is upheld,” Terwilliger said, “particularly
if Romney is the nominee, I think the issue will fade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  