-- Earl Scruggs, Pioneering Bluegrass Banjoist, Dies at 88
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-29T12:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/earl-scruggs-banjoist-who-invented-scruggs-style-dies-at-88.html
Earl Scruggs, whose banjo-picking
technique on hits such as “Foggy Mountain Breakdown” changed
the way people play the instrument, has died. He was 88.  Scruggs died yesterday of natural causes at a hospital in
Nashville, Tennessee, the  Associated Press  reported, citing his
son, Gary.  Scruggs  invented his style as a child in  North Carolina ,
where many banjoists picked with three fingers instead of the
usual two. His variation on that method let him play a song’s
melody and rhythm simultaneously, making his sound unique.  “Earl Scruggs was my inspiration,” said  Steve Martin , who
started playing banjo as a teenager and recorded a Grammy Award-
winning song with him in 2001. The actor and comedian referred
to Scruggs as “the most important banjo player who ever lived”
in a posting yesterday on his Twitter  feed .  “Scruggs style,” as his approach to five-string banjo
playing was known, emerged when he performed with Bill Monroe,
known as the Father of Bluegrass.  He had his biggest successes in a duo with Lester Flatt, a
guitarist and singer. “Foggy Mountain Breakdown,” recorded
with Flatt in 1949, was featured in the film “Bonnie and
Clyde” two decades later. Flatt and Scruggs also played on
“The Ballad of Jed Clampett,” the theme of the “Beverly
Hillbillies” television series.  Country Rock  Scruggs formed the Earl Scruggs Revue, featuring his three
sons, after the duo split. The Revue helped lay the groundwork
for country rock by combining bluegrass with more contemporary
music and playing songs by  Bob Dylan  and Joan Baez.  Earl Eugene Scruggs was born on Jan. 6, 1924, and raised in
Flint Hill, North Carolina, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) west
of  Charlotte .  Scruggs was part of a musical family. He was 4 years old
when his father, George Elam Scruggs, who played the fiddle and
banjo, died. His mother, Lula Ruppe Scruggs, played the organ.
Junie and Horace, his older brothers, and Eula Mae and Ruby, his
older sisters, learned to play banjo and guitar. Another sister,
Bessie, died as an infant.  Scruggs learned the three-finger style from Smith Hammett,
a relative, and played before his first audience at the age of
six. By 10, he came up with Scruggs style.  Nashville Radio  World War II sidetracked his budding musical career. He got
a job at a nearby thread mill and worked as much as 72 hours a
week to support his mother.  After the war, he moved to Knoxville,  Tennessee , and played
with Lost  John Miller  and the Allied Kentuckians, a band with a
weekly radio show in Nashville.  Miller quit the business in November 1945, and Scruggs
auditioned for Monroe’s  Blue Grass Boys . He played his first
show with the band at Nashville’s  Grand Ole Opry  a week later.  At one of Monroe’s Opry concerts in 1946. Scruggs met
Louise Certain, an accountant living in Nashville, The couple
married two years later and had three boys: Gary, born in 1949;
Randy, in 1953, and Steve, in 1958. She died in 2006 at 78.  Scruggs played with Monroe until February 1948, about two
months before the wedding. Flatt, one of his band mates, quit
right after him. They formed Flatt and Scruggs and the Foggy
Mountain Boys, named for their theme song, “Foggy Mountain
Top” by the  Carter Family . Mercury Records signed the duo,
which spent two years there before moving to Columbia Records.  Joining the Opry  Flatt and Scruggs lived in a dozen cities in the South
between 1948 and 1955, when they settled in Nashville. Louise
became their booking agent and manager, making her the first
woman to hold those jobs in country music.  The duo then joined the Opry, where they hosted a segment
sponsored by  Martha White Mills , a Nashville-based flour maker.
They have previously done radio and television shows, starting
in 1953, for the company.  Injuries from an accident in October 1955 forced Scruggs
off the road for eight months. The mishap occurred while he was
taking his family to see his mother, who had suffered a stroke.
He dislocated his hips, which were replaced, and broke his
pelvic bone. His mother died while he was recuperating.  Paul Henning, the “Beverly Hillbillies” creator, saw them
perform in  Los Angeles  in 1961 and hired them for “The Ballad
of Jed Clampett.” The duo had a No. 1 country single with its
own version of the song and appeared on the series seven times.  How-To Book  As the 1960s progressed, Flatt and Scruggs broadened their
sound and their audience. The duo even performed at rock venues
and festivals, as Scruggs wrote in “Earl Scruggs and the Five-
String Banjo,” an instructional  book  last revised in 2008.  “Lester wasn’t happy with the path we were on,” he wrote.
“He expressed his desire to get back to the more rural circuit
that we once had traveled.”  The duo gave their final performance in 1969. Days later,
they received a Grammy for a re-recording of “Foggy Mountain
Breakdown,” an honor made possible because the original was
used in “Bonnie and Clyde.”  Scruggs then began the Revue, which lasted until 1980. The
Nitty Gritty Dirt Band collaborated with him on “Will the
Circle Be Unbroken” (1972), an album of traditional songs that
the country-rock band recorded with country and bluegrass stars.
Scruggs also played on follow-up albums in 1989 and 2002.  After the Revue split, Scruggs went into semi-retirement.
In 1992, his youngest son Steve committed suicide after killing
his wife in the couple’s home near Nashville.  Scruggs had a health scare in 1996, when he checked into a
Nashville hospital for a new pair of artificial hips. After the
surgery, he had a heart attack in the recovery room. Doctors
found he had six blocked arteries and did bypass surgery.  “Earl Scruggs and Friends,” his first album in 17 years,
was released in 2001. The album featured a version of “Foggy
Mountain Breakdown” with Martin, as well as performances by
 Elton John , Sting, Melissa Etheridge and John Fogerty.  The new version of “Foggy Mountain Breakdown” won him a
Grammy. He also received the award for playing on “Same Old
Train” (1998), an all-star recording, and for “Earl’s
Breakdown” (2004) done with the Dirt Band. In 2008 he  received 
a Grammy lifetime achievement award.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  