-- EasyJet to Test Reserved Seats on Some Flights in April
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-30T07:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/easyjet-to-test-reserved-seats-on-some-flights-in-april.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  Chief Executive Officer
Carolyn McCall says the U.K. airline is ready to win sales from
global clients as pre-booked seats, higher frequencies and deals
with corporate bookers consign its no-frills focus to history.  Europe ’s second-biggest discount carrier is targeting
larger companies such as  Unilever (UNA) , the No. 2 consumer-products
maker, that are looking to cut travel expenses while retaining
flexibility, McCall said in an interview in Barcelona.  “We’ve always had entrepreneurs and small- and medium-sized
businesses flying with us,” she said. “They cottoned on a long
time ago. What we’re doing is building that into something
sustainable. Unilever is a great example of a cost-conscious
multinational. They’d absolutely consider using EasyJet.”  Under McCall, EasyJet has dropped the no-frills approach in
favor of a model where passengers can opt to pay for everything
from food and checked bags to lounge access and flexible tickets
in addition to their flight. Since seat-occupancy levels are
already high, she’s also seeking to lure late bookers who pay
higher fares rather than simply boosting raw passenger numbers.  EasyJet  rose  as much as 2.2 percent and was trading 1.6
percent higher at 485.8 pence as of 8:23 a.m. in  London , valuing
the Luton-based company at 1.92 billion pounds ($3.1 billion).  Blue-Chip Targets  The stock has risen 23 percent  this year , matching  Turkish
Airlines  and International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
parent of British Airways, as the biggest gainers in the seven-
member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,
Europe’s biggest discount airline, had advanced 21 percent.  EasyJet, founded by  Stelios Haji-Ioannou  in 1995 with
discount flights to  Scotland  advertised as “as cheap as a pair
of jeans,” is targeting a range of FTSE-100 companies and has
“had some success,” spokesman  Paul Moore  said by telephone.  Unilever, the maker of Dove soap, Knorr soup and Magnum ice
cream with headquarters in both London and Rotterdam, allows
employees to use EasyJet and other discount carriers as part of
an “ongoing focus on reducing its total travel and expense
costs,” spokeswoman Lucila Zambrano said in an e-mail.  Low-cost operators must offer a “significant additional
saving” compared with the best fare available from Unilever’s
“preferred” companies, she said. Non-flight travel expenses
can be higher for carriers using terminals further from city
centers to tap cheaper landing fees, though EasyJet serves more
major airports than  Ryanair. (RYA)   Frequency Focus  EasyJet’s plan aims to build on its penetration of smaller
companies such as  Allectra GmbH , a German supplier of parts for
particle accelerators, where U.K. sales executive Mario Peli is
a regular customer, largely because of the proximity of London
Gatwick airport, the carrier’s main base, to his Brighton home.  “I’m not particularly loyal, it’s just convenient,” said
Peli, who twice a month visits Rome, Berlin and Milan, cities he
reckons are well-served by EasyJet. The carrier’s business-
appeal has been enhanced by the deployment of 75 percent of new
capacity on “thickening” existing routes with additional flights
rather than developing new destinations, according to McCall.  Still, it will take time for EasyJet to raise frequencies
across the board to the levels offered by competitors such as
 British Airways (IAG) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,
said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London.  “They’re pursuing the right strategy and their share of
business travel will go up, but it can’t go up that quickly,”
said Zonneveld, who has a “buy” rating on EasyJet. “You need to
bring daily frequencies up to at least four a day, maybe more.”  ‘No Strategy’  McCall said EasyJet has little overlap with Dublin-based
Ryanair, and that the pair rarely compete head-to-head. Ryanair
CEO  Michael O’Leary  reckons the U.K. company is paying lip
service to targeting the business market and is actually late to
the game in offering perks attractive to corporate travelers.  “EasyJet have no strategy other than to follow Ryanair and
then bleat on about business travel,” O’Leary said yesterday in
an interview in Brussels. “When Ryanair first started charging
for checked-in baggage, EasyJet said they’d never do it; 12
months later they’re doing it. Ryanair led with charging for
allocated seating. Guess what EasyJet are trialing now.”  The biggest challenge according to McCall is in building
relationships with travel management firms and global
distribution system operators such as  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS)  and
 Sabre Holdings Corp. (TSG) , so that EasyJet’s flights are available
alongside those of carriers including BA and Air France-KLM.  “The GDS companies are used to working in a completely
different way with the legacy carriers to the way we would
want,” the CEO said. “They want volume. What we want is yield.”  Fudge to Fail  EasyJet’s load factor or average occupancy level was 87.5
percent last year, compared with 79.1 percent at IAG, parent of
British Airways and  Spain ’s Iberia.  The full-service heritage of carriers like Air France and
IAG means efforts to replicate the discount model for their
short-haul fleets will most likely fail, McCall said.  Air France has established a lower-cost unit for flights
from French regional cities with the aim of stemming the loss of
market share to rivals such as EasyJet, with a hub added in
Marseille in October and bases due to open in Nice and Toulouse
in April, all operated by local crews working longer hours.  The French company is also looking at creating a discount
carrier to operate alongside its main brand in Paris, a person
familiar with the situation said March 26. IAG’s Iberia Express
began flying March 25, aiming to stem losses on Spanish routes.  “Either you have a low-cost operating model or you
don’t,” McCall, 50, said in the interview on March 26. “You
have to do it all the time. It’s not a choice.”  McCall says EasyJet has no plans to follow  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,
Europe’s third-largest discount operator, in collaborating with
other carriers after the German company joined the BA-led
Oneworld alliance and said March 16 it was considering code-
sharing with Air France.  “It would have to be really worth our while to consider
it,” the executive said. “Our whole mantra is ‘keep it
simple.’ We don’t want to over-complicate what we do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  