-- EBay Names Marcus PayPal Head to Bring ‘Startup Energy’
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-03-29T20:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/ebay-promotes-marcus-to-paypal-president-after-thompson-left.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the largest Internet
marketplace, promoted David Marcus to president of its PayPal
payments business, picking the head of a recently acquired
startup to run the company’s fastest-growing unit.  Marcus succeeds  Scott Thompson , who became CEO of  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO)  in January. He will take the role April 2, shifting from
his current position as vice president for mobile, the company
said in a statement today.  PayPal, which was acquired in 2002 and now accounts for
more than 40 percent of sales, will benefit from the “startup
energy” Marcus brings, Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe 
said in the statement. Marcus joined EBay in August, following
EBay’s $240 million purchase of Zong Inc., a company he founded
that has helped PayPal bolster technology that lets shoppers use
mobile phones to make purchases.  “PayPal is not only a large business, but it’s a very
fast-growing business,”  Gil Luria , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles , said in an interview. “It needs
someone that understands how to head a company that’s growing
very quickly. An entrepreneur that has built a business from
zero to selling the company is a very good candidate to do
that.”  PayPal this month unveiled a new card-swiping device that
scans checks and works with all four major credit-card networks
-- an initiative led by Marcus.  PayPal Here  The reader, called PayPal Here, plugs into a smartphone and
accepts payments from  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ,  Discover
Financial Services (DFS)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)  cards. It’s designed
make it easier for small merchants such as cab drivers and food
trucks to use its technology.  Picking an internal candidate was a “vote of confidence”
in the PayPal management team and a message that the company is
serious about continuing its focus on mobile, Luria said.  At Zong, Marcus developed technology that allowed consumers
to pay for purchases from their mobile phones or computers by
entering a mobile-phone number. EBay’s acquisition of the
company was one of five it made in the last year,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show.  At PayPal, Marcus has helped lead mobile-payment volume
growth, Donahoe said, which is projected to reach $7 billion in
2012, compared with $4 billion last year. The company had total
payment volume of $33.4 billion in the fourth quarter.  Company’s ‘Agility’  Marcus said he “strongly” supports the company’s focus on
the mobile platform and in-store payments and doesn’t foresee
major changes.  “It took us about seven months to build that product
inside of that company,” he said in a telephone interview.  “Every day, I’m impressed at the agility this company can
have and how it rises up to the occasion again and again to
build a product really quickly. I think there’s no plan to
change the strategy.”  PayPal’s e-commerce payment business also started allowing
shoppers to pay using physical-payment terminals in  Home Depot
Inc. (HD)  stores across the country last month, part of an effort to
win customers from credit-card companies. The in-store service
helps consumers purchase items at a checkout with a PayPal card
or with a phone number and pass code.  Revenue at PayPal helped EBay reach sales of $3.38 billion
in the fourth quarter. Still, growth at the payments division
slowed from the previous quarter, down to 28 percent from 32
percent.  “David leads with a founder’s perspective,” Donahoe said
in the statement. “He is a successful technology entrepreneur
with a passion for great products that engage and delight
customers. David’s appointment signals our deep commitment at
PayPal, and across EBay Inc., to be a leading technology-driven
and customer-focused product innovation company.”  EBay  fell  0.7 percent to $36.99 at the close in  New York .
The shares have climbed 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  