-- ECB’s Knot Says Long-Term Loans Haven’t Led to Inflation Risks
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-03-29T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/ecb-s-knot-says-long-term-loans-haven-t-led-to-inflation-risks.html
The  European Central Bank ’s long-
term refinancing operations haven’t led to inflationary risks,
Governing Council member Klaas Knot said.  “The moment the liquidity would translate into money
supply growth and excessive credit growth, then you would get
inflationary risks,” Knot said at the presentation of the
annual report of the Dutch central bank in Amsterdam today. “We
don’t see that at all at the moment.”  “If you look analytically where the inflation in the euro
zone is coming from at the moment, there isn’t really core
inflation,” he said. “There’s inflation as a result of the
prices of goods, especially the oil price is fairly dominant,
and there is inflation from administrative prices” such as
increases in value-added tax.  The ECB has provided more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) in two long-term refinancing operations. Knot said
this has provided European banks with time to restructure their
balances.  “We can’t repeat these things too often; it can’t be that
we’re heading for a situation in which the European banking
sector structurally depends on the financing from the ECB,”
said Knot, who has led the Dutch central bank since July. “If
in three years, when these instruments end, we’re back in the
same situation as in November and December of last year, then it
will have been an absolute failure.”  ‘Sustainable Solution’  The ECB’s long-term loans to banks and its bond-buying
program “relieved tensions in the financial markets, but didn’t
take them away,” Knot wrote in the annual report. “For a
sustainable solution, the problems need to be addressed at the
source. Then the unconventional policy can be timely phased
out,” he said.  “The solution to the crisis can’t be provided by the ECB
in the form of monetary financing of government deficits,” Knot
said. While joint euro bonds are desirable in the future, they
aren’t suitable as a crisis instrument, he added.  The global economy won’t quickly return to economic-growth
levels seen in the years before the current crisis, Knot said.
“That’s not realistic, all the more because the increasing
ageing of the population lowers potential growth. The cyclical
prospects thus aren’t very rosy.”  Knot said it will take several years before  euro-zone 
countries with current-accounts deficits can stand on their own
and for the currency union to have a stable financial-economic
development.  ‘Stable Inflation’  Central banks should be alert to developments that can lead
to instability, even if inflation is under control, the Dutch
regulator wrote.  “If periods of stable inflation are accompanied by low
 interest rates  and high credit growth” then “it can be
desirable to raise the policy rate while inflation expectations
are still well anchored, just to prevent the buildup of
financial imbalances and promote long-term  price stability ,”
the bank said.  While the Dutch economy is doing relatively well, the
 budget deficit  and state debt exceed European Union limits, the
central bank said. Government guarantees have increased due to
the European rescue fund and the home-ownership guarantee fund,
the central bank said, repeating its call upon the Cabinet to
reform the housing market.  Separately, the Dutch central bank said it didn’t sell any
of its  gold reserves  last year. It held 612 metric tons at the
end of 2011 valued at 24 billion euros compared with 20.8
billion euros a year earlier, according to the annual report,
which was finalized on March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  