-- Economy in U.S. Grew at 3% Annual Rate in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-29T12:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/economy-in-u-s-expanded-at-3-annual-rate-in-fourth-quarter.html
The economy in the U.S. grew at a 3
percent annual rate in the last three months of 2011, the same
as previously estimated, while corporate profits climbed at the
slowest pace in three years, raising the risk that business
investment and hiring will cool.  The increase in gross domestic product was the biggest in
more than a year and followed a 1.8 percent gain in the prior
period, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in  Washington . Company earnings were up 0.9 percent from
the third quarter, the smallest advance since the last three
months of 2008.  While the report showed business spending on new equipment
and software climbed more the previously estimated, figures this
month indicate outlays are slowing following the expiration of a
government tax credit. Consumers may be poised to take a leading
role in the expansion as the biggest increase in employment
since 2006 gives households the confidence and means to spend.  “Businesses are going to remain very cautious about hiring
permanent staff and investing in new equipment,” said  Mark
Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who accurately forecast the gain in
GDP. “It probably raises a caution flag that growth has not
ratcheted up as many people hoped it had.”  The number of applications for  unemployment benefits 
dropped last week to the lowest level in almost four years,
adding to evidence the labor market is strengthening, figures
from the Labor Department also showed today. Jobless claims fell
5,000 in the week ended March 24 to 359,000, the lowest since
April 2008. With the report, the government data also contain
revisions dating back to 2007.  Shares Fall  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
fell 0.3 percent to 1,395.6 at 8:49 a.m. in New York.  The gain in GDP matched the median estimate of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Forecasts ranged from 1.5
percent to 3.9 percent. The world’s largest economy expanded 1.7
percent for all of 2011, down from 3 percent a year earlier.  Consumer spending  grew at a 2.1 percent annual rate, the
same as previously estimated, today’s report showed. A bigger
gain in purchases of goods was offset by the smallest increase
in spending on services in two years.  Demand has continued to grow this quarter. Sales of cars
and light trucks climbed to a 15 million annual rate in
February, the best showing since February 2008, according to
data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Spending Accelerates  Figures tomorrow from the Commerce Department are projected
to show purchases rose 0.6 percent in February, the biggest gain
in five months, according to a Bloomberg survey median.  An improving job market may be one reason consumers have
the confidence to shop. Employers added 227,000 workers in
February, capping the best six-month gain in payrolls since
2006. The  unemployment rate  held at a three-year low of 8.3
percent, Labor Department data showed this month.  More income and a strengthening labor market are giving
households the wherewithal to make big-ticket purchases,
benefiting companies like motor-home maker  Winnebago Industries
Inc. (WGO)   “We’re beginning to see positive signs that the economy is
improving,” Randy Potts, chief executive officer, said on a
March 15 conference call. “ Consumer confidence  has been
trending higher and the jobless rate is improving.”  While encouraged by the drop in unemployment, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the central bank
needs to keep  interest rate  low to sustain the recovery and make
additional progress.  Bernanke’s View  Reducing joblessness further will probably require a
quicker expansion of business production and consumer demand,
which “can be supported by continued accommodative policies,” he
told a group of business economists on March 26. In an interview
with ABC News anchor  Diane Sawyer  a day later he said that
unemployment remains too high, that the economic recovery isn’t
assured and that central bankers haven’t ruled out doing more to
boost growth.  Corporate profits last quarter rose by $16.8 billion from
the previous three months to $1.99 trillion. Earnings were up 7
percent from the same time last year, the smallest year-over-
year gain since the second quarter of 2009.  The slowdown in profits may reflect a cooling in worker
productivity which has boosted expenses. For all of 2011, output
per hour climbed 0.4 percent, the smallest gain since 1995,
figures from the Labor Department showed earlier this month.
Labor expenses adjusted for efficiency increased 2 percent last
year, the most since 2008.  Business Investment  Business investment for last quarter was revised up.
Corporate spending on equipment and software rose at a 7.5
percent annual rate, compared with the 4.8 percent estimated
last month. It climbed at a 16 percent pace in the prior
quarter.  Shipments of capital goods excluding aircraft and military
gear, used in calculating GDP, rose 1.4 percent in February,
making up for less than half the 3 percent drop at the start of
the year, Commerce Department data showed yesterday.  “It looks as though business investment outlays are
continuing to grow at a much more modest pace compared to
earlier in the recovery,”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , said in a note to clients
yesterday.  A smaller gain in exports than previously estimated held
back growth last quarter, today’s report showed. The  trade gap 
was $410.8 billion in the last three months of 2011, compared
with a prior estimate of $404.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  