-- Edison International `Compelling' as Utilities Shine
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-29T20:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/edison-international-compelling-as-utilities-shine.html
Edison International (EIX) , owner of
California’s second-largest electric utility, is “compelling”
for investors seeking under-valued companies, Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.’s Hugh Wynne said.  Edison International is trading at a discount to the value
of its Southern California Edison subsidiary, one of the most
profitable and fastest-growing U.S. utilities, Wynne said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  “Utilities have found their place in the sun,” said
Wynne, a New York-based utilities analyst for Bernstein. If
economic growth remains slow and inflation and long-term
interest rates stay low, “history will tell us utilities will
deliver returns that are above what’s expected for equities more
broadly.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Electric Utilities Index (S5ELUT)  has
dropped 3.9 percent this year, compared with an 12 percent gain
in the broader  S&P 500 Index . Edison, which has gained 2.7
percent this year, reached a 52-week high on March 1. Today, it
rose 0.2 percent to $42.50 at the close in New York.  The company, based in Rosemead, California, has been hurt
by losses at its Edison Mission unregulated generation unit,
which is unprofitable and indebted as wholesale power prices
decline, Wynne said.  The subsidiary’s debt is non-recourse, meaning “there’s no
obligation for the utility or holding company to backstop that
debt,” Wynne said. “If necessary, the competitive generation
subsidiary could be put into bankruptcy.”  Wynne has an outperform rating on Edison, meaning the
company is expected to have better returns than its peers.  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  owns the state’s largest electric utility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  