-- Egypt’s Military, Parties Meet to End Constitution-Panel Row
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-03-29T17:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/egypt-s-military-parties-meet-to-end-constitution-panel-row.html
A military-sponsored meeting of
Egyptian political parties discussed ways to make a
constitutional-drafting panel more representative to address
objections over its makeup, the state news agency reported.  The meeting looked into means to ensure “effective
representation for all parties, political forces, civil society
and public personalities” in the panel through including names
from a backup list for the body’s membership, the Middle East
News agency said, citing a statement read by lawmaker Moustafa
Bakri. The head of the ruling military council, Field Marshal
Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, attended the meeting, it said.  Several secular members of the 100-member panel have
withdrawn from the body with critics arguing that the process of
selecting its members favored Islamists and has resulted in the
underrepresentation of groups such as women and legal experts.
The disagreements add to the turmoil surrounding the transition
to democracy in the Arab world’s most populous nation following
last year’s uprising that led to  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster.  Fourteen political parties including the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party agreed on the statement
issued after the meeting, MENA said. Five parties including one
co-founded by billionaire Naguib Sawiris objected, it said, a
move that signals the meeting may not end the row over the
panel’s formation.  About a quarter of the Constituent Assembly, as the panel
is called, didn’t attend its inaugural session yesterday. The
Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party makes up the
largest bloc in parliament, which elected the panel and decided
it would include 50 members from parliament. A bloc comprising
Salafis, followers of an austere interpretation of Islam, is the
next-biggest in the assembly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  