-- Heineken, Flowers Foods Debut U.S. Bonds as Sales Smash Record
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-29T20:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/heineken-flowers-foods-debut-u-s-bonds-as-sales-smash-record.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the biggest Dutch
brewer, and baker  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  tapped the U.S. bond market
for the first time as sales soared to a record $430 billion in
the first three months of 2012.  Heineken sold $750 million of 10-year notes, boosted from
earlier plans to sell $500 million, which yield 127 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Thomasville, Georgia-based Flowers Foods
raised $400 million of 10-year bonds that pay a spread of 225
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Offerings by companies from the neediest to the most
creditworthy surpassed the previous record of $397 billion
reached in the first quarter of 2011 as companies tap the  debt
market  at the lowest-ever borrowing costs, Bloomberg data show.
Yields on investment-grade bonds fell to 3.4 percent on March 2,
the lowest dating back to 1986, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  “Non-financial spreads are very close to their tights of
the last several years, and yields are near their all-time lows
so it’s a fantastic time to issue,” Justin D’Ercole, head of
investment-grade syndicate for the Americas at Barclays Plc in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “With an increasingly
volatile rate backdrop, many issuers are choosing to accelerate
their funding plans.”  The Amsterdam-based maker of the namesake beer is issuing
dollar-denominated notes after raising 1.35 billion euros ($1.77
billion) of debt in  Europe  on March 12 in a two-part offering,
Bloomberg data show.  First Ratings  Heineken’s offerings this month are its first in three
years after the 148-year-old brewer gained investment-grade
status from its first public credit  ratings .  Standard & Poor’s 
rated the company at BBB+ and Moody’s Investors Service assigned
an equivalent Baa1 rating.  Barclays, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
managing Heineken’s deal, with the proceeds expected to be used
for general corporate purposes, a person familiar with the
transaction said.  Flowers Foods, the producer and distributor of baked goods
established in 1919, plans to use the proceeds from the sale for
paying down debt, possible acquisitions, working capital and
other general corporate purposes, it said in a preliminary
prospectus filing. It is rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  