-- Helaba to Cut Jobs as Capital Measures Boost Liquidity Cost
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-03-29T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/helaba-to-cut-jobs-as-capital-measures-boost-liquidity-cost.html
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen will
cut jobs, reduce expenses and modify its portfolio as measures
the German state-owned lender took to meet regulatory
requirements raise the cost of capital and liquidity
“significantly.”  “The necessary optimization of our business processes will
entail job cuts over the next four years,” Hans-Dieter Brenner,
the bank’s chief executive officer, said today in a statement.
The measures being forced on the bank by the regulator will mean
“grave cuts.”  Europe’s top banking regulator told the bank, known as
Helaba, and five other German lenders in December to raise
capital as part of measures intended to restore confidence in
their ability to weather the sovereign debt crisis. Helaba
fulfilled the requirements after a state shareholder converted a
form of capital used in  Germany  into one recognized by the
European Banking Authority.  “The consequences for competition and profitability in the
banking sector are considerable and force us to react,” said
Brenner. The risk and earnings of some business will change, the
company said.  Helaba said net income jumped 33 percent to 397 million
euros from 298 million euros last year on higher net interest
and commission income and as the bank set aside less money for
risky loans. Brenner said the lender can post a “similarly
good” result for this year as in 2011.  Trading Loss  The German bank posted a 44 million-euro trading loss
compared with a 148 million-euro profit a year earlier as
spreads widened in the fourth quarter amid  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis, according to the statement. The trading result may
be “significantly positive” this year if markets improve, the
company said.  The state of Hesse converted so-called silent
participations at the end of last year, allowing Helaba to meet
the EBA’s requirement for banks to have core a Tier 1 capital
ratio of 9 percent or more after adjusting for losses on certain
sovereign bonds.  Silent participations are a form of non-voting capital. A
bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio is a measure of its financial
strength.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  