-- Elections Canada Says Investigating Voter-Call Complaints
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-03-29T17:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/elections-canada-says-investigating-voter-call-complaints.html
Canadian authorities have expanded
an investigation into allegations of improper phone calls to
voters in the last federal election, the head of the nation’s
monitoring agency said.  Elections Canada  is probing more than 800 complaints about
inappropriate or fraudulent calls that may have been made during
the campaign leading to the May 2 general election, Chief
Electoral Officer  Marc Mayrand  told lawmakers today in an
appearance before a parliamentary committee. Mayrand didn’t
disclose the names of any individuals or parties that may be
linked to the investigation.  The probe covers about 200 electoral districts across 10
provinces and one of three territories, Mayrand said. There are
308 districts represented in the country’s  House of Commons .  The complaints allege that callers either misrepresented
themselves as Elections Canada officials or members of a
political party, Mayrand said, adding that some of the calls
were automated. Some callers falsely informed voters of a change
in the location of polling stations, while others attempted to
harass voters, he said.  To “deliberately misdirect electors and interfere with
their vote” is a “serious offense” under the country’s
constitution and election law, he said. “It not only denies a
fundamental right of affected electors, it also diminishes our
democratic institutions and the rights of all Canadians.”  The so-called “robocall” issue has recently dominated
debate in the country’s parliament. Opposition lawmakers have
said that the governing  Conservative Party  was behind the
automated calls.  The opposition says the tactic prevented some of their
supporters from voting in the election that gave the
Conservatives a  majority  of seats in the House of Commons after
five years of minority rule.  Denying Role  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said Feb. 29 that the
Conservative Party “absolutely, definitively” had no role in
the calls.  Mayrand said almost 40,000 people have contacted Elections
Canada about the calls. In a  statement  March 15, he said about
31,000 Canadians had contacted the agency and more than 700
complaints had been made about specific allegations of improper
or fraudulent calls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  