-- Telefonica Loses Fight on 152 Million-Euro EU Antitrust Fine
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-29T13:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/telefonica-loses-eu-challenge-to-152-million-euro-antitrust-fine.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  lost a court
challenge to a 152 million-euro ($202 million) antitrust fine by
European Union regulators.  The EU’s General Court rejected the appeal by  Spain ’s
biggest phone company and said the European Commission “rightly
held that Telefonica had abused its dominant position” over the
Spanish internet market, according to a statement. The court
also backed regulators’ view that deliberately underpricing
wholesale services to hurt rivals, called “margin squeeze,”
was a form of monopoly abuse.  Telefonica was fined by the commission in 2007 for abusing
its monopoly over broadband  Internet access  in Spain by charging
wholesale rates that were too close to retail prices between
2001 and 2006. Regulators said this prevented rivals from making
a profit.  Telefonica will appeal the ruling to the region’s highest
tribunal and is in “complete and profound disagreement” with
today’s decision, it said in an e-mailed statement. The company
“scrupulously abided by the telecommunications regulations
imposed” by Spanish regulators.  The EU antitrust agency said the judgments “are important
because they confirm the commission’s methodology for
determining the existence of a margin squeeze and the
commission’s power to intervene” in monopoly abuse cases in
regulated markets, such as telecommunications, according to a
statement published on its website.  Portugal Telecom  The court said Telefonica must have been aware that
compliance with Spanish rules didn’t prevent the EU from
applying its own competition rules and that the Madrid-based
company was allowed to increase its prices at any time.  Telefonica last year got an EU antitrust complaint over an
agreement with  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  not to compete in each
other’s home countries. Telefonica was also among five European
telecommunications operators questioned this year by regulators
about talks over technology standards to compete with Google
Inc. and Apple Inc.  The case is  T-336/07  Telefonica and Telefonica de Espana v.
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in  Luxembourg  at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 