-- Emerging Stocks Tumble to 2-Month Low on Slowdown Concern
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-29T22:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/emerging-stocks-tumble-to-2-month-low-on-slowdown-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
two-month low as U.S. jobless claims exceeded economists’
estimates and Chinese earnings missed forecasts.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 1.1 percent to
1,032.60 at the close in New York, the lowest since Feb. 1.
Information technology and energy companies led declines.  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest bank by assets,
slumped to a seven-week low.  Unipetrol AS (UNIP) , the biggest Czech oil
refiner, had the biggest slide since Feb. 9 as the company
reported an audited 2011 loss that was more than double an
earlier figure.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , the biggest Chinese
machinery maker, fell the most in more than three months after
net income missed some analysts’ estimates.  U.S. jobless claims fell to 359,000 in the week ended March
24, exceeding the median prediction of economists in a Bloomberg
survey, Labor Department data released today showed. Company
earnings increased 0.9 percent in the last three months of 2011
compared with the third quarter, the smallest advance since the
fourth quarter of 2008, according to Commerce Department data.
Societe Generale SA said Chinese corporate profits won’t grow
this year in a March 27 note.  “Jobless claims were above expectations, which was
disappointing,” Daniel Lenz, chief emerging-market strategist
at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt, said by phone. “For a couple days
now, because of mixed macro numbers, people are more eager for
taking profits after the very strong gains we had seen.”  Lower Valuation  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 13 percent gain this year
has outpaced the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed nations, which is
up 10 percent. The gauge of developing countries is valued at
10.7 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
estimated earnings multiple of 13 times.  The  IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
lost 0.1 percent to $42.64. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices
on the fund and expectations of price swings, fell 1.3 percent
to 26.57.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  closed at the lowest level since Feb. 10,
extending its streak of losses to a third day with a 0.3 percent
decline. Banco do Brasil SA lost 2.1 percent on concern the
global financial system may be hurt by a worsening credit crisis
in  Europe  after  Standard & Poor’s  said  Greece  may have to
restructure its debt again.  Lawsuit Against MTN  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest wireless operator, dropped
1.5 percent after Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS filed a
lawsuit alleging that MTN bribed officials, arranged meetings
for  Iran  with South African leaders, and promised Iran weapons
and United Nations votes in exchange for a license to provide
cell-phone services in the Islamic Republic.  Czech stocks  decreased to a two-month low, sliding 1.8
percent. In Poland, the Wig 20 Index declined 1.6 percent.  Russia’s  Micex Index (MICEX)  slumped 1.7 percent, led by a 6.1
percent decline in  OAO Mechel (MTLR) .  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s biggest miner of
steelmaking coal, plunged to its lowest close this year after
saying that the company started talks with lenders to obtain
waivers and amendments to loans on the expectation falling
prices cause it to breach financial covenants.  Renhe Commercial Holdings Co. (1387)  sank 22 percent to a record
low in  Hong Kong , the  worst performer  on the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. Moody’s Investors Service cut the shopping-mall
developer’s credit rating two levels to B3, six ranks below
investment grade. The stock tumbled 20 percent yesterday after
underlying profit dropped more than 90 percent.  China Shipping Loss  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) , the nation’s second-
biggest container carrier, declined 2 percent in Hong Kong
trading, after reporting a wider-than-estimated loss in 2011.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland stocks in Hong
Kong fell 1.6 percent to the lowest level in more than two
months.  Sany Heavy Industry slid 4.1 percent after saying net
income rose 54 percent to 8.65 billion yuan ($1.4 billion) last
year, below the 9 billion-yuan average estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Most emerging-market currencies weakened against the
dollar, with the Indian rupee slumping 1.2 percent.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 343 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  