-- England Manager Shouldn’t Be Foreigner, Ex-Manager Venables Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-29T14:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/england-manager-shouldn-t-be-foreigner-ex-manager-venables-says.html
England ’s search for a new soccer
manager to replace Italian Fabio Capello shouldn’t include
foreign names, according to Terry Venables, the coach who led
the team to the semifinals of the 1996 European Championships.  Capello quit in February after a disagreement with the
Football Association over its decision to remove Chelsea
defender  John Terry  as captain of the national team. He was the
second overseas manager after Swede Sven Goran Eriksson. The
F.A. has yet to find a replacement three months before it begins
the latest European finals in Poland and Ukraine.  “It’s like what went on in wars -- you can’t trade
generals, you have to go for your own,” Venables told an
audience at the Soccerex conference in Manchester. “I would
rather lose with our own people.”  Venables, 69, quit England after leading the team to the
last four of a tournament played on home soil following a
disagreement with the F.A. over a new contract.  He criticized the governing body for the delay in finding
Capello’s replacement. The F.A. has said it may name a temporary
coach for the Euros before hiring a permanent manager.
Tottenham’s  Harry Redknapp  is the favorite among bookmakers and
critics for the post. Stuart Pearce, England’s under-21 manager,
led the senior team in a 3-2 home loss to the Netherlands last
month.  “I don’t see any benefit at all in coming in at the last
moment,” said Venables, who’s also coached Tottenham and
Barcelona. “He’s got to know those players not just from he has
seen but how they talk and what they feel is important, really
getting into the individuals.”  Venables said he too favors Redknapp for the job.  “What’s good is the fact that everyone wants him to take
the England job - he’s the popular vote,” he said. “The fans
shouldn’t be making the decision but it is a good thing that the
country are behind him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Manchester via the London newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  