-- Tepco Goes to Government for $12 Billion in Rescue Funds
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-03-29T09:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/tepco-requests-12-billion-in-public-funds-to-avert-insolvency.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  requested
1 trillion yen ($12 billion) of public funds to avert collapse,
paving the way for the government to take control of what once
was the world’s biggest private utility.  The company known as Tepco also asked for 845.9 billion yen
in extra aid from a government-backed fund to compensate people
affected by the Fukushima disaster, President Toshio Nishizawa
said at a news briefing today. The utility may face insolvency
if its capital keeps falling, he said.  The government is preparing a Tepco bailout package of as
much as 11 trillion yen, the largest in Japan since the rescue
of the banking industry in the 1990s, after last year’s quake
and tsunami crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station and
forced about 160,000 people to flee their homes. The capital
injection, if approved by the government, would effectively
nationalize Tepco and lead to a possible reform of Japan’s
electricity industry, now monopolized by regional utilities.  “Tepco would become the touchstone of the government’s
liberalization of the industry,” Yuji Nishiyama, a Tokyo-based
analyst at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said today before the
announcement. “If the government seriously wants to reform the
power industry, it needs to hold two-thirds of Tepco’s voting
rights.”  Bailout funds for Tepco will be funneled through the
government’s Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund.
Kazuhiko Shimokobe, head of the steering committee of the fund,
today told reporters that the government hasn’t decided on how
much voting rights it will take in Tepco.  Compensation Claims  Compensation payouts may rise to 2.55 trillion yen, up from
a previous estimate of 1.7 trillion yen, Tepco said in a
statement today. The company requested the additional
compensation aid after a government panel updated guidelines on
March 16. The government approved Tepco’s requests for 890.9
billion yen in November and 689.4 billion yen in February.  Credit-default swaps insuring the debt of Tepco against
default fell 45.5 basis points to 525 basis points as of 2:36
p.m. in  Tokyo , according to prices from Citigroup Inc. They
closed little changed yesterday, having dropped 337 basis points
this year, according to prices from data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Shares of Tepco rose 0.5 percent to 215 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the  Tokyo Stock Exchange (TOPIX) . The stock has plunged 90
percent since the day before the quake and tsunami caused the
disaster on March 11 last year.  Business Plan  The request for the capital infusion in public funds and
the additional state aid is expected to be incorporated into a
business plan, including measures to restructure the company, to
be drawn up by Tepco and the government-backed fund.  Nationalizing Tepco may portend a breakup of  Japan ’s 10
regional power monopolies that ring up combined sales of $190
billion a year to produce, transmit and distribute electricity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Breaking off Tepco’s
transmission business from power generation would end its
monopoly in Tokyo and may provide a model for the rest of the
country, said Penn Bowers, who tracks utilities at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets.  Tepco and the nuclear damage fund originally aimed to have
the business plan approved by March 31 as they are concerned a
delay will cause further downgrades in Tepco’s long-term credit
rating, two people familiar with the negotiations said earlier
this month.  ‘Iron Out Details’  The government and the compensation fund are still
“undecided” on Tepco’s new management and that’s one of the
major reasons for the delay, Shimokobe said. The utility and the
compensation fund may be able to submit the business plan in
mid-April, Tepco Managing Director Naomi Hirose told reporters
in Tokyo today.  “We are working with the compensation fund to iron out
details of the government’s  voting rights ,” Nishizawa said. “A
final decision will be disclosed in a business plan.”  The utility has “basically” accepted a proposal under
which the government acquires about half of the voting rights
and raises it to more than two-thirds if Tepco fails to make
progress in restructuring, the Yomiuri newspaper reported March
14, without saying where it got the information.  Tepco holds an issuer rating of B1 by Moody’s Investors
Service Inc. and B+ at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  