-- Mercedes Formula One Team Said to Reject CVC Offer of New Terms
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-03-29T15:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mercedes-formula-one-team-said-to-reject-cvc-offer-of-new-terms.html
Daimler AG’s Mercedes (DAIMLER)  team rejected
the terms of an initial offer from CVC Capital Partners Ltd. to
remain in Formula One after this year, a person with direct
knowledge of the situation said.  The auto-racing team is considering its options, including
a legal challenge, after  Sky News  reported March 19  Ferrari SpA (FERI) 
and Red Bull GmbH’s entries would get higher signing-on fees to
stay on through 2020, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  The existing terms tying Mercedes to Formula One expire
after this season, which ends on Nov. 25.  Formula One’s plan to raise cash with a debt refinancing
and possible share sale could be undercut should series owner
CVC fail to renew terms with all teams, according to Xander
Heijnen, a partner of Munich-based CNC Communications & Network
Consulting.  “CVC will want to do a deal with Mercedes as soon as
possible to satisfy the financial markets,” said Heijnen, who
has advised Formula 1 teams on strategy.  CVC bought Formula One in a buyout in 2005 and 2006, using
$2.5 billion of loans. The London-based private-equity firm,
which owns 63.4 percent of the series, is exploring a possible
sale of a stake in an initial public offering, a person with
knowledge of the matter said March 20.  CVC also began the process of extending its debt, which
involves raising $2.27 billion of new credit facilities due in
2017 and 2018 to replace its existing $2.92 billion in loans due
in 2013 and 2014, according to a March 27 statement.  Other Teams  Ferrari, Red Bull and McLaren, the top-three ranked teams
last season, are among those that agreed to renew terms, series
chief executive  Bernie Ecclestone  told Formula1.com on March 24,
without giving further details. Mercedes finished fourth in the
12-team standings last season.  Stuttgart-based Daimler has owned the team, whose drivers
include record seven-time champion  Michael Schumacher , since
November 2009 when it bought then champion Brawn Grand Prix with
 Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar Investments PJSC. Mercedes had been a partner
in the McLaren team for 14 years.  Mercedes team chief executive Nick Fry declined to comment
about the negotiations with CVC. Ecclestone also declined to
give details about the talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  