-- Ericksen on Top as Berkowitz Whipsawed Shows Challenges
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/ericksen-on-top-as-berkowitz-whipsawed-shows-challenges.html
As  Bruce Berkowitz  and  Donald Yacktman  were whipsawed by market swings in the past 15 months,
a handful of managers guided their mutual funds to top ranks in
both 2011 and 2012.  They’re led by Christopher Ericksen and his colleagues at
Delaware Investments, who run the $742 million  Delaware Select
Growth Fund (DVEAX) , one of two diversified U.S. stock funds with at
least $500 million in assets that ranked in the top 10 percent
in their categories both years, according to data compiled by
Morningstar Inc. The $10.8 billion  Wells Fargo Advantage Growth
Fund (SGROX)  is the other. Five additional actively managed funds out of
a total of 843 were in the top 15 percent for 2011 and for this
year through March 27.  Managers have struggled to stay on top because markets
rewarded different stocks each year. In 2011, fear of a global
slowdown drove investors to the safety of big companies,
utilities and consumer staples. In this year’s first quarter,
growing confidence in the economic recovery helped smaller
firms, banks and technology companies. The swings pushed
Berkowitz’s  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  to the bottom of the rankings last
year and to the top in 2012, while Yacktman’s main fund is
trailing rivals now after beating them in 2011.  “Last year was all about being defensive,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at BMO-Harris Private Bank,
where he oversees $60 billion. “This year the riskier plays are
starting to bloom.”  The managers who thrived in both years look for companies
that can increase earnings in any environment, and they don’t
try to predict shifts in the economy or markets.  Gross’s ‘Clarity’  “We don’t have Bill Gross’s piercing clarity on the macro
situation,” Ericksen said in a telephone interview from  San
Francisco . “For us, what matters is getting the business
right.”  Stocks that helped Delaware Select Growth, Wells Fargo
Advantage Growth and several of the other winning funds include
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , which all
gained more than 75 percent since the end of 2010 as profits
climbed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By contrast, Berkowitz, named Morningstar’s domestic stock
manager of the decade in 2010, bet that banks and insurers that
survived the 2008 financial crisis would prosper. That backfired
in 2011 as his $8.2 billion Fairholme Fund lost 32 percent,
trailing all rival funds last year, Morningstar’s data show.  Berkowitz, Yacktman  This year the fund rose by 31 percent, better than 99
percent of large-cap value peers, with many of the same
holdings. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.
has soared 75 percent in 2012 after tumbling 58 percent last
year. Financial stocks, the worst performers among the  10
industry groups  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2011, are
the strongest group this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Berkowitz declined to comment, Hedda Nadler, a spokesman
for the Miami-based fund manager, wrote in an e-mail.  At the other end of the spectrum, Yacktman’s $5.9 billion
Yacktman Focused Fund gained 7.4 percent in 2011, ahead of 94
percent of rivals who pick a blend of large-cap growth and value
stocks, as blue-chip holdings such as Atlanta-based Coca-Cola
Co. rose in a market that was little changed.  This year, Coke has failed to keep pace with market gains
and Yacktman is trailing 96 percent of peers, Morningstar data
show. Trailing competitors for a quarter isn’t significant,
Yacktman said in a telephone interview from Austin, Texas.  “We don’t think in these short time horizons,” he said.
“We are 10-year investors.”  ‘Greatest Businesses’  Yacktman Focused Fund returned an average of 12 percent
annually for the past 10 years, better than 99 percent of large-
cap blend funds, according to Morningstar.  “Our top positions continue to be in some of the greatest
businesses in the world,” Yacktman wrote to shareholders in a
year-end letter posted on the fund’s website.  Ericksen is part of team of money managers who joined
Philadelphia-based Delaware in 2005. The group, which oversees
about $17 billion, seeks to buy companies with fast-growing free
 cash flow  that are selling at bargain prices.  One of those stocks is MasterCard, the second-biggest
payments network after  Visa Inc. (V)  Shares of Purchase, New York-
based MasterCard have climbed by 91 percent since the end of
2010 and are up more than 10-fold since a 2006 initial public
offering.  Electronic Shift  MasterCard, the second-biggest position in Delaware Select
Growth Fund as of Dec. 31, is benefiting from a global shift
toward electronic payments by consumers. Cards will continue to
gain market share in the U.S., he said, and have still more room
to grow in the rest of the world. MasterCard’s  cash from
operations  grew 58 percent last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Delaware Select Growth beat 98 percent of mid-cap growth
funds in 2011, 97 percent this year, and 96 percent over the
past five years, Morningstar data show. A second fund run by the
same team, the $1.4 billion  Delaware Smid Cap Growth Fund (DFCIX) ,
topped 99 percent of mid-cap growth peers in 2011, 88 percent
this year and 97 percent over five years.  Thomas Ognar owns MasterCard in his Wells Fargo Advantage
Growth Fund, which outperformed 99 percent of large growth funds
in 2011 and 91 percent this year. Over 10 years it topped 99
percent.  In the fund’s annual report in September, Ognar said he
tries to buy “underappreciated” companies that can increase
revenue and earnings “even if the broad market falters.” Apple
still meets that definition, he said last week in a telephone
interview from Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, even as it gained 26
percent last year and 53 percent in 2012.  “The price of the stock keeps going up but the valuation
keeps going down,” Ognar said.  Apple’s Valuation  Apple sells for  18 times  trailing earnings, down from a 43
price-earnings ratio at the end of 2007. In its most recent
quarter, Apple’s revenue jumped by 73 percent from a year
earlier because of surging demand for the iPad and iPhone.  Among repeat performers in the top 15 percent of their
categories, the $2 billion  Touchstone Sands Capital
Institutional Growth Fund (CISGX)  has outperformed by owning Apple,
Priceline of Norwalk, Connecticut, and San Francisco-based Visa,
which has benefited from the same trends that lifted MasterCard.
Visa shares are up by 70 percent since the end of 2010.  The fund looks for the same type of stocks regardless of
the economy, portfolio manager Frank M. Sands Jr. wrote in a
fourth-quarter report to shareholders posted on Touchstone
Investments’ website. Target companies, he wrote, “tend to be
game-changing businesses that are creating new markets or
innovating within existing markets.”  Mathematical Models  Sands declined to comment for this story, Jami Schlicher, a
spokeswoman for Cincinnati-based Touchstone, wrote in an e-mail.  Touchstone Sands bested 88 percent of large-cap growth
funds in 2011, 99 percent this year and 99 percent over five
years, according to Morningstar.  The $3.7 billion  Columbia Large Core Quantitative Fund (AQEAX)  uses
mathematical models to identify stocks that have strong balance
sheets, attractive prices and catalysts that can drive shares
higher, portfolio manager Brian Condon said in a telephone
interview from Boston.  The fund, whose top holding is Apple, beat 96 percent of
large blend funds in 2011 and 86 percent this year.  One large-cap stock that hasn’t worked for a number of the
successful growth managers is  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Shares of the Mountain
View, California-based company have risen by less than the S&P
500 Index since the end of 2010. In January, the owner of the
world’s most popular Internet search engine reported fourth-
quarter revenue that fell short of analysts’ estimates,
suggesting that stalled economic growth in Europe crimped
advertising sales.  Giving Google Credit  Investors aren’t giving Google enough credit for its
expansion into new areas such as mobile search, said Delaware’s
Ericksen, who has the stock among his top 10 holdings.  “No one can claim they are a one-trick pony anymore,” he
said.  Craigh Cepukenas, one of the managers of the $540 million
 Artisan Small Cap Fund (ARTSX) , employs a similar strategy to other
growth investors, looking for firms that can expand faster than
competitors. His fund beat 98 percent of small growth peers last
year and 89 percent this year, according to Morningstar.  “If the economy is improving, that’s great, but if it is
not these firms should still grow,” he said in a telephone
interview from Milwaukee.  Ulta Salon Cosmetics & Fragrance Inc. (ULTA) , a Bolingbrook,
Illinois-based retail chain that sells makeup and hair-care
products, fits that profile. The shares have almost tripled
since the end of 2010 as the firm added more stores.  ‘Be Rewarded’  Even when markets seem to be highly correlated, “if you
identify companies that can deliver strong results, you will be
rewarded,” Bruce Aronow, a manager of the $717 million
 AllianceBernstein Small Cap Growth Portfolio (QUSAX) , said in a
telephone interview from  New York .  Shares of the fund’s largest holding, Minneapolis-based
mattress maker  Select Comfort Corp. (SCSS) , have more than tripled
since the end of 2010. The explanation is simple, Aronow said:
Earnings last year came in at $1.07 a share, compared with a
consensus estimate from analysts of 72 cents at the beginning of
2011, he said.  Aronow’s fund beat 95 percent of small-cap growth
competitors last year and 85 percent this year.  Given the turbulence in global markets and economies,
performing near the top of the pack in 2011 and 2012 was
difficult, said Michael Mullaney, a portfolio manager with
Fiduciary Trust Co. in Boston, where he oversees $9.5 billion.  “The managers who did it are few and far between,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  