-- Merkel Could Save Taxpayer Money With Bigger Bailout Fund
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/merkel-could-save-taxpayer-money-with-bigger-bailout-fund.html
Europe ’s leaders are missing an
important point as they argue over the size of the euro area’s
bailout fund: If they want to save taxpayers’ money, bigger is
better.  Euro-area finance ministers will need to fight yet another
fire when they meet in Copenhagen today. This time around, the
concerns are focused on Spain and  Portugal . As before, the
problem is a lack of credibility. Markets aren’t convinced that
 Greece ’s latest bailout will be the region’s last. They still
don’t know which other governments might default, how much money
European banks will lose as a result, and whether the euro area
can hold together.  Only a full and honest reckoning, together with a show of
overwhelming force, can dispel this corrosive uncertainty. As
Bloomberg View has  argued , Portugal can pay only about 60
percent of its debts and Greece  will need another round  of debt
relief. To restore confidence in the common currency once those
losses are taken, euro-area nations -- with the help of the
 European Central Bank  -- would have to demonstrate the ability
to raise a war chest of at least 3 trillion euros ($4 trillion).
That, by our estimate, is the amount needed to cover the
financing requirements of struggling governments over the next
several years (about 2.5 trillion euros) and guarantee the
recapitalization of banks.  Expensive as such a large rescue fund may seem, it has an
advantage akin to that of nuclear deterrence: If it’s big
enough, it need not be used. If Europe’s leaders can demonstrate
enough firepower to guarantee the solvency of governments and
banks, investors would probably have the confidence to provide
most of the necessary loans and capital themselves. That’s what
happened with U.S. banks, for example, when the government
guaranteed their recapitalization in 2009.  So far, Europe’s approach has been completely different.
 Germany  and other wealthy nations have committed just enough to
keep Armageddon at bay, but not enough to fully restore
confidence. As a result, they have had to make good on their
commitments, replacing the money of fleeing investors with
official funds and exposing taxpayers to losses.  The  European Financial Stability Facility  has already
promised about 200 billion euros to Greece, Portugal and
Ireland. Such official loans account for an increasing share of
the debts of these governments, so any future defaults will fall
more on taxpayers. Meanwhile, the ECB has propped up the market
for bonds of sovereigns such as Spain and  Italy  by accepting
them as collateral for  more than a trillion euros  in longer-
term, low-interest-rate loans. That’s a giant subsidy to the
banking system that will leave taxpayers holding the bag if
things go wrong.  These efforts have calmed markets, but haven’t brought
borrowing costs down far enough to make struggling governments’
finances bearable in the long run.  Spain , for example, must pay
an interest rate of 5.4 percent to borrow money for 10 years --
3.6 percentage points more than Germany. Were it to end up
paying that rate on all its debts, the  risk premium  -- a direct
reflection of investors’ concerns about a default or a breakup
of the euro -- would cost Spanish taxpayers about 20 billion
euros a year. That’s roughly equivalent to what Spain  spends  on
justice, defense, public security and foreign policy combined.  The plans to boost the euro area’s bailout capacity at
today’s ministerial meeting aren’t nearly ambitious enough to
solve the problem. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has signaled
that she would support adding the EFSF’s existing loan
commitments to the new 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism, boosting the funds’ combined lending ability to about
700 billion euros. By adding the EFSF’s 240 billion euros in
unused capacity, the total could be increased to almost 1
trillion euros.  Merkel faces real political constraints from a German
electorate that’s reluctant to make more sacrifices to bail out
less-disciplined economies. But such a meager response, combined
with a lack of debt relief for insolvent sovereigns, all but
guarantees that governments will have to turn to the rescue
funds for support. As a result, European leaders’ frugality
could prove very costly to the taxpayers whose interests they
claim to defend.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on converting the  U.S. truck
fleet to natural gas .  Jonathan Alter  on  stand-your-ground laws .
 Jonathan Weil  on vital new  accounting rules . Stephen L. Carter
on arguing about health care. Brian Calle on Orange County,
 California ,  opting out of Obamacare .  Michael O’Hanlon  on helping
 Colombian counterterrorism .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 