-- MERS Judge Sets Aside Bankruptcy Court’s Critical Ruling
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-29T22:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mers-judge-sets-aside-bankruptcy-court-s-critical-ruling-1-.html
Merscorp Inc., operator of the
electronic-registration system for about half of all U.S. home
mortgages, got a court to set aside a bankruptcy judge’s opinion
criticizing its right to transfer the mortgages among members.  U.S. District Judge Joanna Seybert in Central Islip,  New
York , yesterday vacated part of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert E. Grossman’s February 2011 decision in the bankruptcy of Ferrel L.
Agard. Merscorp, based in Reston,  Virginia , runs Mortgage
Electronic Registrations Systems, or MERS.  “The issue of whether MERS had authority to assign the
mortgage was no longer before the  bankruptcy court ,” Seybert
wrote. “There was no longer a live case or controversy.”  Merscorp was created in 1995 to help county officials cope
with the growing volume of mortgage transfers, the company has
said. It tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in
 mortgage loans  on its electronic registry, allowing
participating banks to buy and sell the loans without having to
record the transfer with the county. MERS helped  Wall Street  to
quickly bundle mortgages together in securitized trusts.  “I thought it was a poor decision because it was decided
only on procedural grounds,” George E. Bassias, a lawyer for
Agard in Queens, New York, said of Seybert’s ruling in a phone
interview today. “In my opinion she’s wrong on the procedure
too.”  Foreclosure Sale  Agard filed for bankruptcy in September 2010, the day
before her Westbury, New York, home was to be the subject of a
foreclosure sale. The mortgage servicer,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) ’s Select Portfolio Servicing, asked Grossman to allow it to
continue with the foreclosure. Grossman ruled that Select
Portfolio should be allowed to do that.  Grossman then went on to say that Select Portfolio and U.S.
Bancorp, which had been assigned the mortgage by MERS, wouldn’t
have been given the relief had a state court not already granted
a foreclosure judgment.  That was because MERS’s “nominee” status didn’t give it
the authority to assign mortgages, Grossman said.  Seybert said that that part of the order “constitutes an
unconstitutional advisory opinion and must be vacated.”  “What the judge wrote is dicta,” Bassias said, referring
to Grossman. “Dicta means it’s not a binding decision. He’s
specifying everything MERS does that’s wrong. This judge did not
address whether what MERS does is right or wrong.”  Bassias said he didn’t oppose MERS’s appeal.  ‘Blind Eye’  “We have long believed that those who sought to use the In
re Agard decision against MERS were wrong to do so,” Janis
Smith, a Merscorp spokeswoman, said in a statement. “Any future
challenges to MERS’ business model will have to be done without
citing to Judge Grossman’s now vacated opinion.”  In his decision, Grossman criticized MERS’s role in the
mortgage process. “MERS and its partners made the decision to
create and operate under a business model that was designed in
large part to avoid the requirements of the traditional
mortgage-recording process,” Grossman wrote. “The court does
not accept the argument that because MERS may be involved with
50 percent of all residential mortgages in the country, that is
reason enough for this court to turn a blind eye to the fact
that this process does not comply with the law.”  The appeals are Agard v. Select Portfolio Servicing Inc.,
11-cv-1826, and Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc. v.
Agard, 11-cv-2366, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New
York ( Central Islip ). The bankruptcy case is In re Agard, 10-
77338,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of New York
(Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 