-- Estonia Cabinet Backs Bill to Shield Banking, Telecommunications
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-03-29T09:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/estonia-cabinet-backs-bill-to-shield-banking-telecommunications.html
Estonia ’s government approved a
draft law that may raise costs for telecommunications companies
and banks, as the Baltic nation seeks to ensure continuity of
service if foreign-controlled data systems are moved elsewhere.  Amendments to an emergency law seek to ensure that vital
services will still function if information systems run from
other countries “cease to operate or the electronic connections
to other countries are interrupted,” according to a statement
on the  government website  today. The measures, due to take
effect from 2013, require parliamentary approval.  Estonian banking and telecommunications services are almost
wholly controlled by Stockholm and Helsinki-based companies,
including  Nordea AB (NDA) , the biggest Nordic lender, and  TeliaSonera
AB (TLSN) , the largest regional telecommunications operator. Under
present law, providers can transfer data systems to home
countries without ensuring there are backup systems in Estonia,
the  Interior Ministry  said last month on a government website.  Electronic links to other countries could be disrupted by a
“sizable cyberattack,” the ministry said. The former Soviet
republic was hit by attacks that disabled the websites of the
president, parliament, ministries, banks and newspapers for
hours at a time in 2007. Estonia is particularly vulnerable to
such attacks as more than 90 percent of bills are paid online
and the government provides most services on the Internet.  Additional Costs  “Providers of vital services may face additional costs
which will depend on a the specific technical solutions to
ensure the service,” the ministry said then.  A plan by Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , which owns Estonia’s
biggest lender, to relocate its  data center  in the country to
Sweden by 2015 has raised concern among officials responsible
for Estonia’s cyber security,  Eesti Paeevaleht  reported last
November. Swedbank spokesman Mart Siilivask didn’t return two
phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  The Estonian Banking Association and the Association of
 Information Technology  and Telecommunication sent a letter to
the government asking for implementation of the law to be
postponed for two years, Paeevaleht  reported  today.  The amendments would raise the fine for violating the law
to 20,000 euros ($26,600) from 6,400 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  