-- EU Lawmakers Back Deal on Clearing Rules for OTC Derivatives
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-29T10:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/eu-lawmakers-back-deal-on-clearing-rules-for-otc-derivatives-1-.html
European Union lawmakers voted to
approve a deal on legislation to force trading of some over-the-
counter derivatives through clearinghouses to safeguard
financial markets.  The deal, endorsed by the EU’s parliament in Brussels
today, was reached last month by negotiators for the assembly
and the region’s governments. The rules will empower EU
regulators to decide on types of derivatives that should be
centrally cleared. Traders who flout the rules would face
penalties including fines.  “This is the cornerstone of our OTC derivatives
legislation,”  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the parliament’s
economic and monetary affairs committee, told reporters.  Global regulators have sought tougher rules for OTC
derivatives following the collapse in 2008 of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and the rescue of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in credit-default swaps.  The EU law also sets rules on management of clearinghouses,
including on reserves they must hold to protect themselves from
insolvency.  “Our assumption is that transparency and clearing will
reduce the market” for OTC derivatives,  Werner Langen , the
lawmaker in charge of the file, said today.  ‘Huge Effort’  Bowles said “a huge effort” has been made to align the EU
measures with draft rules in the U.S. Still, such alignment had
not been possible for exemptions from clearing requirements and
for clearinghouses’ collateral rules, she said.  “They have lower standards” for collateral in the U.S.,
Bowles said. “It’s all very well for the U.S. to complain about
our exemptions, I complain to them about their low standards for
collateral.”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
said the vote is a “is a key step in our effort to establish a
safer and sounder regulatory framework for European financial
markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 