-- Euro-Region Economic Confidence Unexpectedly Fell in March
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-29T09:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/euro-region-economic-confidence-unexpectedly-declined-in-march.html
Economic confidence  in the euro
region unexpectedly declined in March, signaling that the
economy may struggle to regain strength in the first quarter.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 94.4 from a revised 94.5 in February,
the European Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had
forecast a gain to 94.5 from a previously reported 94.4, the
median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  European finance ministers earlier this month awarded 130
billion euros ($173 billion) in aid to  Greece  to stem the debt
crisis, which is eroding consumer demand and prompting companies
to cut spending and jobs. With nations from Spain to Ireland in
recession and euro-area manufacturing output declining more than
economists forecast in March, the economy may have slipped into
recession in the first quarter, economists said.  “We’ll see a recession in the euro region with the debt
crisis weighing on development,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist
at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “Economic confidence could show a
slight improvement over the coming months. We’ll see a very
gradual economic recovery, which will be reflected in climate
indicators.”  The euro declined after the report, trading at $1.3301 at
11:18 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1 percent on the day.  Rising Unemployment  German gross domestic product may rise 0.6 percent this
year, while the economies of  Italy , Spain, the Netherlands,
Belgium and Greece are seen shrinking, the European Commission
forecast on Feb. 23. The euro-region economy may contract 0.3
percent in 2012 before returning to growth, it said.  With governments cutting spending to plug budget deficits
and rising energy costs sapping the purchasing power of
companies and consumers, the economy is showing few signs of
recovery after shrinking 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter.
Euro-area  services and manufacturing output  contracted more than
economists forecast in March and unemployment increased to 10.7
percent in January, the highest in more than a decade.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers dropped
to minus 7.2 in March from minus 5.7 in the previous month,
today’s report showed. An indicator of services confidence rose
to minus 0.3 from minus 0.9, while a gauge of consumer sentiment
advanced to minus 19.1 from minus 20.3. An indicator of
construction also declined this month.  Greek Agreement  Policy makers have stepped up efforts to fight the crisis
with the  European Central Bank ’s injection of more than 1
trillion euros into the banking system helping bolster investor
sentiment. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on March 8 that the
outlook for the euro region has “improved enormously” and
there are “many signs of returning confidence.”  Greece reached a debt-swap deal with its private creditors
earlier this month and European leaders approved a second
bailout package. Euro-region governments have also signed up to
a tighter set of budget rules.  Germany ’s  DAX benchmark index  has increased 18 percent this
year, while the Euro Stoxx 50 Index advanced 7.7 percent.  Some companies have relied on faster-growing economies to
bolster sales.  Lanxess AG (LXS) , the German chemical maker spun off
from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  in 2005, on March 22 reported fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates on higher demand in
markets including Brazil and  China .  Salvatore Ferragamo (SFER)  SpA, an
Italian maker of $895 sandals, earlier this month forecast
“significant” growth in 2012, partly on Asian growth.  ECB Exit  A gauge of euro-region manufacturers’ production
expectations fell to 1.4 from 3 in February, today’s report
showed. An indicator of order books slipped to minus 17.1 from
minus 14.2 and a measure of employment expectations declined to
minus 4 from minus 3.7. An indicator of consumers’ savings over
the coming 12 months fell to minus 11.3 from minus 10.7 in
February, with an indicator of price developments over the
coming year slipping to 24 from 26.4.  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo from
 Spain  said on March 23 the central bank is “confident that in
the coming quarters” there will be a recovery. His German
colleague  Joerg Asmussen  told  Helsingin Sanomat  in an interview
published on March 26 that council members “have to start to
think about how to prepare the exit.”  “We’ve done a lot,” ECB council member Erkki Liikanen
said in an interview on March 15. “We must also decide how and
when we exit and in a controlled and timely manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  