-- Euro Aid Compromise Seen as Political Cover for Germany
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-03-29T10:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/europe-s-rescue-compromise-to-provide-political-cover-for.html
The European plan to temporarily
increase the bailout-aid ceiling above $1 trillion marks a
compromise that gives German officials political cover at home
and aims to attract more outside help, four euro-area aides said.  While European finance ministers are nearing an agreement
tomorrow to raise the limit on rescue funds to 940 billion euros
($1.3 trillion) until mid-2013, the amount they will be able to
deploy immediately to protect  Spain  and  Italy  will range between
340 billion euros and 640 billion euros.  European policy makers are trying to strike a balance
between meeting international demands for a more powerful war
chest and opposition in donor countries led by  Germany  to
providing additional aid for underperforming economies on
 Europe ’s fringes.  “Given Germany’s resistance to a permanent increase in the
euro zone’s firewall -- it is unwilling to put more taxpayers’
money on the line -- a quantum leap should not be expected,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in Brussels.  An agreement taking shape for tomorrow’s meeting of finance
ministers in Copenhagen involves running the 500 billion-euro
permanent European Stability Mechanism alongside the 200 billion
euros committed by the temporary fund to Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal , according to a draft statement prepared for the
meeting.  ‘Exceptional Circumstances’  Beyond that, the temporary fund’s unused 240 billion euros
could be tapped until mid-2013 “in exceptional circumstances
following a unanimous decision of euro-area heads of state or
government notably in case the ESM capacity would prove
insufficient,” according to the draft dated March 23 and
obtained by Bloomberg News. Finance ministers may change the
draft before issuing a final statement tomorrow.  The strengthening of the defenses would come after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  of Germany, the dominant power in two
years of crisis fighting, this week warned of “fragility” in
Portugal and Spain. It would also be designed to lure the rest
of the world into putting more money into the International
Monetary Fund’s arsenal.  The language in the draft also emphasizes the political
hurdles to tapping the unused parts of the temporary fund, the
 European Financial Stability Facility . Merkel or any other euro-
area government leader could exercise a veto.  Footnote  In a sign of the political sensitivities, the draft doesn’t
spell out the 940 billion-euro figure. It puts the total
capacity at 700 billion euros from mid-2012 to mid-2013 and
relegates the possible use of the EFSF’s remaining 240 billion
euros to a footnote.  Merkel said March 26 that Germany accepted the 700 billion-
euro limit in the first indication that she was ready to allow
an increase in the debt-crisis firewall.  European policy makers are wrangling over amendments to
rules written last year that limit total available bailout funds
to 500 billion euros. The IMF has made additional aid contingent
on Europe first doing more to help itself.  In a briefing in Brussels yesterday, a European official
said the likeliest outcome is an anti-crisis buffer somewhere
between 700 billion and 940 billion euros, without saying how
long these amounts would be available.  The  European Central Bank , which has battled the crisis by
buying sovereign bonds and lending more than 1 trillion euros to
banks, stepped up the pressure on governments to maximize their
emergency aid resources.  ‘Significant Increase’  “The ECB welcomes the commitment of Europe’s leaders to
regularly review the lending capacity of the ESM and urges them
to quickly agree on a significant increase of the resources of
the ESM by combining the lending capacity of the ESM and the
EFSF,” ECB board member Peter Praet said in an article prepared
for a seminar in Copenhagen today.  The increase in the aid ceiling mooted for the Copenhagen
meeting wouldn’t make the entire sum available upfront. It would
require a capital call in an emergency to mobilize the ESM’s
entire 500 billion euros before mid-2014.  Assuming that the temporary fund expires in mid-2013
without making further commitments, the permanent aid ceiling
would revert to 700 billion euros, according to the draft. The
ESM’s provisions allow the finance ministers to raise or lower
its capital at any time.  Discussion of the lending cap will coincide with a possible
further speedup of the capitalization of the permanent fund. The
first of five planned annual payments will be made in July and
the second in October, the draft statement said.  The remaining payments may also be accelerated, with two in
2013 and the final installment in the first half of 2014, two
years earlier than previously planned, the statement said.  As a result, Europe would be capable of making a
theoretical three-year aid pledge of 500 billion euros on July 1
and having enough money to follow through, the European official
said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  