-- Euro Rises as EU Ministers Boost Crisis Firewall
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-03-30T21:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/euro-set-for-quarterly-gain-versus-yen-before-eu-meeting.html
The euro rose versus the dollar,
gaining the most this quarter in a year, after European finance
ministers agreed to boost an anti-debt-crisis firewall, adding
confidence the region’s financial problems are abating.  The dollar fell against most of its major counterparts as
stocks and commodities advanced, boosting demand for higher-
yielding assets. The yen erased gains after touching a three-
week high against the dollar amid speculation companies are
bringing home overseas earnings before the fiscal year ends
tomorrow. Sweden’s krona extended a weekly gain as investors
pared bets the central bank will cut  interest rates .  “The confirmation of an increase in the ceiling of the
financial aid funds is one thing that has supported sentiment
and supported the euro,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “You’re
overall seeing the euro move higher.”  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.3343 at 5 p.m. in New York,
gaining 3 percent this quarter. It reached $1.3386 on March 27,
the highest since Feb. 29. The shared currency rose 0.8 percent
to 110.56 yen, advancing 11 percent this quarter, the most since
the final three months of 2000.  Japan ’s currency fell 0.5 percent to 82.87 per dollar after
gaining to 81.83, the strongest since March 9.  Kiwi Leads  The  New Zealand dollar  has gained the most this year
against its nine developed-nation counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, rising 3.1 percent. The
euro has risen 0.5 percent as the region’s debt crisis abated.
The dollar has weakened 2.7 percent, while the yen fell 10.4
percent, its biggest quarterly drop since the third quarter of
1995, the indexes show.  Iceland’s krona and the Argentine peso are the biggest
losers against the dollar this year among 25 emerging-market
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The krona
lost 3 percent and the peso has fallen 1.8 percent. The Polish
zloty and the Hungarian forint, among the 21 emerging-market
currencies that gained against the dollar, have strengthened the
most, adding 10.7 and 10.1 percent, respectively.  China ’s yuan completed its first quarterly decline since
December 2009 after Premier  Wen Jiabao  set the annual growth
target at the lowest level in seven years.  China Currency  The currency rose today before a factory report that is
forecast to show a fourth month of expansion. A manufacturing
purchasing managers’ index for March to be released on April 1
will show a reading of 50.8, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yuan declined 0.06 percent to close at 6.2980 per
dollar this quarter in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency strengthened 0.13 percent
today, capping a weekly advance of 0.16 percent.  European governments capped fresh rescue lending at 500
billion euros ($666 billion), after a Germany-led coalition
opposed a further expansion of the region’s anti-crisis
firewall.  Adding the 300 billion euros already committed to Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal , euro-area finance ministers put the
overall size of the firewall at 800 billion euros. In a
statement, they ruled out using the 240 billion euros left in
the temporary rescue fund to go beyond that.  European Talks  Europe  is counting on the sums pledged so far, plus a 1
trillion-euro cash infusion by the  European Central Bank  into
the financial system, to persuade the rest of the world that it
is doing enough to keep the two-year-old debt crisis at bay.  “The technical view is friendly for the euro,” Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note to investors.  The single currency will probably trade in a range between
$1.3275 and $1.34, with the next resistance area around the Feb.
24 high of $1.3487, he wrote. Resistance refers to an area where
sell orders may be grouped.  Spain , under threat of falling victim to the region’s debt
crisis, will raise taxes and slash spending to achieve 27
billion euros ($36 billion) in deficit cuts as it tries to trim
its budget gap by a third. The 2012 spending plan seeks to
reduce the budget gap to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product
from 8.5 percent in 2011, the largest reduction by the measure
in at least three decades.  Spain’s Debt  “In terms of the Spanish budget, it doesn’t appear that
we’ve gotten any negative surprises there,” Wells Fargo’s
Bennenbroek said.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment  for March rose to 76.2 from 75.3 at the end
of last month. Economists projected a reading of 74.5 after a
preliminary figure of 74.3, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.3 percent to 78.949, touching the
lowest level since March 1.  Speculation Japanese companies are buying the yen to bring
home overseas earnings before the end of the fiscal year also
boosted the currency earlier.  “A lot of what we we are seeing with the yen is quarter
end flows,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “Now that we are through the
82.50 level, the next resistance would come at 83, but we will
most likely hang in this range ahead of the China manufacturing
report on Sunday.”  Sweden’s krona strengthened for a third day versus the euro
as traders trimmed bets the Swedish central bank will reduce
borrowing costs this year.  December futures on the Riksbank’s key rate are at 1.26
percent, up from 1.17 percent a week ago, suggesting traders are
starting to hedge bets the bank will cut once more as the
economy improves. Policy makers lowered their benchmark to 1.5
percent last month to stave off a recession.  The krona advanced 0.8 percent to 6.6147 per dollar, and
rose 0.4 percent to 8.8261 versus the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  