-- Euro Aid Compromise Seen as Political Cover for Germany
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-03-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/euro-aid-compromise-seen-as-political-cover-for-germany.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that efforts to raise the euro-area’s financial
backstop will succeed in tempering the debt crisis, as he urged
Spain to press ahead with plans to reform its labor market.  Schaeuble, speaking in Copenhagen on the eve of a meeting
of euro-area finance ministers today, said that governments are
poised to agree on a firewall of about 800 billion euros ($1.1
trillion). That sum includes the 500 billion-euro permanent
rescue fund plus bailouts already in place for Ireland,  Portugal 
and  Greece ’s second rescue package, he said.  “We can be optimistic it will work,” Schaeuble said in a
speech late yesterday in the Danish capital. He gave no
indication of a timeframe for the firewall and neither did he
refer to the 240 billion euros that remain in the temporary
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.  European finance ministers gather in Copenhagen seeking to
strike a balance between meeting international demands for a
more powerful war chest and opposition in donor countries led by
 Germany  to providing additional aid for underperforming
economies on  Europe ’s fringes.  While ministers are nearing an agreement to raise the limit
on rescue funds to 940 billion euros until mid-2013, the amount
they will be able to deploy immediately to protect Spain and
 Italy  will range between 340 billion euros and 640 billion
euros.  Political Cover  The plan to temporarily increase the bailout-aid ceiling
marks a compromise that gives German officials political cover
at home while aiming to attract more outside help, four euro-
area aides said.  “Given Germany’s resistance to a permanent increase in the
euro zone’s firewall -- it is unwilling to put more taxpayers’
money on the line -- a quantum leap should not be expected,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in Brussels.  An agreement taking shape involves running the 500 billion-
euro permanent European Stability Mechanism alongside the 200
billion euros committed by the temporary fund to Greece, Ireland
and Portugal, according to a draft statement prepared for the
meeting.  Beyond that, the temporary fund’s unused 240 billion euros
could be tapped until mid-2013 “in exceptional circumstances
following a unanimous decision of euro-area heads of state or
government notably in case the ESM capacity would prove
insufficient,” according to the draft dated March 23 and
obtained by Bloomberg News. Finance ministers may change the
draft before issuing a final statement today.  Spanish ‘Fragility’  The strengthening of the defenses would come after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  of Germany, the dominant power in two
years of crisis fighting, this week warned of “fragility” in
Portugal and Spain. It would also be designed to lure the rest
of the world into putting more money into the International
Monetary Fund’s arsenal.  Schaeuble, who said that IMF assistance will be similar to
the financial help the fund has given over the last two years,
called on countries to seek a balance between  deficit reduction 
and structural reform to regain “sustainable growth.” He cited
Spain, saying it would benefit from “reforming the labor
market.”  Spain’s government vowed to stick to its labor overhaul
yesterday, defying union leaders who threatened further unrest
after staging the first general strike since Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  took office three months ago. The government is
due to present its budget today, and Rajoy has said the spending
plan will be “very austere” as  Spain  tries to slash its deficit
by a third even as the economy contracts.  Draft Language  The language in the draft prepared for Copenhagen stresses
the political hurdles to tapping the unused parts of the
temporary fund, the  EFSF . Merkel or any other euro-area
government leader could exercise a veto.  In a sign of the political sensitivities, the draft doesn’t
spell out the 940 billion-euro figure. It puts the total
capacity at 700 billion euros from mid-2012 to mid-2013 and
relegates the possible use of the EFSF’s remaining 240 billion
euros to a footnote. Merkel said March 26 that Germany accepted
the 700 billion-euro limit in the first indication that she was
ready to allow an increase in the debt-crisis firewall.  The  European Central Bank , which has battled the crisis by
buying sovereign bonds and lending more than 1 trillion euros to
banks, stepped up the pressure on governments to maximize their
emergency aid resources.  ‘Significant Increase’  The ECB urges leaders “to quickly agree on a significant
increase of the resources of the ESM by combining the lending
capacity” of the two funds, ECB board member Peter Praet said
in an article prepared for a seminar in Copenhagen yesterday.  The increase in the aid ceiling mooted wouldn’t make the
entire sum available upfront. It would require a capital call in
an emergency to mobilize the ESM’s entire 500 billion euros
before mid-2014.  “The bottom line is that the ‘true’ firewall remains the
European Central Bank,” said Thomas Costerg, a European
economist with Standard Chartered Bank in  London . The ECB’s 1
trillion for banks is “the magic number the market wanted to
see.” With two rounds of loans committed already, “if the
crisis escalates, we think the ECB will have no other option but
to provide another.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  