-- Ex-Penn State Coach Sandusky Will Have June Trial Instead of May
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/ex-penn-state-coach-sandusky-s-sex-abuse-trial-moved-to-june.html
The trial of former  Pennsylvania 
State University assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky on sex-
abuse charges was rescheduled for June 5 by a judge who said
“logistical contingencies” required a postponement.  State court Judge John M. Cleland set the new date in a
ruling yesterday. He previously scheduled the trial to begin May
14.  Sandusky is charged with more than 50 counts tied to the
alleged abuse of boys he met through a charity he founded for
needy children. He asked Cleland in court papers last week to
dismiss the charges against him, arguing that the allegations
weren’t specific, lacked sufficient evidence or were too old. A
hearing on his request is scheduled for April 5 in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania.  Prosecutors argued in court papers filed yesterday that
Sandusky’s requests were little more than “tactical
maneuvers.” Pennsylvania’s Superior Court has held that the
state doesn’t always need to prove a specific date of an alleged
crime, Chief Deputy Attorney General Frank Fina wrote in the
filing.  Sandusky, who has repeatedly denied the accusations, waived
a preliminary hearing in December.  He “cannot now be heard to complain the information is
insufficient having conceded the ability of the commonwealth to
prove each count if submitted to a fact finder,” Fina said in
the filing.  Prosecutors agreed with Sandusky’s request to sequester
potential jurors during a two-week selection process, as well as
the jury during the trial.  The case is  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  