-- Mexico Plans Syndicated Auction for 30-Year Peso Bond in 2Q
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-03-29T02:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mexico-plans-syndicated-auction-for-30-year-bond.html
Mexico plans to hold a syndicated
auction of 30-year fixed-rate peso bonds in the second quarter
while maintaining the sale of other securities, the  Finance
Ministry  said today in a  statement  on its website.  The ministry didn’t specify the amount to be sold under the
syndicated operation and said it plans to carry out only one of
this type of transaction in the second quarter, according to the
statement.  The auction amount of the rest of its securities and the
frequency of their sales, including short-term bills known as
Cetes, will remain unchanged from the previous quarter, the
ministry said.  The debt issued each week may be more or less than the
weekly average announced, with the restriction that at least 50
percent of the instrument scheduled for sale must be offered
that week, the ministry said in its statement.  “Even though the weekly amounts to be issued could change,
the total amount to auction during the quarter will be fixed and
equal to the average weekly amount announced times the total
number of weeks in the quarter,” the ministry said.  The government is opting to issue 7.5 billion pesos ($588
million) of 10-year fixed-rate bonds every six weeks during the
quarter. In the first quarter,  Mexico  sold 10-year debt through
a syndicate of banks.  The government may exchange and repurchase securities that
could include fixed-rate bonds, inflation-linked debt and Cetes.  IPAB, the Mexican government body that guarantees bank
deposits, in a separate e-mailed statement today said weekly
debt sales will rise to 4.4 billion pesos starting on April 25.
IPAB had held sales of securities maturing in three, five and
seven years totaling 4.2 billion pesos in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  