-- Mexico Peso Drops on Renewed Global Growth Concern
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-03-30T02:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mexico-peso-drops-on-renewed-global-growth-concern-bonds-slump.html
(Corrects peso’s year-to-date gain in second paragraph.)  Mexico ’s peso fell for a third day
as concern that Greece may need another bailout damped demand
for higher-yielding assets and the outlook for global growth.  The peso slid 0.4 percent to 12.8028 per  U.S. dollar  at 3
p.m. in Mexico City, from 12.7549 yesterday. The peso has gained
8.8 percent this year, the most among major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. Mexico’s peso is headed to its biggest quarterly
rally since the currency was revalued in 1993.  The peso is falling on concern that the European debt
crisis, which helped make the currency Latin America’s worst-
performer in 2011, may worsen, according to Aryam Vazquez, an
emerging-markets economist at Wells Fargo & Co.  Greece  will
probably have to restructure its debt again and may involve
bailout partners such as the International Monetary Fund,  Moritz Kraemer , head of sovereign ratings at Standard & Poor’s, said at
an event in London late yesterday.  “It’s very premature that the markets were somewhat less
focused on Europe,” Vazquez said today from New York in a
telephone interview. The region is “far from out of the
woods.”  Spanish bonds fell as a general strike by the nation’s
unions highlighted the challenges facing euro-area governments
as they seek to cut costs and reduce deficits. Italian notes
also slid.  The yield on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.49 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.12
centavo to 130.29 centavos per peso.  Mexico plans to hold a syndicated auction of 30-year fixed-
rate peso bonds in the second quarter while maintaining the sale
of other securities including short-term bills known as Cetes,
the  Finance Ministry  said after markets closed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  