-- Express Scripts, Medco Sued by Trade Groups Over Merger Plan
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-29T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/express-scripts-medco-sued-by-trade-groups-over-merger-plan-1-.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  and  Medco
Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  were sued by drugstore and pharmacists’
trade associations seeking to block the companies’ proposed
merger as a threat to the viability of local pharmacy services.  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National
Community Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies
filed the lawsuit today in federal court in Pittsburgh, claiming
the purchase of Medco by  Express Scripts  would violate antitrust
laws by shrinking competition and raising consumer prices.  “Retail community pharmacies throughout the  United States 
that provide critical services to millions of patients are
threatened with substantial, imminent and irreparable harm as a
result of this acquisition,” the groups alleged in the
complaint.  Express Scripts, based in  St. Louis , agreed in July to buy
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco for $29.1 billion, saying
that consumers would get more power to negotiate prices from the
combined companies. The deal would create the largest pharmacy
benefits manager in the U.S. The companies act as middlemen
among drugmakers, pharmacies and health-plan sponsors to manage
patients’ benefits.  FTC Ruling  The Federal Trade Commission, which has been conducting an
antitrust review of the proposed transaction, is expected to
rule on the case as soon as tomorrow, two people familiar with
the case told Bloomberg yesterday.  Express Scripts spokesman  Brian Henry  declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  Jennifer Luddy , spokeswoman for Medco, said by
e-mail, “We stand by our recent 8K filing, in which we stated
that we expect the merger to be completed as early as the week
of April 2, 2012.”  Medco also said in a regulatory filing yesterday that deal
could close as early as next week.  Third parties can challenge mergers under the antitrust
laws and win, said Jeffrey Jacobovitz, an antitrust litigator
with McCarthy, Sweeney & Harkaway PC in  Washington .  “The issue is whether they can prove there is an injury
from an antitrust perspective,” he said.  A recent example of a private antitrust suit, Jacobovitz
said, is Sprint Nextel Corp.’s challenge of a proposed merger
between AT&T Inc. and T-Mobile USA Inc., which the companies
abandoned in December. In November, U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in Washington had allowed Sprint’s lawsuit, joined
by Cellular South Inc., to proceed.  No Indication  Filing the suit doesn’t indicate the pharmacists’ groups
know the FTC will approve the deal, said Jennifer Mallon,
general counsel of the National Community Pharmacists
Association, told reporters on a conference call today.  “We have no idea how the FTC is going to conclude their
investigation,” she said. “But we believe legal action is the
next logical step in our multipronged strategy to oppose the
merger.”  The groups also are lobbying Congress and urging the FTC to
block the deal, Anderson said.  The groups claim the Medco acquisition will force pharmacy
customers into filling prescriptions by mail and result in the
loss of “face-to-face pharmacy services that patients prefer,”
Steven C. Anderson, president of the National Association of
Chain Drug Stores, said in the conference call.  “Forcing patients to use mandatory mail-order pharmacies
and denying them access to their local community pharmacist even
causes some patients to discontinue drug therapy prematurely,”
they allege in the lawsuit.  Express Scripts fell as much as 1.8 percent in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading today. The shares declined 73 cents to $53.16 at.  The case is National Association of Chain Drug Stores v.
Express Scripts, 2:12-cv-00395, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  