-- MF Global Treasurer Provides No Answers on Missing Funds
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-29T00:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mf-global-treasurer-provides-no-answers-on-missing-funds.html
A U.S. House investigations
subcommittee ended a third hearing into the collapse of  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  with the same problem they had four months
ago: No answers from the woman said to have the most information
about what happened to $1.6 billion in missing client money.  Edith O’Brien, assistant treasurer at the firm’s brokerage,
invoked her constitutional right against self-incrimination
yesterday at a congressional hearing, disappointing lawmakers
seeking answers to questions about frantic money transfers
during the company’s final days in October.  “We’re extremely disappointed,”  Randy Neugebauer ,
chairman of the committee, said at the meeting, before
dismissing O’Brien for the rest of the two-hour panel.  Neugebauer told reporters later that lawmakers’ interest
focused on O’Brien after Jon S. Corzine, the former senator,
governor and chief executive officer of MF Global, identified
her in a December hearing as having knowledge of the
transactions.  Neugebauer, a Texas Republican, said the subcommittee would
move forward with its probe by questioning others and possibly
recalling earlier witnesses, including Corzine.  “If we get to the point that we need further
clarification, we’ll call him back. We’ll call Ms. O’Brien back.
Nobody is really off-limits,” Neugebauer told reporters.  Although O’Brien was not present for the question-and-
answer period, her role in the transfers was a topic lawmakers
returned to multiple times.  Frustrated Lawmakers  Lawmakers voiced frustration with the lack of information
from the other witnesses: Laurie Ferber, the firm’s general
counsel, Christine Serwinski, the chief financial officer of the
firm’s North American broker-dealer, and Henri Steenkamp, the
firm’s chief financial officer. All three said they had been
contacted by  Department of Justice  investigators in connection
with the bankruptcy.  “Judging on your other responses since I sat down here
some time ago, Ms. O’Brien’s declaration of the Fifth Amendment
was more helpful to the committee than any of your answers,”
Representative Stephen Lynch, a Massachusetts Democrat, told the
executives.  Serwinski and Ferber did lay out their knowledge of the
two-part transfer aimed at covering an overdraft -- a $200
million transfer from a segregated account at the firm’s
brokerage to a “house” account, followed by the move of $175
million from the house account to a London subsidiary’s account
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Such segregated accounts may contain
customer funds as well as a buffer of the firm’s own cash.  Corzine’s Involvement ‘Unusual’  Serwinski said O’Brien and another employee had the
authority to transfer funds from a segregated account. She also
said that Corzine’s personal involvement in the transfer would
have been “unusual.”  Vinay Mahajan, the firm’s global treasurer who was not at
the hearing, was identified by Serwinski as a second executive
who had the authority to sign off on transfers. Mahajan also was
identified in the House memo as informing colleagues in an Oct.
28 e-mail that an overdrawn account in  London  had to be “fully
funded ASAP.”  “Mr. Mahajan worked for only 10 weeks at MF Global and
we’re confident that he at all times acted appropriately,”
Gregory John O’Connell, Mahajan’s attorney, said in a statement.  Ferber, the general counsel, testified that she sought
O’Brien’s assurance of the propriety of the transfer, which by
Oct. 28 had drawn the interest of JPMorgan.  JPMorgan, by mid-afternoon of Oct. 28, contacted Corzine to
request written confirmation that the transferred money was made
up only of the firm’s funds, Diane Genova, a deputy general
counsel for the bank, told lawmakers.  JPMorgan’s Request  “Mr. Corzine said he understood the request and would have
someone in his organization review it,” Genova said. The bank
then “e-mailed a proposed draft letter to Mr. Corzine.”  Corzine, 64, told lawmakers last year the firm’s back-
office staff had “explicitly” informed him that the $175
million transfer made before the bankruptcy filing was legal.  “I never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds, I
never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds and
I don’t believe that anything I said could reasonably have been
interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer funds,”
Corzine told lawmakers in December.  Ferber and Dennis Klejna, MF Global’s deputy general
counsel, gave verbal assurances over the course of two days that
the funds were proper, Genova said.  Klejna to ‘Cooperate’  Klejna “intends to fully cooperate with the government
investigation of MF Global and feels it would be premature to
respond to any press inquiries at this time,” Helen Kim,
Klejna’s lawyer and a partner at  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (1161L) ,
said in an e-mail.  Ferber said she spoke with O’Brien about the transfers and
was provided with copies of the transaction accounts.  “My very clear understanding was that if the compliance
certificate was limited to those two transactions she would sign
it,” Ferber said of O’Brien.  The letter was never returned to JPMorgan, according to
Genova. Serwinski, asked if she would have approved the transfer
if she knew all of the information about the funds involved,
said she would not have made the transaction.  Lawmakers from both parties expressed frustration with the
way the three executives responded to their questions, reminding
them that MF Global’s clients included farmers and ranchers
around the country who have lost money. Representative Steve Pearce, a New Mexico Republican, compared the witnesses to
Depression-era bank robbers Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow.  ‘Plausible Deniability’  “Looks like there’s been a great effort to maintain
plausible deniability,” said Representative Nan Hayworth, a New
York Republican.  Representative Michael Capuano of  Massachusetts , the top
Democrat on the panel, told the executives that criticism from
lawmakers is the least of their problems.  “Here’s your concern: The people sitting next to you,”
Capuano said. “Because somebody is going to say something to
the appropriate investigators to say this is the person who had
final responsibility. And when that happens, there’s going to be
problems for those individuals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  