-- MF Global Hearing, EPA ‘War on Coal’, EU Freight: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-29T12:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mf-global-hearing-epa-war-on-coal-freight-cartel-compliance.html
Edith O’Brien, the  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MF)  assistant treasurer who has become a key figure in
tracing the disappearance of as much as $1.6 billion in customer
funds, declined to answer questions from House lawmakers.  O’Brien, who appeared yesterday under subpoena before a
 House Financial Services  subcommittee, invoked her
constitutional right against self-incrimination during a hearing
on the New York firm’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy.  After indicating that she would decline to answer all
questions by members of the subcommittee, O’Brien was dismissed
from the hearing room.  O’Brien was pulled from back-office obscurity onto center
stage last year in testimony to Congress by former MF Global
chief executive Jon S. Corzine.  She was identified by Corzine several times as an employee
with knowledge of transfers that may have included customer
funds in what he called the “chaotic” days before the firm
sought Chapter 11 protection, becoming the eighth-largest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Yesterday’s session is the panel’s third hearing on MF
Global’s final days, when company executives discovered a nearly
$1 billion deficit in customer segregated funds. The bankruptcy
trustee overseeing liquidation of the firm’s brokerage unit has
estimated the total shortfall between customer claims and assets
available at $1.6 billion.  Attention on O’Brien heightened after the March 23 release
of a  memo  drafted by congressional staff. The memo cites an e-
mail from O’Brien noting that a transfer made in the days before
the firm’s bankruptcy was done “Per JC’s [Jon Corzine’s] direct
instructions.”  Corzine, 64, told lawmakers last year the firm’s back-
office staff had “explicitly” informed him that the $175
million transfer made before the bankruptcy filing was legal.  “I never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds, I
never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds and
I don’t believe that anything I said could reasonably have been
interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer funds,”
Corzine told lawmakers in December.  For more, click here, and see Interviews/Hearings section,
below.  Compliance Policy  Obama Power-Plant Rule Signals Demise of Coal As Energy Source  President Barack Obama’s proposed carbon-dioxide rules for
 power plants  effectively prohibit new coal power plants,
buttressing a shift away from a power source that fueled the
Industrial Revolution to cheap natural gas.  Obama’s Environmental Protection Agency proposed the first
limits on greenhouse-gas emissions from U.S. power plants March
27, setting a standard natural-gas facilities can meet. A new
coal plant would need carbon-capture technology, which industry
advocates say isn’t available at competitive rates.  With natural gas at decade-low prices, no new coal plants
are being built, with or without the EPA rules, according to the
agency’s analysis. For critics, from mining companies and
utilities to coal-country lawmakers, the rules are the latest in
a string of EPA regulations they say are meant to put the  fossil
fuel  out of business.  West Virginia Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  described the
EPA in a statement as engaging “in a war on coal.”  The proposed nationwide standard is the first of its kind
issued by the EPA for carbon dioxide. The  rules  will permit
emissions from new power plants at 1,000 pounds of carbon
dioxide per megawatt hour, about the level for a modern gas
facility, according to the EPA. It applies to new plants, not
existing ones.  The proposal will now be open to public comment, and
revision by the agency before taking effect. Congress may also
pass legislation to overturn the rule, Representative  Joe
Barton , a Texas Republican, said yesterday at a hearing in
 Washington .  For more, click here.  House Approves Curbs on FCC Authority to Set Merger Conditions  The Republican-controlled House of Representatives passed
legislation that would limit the Federal Communications
Commission’s authority to pursue concessions from companies
seeking approval to merge.  The measure won approval March 27 in a largely party-line
vote, 247-174, over objections from President Barack Obama’s
administration. Under the bill, the FCC would be barred from
imposing or accepting conditions on companies that aren’t
related to a proposed merger.  A  House Energy and Commerce Committee   report  accompanying
the bill said the FCC has sought concessions that are outside of
its authority to approve mergers, and that companies have
proposed unrelated concessions to try to improve their chances
of gaining agency consent.  The bill would require the commission to conduct a detailed
survey of the communications industry before making decisions
that could increase costs for businesses or consumers.  The Senate has no plans to take up the measure, Jena Longo,
a spokeswoman for Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia
Democrat who is chairman of the  Senate Commerce Committee , said
in an e-mail.  The Obama administration opposes the bill, according to a 
statement  from the Office of Management and Budget.  For more, click here.  EU Lawmakers Back Deal on Clearing Rules for OTC Derivatives  European Union lawmakers voted to approve a deal on
legislation to force trading of some over-the-counter
derivatives through clearinghouses to safeguard financial
markets.  The deal, endorsed in Brussels today, was reached last
month by negotiators for the  European Parliament  and the
region’s governments.  The rules will empower EU regulators to decide on types of
derivatives that should be centrally cleared. Traders who flout
the rules would face penalties including fines. The law also
sets rules on management of clearinghouses, including on
reserves they must hold to protect themselves from insolvency.  Compliance Action  Libor Review Panel Includes Banks Probed for Manipulation  The  British Bankers’ Association  said a panel of lenders
will review the London interbank offered rate, including some
firms being probed for allegedly rigging the benchmark.  The review, the second in four years, will include Barclays
Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the
London-based lobby group said in a statement yesterday. The
three banks have all previously disclosed they are the subject
of regulatory probes over the possible manipulation of the rate,
the basis for $360 trillion of securities worldwide.  The BBA is under pressure to find an alternative way to
calculate the measure, or cede control of it as regulators probe
whether banks lied to hide their true cost of borrowing and
traders colluded to manipulate the benchmark.  Terry Smith , chief
executive officer of interdealer broker  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) , said
in an interview this month there had been too great “a
breakdown in trust” for banks to continue policing the rate.  Angela Knight, the former Conservative lawmaker and
Treasury minister who is now chief executive officer of the BBA,
didn’t return a phone call from Bloomberg News seeking comment.
Officials at HSBC and RBS declined to comment, while a spokesman
at Barclays didn’t return a telephone message.  The steering group will consider what financial instruments
should be included for the purposes of defining the rate as well
as code of conduct for all contributors, according to the BBA.
The steering committee will also discuss whether to revise the
“statistical underpinning” of Libor submissions, the BBA said.  For more, click here.  Kuehne & Nagel Fined With Panalpina for EU Freight Cartels  Kuehne & Nagel International AG (KNIN)  and  Panalpina World
Transport Holding Ltd. (PWTN)  were among companies fined 169 million
euros ($225.6 million) by European Union regulators for price
fixing of freight-forwarding surcharges.  Kuehne & Nagel units were fined 53.7 million euros and
Panalpina 46.5 million euros, the  European Commission  said
yesterday. Freight forwarders fixed prices for fees charged on
goods sent on important trade routes between the EU and the U.S.
and Asia, according to EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin
Almunia.  Kuehne & Nagel said it would consider appealing the fine to
the EU courts because regulators hadn’t “correctly investigated
the facts” and drew “significantly incorrect factual and legal
conclusions,” according to a statement from the company’s
Chairman Karl Gernandt.  Panalpina said in an e-mailed statement that the
infringements “likely did not affect prices paid by Panalpina’s
customers.”  For more, click here, and click here.  Ex-Cattles Executives Fined $953,000 Over Misleading Data  Two former directors of  Cattles Plc (CTT)  and its subsidiary
Welcome Financial Services Ltd. were fined a total of 600,000
pounds ($954,000) by the U.K.’s financial watchdog for
publishing misleading information about loan credit quality.  The men were also banned from working in the lending
industry, the Financial Services Authority said in a statement
on its website yesterday. James Corr, Cattles’ finance director,
was fined 400,000 pounds and Peter Miller, Welcome’s finance
director was fined 200,000 pounds, the agency said.  Cattles, based in Batley, England, was a subprime lender.
The firm’s prospectus to potential investors in April 2008 gave
“misleading impressions of the firm’s financial health,” the
FSA said.  “Over the last three years new management teams have been
put in place at both Cattles and Welcome to stabilize the
companies and restructure their operations and finances,”
Cattles said in a statement. The FSA’s announcement “brings
this matter to a close.”  Cattles was sold last year to creditors including Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc after its shares were suspended in
2009.  Complaints to U.K. Banks Rose 21 Percent, Watchdog Says  Bank complaints in the U.K. rose 21 percent during the
second half of last year, driven by an increase in insurance
claims, the U.K. financial watchdog said.  Payment protection insurance complaints rose by 85 percent
to 977,510 the FSA said in a  statement  on its website.  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  received a total of 281,484 complaints while  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  faced 240,923 total complaints, according to FSA data.  The  British Bankers’ Association , an industry group, lost a
court challenge last year to stop the regulator from ordering
lenders to pay compensation.  “We want to be the best bank for customers, so getting
customer service right is vital,” Martin Dodd, customer
services director at Lloyds, said in an e-mailed statement.  Barclays said it had reduced complaints over banking
services by 31 percent year on year.  “Complaints are still higher than our customers should
expect, but we are on the right track in bringing them down,”
 Antony Jenkins , chief executive of Barclays retail and business
banking, said in an e-mailed statement.  EPH, EP Investment Advisors Fined by EU for Hampering Probe  Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding AS and EP Investment
Advisors were fined 2.5 million euros ($3.3 million) by European
Union regulators for obstructing a 2009 antitrust investigation
into the Czech electricity market.  The  European Commission  said the companies failed to block
an e-mail account and diverted incoming mails “in breach of
their obligations to cooperate” with regulators during
antitrust inspections, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  EPH will consider an appeal to the EU courts after it has
studied the decision, said spokesman Martin Manak in an e-mailed
statement. EP Investment Advisors was previously named J&T
Investment Advisors, the EU said.  Regulators previously fined Suez Environnement and E.On AG
for breaking seals attached to office doors during separate
surprise inspections.  Co-Op CEO Adds to Concern Lloyds Bank Branch Sale May Collapse  Co-Operative Group Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Peter Marks 
said told reporters today there are “very material regulatory
issues” to its proposed purchase of branches from Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, fueling concern the deal may collapse.  Co-Op was in December named preferred bidder for the 632
branches that Lloyds has to sell by the end of November 2013 to
comply with European Union state-aid rules after receiving a
bailout. Lloyds last week delayed a detailed report to investors
on the sale and said it would provide an update during the
second quarter. Lloyds reiterated that it was preparing the
division for an initial public offering.  Marks said the firm had a permanent CEO for its bank
“waiting in the wings,” in response to questions over whether
the Financial Services Authority was holding up the deal because
of concerns about a gap in the management. He declined to
identify the person or explain why he could not do so.  Marks told journalists that the deal was being held up
because the Co-Op was doing “proper due diligence” on the
branches and would not be “rushed” into completing a sale. He
said the deal would conclude in weeks not months.  Most Japan Pensions Have No Investment Experience, Survey Shows  About 90 percent of managers under  Japan ’s employee pension
system have no prior experience overseeing assets, according to
a government survey made after  AIJ Investment Advisors Co.  was
found to lose client money.  Only 2 percent of managers at the 558 retirement plans
under Japan’s employee pension fund system were certified as
analysts at a brokerage or financial planners, the  survey  by the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare showed. Those who had
worked at financial institutions made up about 3 percent.  The results underscore concerns that retirement assets in
Japan may be at risk after AIJ, led by Kazuhiko Asakawa, was
found by regulators to cover up $1.3 billion of losses from
wrong-way derivative trades. Pensions in the country are seeking
ways to bolster returns that have been hampered by low bond
yields and two decades of slumping stocks.  Fund performance rather than risk drove investment
decisions at employee pension funds, the survey showed. Forty
percent of respondents said performance was the most important
element for making an investment. Investment process and risk
management accounted for 10 percent to 20 percent.  Eighty-eight retirement plans said they had either invested
with AIJ in the past or currently have money with the Tokyo-
based asset manager.  For more, click here.  Courts  Supreme Court  Hears Health-Law Arguments (Day 3, Pt. 1) (Audio)  The U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments about the
constitutionality of President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul in the case of National Federation of Independent
Business v. Sebelius.  In yesterday’s morning session, the justices focused on
what would happen to the law if the core requirement that
Americans get insurance is struck down.  For the audio, click here.  Telefonica Loses Fight on 152 Million-Euro EU Antitrust Fine  Telefonica SA (TEF)  lost a court challenge to a 152 million-euro
($202 million) antitrust fine by European Union regulators.  The EU’s General Court rejected the appeal by Spain’s
biggest phone company and said the European Commission “rightly
held that Telefonica had abused its dominant position” over the
Spanish Internet market, according to a statement. The court
also backed regulators’ view that deliberately underpricing
wholesale services to hurt rivals, called “margin squeeze,”
was a form of monopoly abuse.  Telefonica was fined by the commission in 2007 for abusing
its monopoly over broadband Internet access in Spain by charging
wholesale rates that were too close to retail prices between
2001 and 2006. Regulators said this prevented rivals from making
a profit.  Telefonica will appeal the ruling to the region’s highest
tribunal and is in “complete and profound disagreement” with
today’s decision, it said in an e-mailed statement. The company
“scrupulously abided by the telecommunications regulations
imposed” by Spanish regulators.  The European Commission declined to immediately comment on
the ruling.  The case is  T-336/07  Telefonica and Telefonica de Espana v.
Commission.  Interviews/Hearings  MF Global Executives Testify Before House Subcommittee  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s general counsel Laurie Ferber,
chief financial officer Henri Steenkamp and North America chief
financial officer Christine Serwinski testified about the
collapse of the brokerage.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Diane Genova, the  National Futures
Association ’s Daniel Roth and the  Financial Accounting Standards
Board ’s Susan Cosper also spoke before a House Financial
Services subcommittee in Washington. MF Global’s assistant
treasurer Edith O’Brien declined to answer questions.  For the video, click here and for more, see top section,
above.  Berenzweig Says Corzine ‘Still Subject to Exposure’  Seth Berenzweig, managing partner at  Berenzweig Leonard ,
and Richard Roth, founder and partner at  The Roth Law Firm PLLC ,
talked about hearings before a U.S. House of Representatives
subcommittee on  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s bankruptcy and use of
customer funds.  They spoke with Trish Regan and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 