-- Facebook, PerkinElmer, Daimler, Nike: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-29T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/facebook-perkinelmer-daimler-nike-intellectual-property-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social-
networking service that’s planning an initial public offering,
said a patent dispute with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  could have a material
impact on its business.  Yahoo (YHOO)  sued Facebook on March 12, alleging that the site
infringes Yahoo patents related to advertising, social
networking, privacy, customization and messaging, Facebook said
yesterday in a filing. The  Menlo Park , California-based company
said it hasn’t yet issued a response to the lawsuit.  “This litigation is still in its early stages,” Facebook
said in the filing. “If an unfavorable outcome were to occur in
this litigation, the impact could be material to our business,
financial condition or results of operations.”  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking
service, is grappling with more lawsuits over  intellectual
property . The company, which had about 60 U.S. patents at the
end of last year, is aiming to defend itself by bolstering its
portfolio. Facebook acquired 750 patents from  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , a person familiar with the matter said
earlier this month.  Yahoo (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web portal, has demanded that
Facebook license its technology, saying that other companies
have done so. In the complaint, Yahoo asked for an order barring
Facebook from infringing 10 patents and for triple damages. At
the time, Facebook said it was “disappointed” in the lawsuit
and would defend itself against “these puzzling actions.”  Facebook plans to raise $5 billion in its IPO, making it
the biggest Internet offering on record. The company, which had
almost $4 billion in revenue last year, could have a valuation
of $75 billion to $100 billion, according to people with
knowledge of the situation.  PerkinElmer Sues Agilent in Mass Spectrometer Royalty Dispute  PerkinElmer Health Sciences Inc. (PKI)  sued Agilent’s
Technologies Inc. yesterday in federal court in Boston for
patent infringement. The suit claims that Agilent’s mass
spectrometry devices infringe patents 5,686,726 and  5,581,080.  According to court papers,  Santa Clara , California-based
Agilent had been paying royalties until June 30, and is now in
breach of a licensing agreement. PerkinElmer claims 6100 Series
Quadrupole, 6200 Series TOF, 6300 Series Ion Trap, 6400 Series
Triple Quad and 6500 Series Q-TOF mass spectrometry devices
infringe the patent.  The Waltham, Massachusetts-based company asked the court to
stop further unauthorized use of its technology and for an award
of cash compensation.  The case is PerkinElmer Health Sciences Inc. v.  Agilent
Technologies Inc. (A) , 1:12-cv-10562, U.S. District Court, District
of  Massachusetts  ( Boston ).  Daimler Promotes New Mercedes by Bragging About Patents It Holds  Daimler AG (DAI)  is taking a novel, IP-related tack in the
promotion of its new Mercedes-Benz E-Class car.  A  television commercial  for the car presently running on
U.S. television claims that the car is covered by “over 80,000
patents.”  The commercial claims that “to hold a patent that has
changed the modern world” defines the patent holder as an
innovator, and to hold more than one patent of a certain quality
“would define you as a true leader.”  Google Willing to Pay $2.8 Million to Oracle Over Java Patents  Google Inc., fighting a patent lawsuit filed by Oracle
Corp., said it is willing to pay $2.8 million in damages.  The revelation came in a March 27 joint filing proposing
streamlining the litigation. The filing also requested that the
evidence phase of the trial be reduced from 12 hours to eight
hours, and that the parties waive their right to a  jury trial .  Google also said it would be willing to pay a 0.5% royalty
of Android revenue through expiration of one of the disputed
patents.  Oracle said in the filing that it’s willing to consider the
truncation of the evidence phase that Google suggested. If it is
shortened, Oracle said the damages phase should be lengthened.  The company is opposed to giving up its right to a jury
trial, and said that the damages Google suggests “are lower
than Oracle contends are appropriate.”  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 3:10-cv-
03561-WHA, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
( San Francisco ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nike Sues Reebok Over Use of Tebow’s Name on Jets Clothing  Nike Inc. sued  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s Reebok International over its
use of quarterback  Tim Tebow ’s name on  New York  Jets-related
clothing, days before Nike is to become the official supplier of
licensed National Football League apparel.  Reebok, whose licensing agreement with the NFL ends March
31, illegally tried to capitalize on Tebow’s March 21 trade from
the Denver Broncos to the Jets to sell Tebow-related shirts and
other clothes, Nike said in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in  Manhattan . Nike claims it, not Reebok, has
rights to use Tebow’s name.  Nike, the world’s biggest sporting-goods company, is
seeking an order barring Reebok from selling the Tebow items,
plus unspecified damages. The company claims Reebok is
improperly taking away sales that Nike would otherwise make when
it begins its five-year contract with the NFL April 1.  “The opportunity to sell the first Tebow-identified Jets
apparel is a unique and short-lived opportunity,” Nike said in
its complaint. “It is unlikely that a consumer who purchases an
unauthorized Tebow-identified NFL jersey or t-shirt from Reebok
this week will purchase an authorized Tebow jersey or t-shirt
from Nike the following week.”  An Adidas spokesman, Jan Runau, didn’t immediately reply to
a voice-mail message seeking comment on the suit. Joanna Hunter,
an NFL spokeswoman, said the league didn’t have an immediate
comment.  Tebow, 24, helped lead the Broncos to the National Football
League playoffs after taking over as the team’s starting
quarterback last year. He was named the most popular
professional athlete in the U.S. in an ESPN poll this year. His
Broncos jersey was the second-highest selling of all NFL players
last season, Nike said in the complaint  According to Nike, a representative of Tebow notified
Reebok that it was using his name without authorization and
demanded it remove Tebow clothing from stores.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the NFL Players
Association, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment. Jimmy Sexton, Tebow’s agent, didn’t immediately return
a phone message.  Nike said it plans to introduce its new line of uniforms
for all 32 NFL teams at an event in New York April 3.  The case is  Nike Inc. (NKE)  v. Reebok International Ltd., 12-
cv-2275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Gucci Accuses Guess of Massive Design ‘Knock Off’ Scheme  Gucci America Inc., the maker of luxury clothing and
accessories, told a federal judge that  Guess? Inc. (GES) ’s products
infringe Gucci’s trademarked designs.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin  began conducting a
trial without a jury on Gucci’s infringement claim yesterday in
Manhattan.  Gucci, a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , sued in 2009 claiming
that Los Angeles-based Guess was selling items in stores and
online with logos that are “studied imitations of the Gucci
trademarks.” The trademarks include a green and red stripe
design and a diamond pattern with repeating interlocking G’s,
according to Gucci’s court filings.  “It’s about a massive, complicated scheme to knock off
Gucci’s best-known and iconic designs,” Louis Ederer, Gucci’s
lawyer, told the judge yesterday. The company claims $221
million in Guess products infringed Gucci designs.  Guess said in court papers that Gucci can’t claim
infringement because it “sat on its rights” for at least seven
years before suing. Guess also said Gucci’s surveys failed to
prove that consumers would be misled by the designs.  Daniel Petrocelli , a lawyer for Guess, said in his opening
remarks that of 1,495 Guess products Gucci claimed were
infringing, 99 percent “could never be confused with Gucci.”  “If there was a scheme, it failed miserably,” he said.  Gucci is seeking monetary damages and other assessments
totaling more than $124 million, according to court papers.  Defendants also include Marc Fisher Footwear, the Max
Leather Group and  Swank Inc. (SNKI)  The trial is expected to last at
least two weeks.  The case is Gucci America v. Guess Inc., 09-4373, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  German Court Rules That Rapidshare’s Business Model Is Legal  Rapidshare, one of the largest online file-locker sites in
the world, is legal, a German court has ruled, PC World 
reported .  GEMA ,  Germany ’s music-rights organization, sued Rapidshare
for copyright infringement, seeking a judicial determination of
the duties the company has to content owners, according to PC
World.  Even though the court found Rapidshare’s business model
legal, it did say the company must monitor incoming links from
external sites to the files it hosts, and remove any illegal
files it identifies, PC Magazine reported.  Rapidshare is planning to appeal the section of the court’s
ruling that mandated proactive monitoring of foreign sites,
Alexandra Zwigli, the company’s chief executive told PC
Magazine.  Take My Film, Steal My Film, Filmmaker John Thomas Says  Independent filmmaker John Michael Thomas has called for
fans to pirate his movie as a way of getting it seen by a wider
audience.  In  a March 26 blog posting , he said his film  “Corpse
Run,” which “made it into a few big film festivals, had a 500
person standing ovation” at its first showing, is languishing
on the shelf. Its sole release is through Amazon.com as a print-
on-demand title, Thomas said.  His posting included links to torrents through which the
movie can be found. “Torrents” are content files shared
through the BitTorrent protocol.  Thomas said while the film “is no ‘Citizen Kane,’” he’s
proud of it and says it’s an entertaining movie to watch.
“Corpse Run” is a film about a particular video game and how
it has affected the “twenty-something generation,” he said.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 