-- Facebook’s Zuckerberg Says Japan Users Doubled in Six Months
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-03-29T10:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/facebook-s-zuckerberg-says-japan-users-doubled-in-six-months-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  more than doubled its
users in  Japan  over the past six months as more Japanese joined
the world’s most popular online social network.  Total users in the country has surpassed 10 million, Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said today in Tokyo, where he
met Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda .  Facebook is useful during a disaster “allowing victims to
share information,” Noda told Zuckerberg during the meeting at
the prime minister’s residence today. The social network is
“also useful for startups to raise capital,” Noda said.  Online networks’ popularity in Japan gained since the
earthquake and tsunami in March 2011, when parents and children
used sites including Facebook to locate each other in the
aftermath of the crisis. Japanese companies including  Fast
Retailing Co. (9983) , owner of the Uniqlo brand, are also using the
site to reach customers.  Facebook opened a Tokyo office in September 2010 and
introduced Connection Search, an application that links job-
seeking students. The network had 13.5 million unique users in
Japan in February, up from 6 million a year earlier, according
to data from Nielsen. That put the  Menlo Park , California-based
company ahead of social-networking rivals Twitter Inc. and  Mixi
Inc. (2121)  in Japan for the first time.  Ad Revenue  The  website  had more than 845 million members worldwide
last year. Europe is its largest market for advertising revenue
outside the U.S. and Canada, according to the company’s
regulatory filing. Fourth-quarter ad sales were $95 million in
Asia, where it had 212 million users. The U.S. and Canada, with
179 million users, contributed $462 million.  Zuckerberg’s Tokyo visit comes as Apple Inc.’s Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  visited China, the iPhone maker’s
biggest market outside the U.S., this week. Cook met Chinese
officials including Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , who may lead the
nation’s government next year, and Beijing Mayor Guo Jinlong.  Facebook, which filed in February to raise $5 billion in
the largest-ever Internet public-market debut, is trying to
maintain growth. The company almost doubled revenue last year to
$3.71 billion, it said in its filing.  The company is halting the trading of its shares on
secondary markets by the beginning of April as it prepares for
an initial public offering, two people with knowledge of the
matter said. The company aims to hold its IPO in early May, one
person said.  Facebook  is actively traded on secondary markets including
SharesPost Inc. and SecondMarket Inc. The halt gives the company
time to account for its shareholding base and would end price
fluctuations as Facebook confers with bankers and investors to
determine its IPO valuation, according to Lise Buyer, principal
at Class V Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  