-- Fed Board Nominees Powell, Stein Backed by Senate Committee
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-29T21:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/fed-board-nominees-powell-stein-backed-by-senate-committee.html
Two nominees to the  Federal
Reserve ’s Board of Governors were approved today by the Senate
Banking Committee, advancing their appointments toward a
possible confirmation vote by the full chamber.  The panel, in a voice vote, approved the nominations of
Harvard University professor  Jeremy Stein  and Jerome Powell, an
attorney and private equity investor who was a Treasury
undersecretary for President George H.W. Bush. Republican
senators James DeMint of South Carolina and  David Vitter  of
Louisiana opposed both nominations.  Powell and Stein, who were nominated by President  Barack Obama , at best face even odds of gaining final Senate approval,
according to Sarah Binder, a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution in Washington. While the nominees aren’t assured of
final approval, their advance is a “rare example” of
cooperation in a presidential election year, said New York
University’s Paul Light.  “To get someone approved by a committee and onto the floor
is quite remarkable,” said Light, a professor of public
administration who has advised lawmakers of both parties on
improving the nomination process. “But it’s not a done deal
because you could get a hold on any or all of them by a senator
who has a beef with the Obama administration.”  Republican Opposition  Republican lawmakers may want to keep the two Fed positions
open, believing they can fill the seats with their own
selections after the Nov. 6 presidential election, said Binder,
a political science professor at George  Washington  University
who studies relations between the Fed and Congress.  The committee also approved three other nominees for
financial regulatory agencies, including the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  Republicans have blocked nominees for financial regulatory
jobs since Obama used a recess appointment to install Richard Cordray as the first director of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau without formal Senate approval.  The nominations would need bipartisan support to pass in
the full Senate. While Democrats control 53 votes in the 100-
member chamber, Senate leaders would need at least 60 senators
to gain final approval.  Vitter will object if Senate Democrats push to approve the
nominations tonight, according to Luke Bolar, his spokesman.
Vitter’s objection means the nominees will not be approved
before the coming recess, as Senate rules would require the
unanimous support of senators for confirmation.  ‘Rubber Stamps’  “I refuse to provide Chairman Bernanke with two more
rubber stamps who approve of the Fed’s activist policies,”
Vitter said in an e-mailed statement.  DeMint won’t back Fed nominees who will “sign off on more
debt and reckless actions,” Wesley Denton, spokesman for the
senator, said in an emailed statement. “Americans need strong
advocates for free markets and sound monetary policy.”  The Senate committee approved  Richard Berner  to be director
of the Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Research and
Christy Romero to be special inspector general for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program. The Dodd-Frank Act created the OFR to
support regulators in data collection and identification of
systemic risk.  The panel also approved Jeremiah O. Norton, a Republican
nominee to the five-member FDIC. Norton now becomes one of four
would-be FDIC regulators awaiting a nod by the full Senate. The
list includes  Martin Gruenberg , who has been acting chairman and
is awaiting confirmation as chairman.  Nobel Prize Winner  One of Obama’s earlier picks for a seat on the Fed, Nobel
prize-winning economist  Peter Diamond , withdrew his nomination
in June 2011 in the face of Republican opposition.  Diamond’s nomination ran into opposition from Senator
 Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee. Shelby said Diamond, a professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, lacked the practical
qualifications for the Fed job and experience regulating banks
and managing financial crises.  When Powell and Stein appeared before the banking committee
for their nomination hearings last week, they underscored their
experience with  capital markets . Powell highlighted his work as
an investor and investment banker, and Stein discussed his
research on the 1987 stock-market crash and the impact of
monetary policy on the banking system.  Economists, Lawyer  The Fed’s board currently consists of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , both economists; Daniel Tarullo, a former professor at the  Georgetown University Law
Center ;  Sarah Bloom Raskin , a former top bank regulator for
Maryland; and Elizabeth Duke, who had been a community banker.  If confirmed, Powell would fill the term vacated by
Frederic Mishkin, which expires in 2014. Stein would fill the
seat of former governor  Kevin Warsh , with a term that lasts
through 2018.  U.S. stocks posted their third straight decline today as
the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 0.2 percent to
close at 1,403.28 in  New York . Ten-year Treasury yields fell
five basis points to 2.15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  