-- Fed’s Lockhart Is ‘Pretty Comfortable’ With Risks From Europe
-- B y   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e
-- 2012-03-29T18:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/fed-s-lockhart-is-pretty-comfortable-with-risks-from-europe.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said today that he is “pretty
comfortable” with the risks posed by the European financial
crisis.  “The financial risk has been reduced recently, quite
literally in the last two or three weeks,” Lockhart said today
in a panel discussion at the Commerce Club in Atlanta. “It’s
not been taken off the table, but it’s been reduced.”  He also said threats of fewer U.S. exports to Europe and a
drop in income from tourism are not big enough “to imperil the
overall recovery in the U.S.,” and that “I don’t see too much
danger coming from Europe through real-economy channels.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said March 20 that
while  Europe  has assuaged financial tensions, it faces a “long
and difficult path of reform.” Europe is facing a possible
second recession in less than three years as the region’s
finance ministers, meeting tomorrow in Copenhagen, will seek to
establish the size of their rescue fund.  European policy makers are trying to strike a balance
between meeting international demands for a more powerful war
chest and opposition in donor countries led by Germany to
providing additional aid for underperforming economies on
Europe’s fringes.  “We’re seeing signs of recovery” in the U.S., while the
housing industry remains “relatively weak,” said Lockhart, who
is a voting member of the policy-making Federal Open Market
Committee this year. Lockhart, a former Georgetown University
professor, has led the Atlanta Fed since 2007.  Recent Reports  Recent reports underscore a strengthening U.S. recovery as
a healing job market boosts optimism among consumers. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said March 26 that “continued
accommodative policies” from the central bank will be necessary
for the economy to make further progress.  The Fed has held  interest rates  near zero since 2008 and
purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds to spur growth after
 unemployment  rose to as high as 10 percent in 2009. The jobless
rate is currently 8.3 percent, and the economy has been
expanding for more than two years.  Lockhart on March 23 said he favors a monetary policy of
“patient vigilance” and didn’t rule out the possibility of
more stimulus if the economy slows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  