-- FirstGroup Tumbles on U.K. Bus Business Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-29T16:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/firstgroup-tumbles-on-u-k-bus-business-outlook-london-mover.html
FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  dropped the most in
more than three years in London after the U.K. bus and rail
operator said today that it was facing “challenging trading
conditions” in its bus business.  FirstGroup  fell  14 percent to 247.4 pence, its steepest
decline since January 2009, cutting its market value to 1.19
billion pounds ($1.89 billion). Earlier, the stock fell as much
as 19 percent.  “Economic difficulties are making it hard to push through
fare increases,”  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon
in London, said by telephone. “I’m not aware of any other bus
companies in a similar situation where they are talking down
margins to the same extent.”  The operating profit at FirstGroup’s U.K. bus business will
be about 8 percent of sales in the financial year ending in
2013, the company said in a statement today. That compares with
analysts’ forecasts of about 12 percent, Bank of America Corp.
said in a note today.  FirstGroup said that growth is slowing in the north of the
U.K. where its bus business generates about 60 percent of its
bus-passenger revenue. Slower revenue growth at the unit is also
being exacerbated by a reduction in government subsidies and
higher fuel costs, the Aberdeen, Scotland-based company said.  “We do not expect revenue growth and cost efficiencies to
be sufficient to offset the impact of reduced government
subsidies and funding to the industry and increased fuel
costs,” the company said.  Bidding Shortlist  FirstGroup has been shortlisted by the U.K. government to
bid for three rail franchises, it said in a separate statement
today.  The company will compete with Deutsche Bahn AG’s Arriva
unit,  National Express Group Plc (NEX)  and  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  to run
the Great Western franchise, which it currently operates. The
line runs from London’s Paddington station to Oxford, southwest
England and Wales.  FirstGroup is also shortlisted for the Thameslink and Essex
Thameside commuter franchises, where competing bidders include
Hong Kong’s  MTR Corp. (66)   Other U.K. operators also retreated today. Stagecoach fell
3.8 percent to 253 pence, while  National Express  declined 5.1
percent to 239.2 pence and  Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG)  dropped 5.5
percent to 1,230 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  