-- Fisher Lured to Washington Woods Offering Tax Haven
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/fisher-lured-to-washington-woods-offering-tax-haven.html
Ken Fisher , founder of a $44
billion investment firm in Woodside,  California , left employees
bewildered when he told them their next office would be in
 Vancouver . Why move them to  Canada ?  Not that Vancouver, he assured them.  Fisher Investments
 (FIUSMVU) in November opened a campus near the city’s lesser-known
namesake, Vancouver, Washington. Residents of the town of about
161,800 enjoy the double benefit of no state income tax in
Washington while living close to sales-tax free  Oregon .  Those perks have lured businesses and wealthy retirees
alike, creating pockets of prosperity in a place sometimes
labeled “Vantucky” by Portland sophisticates who live just
across the Columbia River. At a time of rising U.S. income
inequality, the lost tax revenue pits states against each other
and leaves some long-time Vancouver residents resentful.  “When I buy a refrigerator, I buy here,” Robin Tomko, 50,
said from behind the counter of Lucky Loan pawn shop 10 minutes
from Portland. “ Washington  ends up giving away sales tax to
Oregon residents. I don’t like it.”  Both states are still dealing with budget gaps left by the
longest recession since the Great Depression. Oregon’s latest
budget  delayed  opening new state hospital wards.  Washington (STOWA1) , one
of nine states that don’t tax wages, said in January that it
needed $1.5 billion to close a deficit and replenish reserves.
In Clark County, where Vancouver is the seat, health inspectors
have warned that any further cuts may make it hard to spot the
next deadly disease outbreak.  Nation’s Highest Tax  Oregon  voters  in 2010 endorsed an income-tax increase that
took the top rate to 11 percent, highest in the nation, before
dropping to 9.9 percent this year. A proposed measure that may
appear on the state’s November  ballot  would boost the rate to
13.6 percent on personal income greater than $500,000.  “Every time they raise their tax base, we see a lot more
inquiries over here,” said Vancouver realty agent Linda
Horowitz, who added that buyers are surprised to find that $1
million-plus homes, some with sweeping river or lake views, have
been built there. “People have a perception that Vancouver is
more blue-collar.”  The Portland-area Multnomah County was the biggest source
of people moving to Clark County from 2005 to 2009, according to
U.S. Census Bureau  data released  yesterday. Some 4,345 people
moved from the  Portland  area to the Vancouver area -- double the
2,187 who moved in the opposite direction.  Bill Hale, a retired commercial real-estate investor, said
he and his wife sold their west Portland home and bought a nicer
one on a golf course in Vancouver, saving around $10,000 in
annual income taxes.  People’s Republic  “I tell people we’re tax-and-equity refugees from the
Soviet State of Oregon and the People’s Republic of Portland,”
said Hale, 73.  Navigating his Dodge sport-utility vehicle past new glass-
walled offices in nearby Camas, Washington, last month, former
Camas Mayor Paul Dennis said the combination of business-
friendly tax and permitting policies, quality schools and light
traffic is bringing jobs.  The exercise company StairMaster last year chose Vancouver
over  Irvine , California, for its headquarters, creating 100
positions. Sharp Electronics Corp.  moved  a solar panel research
lab to Camas from  Huntington Beach , California. As many as three
dozen employers ranging from a microbrewer to a  software company 
may create 300 jobs in Camas over the next 18 months -- no small
number for a city with only 6,000 jobs, Dennis said.  “If we have economic growth, it’s going to benefit
everybody,” he said.  Monied Movers  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  wealth managers in Vancouver report about
one migrant from Oregon a month, said Tom Unger, a spokesman.
Portland tax attorney John Whearty estimated he fielded
inquiries from two dozen Oregon residents about relocating last
year, double the 12 from a year earlier.  “The people with money can move,” Whearty said. “It’s
the rest of us who are stuck.”  In Camas, a new roadway winds through evergreen trees to
Fisher’s five-story building, where more than 450 sales and
support staff talk to clients and monitor markets at rows of
identical desks. The building will eventually host 600
employees, and a second may accommodate 600 more, he said.  “The property could hold literally thousands of people,”
said Fisher, adding that California’s tax policies helped drive
away these workers, who make about $75,000 to $200,000 a year.  The state’s top income-tax rate is 10.3 percent, and
California Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, wants voters to
pass a temporary increase to 13.3 percent in November.  Quality of Life  “California doesn’t like my employees; I like my
employees,” said Fisher, whose company headquarters sit on the
edge of Silicon Valley. “They get a better quality of life in
 Clark County  than they would get in the Bay Area.”  The firm first leased offices in Vancouver in 2007 and
Fisher later purchased 170 acres for its Camas campus, which he
has said may be its next headquarters. Fisher, 61, threatened in
2010 to rule out Washington as a base if the state’s voters
approved a proposed tax on upper-income earners that year. The
measure failed.  His own firm is a so-called S corporation, a type that
avoids double taxation by treating shareholders’ profits as
personal income. While he owns a Camas home, he remains a
California resident -- paying a state tax that he believes holds
back growth.  “If you compare the states with no income tax to the
states with high income-tax rates and you look at their historic
growth over the last 20 or 30 years, the no income-tax states
have prospered much more mightily,” Fisher said.  Downtown Impact Muted  The benefits of Fisher’s growth aren’t as evident to
Vancouver’s retailers, according to Lee Rafferty, executive
director of its downtown association.  “It’s powerful that he’s here, but in terms of what it
means for downtown Vancouver, not a whole lot,” she said.  Rafferty owns a building that has been empty since 2007,
though she’s negotiating with a potential buyer. It sits near
three consignment stores and two pawn shops. The Vancouver area
each year loses about $915 million in annual sales and $75
million in state and local taxes to Oregon -- money that would
help maintain parks and fix potholes, Rafferty said.  “I’ve always thought the best money we could spend as a
community is to lobby Oregon to put in a  sales tax ,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Robison in  Seattle  at 
 robison@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in  Chicago  at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 