-- Flaherty Aims to Reverse Canada Deficit Legacy in Budget
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/flaherty-aims-to-reverse-canada-deficit-legacy-in-budget.html
Canada’s Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , a self-proclaimed fiscal conservative who has overseen
more than C$100 billion ($100 billion) in deficits in the past
three years, will seek to reverse that legacy in a budget that
cuts spending and prods businesses to lead economic growth.  Flaherty will try to encourage innovation and development
of natural resources by companies such as Calgary-based  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU)  to offset slower  government spending  and indebted
consumers. Flaherty has said he will cut C$4 billion to C$8
billion in annual program expenses to help restore budget
balance, and make social spending more sustainable in his
seventh fiscal plan, to be released around 4 p.m. Toronto time.  “What you have to do now is adjust fiscally and start
thinking about priorities,” said Christopher Ragan, a former
adviser to Flaherty and economics professor at  Montreal ’s  McGill
University . “Basically every year from now going forward,
you’re going to have this fiscal squeeze in your face.”  Since winning a parliamentary majority in last year’s
elections, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative
government has pledged to bolster Canada’s long-term finances
and develop its resource wealth to drive growth amid a weak
global economy and slowing revenue. This will include measures
to encourage investment and ensuring social spending remains
controlled.  Canada’s economic growth is projected to slow to 2 percent
in 2012, the weakest pace since 2009, amid a tepid global
expansion and restrained spending by consumers and government,
according to a survey of Bloomberg economists.  Businesses Driving Growth  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said that means
Canadian businesses will need to take over from indebted
households and boost investment to sustain economic expansion.  The fiscal plan will include steps to speed environmental
approvals for energy projects, Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver said this week, as the country seeks to increase
investment in the industry and diversify export markets. The
government also plans to act on issues identified by an “expert
panel” studying federal funding on science and technology as
part of its innovation agenda, Flaherty has said.  That report, written by Open Text Corp. chairman Thomas Jenkins, recommended Canada create a central funding agency to
support corporate research and development, simplify a tax
credit that encourages businesses to invest in technology, and
increase funding for startup companies.  Provincial Transfer Cap  Flaherty in December announced plans to cap the growth of
transfers to provinces for health care through 2024. The
decision will steadily reduce the federal government’s debt
levels at the expense of a growing fiscal gap for the provinces,
according to a Jan. 12  report  by the Parliamentary Budget
Officer.  Other ministers, including Human Resources Minister Diane Finley, have said the government also plans to change the public
Old Age Security pension, possibly by raising the eligibility
age for future recipients. The government may delay benefits to age          67,
from 65, the Globe and Mail reported today.  Flaherty lowered government revenue projections in
November, forecasting a C$31 billion deficit for the fiscal year
that ends this month. That fiscal update projected the
elimination of the deficit by the year starting April 2015, and
yesterday Flaherty reiterated the budget will be balanced “in
the medium-term.”  An improving fiscal outlook could accelerate the return to
balance and ease pressure for austerity measures that could slow
growth. In a March 21  report , economists at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  estimated the deficit for the fiscal year ending this month
will be C$26 billion. Economists at  Royal Bank of Canada 
estimate the deficit will be in a  C$20 billion  to C$25 billion
range.  Bond Issuance  Even with a shrinking gap, federal government bond issuance
will remain at more than C$100 billion next fiscal year, similar
to levels since the 2008-09 recession, according to  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income and currency strategy at Royal’s
RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto.  That’s due to a large amount of redemptions and the
Canadian government’s efforts to build reserve funds.  “It’s great that we have a very good debt and deficit
story, because if we didn’t people would be focusing more
attention on that,” Chandler said. “The actual gross issuance
is fairly high and that’s something to keep in mind.”  Government bonds  have returned 9.2 percent over the past
year according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data,
compared with a 6.7 percent average for the G-7.  Canada ’s
benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index has risen 6.7 percent over the
past four months, compared with an 18 percent gain for the  S&P
500 Index .  Housing Market  Another target for Flaherty in the budget may be the
country’s housing market as prices  continue to rise  with
household  debt levels .  Canada’s banks have ramped up their issuance this year of
covered-bonds, which are backed mostly by mortgages insured by
Canada’s housing agency, in anticipation Flaherty will introduce
legislation that may make it more expensive to sell the debt.  Flaherty may put limits on the collateral banks are allowed
to put in covered-bond pools, Finn Poschmann of Toronto-based
research organization C.D. Howe Institute said in a Financial
Post article on March 22.  The government may also decide whether to raise the limit
on  mortgage insurance  taken on by Canada Mortgage & Housing
Corp. The agency said in January it is rationing insurance for
lenders as it approaches its legal insurance limit of C$600
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  