-- Flaherty to Fire 12,000 Workers in Bid to Balance Canada Budget
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-03-29T20:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/flaherty-to-fire-12-000-workers-in-bid-to-balance-canada-budget.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  pledged to fire 12,000 government workers and
defer defense spending to secure a balanced budget as
forecast in four years.  Flaherty, in his seventh fiscal plan, announced
spending cuts totaling C$21 billion ($21 billion) over the
next five years to help fund increased spending on jobless
benefits and financing for business research while reducing
the country’s deficits by a cumulative C$18.4 billion over
that time. The budget released today in Ottawa kept
Flaherty’s 2015-16 timetable for a return to surplus.  “This budget is all about the fiscal numbers,” said
 Craig Wright , chief economist of Royal Bank of Canada.
“The Canadian economy is running pretty well, so they’re
just fine-tuning the engine to make sure it runs well.”  Since winning a parliamentary majority in last year’s
elections, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative
government has pledged to bolster Canada’s long-term
finances and take steps to support  economic growth , in part
by developing the country’s resource wealth and encouraging
business investment. The budget includes a pledge to speed
up reviews of energy projects, including Enbridge Inc.’s
proposed Northern Gateway pipeline.  Policymakers, including Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , have urged Canadian businesses to take over from
indebted households and boost investment to sustain
economic expansion. Today’s budget also includes measures
to encourage research and innovation and expedite
immigration for skilled workers.  Largest Budget  “This is the largest budget we’ve ever done,”
Flaherty told reporters, referring to the 498-page
document. “It is looking at the longer-term.”  Flaherty’s budget, which surveys private sector
economists for growth projections, forecast  Canada ’s growth
will slow to 2.1 percent this year from 2.5 percent in
2011, before accelerating to 2.4 percent in the next three
years. The government lowers growth projections for its
fiscal planning to account for risks.  Canada’s deficit in the fiscal year ending this month
will come in at C$24.9 billion, less than the C$31 billion
projected in Flaherty’s last update in November because of
faster-than-projected growth, according to the budget.  The plan forecasts deficits of C$21.1 billion in the
year starting April 1, C$10.2 billion in 2013-14, and C$1.3
billion in 2014-15. Surpluses of C$3.4 billion in 2015-16
and C$7.8 billion in 2016-17 are projected.  Spending Cuts  Cuts in departmental spending, which doesn’t include
transfers to individuals or provinces, will total C$5.2
billion annually when fully implemented. The departments of
defense and health and public safety face the biggest
reductions.  Federal  employment  will fall by 19,200, or 4.8 percent
of the total, including 7,200 positions to be cut by
expected attrition.  Growth in program spending, projected at C$245.3
billion next year, will average 2.1 percent over the next
five years, reducing it as a share of GDP to 12.8 percent
by 2016, its lowest since 2005. Total spending, including
public debt charges, is projected to grow 1.2 percent to
C$276.1 billion in the 2012-13 fiscal year.  “This is the furthest thing from an austerity
budget,” said Catherine Swift, president of the Canadian
Federation of Independent Business. “Program spending
continues to rise every year simply at a lower rate.”  Revenue Growth  Revenue is forecast to grow by an average 4.7 percent
over the past five years.  To secure the country’s finances into next decade,
Flaherty pledged to introduce legislation raising the
eligibility for the old age pension program to 67 from 65.
The changes start in 2023, with a six-year phase-in. The
plan also gives Canadians the option to defer payments
until later years in exchange for higher benefits.  Deferred defense spending will save about C$2.9
billion over the next five years, with the elimination of
tax credits and what the budget calls “loopholes” raising
C$1.7 billion.  The fiscal plan also includes steps to speed
environmental approvals for energy projects as the country
seeks investment in the  industry . Canada’s governing
Conservatives plan to consolidate the number of agencies
that do reviews, set hard deadlines and give authority to
provincial agencies to study smaller projects in a bid to
reduce duplication, according to the document.  Gateway Pipeline  Flaherty said today the new rules will apply to
Northern Gateway, which would transport crude from  Alberta 
to the west coast and has been a flashpoint with
environmental groups.  Among the measures to bolster business spending,
Flaherty is setting aside C$400 million for venture capital
funding, increasing support for business research and
additional cash for university infrastructure. Measures to
boost employment and growth will total C$3.7 billion over
five years.  Even with a shrinking deficit, the government will
issue a net C$97 billion of bonds next year, up from C$94
billion. The government will add an additional auction of
10-year bonds while reducing the amount of Treasury Bills
it issues.  The government also announced it will stop production
of the penny this year, as each one-cent coin costs 1.6
cents to make. The measure will save C$11 million a year,
the budget documents show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  