-- Floating Windmills in Japan Help Wind Down Nuclear Power: Energy
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-03-30T15:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/floating-windmills-in-japan-help-wind-down-nuclear-power-energy.html
Japan  is preparing to bolt turbines
onto barges and build the world’s largest commercial power plant
using floating windmills, tackling the engineering challenges of
an unproven technology to cut its reliance on atomic energy.  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ,  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and  Nippon
Steel Corp. (5401)  are among developers erecting a 16-megawatt pilot
plant off the coast of Fukushima, site of the nuclear accident
that pushed the government to pursue cleaner energy. The project
may be expanded to 1,000 megawatts, the trade ministry said,
bigger than any wind farm fixed to the seabed or on land.  “Japan is surrounded by deep oceans, and this poses
challenges to offshore wind turbines that are attached to the
bottom of the sea,” Senior Vice Environment Minister Katsuhiko
Yokomitsu said at a meeting in  Tokyo  this month. “We are eager
for floating offshore wind to become a viable technology.”  The world’s third-biggest economy is struggling to
diversify its energy mix after last year’s earthquake and
tsunami crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station. A few countries including Britain, the U.S. and
 South Korea  are testing windmills that float, a technology far
more expensive than most fossil-fuel or renewable energies.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and its partners are
positioning themselves for future contracts to develop gear that
so far isn’t used in commercial electricity production.  Cost Comparison  Capital expenditure is about $1.7 million a megawatt for an
onshore wind project and $5.5 million a megawatt for offshore,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Statoil ASA (STL)  has the
largest floating project currently, a 2.3-megawatt “Hywind”
turbine off the coast of  Norway , which cost $29 million a
megawatt, according estimates by Fraser Johnston, an offshore
wind analyst for the agency in  London , based on  company data .  “Hywind is a 10-year project from the drawing board in
2001 to when we were done with the demo period last year,”
Morten Eek, a Statoil spokesman, said by phone. “In a
commercial phase, the costs will be significantly lower based on
the experience from the demo project.”  Statoil is currently considering two test parks off
 Scotland  and the U.S. with 3-5 windmills each, potentially by
2016.  In Japan, the country “certainly has excellent offshore
wind resources and huge potential to develop this sector,”
Justin Wu, lead wind analyst for New Energy Finance in  Hong
Kong , said in an e-mail. “But offshore wind is significantly
more expensive than onshore wind at the moment.”  Earthquake Risk  Japan, whose island geography and earthquake risk have long
shaped its economy, is lagging behind developed nations
including the U.S., Germany and  Spain  in  wind energy , which
supplied just 0.4 percent of its electricity demand in 2010,
according to the International Energy Agency Wind 2010  Annual
Report . Ranking as the world’s fifth-largest carbon emitter,
Japan is trying to elevate its wind-energy capacity from 2,500
megawatts, the 13th-highest among all nations, according to the
 Global Wind Energy Council .  Land-based wind-energy development is limited by Japan’s
mountains, making offshore developments more viable. The depths
of its oceans creates a bigger potential for floating turbine
technology, still in its infancy compared with the more
conventional method of deploying fixed versions of the machines.  The turbines are mounted on a floating structure that
allows them to generate electricity in water depths where
bottom-mounted towers cannot be erected easily. The country aims
to develop the floating offshore  wind turbines  for
commercialization by  March 2017 .  Engineering Challenges  The biggest challenge in erecting floating turbines
offshore is ensuring the buoyancy mechanisms are stable, and
getting fixed lines to the sea floor which can be extended to
depths of 200 meters (656 feet).  A so-called feed-in tariff program due to start in July
that guarantees above market rates for clean energy including
solar, wind and geothermal could boost the development of wind
energy, analysts say.  “We believe Japan’s sluggish wind market will experience a
kick-start under the FIT,” CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets analysts
Penn Bowers and Dean Enjo said in a Feb. 20 report.
“Historically, in countries that have implemented FIT schemes
it is wind, not solar, that grows the most,” it said, citing
Germany and  China  as examples.  Japan’s production of wind turbines and parts and
maintenance services is forecast to grow from an estimated 300
billion yen ($3.6 billion) a year currently to 500 billion yen
in 2030, according to the  Japan Wind Power Association .  Comparison With Nuclear  The industry group has set a wind-power installation target
of 50,000 megawatts by March 2051, including 17,500 megawatts
and 7,500 megawatts in floating and fixed offshore wind
respectively. That compares with the 49,000 megawatts of nuclear
power, which is being debated by government officials after the
Fukushima meltdowns. JWPA estimates Japan’s potential for wind
is 144,000 megawatts for onshore and 608,000 for offshore.  The Japanese government hasn’t determined what rates they
will earn. A delay in price setting may deter investments and
put wind power at a disadvantage compared with solar because it
takes longer to build a wind farm.  A new regulation due to take effect in October could also
delay wind projects. Wind will be added to a list of  power
plants  such as nuclear and thermal that will be subjected to
environmental impact assessments to address concerns on noise
and birds.  Such surveys can take as many as four years and cost
developers an additional 100 million yen for a plant with about
10 turbines, according to Tetsuro Nagata, president of the wind
association.  Faster Wind Speeds  That also means wind developers may fail to take advantage
of the first three years when feed-in tariffs are expected to be
higher, he said in an interview.  “Even though the government may set high tariff prices,
developers will be left unable to do anything” while conducting
an assessment, Nagata said. “That is not fair.”  The government is considering measures to simplify the
process, said Kenji Kamita, an official at the Ministry of
Environment who oversees assessment of projects.  To increase wind capacity in a mountainous country, Japan
is looking offshore where wind speeds are faster and more
stable.  Fukushima Project  “Japan has a weak position in onshore wind,” the trade
ministry’s task force on new energy industries said in a report
released March 12. “But the floating offshore technology is not
yet established so this is an area we can aim for a comeback,”
it said.  The environment ministry plans to set up a 2-megawatt
floating offshore turbine in Nagasaki in southwestern Japan by
June 2013. The project is being developed by  Toda Corp. (1860)  and  Fuji
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270)   The Fukushima pilot project will have three floating
turbines installed by March 2016 with plans to eventually expand
the capacity to 1,000 megawatts in the region, according to the
trade ministry. It has set aside 12.5 billion yen as the ceiling
to fund the initial stages of the study.  The  trade ministry  has also been steadily increasing
funding for offshore wind research and development, mainly for
fixed turbines, from 200 million yen in 2008 to 5.2 billion yen
this year.  For offshore wind farms, cooperation with local fishing
industries is also key, said Chuichi Arakawa, a professor at the
 University of Tokyo  who studies wind power. “It all begins with
having thorough discussions with local partners,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  