-- Fonterra Plans Overseas Investment as Demand to Boost Prices
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-03-29T03:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/fonterra-plans-overseas-investment-amid-favorable-price-outlook.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) ,
the world’s largest dairy exporter, plans to boost investment in
dairy farms and plants in  China  and other  emerging markets  as
rising demand pushes milk prices higher in the next decade.  “We need to look outside of  New Zealand , we need to look
at other milk pools,” Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings
said on a conference call today after the Auckland-based company
reported an 18 percent rise in first-half profit. “If we only
focus on New Zealand, we’ll lose market share, we’ll lose
relevance.”  Demand for food commodities including dairy is rising in
emerging markets as economic growth lifts incomes and spurs
sales of protein-rich meals. Fonterra, which accounts for about
40 percent of the global trade in dairy products, forecasts the
market will increase at least 100 billion liters by 2020, led by
customers in China,  India  and the Middle East-Africa region.
Demand will outpace supply in the medium term, ensuring prices
trend higher, the company said today.  “It’s an opportunity we need to grasp,” Spierings said.
New Zealand production is forecast to rise about 5 billion
liters by 2020, and exporting that to the world will always
remain the company’s top priority, he said.  Fonterra wants to accelerate its operations in China, where
it already owns dairy farms, and will consider partnerships and
supply agreements as well as ownership, he said. The company
plans to review operations in the U.S. and  Europe , where the
demand outlook is slower, in order to maximize cash generation
from its strongest markets.  Record Prices  “I’m expecting some softening over the coming quarter, but
it will go back to similar levels to where we are now for next
year,” Spierings said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today, referring to prices. Whole milk powder is currently
trading between about $3,300 and $3,500 a ton, he said.  Prices (NWMPAVG2)  have dropped about 6 percent this year after record
prices in 2011 spurred farmers around the world to boost
production. Global supply growth has outpaced demand for dairy
products after good weather in most regions, while demand will
remain compromised by weak economic conditions, Rabobank
International said on March 20.  “We want to do less but with more intensity,” said
Spierings. “We have to generate more cash if we want to grow
faster.”  The company is working through its proposed restructure,
which it expects to put in place this year, and is seeking a
stable capital base. Without that framework, the company “may
have to make other choices” regarding its strategy, Chairman
Henry van der Heyden said on the conference call.  Output Surge  Net income  rose to NZ$346 million ($283 million) in the six
months ended Jan. 31, from NZ$293 million a year earlier as milk
production surged, the company said in a statement today. Sales
gained 7.2 percent to NZ$10.03 billion.  Last month, the company said milk delivered to its New
Zealand plants rose 9.8 percent in the eight months ended Jan.
31 from a year earlier amid favorable farming conditions.  The company maintained its March 12 forecast milk payment
to farmer shareholders of NZ$6.35 per kilogram of milk solids.
It also maintained its forecast of a full-year dividend of 40
cents to 50 cents, based on earnings of NZ$570 million to NZ$720
million in the year ending July 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  