-- Former UBS Executives to Start London Commodities Hedge Fund
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-03-29T12:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/former-ubs-executives-to-start-london-commodities-hedge-fund-1-.html
Neal Shear , who spent 25 years at
Morgan Stanley, and Jean Bourlot, former commodities head at  UBS
AG (UBSN) , are starting Higgs Capital Management LLP, a commodities
hedge fund in London.  The fund will cover energy, agriculture and metals, Bourlot
said by phone from London today. Shear will be chief executive
officer and Bourlot will be chief investment officer, he said.
Neville Atha, who joins from Jabre Capital Partners, will be
chief operating officer.  Commodity hedge funds raised an estimated $1.33 billion in
the first two months of 2012 and assets under management stood
at $85.1 billion as of Feb. 29, according to eVestment|HFN, a
New York-based research company. Investors in raw materials
tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index got a total return
of 8.4 percent in January and February as copper and oil
rallied, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Commodity funds haven’t necessarily attracted more new
allocations, but have grown at a faster rate,” than other
funds, said Peter Laurelli, vice president at eVestment. “The
interest in the group comes from investors wanting exposure to
hard assets and a decline in interest in directional equity
exposures. Commodity funds have grown at a faster rate in
2012.”  Shear left UBS in March 2011 after about a year as head of
the bank’s global securities business, and Bourlot was head of
commodities at UBS through December. Before that, Bourlot was
head of agricultural trading at Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  