-- Foxconn Auditor Finds ‘Serious’ Violations of Chinese Law
-- B y   S t a n l e y   J a m e s
-- 2012-03-30T04:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/foxconn-auditor-finds-serious-violations-of-chinese-law.html
An audit of  Foxconn Technology
Group (2354)  found “serious and pressing” violations of Chinese  labor
laws , prompting the biggest maker of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  devices to
pledge to cut working hours and give employees more oversight.  Inspectors found at least 50 breaches of Chinese
regulations as well as the code of conduct Apple signed when it
joined the  Fair Labor Association  in January after deaths of
workers at suppliers, the monitoring group said today. Foxconn
will bring hours in line with legal limits by July 2013 and
compensate its more than 1.2 million employees for overtime lost
due to the shorter work week, it said.  “The eyes of the world are on them and there’s just no way
they can’t deliver,” FLA President Auret van Heerden said.
“It’s a real showstopper.”  Assessors found cases of employees working longer hours and
more days in a row than allowed by FLA standards and Chinese
law. They uncovered inconsistent health and safety policies and
instances of unfair pay for overtime work. To meet its
commitments, Foxconn must hire, train and house tens of
thousands of workers to assemble products for Apple,  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and other customers, the FLA said.  Foxconn Response  “We are committed to work with Apple to carry out the
remediation program, developed by both our companies,” Foxconn
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Our success will be
judged by future FLA audits and the monitoring of the
implementation of the remediation program, by reviews carried
out by Apple and other customers and by future employee
surveys.”  Shares in Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Foxconn’s
flagship, dropped 2.1 percent to NT$113.5 as of 11:54 a.m. in
Taipei after dropping as much 3 percent, the largest decline
since Feb. 21. Apple fell after the report was released,
dropping 1.3 percent to $609.86 at the close in  New York .  Apple said it appreciated the work FLA has done to assess
conditions at Foxconn.  “We fully support their recommendations,” Cupertino,
California-based Apple said in an e-mailed statement.
“Empowering workers and helping them understand their rights is
essential.”  Costs for Consumers  Apple, the world’s most-valuable company, will have to cut
profit margins or pass the resulting costs on to consumers, said
Alberto Moel, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  Hong
Kong .  “The benefit we, the consumers, and Apple extract from
these products at the expense of Foxconn and its workforce is
completely unequal,” Moel said in an interview earlier this
week. “Foxconn will also have to meet these requirements for
all its customers -- Apple, Dell, HP -- because it is at risk of
being audited at any  production line .”  Foxconn’s pledges will leave more money in the pocketbooks
of workers and give them more time to spend it, dovetailing with
government plans to rebalance the economy away from  exports  and
toward domestic consumption. Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
told Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  during a March 27
meeting in Beijing that multinational companies should pay more
attention to caring for workers and share development
opportunities, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Profit Margins  Apple’s  operating margin  rose to 31 percent last year, from
12 percent in 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At
Foxconn’s flagship company, Taiwan-listed  Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co. (2317) , the measure fell to 1.1 percent from 3.2 percent.  Apple built computers in the U.S. for much of its 36-year
history. As the manufacturing capabilities in  Asia  improved, it
joined other electronics companies in moving assembly lines to
China to take advantage of less expensive labor. Now Apple
products, including the iPhone and iPad, read on the back:
“Designed by Apple in  California . Assembled in China.”  The conditions at those facilities have been under scrutiny
in recent years, particularly after at least 10 workers
committed suicide at plants owned by Foxconn. Three employees
died last year and more than 70 were hurt in blasts at two iPad
facilities, one owned by Foxconn.  Responding to the criticism, Apple agreed to FLA audits.
After surveying more than 35,000 workers and logging over 3,000
hours on site, inspectors found long hours and a failure to
engage workers in management decisions.  Inland Expansion  As Foxconn grows, it’s expanding to inland Chinese cities
such as Chengdu in the southwestern province of Sichuan and
Zhengzhou in the central province of Henan -- where Cook visited
yesterday -- to be closer to workers’ hometowns.  When most employees are migrant workers from other areas of
the country, businesses can end up with a lot of dissatisfaction
and turnover, the cost of which is “humongous,” Moel said.  “If you bring the factories to the workers, they can go
home at night,” Moel said.  At two factories in Shenzhen in southern  China  and at a
third in Chengdu, inspectors found the average working week
exceeded both the FLA’s 60-hour cap and China’s 49-hour maximum.  Workers were excluded from decision making on health and
safety issues, with management nominees dominating the company’s
labor union, the FLA said. “Factories’ communications are
almost entirely top down,” the report said. Fewer than 1 in
1,000 employees at three business units making Apple products
were managers, it found.  Less Than Big Mac  Foxconn pledged to allow workers to elect representatives
to union positions and other workplace committees, in line with
government rules that are rarely followed in China.  The FLA auditors found no issues related to child or forced
labor, according to the report. The average age of workers was
23, they found.  While Foxconn scored well for paying wages on time and at
rates higher than the local minimum, more than 64 percent of
employees said the basic wage was insufficient.  Foxconn workers in Shenzhen start on 1,800 yuan ($285) a
month, rising to about 2,200 yuan after probation, the report
said. The average wage in one of the Shenzhen plants was 2,687
yuan and in the other it was 2,872 yuan.  The  minimum wage  set by the government is 1,500 yuan a
month, and 13.3 yuan an hour for part-time employees -- or less
than the 15.5 yuan price of a Big Mac.  Updates Coming  More than 80 percent of workers surveyed said they were
either content with their hours or wanted more overtime to earn
extra money, the report said. Still, employees who worked
shorter weeks were more content and expressed a higher level of
loyalty to the company, it said.  Today’s report isn’t the first time worker violations have
been highlighted. Apple’s own annual audits have cited excessive
working hours as a problem since 2006.  The companies haven’t made adequate changes in the
intervening years, said Scott Nova, executive director of the
Worker Rights Consortium, a labor group in  Washington .  “Apple and Foxconn don’t deserve the benefit of the doubt
at this point,” Nova said. “The burden is now on Apple and
Foxconn to demonstrate that these promises are real by actually
implementing these changes.”  To monitor Foxconn’s compliance, the FLA will give regular
updates on its website, the new report said.  “We’ve set milestones and concrete deliverables for them
to give workers a say,” said Van Heerden, a former South
African activist who was imprisoned and tortured under the
apartheid regime, exiled in 1987 and later appointed under
 Nelson Mandela  as labor attache to the  United Nations .  Companies working with the FLA must agree to disclose their
suppliers and have them submit to inspections. The FLA audits
about 5 percent of its members’ supply chains each year.  Apple’s membership in the independent FLA will increase
scrutiny of its other  suppliers , including Seoul-based  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and Inchon, South Korea-based  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)   “Apple is the most valuable company on the planet and
Foxconn the biggest producer of electronics,” Van Heerden said.
“This could set the bar for the electronics industry as a
whole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stanley James in Hong Kong at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  