-- France Says Agreement on Emergency Oil Stock Use Is Closer
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-29T17:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/france-says-agreement-on-use-of-emergency-oil-stocks-is-closer.html
France  said governments are moving
closer to an agreement on a release of oil from emergency
stockpiles to stem gains in crude that have driven prices to the
highest levels in three years.  The prospects of an accord between the U.S. and  Europe  on
tapping strategic reserves are “good” and consumers can
“reasonably expect” a release, French Prime Minister Francois Fillon told France Inter Radio today. U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron discussed the move
earlier this month. France will only use its oil reserve in
coordination with other countries, Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said on Europe 1 radio.  “There is definitely increasing talk about releasing
stocks, and now they are talking so much, it’s going to be hard
not to do something,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director at
Petromatrix GmbH, a Zug, Switzerland-based researcher, said by
phone. “Oil prices are rising, which is a threat to the
economic recovery, so pressure is growing on governments. The
Saudis aren’t acting, so the only thing left is to release
stocks.”  ‘Oil Burden’  Brent crude , a benchmark grade for about half the world’s
oil, gained 15 percent this year on concern demand will outstrip
supply amid tightening sanctions on Iran and output disruptions
in Sudan, Yemen, Syria and the North Sea. The gains have helped
spur claims in the U.S. that President Barack Obama needs to do
more to curb rising fuel costs in an election year. The “oil
burden,” the proportion of global gross domestic product
accounted for by spending on fuel, is higher than during the
2008 crash, the  International Energy Agency  says.  Brent slipped for a third day today, dropping $1.56, or 1.3
percent, to $122.60 a barrel at 6:24 p.m. in London. West Texas
Intermediate retreated $2.33, or 2.2 percent, to $103.08 a
barrel in  New York .  Iran , the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , may lose crude
exports of as much as 1 million barrels a day because of a ban
on its oil, according to the IEA. The Paris-based adviser to 28
consuming nations coordinated the release of 60 million barrels
of crude and oil products in June after Libyan output was
disrupted by an armed uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi .  The agency said it’s closely monitoring the market and is
ready to release oil if there is a serious supply disruption.  “The IEA was created to respond to serious physical supply
disruptions, and we remain ready to act if market conditions so
warrant,” Maria van der Hoeven, its executive director, said
today in an e-mailed statement after a scheduled two-day
quarterly meeting with experts.  SPR Release  The Obama administration hasn’t made a decision on whether
to tap its  Strategic Petroleum Reserve (DOESSPR)  nor made any specific
proposal to allies,  Josh Earnest , deputy White House press
secretary, said in  Washington  yesterday.  “While this is an option that remains on the table, no
decisions have been made and no specific actions have been
proposed,” he said.  The U.K. government is “monitoring developments, but no
decision has been taken,” the Department of Energy and Climate
Change said today in a statement from  London . The U.S. has
proposed a stockpile release to curb rising prices, French
Industry Minister Eric Besson said yesterday.  “The rise in government communication around a strategic
release is reflective of the domestic political context, notably
in the U.S. and France, which are in presidential election
years,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. “The use of strategic
stocks is to bridge the supply gap in the event of a supply
disruption, not to manipulate prices.”  Cover Supply Shortages  Germany hasn’t been asked formally to join any move to free
reserves, Tanja Kraus, an Economy Ministry spokeswoman, said
yesterday. Tapping reserves can only be made to cover supply
shortages according to the country’s law, meaning no fuel can be
freed up to combat higher prices, she told reporters in Berlin.  France, as well as the U.S., holds elections this year.
 Germany ’s national elections are due by the fall of 2013, while
U.K. citizens will go to the polls in 2015.  France is waiting for a report from the IEA on inventories
before making a decision, Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said
yesterday at a press conference.  “France is accompanying the U.S. and U.K. in the IEA
consultation, which could allow the release of strategic oil
reserves in order to break the rising price spiral,” she said.  The IEA will release a summary of its discussions with
members in “weeks,” an official at the French industry
ministry said today, declining to be identified citing policy.
France, the U.S., and the U.K. are open to the idea of dipping
into their reserves, while Germany is more reticent, he said.  ‘Almost Inevitable’  “It’s almost inevitable there’ll be a release from
somewhere,” Amrita Sen, an analyst at Barclays Plc, said in an
interview with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg Television. The global
market is “very tight,” with inventories declining, she said.  The IEA also made supplies available during the 1991
Persian Gulf War and when Hurricane Katrina damaged oil rigs and
refineries in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2005.  There is “no rational reason” for prices at current
levels, Saudi Arabia Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said yesterday in
an editorial in the Financial Times. The nation can  increase
output  by 25 percent, or 2.5 million barrels a day, immediately,
he told reporters in Doha, Qatar, on March 20.  “It seems that a decision by the IEA and the countries
concerned could be taken in the next few days,” Francis Perrin,
chairman of Energy Strategies and Policies, said in an interview
from Paris on Bloomberg Television’s ‘The Pulse’ with Maryam Nemazee. “ Oil prices  are on the rise at the world level for
political reasons. We cannot expect the fact that some strategic
stocks will be put on the market to have a lasting impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 