-- FTC’s Leibowitz Foresees Do-Not-Track Privacy Option in 2012
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-29T17:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/ftc-s-leibowitz-foresees-do-not-track-privacy-option-in-2012.html
U.S. Federal Trade Commission
Chairman Jonathan Leibowitz said he expects companies to develop
a mechanism by the end of the year that allows people to say
they don’t want their online browsing behavior collected.  Leibowitz said the creation of a so-called do-not-track
option for  Internet users  should help the online economy expand
because it would build user trust in the Web.  “Online advertisers, major web browsers and an
international consortium have all made great strides on do-not-
track,” Leibowitz said in testimony today to a panel of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee. “They recognize that do-
not-track will help build  consumer confidence  in the Internet
and that in turn will spur greater Internet commerce.”  In a broad privacy report issued March 26, the FTC called
for industry to develop a voluntary mechanism to let consumers
signal they don’t want their data collected by online companies.
The report, which coincides with efforts by President Barack Obama’s administration to advance online privacy protections,
also called for privacy laws to better protect consumers and
give them more control over their personal information.  “Collection of personal data has led to great benefits for
consumers, and we all want those benefits to continue, but not
at the expense of consumer privacy,” Leibowitz said at the
hearing.  Leibowitz clarified that the mechanism needs to allow users
to limit collection of personal data, not just provide the means
to refuse targeted advertising.  Advertising Groups  He praised the  Digital Advertising Alliance , an association
of online advertising groups, which said last month it will
develop a way to allow consumers to limit collection of personal
data through Web-browser settings that companies including
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Mozilla Corp. have agreed to
implement. Leibowitz also welcomed the work of the World Wide
Web Consortium, an international group that is developing global
standards for do-not-track technology.  “Three streams are coming together,” Leibowitz said.
“They are all heading in the same direction: a persistent,
effective, easy-to-use do-not-track option for consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 