-- U.K. Has Fuel Shortage as Drivers Fill Up Amid Strike Threat
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-03-29T16:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/fuel-shortages-reported-as-u-k-drivers-fill-up-on-strike-threat.html
Shortages were reported at U.K.
fuel stations as car owners filled up their tanks to guard
against a possible strike by fuel-truck drivers.  A race to buy gasoline and diesel has caused queues and
scant supply in places, according to the  AA  motorists’
organization. The group said the rush was unnecessary and the
result of bad advice from the government.  While fuel-truck drivers voted this week to strike over
working conditions, their union has yet to set a date for action
and said a walkout may be averted through talks. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s government yesterday advised motorists to fill
up tanks to ensure they can keep driving if supply is disrupted.  “We now have self-inflicted shortages due to poor advice
about topping up the tank,” Edmund King, the AA’s president,
said today in a statement. “This in turn has led to localized
shortages, queues and some profiteering at the pumps.”  About 2,000 drivers delivering fuel to 90 percent of the
U.K.’s 8,706 gas stations are involved in the dispute. Seven
days’ notice must be given of a strike, a union official said
today.  The U.K. has enough fuel to meet demand in the event of a
strike, according to UKPIA, a petroleum industry group.  “There’s no supply problem,” Nick Vandervell, a London-
based spokesman for the group, said by phone. “People need to
stick to their normal fuel patterns.”  Mixed Messages  Cameron is “presiding over a shambles” as the government
gives mixed messages on contingency plans, opposition  Labour
Party  leader  Ed Miliband  said. Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude said yesterday that drivers would be wise to keep their
cars topped up and have a spare can of fuel at home. Roads
Minister Mike Penning said today that Maude’s advice was wrong.  “The prime minister needs to get a grip and calm the
situation,” Miliband said in an e-mailed statement. “David
Cameron and Francis Maude should apologize to the country for
the way they have handled this situation.”  Unite, the U.K.’s biggest labor union, is seeking minimum
standards for fuel distributors over pensions, training, health
and safety, pay and hours. It has asked the government to
intervene in the dispute to avoid industrial action. The
Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service, or Acas, is
mediating.  “Acas has been in contact with Unite officials as well as
all the contractors involved in the fuel-tanker drivers’
dispute,” it said in a statement. “We are now in the process
of receiving more detailed briefings.”  That process is expected to be concluded by April 2 and
“substantive discussions” will follow, Acas said.  Sales of gasoline across the U.K. rose by 81 percent
yesterday, while diesel increased by 43 percent, Brian Madderson, chairman of the Retail Motor Industry Federation,
said by phone from Yorkshire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  