-- Funds Unload Most Bonds in Two Years on India Debt
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-03-29T05:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/funds-unload-most-bonds-in-two-years-on-india-debt.html
International investors are cutting
 holdings  of Indian bonds by the most in more than two years as
the government plans to complete the bulk of its record
borrowing plan in the coming six months.  Global funds sold $902 million more rupee-denominated notes
than they bought this month, the first net selling since
September and the biggest reduction since October 2010,
according to the Securities & Exchange Board of India. The
 finance ministry  will raise 65 percent of its debt-sale target
in the fiscal first half, compared with 49 percent a year
earlier, Economic Affairs Secretary R. Gopalan said this week.  Benchmark bonds are headed for their first decline in five
months as surging oil prices push up Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s subsidy bill. The 8.59 percent yield on 10-year  notes  is
almost four times what investors seek from similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries and 2.4 times for Chinese securities.  “The mood is quite bearish among bond investors,” M. Natarajan, the Mumbai-based head of treasury at Bank of  Nova
Scotia , said in an interview on March 27. “People are mentally
prepared for a further rise in yields as supplies are going to
be huge and persistent.”  Canada ’s third-biggest lender predicts the benchmark yield
will reach 8.65 percent next month.  Subsidy Bill  Policy makers plan to raise 3.7 trillion rupees ($72
billion) from debt sales in the six months through September,
Gopalan told reporters in  New Delhi  on March 27. The finance
ministry intends to borrow 5.69 trillion rupees in the year
starting April, 12 percent more than in the current fiscal year,
according to  budget  documents presented in parliament on March
16.  Global funds reduced ownership of local bonds to $30.6
billion as of March 27, contributing to a 38-basis point, or
0.38 percentage point, increase in 10-year yields this month.
The yield on benchmark 8.79 percent notes due April 2021 fell
three basis points today to 8.59 percent, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  Bonds could slump more as Singh may be unable to contain
the subsidy bill, according to Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB,
 Sweden ’s third-biggest lender by assets. The government vowed to
cap handouts at 1.9 trillion rupees in the next fiscal year, 12
percent lower than this year, to reduce the budget  deficit  to
5.1 percent of gross domestic product from 5.9 percent.  Oil Imports  The “implementation risk on subsidies is high” before
Singh’s Congress party competes in 2014 federal elections,  Fitch
Ratings  said this month.  Brent crude , the benchmark for almost
all of India’s oil imports, has climbed 16 percent this year to
$124.07 a barrel. Oil accounts for 23 percent of subsidy costs.  “The subsidy amount announced in the budget is
ambitious,” Sailesh K. Jha, the Singapore-based head of  Asia 
markets at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, said in an interview
yesterday. “Given the political dynamics and what the economy
needs in terms of growth, the borrowing and fiscal deficit could
be higher than the target.”  Jha said the government may end up borrowing 6.1 trillion
rupees and revise the deficit goal to as much as 6 percent of
GDP. He predicts the 10-year yield could reach 8.8 percent by
“summer 2012,” which runs from April through June in  India .  The surge in yields offers global investors a “good buying
opportunity” as the currency’s exchange rate stabilizes,
according to Mumbai-based IndusInd Bank Ltd. The rupee traded at
51.14 per dollar today, 0.7 percent weaker. It has advanced 3.8
percent this year, the best performance among Asia’s 11 most-
traded currencies.  ‘Too Attractive’  India’s 10-year notes offer investors 640 basis points  more 
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. Similar spreads are 132
basis points in  China  and 179 basis points in  South Korea .
Rupee-denominated notes returned 1.3 percent this year, the best
performance after  Indonesia  among Asian local-currency debt
markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Foreign inflows into debt will continue as the yield is
too attractive to ignore,” J. Moses Harding, a Mumbai-based
executive vice-president at IndusInd Bank, said in an interview
yesterday. “If buyers hedge currency exposure, the dollar
returns are irresistible.”  The yield on 10-year bonds will peak at about 8.65 percent
“in the coming months,” he said.  Repurchase Rate  India’s bond risk is rising along with federal borrowings.
Credit-default swaps that protect the debt of  State Bank  of
India rose 30 basis points in March after sliding 95 basis
points through January and February, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets. Some investors consider the lender
a proxy for the sovereign. The swaps pay face value should a
company fail to adhere to its agreements.  Surging  oil prices  mean that the  Reserve Bank  of India will
cut its benchmark  repurchase  rate less than earlier estimated,
according to BNP Paribas SA. The central bank will reduce the
lending rate by less than 100 basis points in the next fiscal
year, Richard Iley, the Hong Kong-based chief economist for Asia
at the French bank, said in an interview this month.  “The government’s borrowing program, coupled with receding
expectations of the magnitude of rate cuts by the central bank,
would exert upward pressure on sovereign yields,” Gaurav Kapur,
a Mumbai-based senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, said in an interview yesterday. “The 10-year yield can
touch 8.70 percent next month if oil prices rise further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  