-- Geithner Touts Kim’s Knowledge of World Bank to Win Support
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-03-29T21:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/geithner-touts-kim-s-knowledge-of-world-bank-to-drum-up-support.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  stressed Jim Yong Kim’s understanding of the  World
Bank ’s responsibilities beyond his area of expertise in a letter
drumming up support for the U.S. candidate to head the lender.  Kim “is committed to pursuing an agenda for the Bank that
supports all the necessary components of development,” Geithner
wrote to the bank’s 187 governors in a letter obtained by
Bloomberg.  That includes “greater impact in the delivery of services
at the village level” and “advancing the macro, trade and
regulatory policies that promote economic growth and job
creation,” he wrote.  Kim, 52, this week embarked on a trip to cities including
Addis Ababa, New Delhi and Brasilia to seek advice about
priorities for the bank. The president of  Dartmouth College  and
a specialist on HIV/AIDS, Kim hasn’t worked in areas such as
economic policy or financial markets and faces rivals from
Nigeria and Colombia that are, or have been, finance ministers.  “The World Bank is very active in a wide range of sectors
and Dr. Kim has outstanding credentials in only one of those,”
said Domenico Lombardi, who was a World Bank board official from
2005 to 2007 and never saw such a letter of support in the past.
“This is something that maybe is triggering some concerns among
stakeholders.”  Biggest Shareholder  The World Bank’s  board  of 25 directors, which represents
the institution’s 187 member countries, is striving to choose a
president by April 20. The U.S. is the biggest shareholder in
the Washington-based bank, which has always been led by an
American.  The two other candidates are Nigerian Finance Minister
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, also a World Bank managing director until
last August, and former  Colombia  Finance Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo.  “Everyone expects that the U.S.-nominated candidate will
be elected,” said Lombardi, now a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “However it is also true
that the other candidates have resumes and qualifications more
in line with the background of previous presidents.”  Kim, who was born in Seoul and grew up in Iowa, would be
the first Asian-American to head the bank. A doctor by training,
he would represent a break from the financiers and bureaucrats
who have run the lender, and his Korean heritage offers a bridge
to developing nations. He was nominated last week by President
 Barack Obama  to replace  Robert Zoellick , whose five-year term
ends in June.  ‘Global Challenges’  Kim “understands the increasingly important role of the
Bank in dealing with today’s global challenges, including
 climate change ,  food security , and the vulnerability of fragile
states, and will skillfully convene our countries to address
these new and evolving issues,” Geithner wrote.  Kim today met with Erastus Mwencha, the deputy chairperson
of the African Union Commission in  Addis Ababa , Ethiopia, to
discuss priorities for Africa’s economic integration and
development, the U.S. Treasury Department said in an e-mailed
statement.  In an op-ed piece published in the Financial Times today,
Kim said he would continue giving emerging markets more voting
power at the bank if he was elected.  Geithner wrote that Kim “has consistently advocated for
sustainable growth, with benefits more broadly shared across
society,” also calling him “a man of action, a man that has
worked in the field solving complex problems with innovative
solutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  