-- Geithner’s Math Puzzle Beyond Numbers for DeMarco: Mortgages
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n ,   D a n   L e v y   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-29T14:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/geithner-s-math-puzzle-beyond-numbers-for-demarco-mortgages.html
Timothy F. Geithner  is giving
Edward J. DeMarco,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ’s overseer, some
math homework. For DeMarco, it’s more of a psychology question.  Geithner, the U.S. Treasury secretary, is offering new
incentive payments to the two government-supported mortgage
financiers if DeMarco drops his opposition to principal
reductions for homeowners whose  loans  are backed by the
companies. Geithner told Congress yesterday he was sure the
economics would work in favor of debt reductions “in some
circumstances.” The Treasury would pay a maximum of 63 cents
for each dollar of loan forgiveness as part of its expanded Home
Affordable Modification Program.  It’s not just a question of whether the numbers add up,
DeMarco said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York yesterday. The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  also is
examining for the first time whether forgiveness would encourage
 defaults  among borrowers who have kept making payments on
mortgages that exceed the values of their homes, he said. The
analysis may be finished by mid-April.  “The principal forgiveness debate for FHFA is not a
question of should we forgive principal versus should we be
foreclosing on borrowers that stop making mortgage payments,”
DeMarco said. “We’ve got to consider all of the ramifications
of principal forgiveness relative to other tools.”  DeMarco faces mounting pressure as President  Barack Obama ’s
administration, Congress and the  Federal Reserve  seek to turn
around a  housing market  that’s lost 34 percent since the 2006
peak, and wiped out $7 trillion of household wealth. Proponents
from Martin Feldstein, a chief economic adviser to the late
President  Ronald Reagan , to activist groups such as MoveOn.org
have called on DeMarco to allow writedowns. Congressional
Democrats including Rep. Elijah Cummings of  Maryland  have
accused him of blocking a recovery and called on him to resign.  FHFA Unconvinced  Last month, the five largest U.S. banks agreed to offer
mortgage forgiveness as part of a $25 billion accord with
federal regulators and state attorneys general that settled
charges of abusive  foreclosure  practices by lenders.  FHFA is not yet convinced principal reductions are the best
answer, DeMarco said, in part because the agency still must
examine how offering loan writedowns would affect the behavior
of underwater borrowers who are still making their payments on
time. Until now, the agency hasn’t specifically focused on the
issue of whether loan forgiveness would create a moral hazard by
providing an incentive for borrowers to default. That’s because
without the extra incentives offered by the government this
year, debt forgiveness was more costly than forbearance as most
underwater borrowers would stay in their homes if given a low
enough payment, according to its  analysis .  Negative Equity  About 12 million borrowers are weighed down by $700 billion
in aggregate negative equity, according to a  report  the Federal
Reserve sent to Congress on Jan. 4.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac guarantee almost 3 million
mortgages that are underwater. Of those, most are not
delinquent, DeMarco said.  “Three out of every four underwater homeowners with
mortgages by Fannie and Freddie are current,” DeMarco said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with
 Trish Regan . “These borrowers are making their monthly mortgage
payments by honoring their obligations.”  In a January analysis sent to Congress, FHFA said it would
cost Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac an additional $100 billion to
write down all 3 million loans to the value of the homes
securing them.  Violating Legal Responsibility  The U.S. government has spent $190 billion to shore up the
companies since they were taken into federal conservatorship in
2008 after their investments in risky loans soured. DeMarco said
adding to the firms’ costs would be a violation of his legal
responsibility to restore them to financial health.  Using principal forbearance instead of forgiveness so far
has been better for taxpayers, DeMarco said. Forbearance reduces
monthly payments while requiring borrowers to pay back the full
amount of the loan when they sell the house.  “If the borrower is successful on the modification, allows
them to stay in their house and they stay in their house and
start making mortgage payments, the taxpayer gets to share in
the upside of that borrower’s success,” DeMarco said in the
Bloomberg Television interview.  “If we forgive the principal
up front and the borrower is successful, that upside all goes to
the borrower and is not shared with the taxpayer.”  No Slam Dunk  Paul Willen, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank
of  Boston , offered evidence in a 2008 study that suggests
DeMarco’s concerns about principal reductions may be right.  He found only 5.2 percent of borrowers underwater by 20
percent or more during the 1990s in  Massachusetts (DFARMA)  lost their
homes. Two-thirds of those still in homes in 1994 would have had
positive equity if they avoided foreclosure until 2000.  “The idea that there’s a slam-dunk case for principal
reductions isn’t true,” Willen said in an interview.  That hasn’t stopped forgiveness from becoming increasingly
popular among banks and servicers of securities without
government backing, according to new data released yesterday by
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Principal reductions were granted in 8.5 percent of the
116,153 delinquent mortgages that received permanent
modifications in the fourth quarter, according to a report by
the regulator. That’s up from 8.1 percent in the prior three-
month period. Debt forgiveness was included in 16 percent of
loans held by private investors and 25 percent of loans held in
bank portfolios.  PIMCO, Lippmann Support  Pacific Investment Management Co. (PTTRX) , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, hedge-fund manager Greg Lippmann and analyst
 Laurie Goodman  at Amherst Securities Group LP also have voiced
support for the idea of loan forgiveness.  “We’ve been behind responsible, intelligent principal
modifications for two-plus years,” Scott Simon, managing
director at  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, said in a
telephone interview. Banks and bondholders can be best served
by balance reductions that allow borrowers to refinance into
new government-backed loans, he said. At the same time, Simon
said that DeMarco must follow his congressional mandate to make
sure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are sound.  DeMarco said he hasn’t seen evidence that homeowners re-
default much less after getting principal reductions, so long as
they’re offered an affordable payment. Analysts such as those at
Credit Suisse Group AG agree with DeMarco’s assessment, while
Amherst comes to the opposite conclusion.  Taxpayer Risk  Michael Barr, assistant  Treasury secretary  for financial
institutions from 2009 to 2010, said that homeowners with
“significantly high levels” of negative equity have been shown
to stop paying their mortgages more frequently than those with
lower levels of negative equity. Reducing defaults among them
will help the real-estate market, and hence Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, he said.  “If you’re not able to stabilize the housing market,
taxpayers are further at risk,” said Barr, now a professor at
the University of Michigan’s law school in Ann Arbor. “So,
there are benefits to taxpayers in the medium-term in taking
steps that in the short-term may cost taxpayers some funds.”  Homeowners who said they knew someone who strategically
defaulted were 51 percent more likely to say they would in
surveys done for a June 2011  paper  by Luigi Guiso of the
European University Institute, Northwestern University’s Paola Sapienza, and Luigi Zingales of the  University of Chicago .  ‘Social Contagion’  That underscores the risk of “social contagion” as the
stigma of walking away from properties decreases or borrower
understanding of the often minimal consequences grows, the
researchers wrote.  Many homeowners don’t even realize they are underwater,
according to the paper. The 2009 surveys found that between 9
percent and 16 percent of respondents estimated they have
negative equity, compared with national rates calculated by
CoreLogic Inc. during the period between 21 percent and 35
percent. Adjusting borrowers’ views of their  home prices 
downward by 20 percent brought the ratios more in line.  Data that Credit Suisse analysts led by Dale Westhoff
examined show essentially no difference in re-default rates
among  delinquent borrowers  given only payment reductions and
those also offered smaller mortgages.  Based on loans in mortgage bonds without government
backing, about 40 percent of borrowers whose payments were cut
between 20 percent and 40 percent defaulted again after 12
months, regardless of whether they were more than 60 percent
underwater or had home equity between zero and 20 percent,
according to Credit Suisse.  ‘Unprecedented Times’  A December report by Goodman’s team at Amherst shows that
among subprime borrowers who received payment reductions of more
than 40 percent in 2010, 19 percent defaulted after 12 months if
their reworked loans included a lower balance, while 27 percent
fell behind again if they only received a lower rate.  How borrowers will react over time is difficult to know.  “The fact of the matter is we’re in unprecedented times,”
said Scott Theobald, the chief risk officer for Philadelphia-
based Radian Group Inc., the top U.S. mortgage insurer by new
business. “If I had the numbers for that, I’d be a wealthy
man.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net 
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net  