-- George H.W. Bush Backs Romney, Urges Party to End Primary
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-29T22:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/george-h-w-bush-joins-republican-leaders-in-endorsing-romney.html
Former President  George H.W. Bush 
endorsed Republican presidential front-runner  Mitt Romney  today,
urging the party to end a divisive primary and rally behind his
candidacy.  “It’s time for people to all get behind this very good
man,” Bush, 87, told reporters in Houston.  Bush’s backing capped a week in which Romney’s campaign
sought to cement a sense of inevitability surrounding his
candidacy. Aides to the former Massachusetts governor are
working to build support before the April 3 Wisconsin primary.  That contest is the last chance in the coming weeks for
Romney rival  Rick Santorum , a former senator, to regain momentum
for his campaign. Romney is favored to win the day’s other two
primaries, in Maryland and Washington, D.C.  A series of elected officials, business leaders and party
activists have announced their support of Romney in recent days,
including U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , a favorite of
anti-tax Tea Party activists.  Before today, Bush had made public comments praising Romney
while withholding an endorsement.  ‘Fold ‘Em’  Sitting beside his wife, former first lady  Barbara Bush ,
in his Houston office, Bush cited the country song “The
Gambler” saying Romney’s rivals should to “know when to fold
’em.”  “It’s time for the party to get behind Governor Romney,”
he said.  Romney thanked the Bushes for their support, pointing to
the long friendship between their two storied political
families.  “Having your support means a great deal to me on a
personal basis, a family basis, and also on a national basis,”
said Romney, noting that his father, former Michigan Governor
 George Romney , was friendly with the Bushes.  Much of the Bush family has already thrown their support
behind Romney. One of his sons, former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, urged Republicans to unify behind Romney’s candidacy in a
March 21 endorsement.  Barbara Bush had also formally backed Romney and recorded
calls for voters voicing her support, played before March 6
primaries in Ohio and  Vermont .  ‘Most Important Election’  “This is the most important election I believe in my
lifetime,” she said today. “I really think it’s most important
and I know that George does too that we elect you president.”  The fresh round of public support for Romney comes as both
Santorum and former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich struggle to
revive their candidacies. Gingrich said this week he scaled back
his campaign, cutting staff and reducing his campaign travel, to
focus on winning the nomination at the party’s convention in
August.  Santorum faces declining polling numbers across the
country, including in his home state of  Pennsylvania , scheduled
to vote on April 24.  With 1,144 convention delegates needed for the nomination,
Romney leads with 568, according to an Associated Press tally.
Santorum has 273, Gingrich 135 and Paul 50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  