-- Germany Cuts Solar Aid to Curb Prices, Panel Installations
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-03-29T15:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/germany-cuts-solar-aid-to-curb-prices-panel-installations.html
Germany ’s parliament approved
record cuts in aid for solar power, aiming to reduce the annual
pace of installations by half in the world’s biggest market for
the industry.  Subsidies will be cut by as much as 29 percent starting
April 1, depending on the size of the solar plant, according to
the legislation posted on the  parliament’s website . The measure
passed by 305 votes to 235 on the strength of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition majority.  Incentives for solar units pushed capacity past government
targets, prompting Merkel to cut subsidies even as she seeks to
wean Germany off nuclear power and expand alternative-energy
sources for  Europe ’s largest economy. The government argues that
subsidies have driven up electricity prices for German consumers
while propping up solar-panel prices for domestic manufacturers.  “A few people are lining their pockets while others have
to foot the bill,”  Michael Kauch , a lawmaker for Merkel’s Free
Democratic coalition ally, said during today’s debate. “That’s
something we will not support.”  Industry officials and opposition politicians say the cuts
will depress installation levels and threaten manufacturers such
as  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and Conergy AG, which are struggling with rising
competition from  China , home of the world’s three largest panel-
makers.  While the legislation adds to solar-subsidy reductions made
in 2011, coalition lawmakers agreed in amendments drafted this
week to waive cuts for solar plants built on sites such as
former garbage dumps or former military bases until Sept. 30.  Automatic Cuts  Overall, subsidies will automatically decline further if
solar capacity expands more than the government’s goal of
between 2.5 gigawatts and 3.5 gigawatts per year. The aid cuts
will be eased if installations lag behind that pace.  Subsidies for power fed into the grid from rooftop units
will apply to 80 percent of the generated electricity, compared
with 85 percent in an earlier draft. That change is aimed at
spurring homeowners to use more of their own solar power.  European countries including the U.K.,  Italy  and  France 
have accelerated cuts for solar subsidies in the past year to
adapt to falling product prices and limit runaway growth. Solar
panel prices fell 46 percent last year after Asian manufacturers
led by Suntech Power Holdings Co. boosted production.  Germany will probably install 8 gigawatts of solar power
this year after adding 7.5 gigawatts in 2011, the DIHK national
chamber of industry and commerce said in a March 9 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  