-- German Jobless Fell in March as Economy Showed Resilience
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-03-29T08:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/german-jobless-fell-in-march-as-economy-showed-resilience.html
German unemployment  fell more than
forecast in March, adding to evidence that growth in  Europe ’s
biggest economy is gaining traction as the debt crisis recedes.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
18,000 to 2.84 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists forecast a decline of 10,000, the median
of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  showed. The adjusted
 jobless rate  slipped to 6.7 percent, a two-decade low.  “Hiring hasn’t halted this quarter after the fourth-
quarter contraction,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  London . It “says a lot about the
underlying strength of the German economy.” Unemployment will
continue to decline in coming months as the pace of economic
growth accelerates, he said.  Falling joblessness underscores Germany’s resilience in the
face of the debt crisis that  Chancellor Angela Merkel  says may
have peaked. While the 17-member euro-region economy will shrink
0.3 percent in 2012, Germany’s economy will grow 0.6 percent,
the European Commission forecast. Investor confidence is at its
highest in 21 months and business confidence at an 8-month high.  The euro was little changed after the report at $1.3324 as
of 10:45 a.m. in Berlin.  ‘Moving Sideways’  The economy “may still be moving sideways” after it
shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, yet indicators suggest
“a rejuvenation” in the early part of 2012 as lower
unemployment boosts household spending, the Bundesbank said on
March 19. Two days later, the Essen-based RWI, one of four
economic-institute groups that advise Merkel’s government,
raised its outlook for growth this year to 1 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , plans to add 4,000 jobs this year, the Munich-
based company said March 12. Heavy-machinery maker  Liebherr GmbH (LIEB) 
may create 1,200 new jobs in the eastern state of Mecklenburg-
Western Pomerania as it boosts crane sales to Russia and  Brazil ,
Managing Director  Thomas Mueller  said on Feb. 27.  German companies may create as many as 250,000 jobs this
year, including 80,000 in health and social services, 50,000 in
IT and 40,000 in engineering, the DIHK industry and trade
chambers said last month, citing a  survey .  ECB Loans  The “Mittelstand,” the 3.4 million small and mid-sized
companies that account for most of Germany’s exports, may
benefit from the more than 1 trillion euros that the  European
Central Bank  injected into the banking system to avert a credit
crunch, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in Berlin this week.  More than half of the 800 lenders that tapped the ECB’s
Feb. 29 tender of three-year loans were German, most of them
small savings and cooperative banks that serve the Mittelstand,
Die Welt newspaper said March 4, citing unnamed bank officials.  The ECB’s loans and a successful Greek debt-swap that led
to a second bailout have helped ease concerns of contagion,
prompting Merkel to say in  Rome  on March 14 that “we’ve come a
good way along the mountain path” to resolving the crisis.
European governments are meanwhile preparing for a one-year
increase in the ceiling on rescue aid to 940 billion euros ($1.3
trillion) to keep the crisis at bay, according to a draft
statement written for finance ministers due to meet tomorrow.  ‘Die Down’  “It looks like the crisis may slowly die down,” Hendrik Enderlein, a political scientist at the Hertie School of
Governance in Berlin, said on Deutschlandradio today. “The
embers are still glowing but the flames aren’t burning
anymore.” Increasing the debt-crisis firewall will “put out
the fire” entirely.  Germany ’s adjusted jobless rate was 5.8 percent in January,
 according  to the latest harmonized figures from the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That
compared with 10 percent in  France , 9.2 percent in  Italy  and a
euro-area average of 10.7 percent.  Even so, hiring plans face a challenge as moderate wage
claims that helped the economy end a recession in 2010 are
abandoned in sectors from engineering to public services.  IG
Metall , Europe’s biggest labor union, representing 3.6 million
workers, is demanding a 6.5 percent wage increase, as is the
Ver.di union for public and bank-sector workers.  Demand for workers remains high in some industries, the
labor agency’s BA-X index  showed  yesterday, with a measure of
employment intentions rising in March after falling last month.  “The current economic weak phase is leaving hardly a trace
on the labor market,” said Frank-Juergen Weise, the Labor
Agency’s head.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  