-- Germany Public-Sector Pay Talks Face Mediation as Strikes Loom
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-03-29T12:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/germany-public-sector-pay-talks-face-mediation-as-strikes-loom.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government may summon mediators to avert fresh strikes in the
public sector after pay negotiations for about 2 million workers
stalled, the Ver.di labor union said.  Talks between Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  and
Ver.di, Germany’s second-largest union, broke up yesterday after
the government refused to improve its wage offer of 3.3 percent
over two years. Negotiations resumed today in Potsdam near
Berlin, where the union is pressing for a boost of 6.5 percent
for federal and municipal workers.  “The signs are that Friedrich will call mediation before
making a new offer, meaning today’s talks will not lead to an
accord,” Jan Jurczyk, a spokesman for Berlin-based Ver.di, said
by phone. “We’ve shown we’re ready to strike to defend our pay
claim and that’s definitely not in the government’s interest.”  The public-sector pay talks are closely watched by German
industry as a guideline for wage accords across the country. Pay
arrangements covering about 9.1 million workers are due to
expire this year, with negotiations about to start or resume for
workers from companies from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  to  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) .  Friedrich, who represents the government in the talks, said
yesterday that Ver.di’s 6.5 percent claim was “unrealistic.”
 IG Metall , which with 2.24 million members is the biggest union
in  Europe  as well as in Germany, has meanwhile also tabled a
demand for 6.5 percent more pay.  Consumption Boost  Ver.di Chairman Frank Bsirske has said his union’s demand
is fair after a moderate pay increase two years ago helped speed
Germany out of a recession. The claim is further justified as a
means to bolster private consumption that the government
estimates will grow just 1.5 percent this year, Bsirske says.  Wage moderation in both the private and public sector is
cited by the government for having helped Germany roll back
unemployment even as the tally of those without work in other
euro-area states soared. German unemployment fell more than
forecast in March, with the rate dropping to a fresh two-decade
low of 6.7 percent, the Federal Labor Agency said today.  During wage mediation, strikes are outlawed under German
tariff rules. Such a move would prevent the union from widening
its so-called warning strikes that brought 250,000 of its
members onto the streets, closed kindergartens and on March 27
forced the cancellation of a third of Frankfurt airport flights.  Ver.di negotiates with  Germany ’s 16 states separately. A
pay accord for 500,000 state workers will expire at the end of
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  