-- Gillard Defends Huawei’s Ban From Australian Broadband
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-29T03:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/gillard-defends-huawei-s-ban-from-australian-broadband.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  defended how her government awards project contracts
after  China ’s largest maker of telephone equipment said it was
told not to bid for work on the national broadband network.  “The decision we have taken is not in breach of any trade
rules or trade regulations with China,” Gillard told reporters
in Sydney today, saying the government had acted in the national
interests. “It is a decision open to the Australian government.
We’ve taken it for the right reasons, through the right process,
based on the right advice.”  Huawei Technologies Co. said earlier this week it had been
told by the Attorney General’s office it can’t bid for work on
the project. The company, founded by Ren Zhengfei after his
retirement from the Chinese army, has offered to limit all
employees on the broadband project to security-cleared
Australian citizens, open up its software code, and undergo a
full audit of security measures in a bid to overcome the ban.  “We don’t have contracts that link us to the military,”
Jeremy Mitchell, Huawei’s director of corporate public affairs
in  Australia , said in Bloomberg Television interview today. “We
are purely a consumer company. We do $30 billion worth of
contracts a year. You don’t do that if people don’t trust your
company and your staff.” The ban was a “temporary setback,”
he said.  Huawei was offered no reason for the ban, which appears
related to concerns over cybersecurity, Mitchell said March 26.
Gillard today said the ban was due to “national interests.”  Trading Partner  Fueled by its appetite for  iron ore  and coking coal, China
is Australia’s top trading partner, surpassing  Japan  and the
U.S., which is now third, compared with second in 1988. Two-way
trade between the nations in the 12 months ending Sept. 30
reached A$110 billion ($114 billion), up 22 percent from the
year before, according to the  Australian Bureau of Statistics .  “We’ve got a strong, robust relationship with China,”
Gillard said of Australia’s largest trading partner. “I’m not
surprised this is a moment where we’re seeing one thing
differently.”  Gillard said today the network will provide fiber-optic
access to about 3.5 million premises in Australia by mid-2015.
The NBN plans to roll out fiber to 93 percent of Australia’s
population during the next decade, with the rest served by
wireless and satellite.  Telstra Corp. (TLS) , Australia’s biggest phone company, has
backed the government’s proposal to give up control of its
copper-wire network in return for A$11 billion from the
government-backed fiber network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  