-- Global Takeovers Drop in Quarter as Bankers See Revival
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-03-29T14:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/global-takeovers-drop-in-quarter-as-bankers-see-reversal.html
Global dealmaking slumped for a
third straight quarter as chief executive officers funneled cash
into share buybacks and new products, a trend that may reverse
in the coming months as the economic recovery gains momentum.  Mergers and acquisitions so far this quarter fell 14
percent from the fourth quarter to $418 billion, making it the
slowest three-month period in 2 1/2 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore International Plc’s (GLEN)  $45 billion
deal for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  was the only announced purchase in the
quarter that topped $8 billion.  Most CEOs are only now beginning to consider deals, said
investment bankers at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , predicting renewed confidence in the U.S. and  Europe  will
spur a pickup. Since deal negotiations often take three months
or more, the first quarter is mainly a reflection of a temporary
slowdown that began last year as global stock markets hit a one-
year low, bankers said.  “I still think big cash surpluses will lead to more M&A
because companies fundamentally want to grow,” said Peter Tague, who started as co-head of global M&A at Citigroup in  New
York  in this month. “If we find ourselves in June having these
same low activity levels, I’d be really surprised.”  More Takeovers  The U.S. and Asia led the dip in deals in the first
quarter, while transactions involving European targets were
boosted by Glencore’s Xstrata takeover and  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS) ’s $6.8 billion agreement to buy TNT Express NV.  In one sign of a possible comeback,  Pentair Inc. (PNR)  yesterday
agreed to buy the flow-control unit created by  Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC) ’s breakup for $4.53 billion in stock,
spurring speculation that Tyco’s remaining businesses will also
be sold. Drugmaker  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  is going after  Illumina
Inc. (ILMN) , raising its hostile offer today by 15 percent to about
$6.7 billion, and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  approached  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  with a $3.5 billion unsolicited bid this
year, people with knowledge of the matter said this week.  “Sellers recognize the buyer universe has gotten hungrier,
and the lending markets remain very supportive of dealmaking,”
said Chris Ventresca, co-head of Americas M&A at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  in New York. Until February of this year, companies “had
more reasons to focus inwardly, strengthening their balance
sheets or implementing share buyback or dividend programs than
to look externally for deals.”  Assets for Sale  Even after making investments and paying dividends, the top
1,000 non-financial companies worldwide are still sitting on
about $3.5 trillion in cash, according to Bloomberg data. Apple
Inc., AstraZeneca Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. announced plans
this quarter to repurchase almost $30 billion in stock, and the
biggest companies have boosted research and development spending
more than 20 percent in the past two years to about $618
billion, the data show.  Companies including United Technologies Corp. and  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  are also putting assets on the block. Pfizer may fetch at
least $10 billion for its infant-nutrition unit, with Nestle SA
and Danone vying for the business, people with knowledge of the
matter said in February. United Technologies said this month it
plans to use about $3 billion of divestitures to help pay for
its $16.5 billion acquisition of Goodrich Corp. DuPont Co. is
exploring the sale of its auto-paint division, people have said.  ‘Healthy Increase’  “We are seeing a healthy increase in the number of sell-
side pitches and mandates in the last few weeks,” said Jacques Brand, global co-head of investment banking at Deutsche Bank AG.
“As the markets stabilize, corporates are identifying and
readying non-core assets that can be sold to a strategic or a
private-equity fund.”  An improved financing market is fueling interest, Brand
said. The extra yield investors demand to hold company bonds
worldwide rather than government debt has declined to 2.68
percentage points as of March 27 from 3.51 percentage points at
year-end, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Corporate & High Yield Index.  Executives are gradually getting more comfortable with a
return to dealmaking, which will probably accelerate in the
second quarter as confidence returns, said Gregg Lemkau, head of
M&A for Europe, the  Middle East , Africa and Asia-Pacific at
Goldman Sachs in  London .  Cash Injection  “In the second half of last year, there were three areas
of potential economic concerns for clients: Europe, the U.S. and
 China ,” he said. “The level of anxiety around all three has
come down significantly now, which is helping to increase risk
appetite and improve confidence.”  Without Glencore-Xstrata, European takeovers would have
fallen 12 percent in the first quarter from the previous three
months to $46.6 billion. To prop up the region, the European
Central Bank has injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into the region’s banking system since December.  “Monetary policy has had a positive impact on the
financing markets, but concerns remain as to the status of the
real economy in a number of countries,” said Giuseppe Monarchi,
co-head of the Europe, Middle East and Africa for Credit Suisse
Group AG in London.  The region’s turmoil has turned some assets into targets
for overseas buyers.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  is seeking at least $7 billion
for its Asian insurance business as the Dutch company is under
European Union orders to divest its entire insurance operations
before the end of 2013 as a condition for approval of state aid.  Asia M&A  Both U.S. and Asian buyers, whose economies are in better
shape than those in Europe, are looking at acquisitions outside
their home region, said Hermann Prelle, chairman of mergers &
acquisitions in Europe, the Middle East and Africa at UBS AG.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , with $46.7 billion in cash as of
January, said this month it will finance a $5 billion purchase
of U.K. video-services software company NDS Group Ltd. with
funds held overseas.  In Asia, there an increasing amount of dealmaking in
financial services with multinational firms “rationalizing and
pulling back selectively in the region,” said Joseph Gallagher,
co-head of Asia-Pacific M&A at Credit Suisse Group in Hong Kong.
He also anticipates oil and gas transactions will lead Asian M&A
as countries including China seek more resources to fuel
expanding economies.  Adviser Rankings  First-quarter Asia-Pacific deals dropped 38 percent from
the previous three months to about $40 billion, data show.  “We are hopeful that the rest of the year will see
increased levels of activity,” said Samuel Kim, head of M&A for
Asia-Pacific at Morgan Stanley. “We’re seeing a lot of clients
think actively about M&A.”  More Asian companies are also pursuing corporate takeovers,
rather than focusing just on buying assets or forming joint
ventures, Kim said.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , owner of China’s most popular
video website, agreed to buy smaller competitor Tudou Holdings
Ltd. in a $1 billion stock deal this month in one example of
this trend.  Morgan Stanley is the top adviser for Asia so far this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Globally, JPMorgan is the
top financial adviser among investment banks so far this year,
followed by Citigroup and Goldman Sachs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  