-- Goldman Sachs Board Meeting in Laggard India Closes BRIC Cycle
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-29T02:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/goldman-sachs-board-meeting-in-laggard-india-closes-bric-cycle.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  directors
converge on  India  this week for their first meeting in the
nation, where economic growth is headed for a three-year-low and
the pace of reforms has disappointed the firm’s analysts.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein is
leading a three-day meeting in Mumbai and New Delhi, India’s
business and government capitals. The gathering completes trips
by the New York-based firm’s board to all of the so-called BRIC
nations --  Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China  -- whose rapid
economic expansion has made them a priority for investment.  “What India has failed to do is to live up to rising
expectations,” Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman Jim O’Neill, who coined the term BRICs a decade ago, said in an e-
mailed response to questions yesterday. “The occasional stated
desires for 10-percent-plus growth cannot be met without much
bigger reforms.”  Blankfein, 57, and the rest of the board will host dinners
for government officials and heads of the nation’s biggest
conglomerates, including Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance
Industries Ltd. and India’s richest man, a person with knowledge
of the event said, declining to be named as the matter is
confidential. Tata Group Chairman Ratan Tata, Tata Sons Ltd.
Deputy Chairman Cyrus Mistry and Kumar Mangalam Birla, who
controls  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , are on the guest-list for an
event in Mumbai tonight, the person said.  Dinners will be hosted in Mumbai and Delhi, with venues
including the luxury  Taj  hotels owned by Tata Group, the person
said. The 109-year-old Taj Mahal Palace & Tower in Mumbai was
one of the sites of a three-day terrorist attack that killed 166
people in 2008.  Worst Year  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
climbed 40 percent in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
this year after dropping 46 percent in 2011, its worst year for
profit since 2008. The average estimate of 28 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg is for earnings per share to more than double to
$11.45 this year from last year’s $4.51 a share.  The 12-member board’s meeting comes two weeks after former
derivatives salesman Greg Smith wrote an opinion piece in the
New York Times that blamed Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn,
both members of the board, for presiding over a deterioration in
the firm’s culture. Blankfein and Cohn said most employees
disagree with Smith’s assertion that the firm rips off clients
in pursuit of profit and said they would investigate his claims.  Edward Naylor, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  Hong Kong ,
declined to comment on the events.  ‘Disappointing’ Elections  A week before the meetings, Goldman Sachs raised its
outlook for India’s equity market to neutral, or market weight,
from the equivalent of a sell rating. That compares with the
firm’s overweight ratings for China and Indonesia.  “Expectations for government reforms to be passed this
year have deteriorated,” the bank’s equity strategists wrote in
the March 22 note to clients. The proposed federal budget for
the next fiscal year was a “play-it-safe” move by the
government, and results of state elections in the northern state
of Uttar Pradesh were a “disappointment,” they said.  The 30-member BSE India Sensitive  Index (SHCOMP) , or Sensex, has
climbed 11 percent this year, after dropping 25 percent in 2011.
China’s Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index has risen 3.9
percent in 2012 after declining 22 percent last year.  The Lowest BRIC  India’s economy probably grew 6.9 percent in the year
ending March 31, or at the slowest pace since 2009, Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee said this month. China’s growth slowed
to 9.2 percent in 2011, government data show. India’s economic
expansion may accelerate to 7.2 percent in the new fiscal year,
while China will grow 8.6 percent in 2012, according to Goldman
Sachs forecasts.  “India’s demographics are so strong that this gives the
country the chance to potentially grow at rates of 10 percent
and above for the next 10-20 years, more than China and many
others,” O’Neill wrote. “However, without boosting
productivity, it will have no chance.”  Based on a calculation of variables for growth and
productivity, “India’s is easily the lowest of the four BRIC
countries, considerably below Russia and way behind Brazil and
China,” he said.  The only member of Goldman Sachs’s board from a BRIC
country is Indian-born Lakshmi Mittal, the 61-year-old CEO of
Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker.
Mittal, who joined the Goldman Sachs board in June 2008, is
worth $20.3 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index.  Fee Pool  Foreign investment banking firms have found India a tough
environment in which to do business. The fee pool in India,
which includes money made by all competitors from takeover
advice, stock and bond underwriting and loan syndications, fell
25 percent last year to $810 million, according to data from New
York-based research firm Freeman & Co. That compares with $4.31
billion in mainland China and $1.47 billion in Brazil, the
Freeman data show.  Goldman Sachs ranked No. 7 in managing share sales and No.
2 in mergers and acquisitions in India last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Average fees for arranging local
share sales in India in 2011 were 1.4 percent, compared with 5.4
percent in China, the data show.  Last year, Goldman Sachs was among four banks that earned a
fee of 25 paise, or a quarter of one rupee, for managing a 45.8
billion rupee share sale ($900 million) by state-owned  Power
Finance Corp. (POWF)   Local Management  Goldman Sachs, which generated 60 percent of its worldwide
revenue from trading last year, in April received approval from
India’s central bank to become a primary dealer, allowing it to
underwrite  government bonds .  The firm hasn’t received a commercial banking license in
India more than two years after applying, making it the only
large U.S. bank except  Morgan Stanley (MS)  not to have one. The
license would let the firm earn fees from currency-related
transactions and trading of interest-rate products.  “In the long term, management continues to view China and
the  emerging markets  in general as GS’s largest growth
opportunity,”  Jeffery Harte  and his research team at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in the U.S. wrote in a March 13 research
note after meeting with Goldman Sachs executives.  Goldman Sachs became the last foreign bank in India to hire
a local at the helm when Sonjoy Chatterjee joined in 2010 from
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the country’s second-biggest lender. He
replaced L. Brooks Entwistle, a U.S. citizen who moved to
 Singapore  in 2011 after five years running Goldman Sachs’s
business in India.  Principal Investments  The company hasn’t disclosed any single principal
investments in India as large as its holding in  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , which has generated more than $3
billion of gains for Goldman Sachs since 2006, according to
company reports.  Goldman Sachs’s investments in the country include last
year’s $200 million purchase of a majority stake in closely held
 ReNew Wind Power Pvt. , a Mumbai-based power producer; a $138
million stake in  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , announced in 2008,
and a $172 million holding in Sigma Electric Manufacturing Corp.
that dates from 2007. Goldman Sachs doesn’t disclose the gains
or losses on those positions separately.  The firm has also expanded its asset management business in
India. A year ago, it agreed to buy Benchmark Asset Management
Co., India’s largest provider of index-tracking funds, for an
undisclosed amount. Goldman Sachs had already set up its own
mutual-fund business in India in 2008. Worldwide, investment
management generated $5.03 billion in revenue in 2011, 17
percent of the company’s total.  ‘Too Many Firms’  Foreign banks including Nomura Holdings Inc. and Bank of
America Corp. have cut jobs in India, even as domestic companies
 HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  and India Infoline Ltd. set up investment banking
operations, betting that the country’s growth rates of more than
6 percent will translate into more deals and revenues.  “Right now the outlook is obviously not looking great,”
 Uday Kotak , founder of  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) , said of
investment banking in an interview in December. “We are going
to see significant capacity reduction in the sector,” said
Kotak, who was Goldman Sachs’s partner in a banking joint
venture until 2006.  “There are too many firms and too many people per firm,”
Kotak said. “Over the last few years, India was the high-
fashion country around the world. Every global player wanted to
be in India without really analyzing the size of the revenue
pool.”  Most of Goldman Sachs’s employees in India work in the
firm’s technology and support center in Bangalore, the company’s
third-biggest office by number of employees. Its Mumbai
headcount has tripled since 2006 to about 150 people.  ‘Moderated Our Pace’  Cohn said China, India and Brazil were the places where
Goldman Sachs was hiring the fastest. Earlier this year, after
Goldman Sachs eliminated 2,400 jobs worldwide to contend with a
revenue decline, executives indicated that the pace of hiring in
so-called growth markets, such as the BRIC countries, would
slow.  “Given the environment we’ve moderated our pace of
investment, but we’re still investing,” Chief Financial Officer
David A. Viniar said on a conference call with investors and
analysts in January. “We continue to think that the growth
markets are going to be a great place of growth for Goldman
Sachs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  