-- Goldman Bets on Property Rebound With New Fund: Mortgages
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-30T12:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/goldman-bets-on-property-rebound-with-new-fund-mortgages.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
survived the subprime mortgage crisis by making bets on a
housing decline, is raising money for a new fund that will buy
home-loan bonds to benefit from an improving  real-estate  market.  The U.S. Housing Recovery Fund is expected to finish its
first round of capital raising and open April 1, according to a
marketing document obtained by Bloomberg News. It will focus on
senior-ranked  securities  without government backing, many of
which now carry junk credit grades.  “Stabilization in U.S. housing fundamentals is creating an
attractive investment opportunity,” the New York-based bank
said in the document dated this month. “Many of the ingredients
are in place for continued improvement in housing,” including
near-record  affordability , a better supply-and-demand balance
and policy makers’ renewed focus on bolstering real estate.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management is joining hedge-fund
managers Kyle Bass and Metacapital Management LP in seeking cash
for new mortgage funds. They’re following firms including
Cerberus Capital Management LP, CQS U.K. LLP and Canyon Partners
LLC that started similar investment pools after prices slumped
last year. Values in the $1.1 trillion market for so-called non-
agency mortgage securities are soaring this year after  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis eased and the Federal Reserve was able to
sell $19.2 billion of the notes, underscoring demand.  Selected By Fed  Goldman Sachs was among a handful of banks selected by the
Fed to bid on the mortgage bonds acquired in the bailout of
American International Group Inc., drawing complaints from
others on Wall Street who were shut out of the process. The firm
bought $6.2 billion of the debt in a Feb. 8 auction. Unlike
Credit Suisse Group AG, which won a Jan. 19 auction, the bank
failed to immediately flip most of the securities to clients
bidding through it, regulatory data on trading volumes showed.  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment on the fund.  Home-loan debt  that isn’t backed by government-supported
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or U.S. agencies includes so-called
option adjustable-rate mortgages and Alt-A ARMs issued during
the housing boom that peaked in 2006. The securities later sunk
in value amid a property slump and record defaults.  Typical prices for the most senior bonds tied to option
ARMs rose to 57 cents on the dollar last week from 49 cents in
late November, a 16 percent gain, according to Barclays Plc
data. Bonds backed by  Alt-A ARMs (BBMDA60P)  increased 8 percent to 52 cents
on the dollar, from 48 cents in December.  Paring Bets  Those securities remain below their 2011 highs of 65 cents
and 68 cents, respectively, after falling as low as 33 cents and
35 cents in 2009. Option ARMs allow borrowers to pay less
initially than the interest they owe by increasing their
balances, while Alt-A loans often went to borrowers who didn’t
document income.  Some firms have pared their bets in non-agency securities
after this year’s gains. Western Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $443 billion and started 2012 among the most
bullish on the debt, sold some investments after “an intense
rally,” said Paul Jablansky, co-head of the Pasadena,
California-based firm’s mortgage group. The Legg Mason Inc. unit
is replacing the debt with notes such as high-yield company
bonds, though it remains “long-term attractive,” he said.  Senior non-agency bonds may yield 12 percent for some
option ARM debt to 4.5 percent for certain securities backed by
larger ”jumbo” mortgages, under a “base scenario,” according
to a Bank of America Corp. report. The option ARM notes could
pay 14.5 percent if losses per defaulted loan are 20 percent
lower than projected, or 9.2 percent if 20 percent higher,
according to the lender’s calculations.  No Leverage  The new fund, which won’t use derivatives or leverage, will
be structured as a limited partnership with minimum investments
of $500,000, a lifespan of three years and a 0.95 percent
management fee, according to the document.  Cerberus, the New York-based private-equity firm, last year
raised $800 million for an RMBS Opportunities Fund that began in
August, according to a person familiar with the matter. Bass of
Dallas-based Hayman Capital Management LP, who made $500 million
betting against subprime debt in the crash, is also seeking
money for a new fund, according to two people with knowledge of
the plan, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private.  Other firms that have recently started funds include Canyon
Partners, the Los Angeles-based investment firm overseeing $18.5
billion, and the $11.2 billion money-management firm CQS U.K.,
run by  Michael Hintze  in  London . Its CQS ABS Alpha Fund, managed
by Alistair Lumsden, started last month with $140 million,
according to a Feb. 2 letter sent to clients.  Metacapital Seeks  New York-based Metacapital, led by Deepak Narula, is
seeking money for its Metacapital Mortgage Value Fund, which
will begin trading in May, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter.  Fixed-income managers such as Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Bill Gross  and  Jeffrey Gundlach , who was at TCW Group Inc.
before forming DoubleLine Capital LP in 2009, started funds to
take advantage of the collapse in mortgage bonds as the rout
that roiled global markets began about five years ago.  The Goldman Sachs marketing document cited increasing
homebuilder confidence and housing sales to show the market is
stabilizing.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index of builder confidence in March held at the
 highest level  since June 2007. Sales of previously owned homes
in February were near an almost two-year high.  Housing Affordability  A measure of  housing affordability  has risen to a record
after the  Federal Reserve  helped drive borrowing costs to all-
time lows by holding short-term  interest rates  near zero. At the
same time,  home prices  have declined 34 percent from the peak in
2006 to the lowest level in almost a decade.  A National Association of Realtors affordability gauge
climbed in January to a record 206.1 from 101 in July 2006. A
value of 100 means that a family with the national median income
has enough to qualify for a median-priced property.  Risks for the fund include volatility if the sovereign-debt
crisis worsens as well as illiquidity and uncertainty around
future government housing policy, according to the document.  There are also obstacles to a housing recovery, including
an “overhang” of homes tied to defaulted loans and owners
waiting for better demand that will increase the supply for
sale, according to  Michael Materasso  of Franklin Templeton
Investments, which oversees about $325 billion of bonds.  Housing Challenges  Other challenges include the need for an improved  job
market  and for consumers to repair their “balance sheets” and
credit scores, he said.  “It isn’t going to turn around anytime soon in a major
way,” Materasso, co-chairman of the fixed-income policy
committee at the firm, said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York .  Goldman Sachs, which used bets against mortgage securities
to lessen losses during the financial crisis, has drawn scrutiny
for its sales of the debt and related derivatives. The firm, the
fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, denies wrongdoing.  The company paid $550 million in 2010 to settle a fraud
lawsuit filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which
accused it of misleading investors who bought a collateralized
debt obligation backed by bets on mortgage bonds in 2007. It was
the largest SEC settlement ever paid by a  Wall Street  firm.  The U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
issued a bipartisan report last year that accused Goldman Sachs
of misleading investors into buying mortgage securities that the
firm’s own traders were betting against. The  Department of
Justice  said it would investigate the findings. Last month, the
firm disclosed it may face further enforcement actions from the
SEC related to sales of mortgage-backed securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  