-- Goldman Should Stop Saying Clients Come First, Levitt Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-03-29T13:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/goldman-should-stop-saying-we-put-customers-first-levitt-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  should
stop promoting itself as “putting customers first” because the
slogan ignores conflicts inherent in trading, said  Arthur Levitt , the former Securities and Exchange Commission chairman
and a senior adviser to the firm.  “We probably ought to stop saying that because nobody
really puts customers first,” Levitt, 81, said in an interview
with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television today. “Business is
a tension between sellers and buyers.”  “Our clients’ interests always come first,” has been the
No. 1 business policy at New York-based Goldman Sachs since the
late 1970s, when then co-Chairman John C. Whitehead drafted a
set of 14  business principles  to guide the firm. Levitt’s
suggestion comes 14 months after a committee on which he served
issued a “business standards”  report  that reaffirmed Goldman
Sachs’s commitment to putting clients’ interests first.  “Goldman shouldn’t play to that,” Levitt said in the
interview today. “Goldman should play to their competence,
which is considerable.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
criticized by former derivatives salesman  Greg Smith  in a March
14 opinion piece in the New York Times for failing to live up to
its principle of putting clients first. Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn responded that
Smith’s assertions “do not reflect our values, our culture and
how the vast majority of people at Goldman Sachs think about the
firm and the work it does on behalf of clients.”  Trading Revenue  Goldman Sachs made  60 percent  of its revenue last year from
sales and trading, outweighing businesses that advise clients on
takeovers, financing and  money management . Levitt said the
company shouldn’t emphasize putting clients first because it
doesn’t recognize the reality of the trading business.  “There is a logical, reasonable, fair, understandable
tension between a seller of a product and a buyer of a
product,” Levitt said. “That’s not to stay that buyers should
beware. It is to say there should be transparency. But on the
other hand, let’s not create a fellowship of buyers and sellers
that will march into the sunset.”  Levitt is a member of the board of Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  