-- GrainCorp at Lowest Valuation Seen Ripe for Plucking: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-03-30T06:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/graincorp-at-lowest-valuation-seen-ripe-for-plucking-real-m-a.html
No middleman in the industrialized
world is offering potential buyers a cheaper way to export wheat
to  Asia  than  Australia ’s  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)   While Glencore International Plc’s purchase of Viterra
Inc.’s grain assets in Australia and  Canada  this month helped
spur an  11 percent jump  in GrainCorp’s shares on  takeover
speculation , the Sydney-based wheat handler still traded
yesterday at 10.7 times profit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest among agricultural product
wholesalers valued at more than $500 million in developed
economies. It’s also a 57 percent discount to Glencore’s bid of
24.9 times earnings for Viterra, the data show.  GrainCorp, which operates seven of the eight ports that
ship grain in bulk from Australia’s east coast, has tripled its
sales since the world’s second-largest wheat exporting nation
began deregulating the industry in 2006, and is projected by
analysts to report record profit this year. A takeover offer is
“inevitable,” according to Citigroup Inc., and GrainCorp could
lure a bid of A$2.2 billion ($2.3 billion), 23 percent more than
yesterday’s close, RBS Morgans Ltd. said.  “GrainCorp is a strategic asset,” said  Belinda Moore , a
Brisbane-based analyst at RBS Morgans. “With  Viterra (VT)  going, and
the agriculture sector continuing to consolidate, there are
fewer and fewer agriculture companies. It’s the last significant
company in Australia capable of being taken out.”  GrainCorp rose 0.6 percent to  A$9.05 a share , its highest
close since June 2008, after reaching a high of A$9.12 today.  Virtual Monopoly  “We’re just going to focus on running the business as well
as we can,” GrainCorp Chief Executive Officer Alison Watkins
said in an interview in  Melbourne  today. “I think it’s
flattering that everyone thinks we’re so attractive.”  GrainCorp, which traces its roots to 1916 and the Grain
Elevators Board of the New South Wales state agriculture
department, handles as much as 60 percent of eastern Australia’s
grain crop and has about 20 million metric tons of storage at
more than 280 inland grain handling sites, according to the
company.  Its revenue has surged since Australia’s 2006 decision to
strip AWB Ltd. of an export monopoly, after an inquiry found it
was among firms that made illegal payments to win contracts from
the former Iraq regime of Saddam Hussein under the  United
Nations ’ oil-for-food program.  With GrainCorp owning the silos where farmers dump their
harvests, railroad cars that carry loads to east coast ports,
and the elevators used to load ships, the deregulation gave the
company a “virtual, natural monopoly” on the eastern seaboard,
according to Justin Crosby, a policy director at the Sydney-
based  NSW Farmers’ Association , which represents 10,000 members,
half of them grain growers.  ‘Deliver Your Wheat’  In the five-year period ended in September 2006, revenue at
GrainCorp rose 60 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the five years since, sales have risen 242 percent
to  A$2.8 billion , the data show.  “There’s very little competition in New South Wales
outside of GrainCorp,” Crosby said. “There is a great deal of
market power held by GrainCorp with regards to where you can
deliver your wheat.”  As of yesterday, GrainCorp had risen 11 percent since
Viterra said on March 9 that it was approached by possible
buyers. The closing price of A$9 a share yesterday valued the
company at  10.7 times  profit, making GrainCorp the cheapest of
five agricultural products wholesalers worth more than $500
million in the U.S., Western Europe, and developed Asia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The companies fetch an
average of 23.1 times earnings, and Glencore’s C$16.25 a share
offer is 24.9 times  Viterra’s earnings , the data show.  Billionaire Stakeholder  Less than a week after Viterra’s disclosure, Australian
billionaire  James Packer  raised his stake in GrainCorp to 6.2
percent, becoming the company’s  largest shareholder , according
to stock exchange filings. Brian O’Sullivan, a director at
Ellerston Capital Ltd., the fund that holds the stake, didn’t
return calls seeking comment on the investment.  A buyer of GrainCorp would be drawn by many of the same
factors that drove Glencore’s C$6.1 billion ($6.1 billion) offer
for Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra, which was made with
Canada’s  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and Richardson International Ltd.,
according to Citigroup analyst Tim Mitchell. Agrium will buy
most of Viterra’s retail facilities in Canada and Australia and
a stake in Canadian Fertilizer Ltd., while Richardson will
purchase a stake in Viterra’s Canadian grain-handling assets as
well as some other North American operations.  “What really attracted us to Viterra is the asset base, a
superb set of assets, elevators, port facilities, processing
plants in Australia and in Canada,” Chris Mahoney, Glencore’s
director of agricultural products, said on a March 20 conference
call about the deal.  Glencore, Gavilon  People familiar with the matter said this month that
 Glencore (GLEN)  had also expressed an interest in closely held Gavilon
Group LLC as the Omaha, Nebraska-based grain handler weighed a
sale that could fetch as much as $5 billion. While Singapore-
based  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  and  Japan ’s Mitsui & Co. also
expressed an interest, Gavilon discouraged  Cargill  Inc. of
Minneapolis and Decatur, Illinois-based  Archer Daniels  Midland
Co. because of antitrust risk, the people said. Japan’s  Marubeni
Corp. (8002)  may also be interested, Reuters reported March 21.  Glencore forecasts annual global demand growth for grains
and oilseeds of as much as 3.5 percent to be driven by Asia,
Mahoney said on the call.  Indonesia , where demand for wheat has
risen more than  50 percent  in the past decade, has surpassed
Japan as Asia’s largest importer of the grain, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture .  ‘Luxury Foods’  Forecasting global wheat exports will double to more than
225 million metric tons by 2050, GrainCorp said demand will come
from established markets in Asia, the  Middle East  and North
 Africa  which already import half their grain, as well as new
demand from sub-Saharan Africa and the Asian subcontinent,
according to a March 28 filing to Australia’s stock exchange.  The growth will come in large part because of demand for
protein from increasingly rich consumers, said  David Leyonhjelm ,
director of Baron Strategic Services, a Sydney-based
agricultural consultancy.  “As incomes rise, dietary preferences head toward what are
perceived to be luxury foods, and that’s animal products,” he
said. “Grain is a key feedstock ingredient. Even if it’s not
being used to make bread and pasta, it will be used to make
stock feed.”  Australia was the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter in
2011, according to the USDA, and GrainCorp earnings may rise to
a record A$185 million in the year ending September, according
to the March 28 filing.  ‘Critical Mass’  With Viterra sold, AWB acquired by Agrium in 2010, and
another large rival,  CBH Group , owned by a co-operative of 4,500
farmers in Western Australia, global commodity traders from
 Archer Daniels (ADM)  to Cargill and Louis Dreyfus Corp. are running
out of alternatives in Australia, Leyonhjelm said.  GrainCorp would “make sense” as a target for any of the
three companies, he said. “GrainCorp is the only one left if
you want critical mass fairly easily.”  Spokesmen for Archer Daniels, Cargill and Louis Dreyfus all
declined to comment. Archer Daniels said last week that it
decided not to bid for Viterra after considering it. Cargill,
which acquired AWB’s commodity trading business from Agrium in
2010, said this month that its Canadian market share stopped it
from bidding for Viterra.  GrainCorp also owns a Canadian maker of malt used for
 whiskey and beer , which means it stands to profit from the end
of a 69-year-old wheat and barley monopoly held by the Canadian
Wheat Board, Citigroup’s Mitchell wrote in a March 12 note.  Relative Value  Starting Aug. 1 farmers in western Canada will be able to
sell to any buyer, rather than only the Canadian Wheat Board,
which Viterra has said will boost its market share and profits.  GrainCorp could be worth A$11.11 a share to a buyer, or
about A$2.4 billion including the value of its debt, according
to RBS Morgans’s Moore. That’s 9 times Moore’s forecast for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of A$265.5 million in 2014, which reflects an “average season”
for the company.  Glencore’s offer values Viterra at 11 times  expected 2012
Ebitda . Applied to Moore’s 2014 Ebitda target, that multiple
would value GrainCorp at A$13.94 a share. Because GrainCorp is
smaller than Viterra, a lower multiple is more appropriate, with
9 times being the “average for Australian agribusinesses,”
Moore wrote in a March 21 research note.  Applying the same 9 times Ebitda multiple to GrainCorp’s
“sustainable” earnings of about A$260 million, Citigroup’s
Mitchell says the company is worth about A$11 a share in a
takeover. For the current year, GrainCorp is forecasting Ebitda
of between A$350 million and A$380 million.  Make a Move  Buyers may wait for a pullback in the grain harvest, which
has pushed GrainCorp’s earnings beyond levels likely in the long
term, said James Ferrier, an analyst at  Wilson HTM Investment
Group (WIG)  in Melbourne.  “If GrainCorp was to get a bid, it would more likely
happen when the weather cycle turns and we go back into a few
dry years, similar to the scenario when Viterra acquired ABB
Grain,” he said.  The A$1.9 billion purchase of South Australia-focused ABB
Grain Ltd. was struck in May 2009, after two drought-affected
harvests. Including the value of ABB’s debt, Viterra paid 17
times Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company touted the acquisition’s potential to “provide greater
exposure to the higher-growth Asian import market,” according
to a statement at the time.  Australia has one of the world’s most variable rainfall
climates, with three good years and three bad years every
decade, according to the nation’s Bureau of Meteorology. Last
year was Australia’s  third-wettest  year on record.  Still, takeovers in Australia will continue, said Mike Chaseling, deputy chairman of grain trader Emerald Group
Australia Pty.  “The big question, post-Viterra, is does somebody look to
make a move on GrainCorp?” he said. “We don’t think it stops
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  