-- Greek Bank Deposits in February Decline to EU164.4 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-03-29T15:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/greek-bank-deposits-in-february-decline-to-164-4-billion-euros.html
Greek  bank deposits  by businesses
and households fell for a second month in February as the
country struggled to reach agreement with European Union and
International Monetary Fund officials on a second aid package.  Deposits dropped to 164.4 billion euros ($218.3 billion)
from 169 billion euros the previous month, according to a
statement released by the Athens-based  Bank of Greece  on its
website today. The decline in February from the same month a
year earlier was 19 percent, the biggest year-on-year drop since
the country joined the 17-nation currency bloc in 2001.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  struggled to reach agreement
on terms of a debt swap with private creditors and additional
austerity demanded by the EU and IMF in return for a 130
billion-euro bailout throughout the month. Evangelos Venizelos,
who resigned as finance minister last week to lead the Pasok
party, said on Feb. 15 that  Greece  was continually faced with
new terms for the bailout and that European leaders raising the
idea of a euro exit were “playing with fire.”  The drop in deposits last month was the “result of the
overall uncertainty about the country’s future,” Athens-based
National Securities analyst Panagiotis Kladis said in an e-mail.
“Deposit trends are likely to show a gradual improvement after
March” as Greece secured the aid and completed the biggest debt
restructuring in history, he said.  Deposits declined by 9.8 billion euros, or 5.7 percent, in
the first two months of the year, after a 17 percent drop in
2011.  Bank lending to households and businesses fell 3.8 percent
in February, compared with a 3.3 percent drop in the previous
month, the  Bank of Greece (TELL)  said in a separate release today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  