-- Greek Foreign-Law Bondholders Rebuff Debt Restructuring
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-03-29T14:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/greek-foreign-law-bondholders-rebuff-debt-restructuring-1-.html
Holders of  Greece ’s international
bonds issued under foreign laws are pushing back against
attempts to restructure their securities, stymieing the nation’s
efforts to ease its debt load.  Meetings of holders of 10 out of 12 bonds with a par value
of about 3 billion euros ($4 billion), issued by Hellenic
Railways Organization SA and  Athens  Urban Transport Organization
SA and guaranteed by the government, either rejected the
restructuring plans or failed to muster a quorum at March 27
meetings, according to a release from the Greek Public Debt
Management Agency.  Greece is insisting there aren’t funds to pay holdouts and
that the deal domestic law bondholders were forced to accept,
triggering losses of about 70 percent, was the best on offer.
Opposition from foreign law bondholders leaves the country
facing the prospect of defaulting on payments of coupons and
principal, continuing to service the securities, or entering
negotiations with bondholders.  “It is in Greek interests to threaten not to pay foreign
holdouts now,” Gabriel Sterne, an economist at Exotix Holdings
Ltd. in London wrote in a note. “It may not necessarily be in
Greek interests to implement the threat.”  The nation yesterday  failed  to get a quorum to restructure
650 million Swiss francs ($716 million) of sovereign bonds.
Further meetings for holders of Greece’s sovereign-issued
foreign-law bonds are planned.  Debt Restructuring  Greece carried out the biggest-ever sovereign bond
restructuring this month, forcing holders of 197 billion euros
of bonds issued under domestic law to accept new notes with a
53.5 percent reduction in face value. The exchange was known as
PSI, for private sector involvement.  A failure to pay on the foreign-law bonds still outstanding
may trigger clauses forcing immediate payment of other
obligations, or the unwinding of derivative contracts and even
affect treaty agreements with other nations, according to
Andreas Koutras, an analyst at ITC Markets in  London .  The nation faces its first maturity on the international
bonds on May 15, when a 450 million-euro floating-rate note
falls due. The country has a 30-day grace period to make the
payment, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We have repeatedly said that our funding plan, and funds,
are sufficient for PSI size and style repayment,”  Petros Christodoulou , head of the Greek debt agency in Athens, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We have also said that no bondholder
will get better economics than the PSI.”  The Greek bond exchange triggered credit-default swaps on
its bonds and credit rating firms said the nation had defaulted
under some of their definitions of default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  