-- Microsoft Wins Court Order in ‘Zeus Botnets’ Lawsuit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-29T17:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/microsoft-wins-court-order-in-zeus-botnets-lawsuit.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  got a judge to
order a group of unidentified hackers to stop running networks
of infected computers known as botnets that allegedly hijack
online bank accounts.  U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. in Brooklyn, New
York, today issued a preliminary injunction against 39 John Does
who use hacker aliases such as “Monstr” and “Gribodemon” to
create a network of botnets running malicious software known as
Zeus.  A botnet is a network of infected computers programmed to
send data automatically from their hard drives to a server
controlled by hackers. Hackers infect computers with software
that can steal online banking logins and passwords, which they
can use to transfer money to their own accounts.  “That’s the primary purpose of this scheme,” said  Gabriel
M. Ramsey , a lawyer for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft,
which claims the Zeus botnets controlled by the John Doe hackers
have taken more than $100 million.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, sued the
unnamed hackers on March 19. The case was made public March 27,
the day after Microsoft said it had seized computer servers in
Pennsylvania and  Illinois , while escorted by U.S. Marshals, to
preserve evidence.  Record Keystrokes  The Zeus software allows a hacker to monitor a victim’s
online activity and record keystrokes, according to a March 26
statement from Microsoft. The company said it has detected more
than 13 million suspected infections of Zeus software worldwide
since 2007, and 3 million in the U.S.  “Microsoft and its partners took down two Internet
Protocol addresses behind the Zeus command and control
structure, and Microsoft is currently monitoring 800 domains
secured in the operation, which are helping identify thousands
of computers infected by Zeus,” the company said in the
statement.  Ramsey said Microsoft and other plaintiffs are speaking to
 law enforcement  about the matter. He declined to comment on the
case after the hearing.  A botnet is a collection of computers “running software
that allows communication among those computers and that allows
centralized or decentralized communication with other computers
providing control instructions,” according to Microsoft’s
complaint.  Same Codes  Botnets running Zeus software share the same code and
infrastructure, according to the complaint. The names of the
botnets’ creators are unknown, according to the complaint. No
defendants’ representatives appeared at today’s hearing.  Microsoft said the raids this month marked the second time
it has conducted physical seizures in a botnet operation. Some
Zeus botnet computers are in the Eastern District of New York,
the U.S. jurisdiction that includes the  Brooklyn  federal court,
according to the complaint.  The company also said it believed the lawsuit is the first
to use the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
against a botnet operation. The federal RICO law was passed to
fight organized crime.  Plaintiffs joining Microsoft in the case are Reston,
Virginia-based FS-ISAC Inc., which represents banks and other
financial-services companies in combating cyber threats, and
Herndon, Virginia-based National Automated Clearing House
Association, which manages the ACH Network, “the backbone for
the electronic movement of money and data,” according to the
complaint.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. John Does 1-39, 12-cv-01335,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn,  New York , federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 