-- Hiding Volatility in Earnings Just Got Harder
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-03-29T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/hiding-volatility-in-earnings-just-got-harder.html
Depending on how you look at it,
 Bank of America Corp.  last year had a $1.4 billion profit or a
$3.9 billion loss. Both figures are accurate. The big difference
is that the second one is harder to find in the company’s
financial reports.  To locate the first number, known as net income, simply
check the bottom of Bank of America’s income statement. The
other figure, called comprehensive income, is  buried deep  in the
company’s statement of changes in shareholder equity, where the
loss is easy for readers to miss.  That system of financial reporting is about to change.
Starting with first-quarter results, U.S. public companies will
be required to give greater prominence to comprehensive income
in their securities filings, under  new rules  passed by the
 Financial Accounting Standards Board . Unfortunately the board
didn’t go far enough, because it still gives companies cover to
claim that the two earnings metrics aren’t equally important.  While the issue might seem arcane, the implications are
far-reaching. Before  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  were seized by
the government in 2008, they had accumulated about $30 billion
of comprehensive losses that they excluded from their
conventional earnings and regulatory capital. Those losses
helped doom the two housing-finance companies. Changing the
rules to make such troubles more obvious can only help.  Pattern Reversed  Comprehensive income  is the change in a company’s equity
during a given period, excluding the effects of new capital
injections and dividend payments. In Bank of America’s case,
last year’s figure included almost $5.4 billion of losses that
didn’t count toward net income, such as a $4.3 billion decline
in the value of certain debt and equity securities.  A year earlier, the pattern was reversed. Bank of America
reported a $2.2 billion net loss for 2010. Comprehensive income
was  $3.3 billion , mainly because of unrealized investment gains.
Such fluctuations, good or bad, represent real economic changes,
even if they are not of a recurring nature. Yet investors tend
to ignore them, because they are largely out of sight.  They won’t be as easy to overlook anymore. From now on,
companies will have to show comprehensive income and its
components at the bottom of the income statement or right after
in a separate table. It’s a subtle, but important, improvement.  “These clearly are changes in wealth,” says Roman Weil,
professor emeritus of accounting at the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business. “Heretofore it has been buried in
shareholder equity, which is incomprehensible to most people.”
(The professor and I aren’t related.)  The  accounting board  for years has used comprehensive
income as a dumping ground for items deemed too volatile to
include in traditional earnings. Examples include changes in the
values of corporate pension plans and foreign currencies, as
well as certain derivative instruments and other investments.  The line distinguishing what gets included in net income
and what doesn’t is arbitrary. The board has never defined the
difference conceptually, and its decisions often have been
tainted by politics. Most famously, in 2009, the board caved to
congressional pressure by passing emergency rule changes so
banks and insurance companies could expand the range of
investment losses they could keep out of net income and
regulatory capital.  Other companies with large gulfs between comprehensive and
net income include  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Co. (GT)  GE reported net income of $14.2 billion for 2011, but
only $8 billion of comprehensive income, mainly because of
losses on retiree-benefit plans. Goodyear showed $343 million of
net income -- and a $378 million comprehensive loss, because of
pension expenses.  Another Extreme  At the other extreme, the insurance company  Genworth
Financial Inc. (GNW)  reported $2.8 billion of comprehensive income for
2011, which was more than 10 times its net income. Most of the
difference was because of unrealized gains on securities
classified as available for sale.  The big question is whether the new reporting format will
change investors’ perceptions. Originally the board had proposed
requiring that companies show comprehensive income at the end of
the income statement, making it the new “bottom line” so to
speak. The board backed down in 2010, however, in response to
 complaints  from corporate executives who opposed putting
conventional earnings in the middle of the income statement and
giving comprehensive figures so much visibility.  Now companies will have two options. They can show
comprehensive income and its pieces on the face of the income
statement. Or they can break up the presentation into two
consecutive statements and relegate comprehensive income to a
separate page. The latter method would be the natural choice for
companies that want to de-emphasize volatility in their results,
especially large financial institutions or manufacturers with
sizable pension plans.  This approach will also give companies an excuse not to
disclose comprehensive income in their quarterly earnings press
releases, which is a shame. Plus companies aren’t required to
show comprehensive income on a per-share basis, as they must
with net income. This is another way of giving companies the
all-clear to downplay its importance.  “I would expect most companies to show two separate
statements,” said David Zion, an accounting analyst at Credit
Suisse in  New York . “At least it will be in a somewhat
consistent spot, and as a result of that it will get more
attention.”  We should know soon.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Europe’s firewall  and
converting the  U.S. truck fleet to natural gas .  Jonathan Alter 
on  stand-your-ground laws . Stephen L. Carter on arguing about
health care. Brian Calle on Orange County,  California ,  opting
out of Obamacare .  Michael O’Hanlon  on helping  Colombian
counterterrorism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  