-- HIG Is Completing First Brazil Deals With Stakes in Two Firms
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2012-03-29T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/hig-is-completing-first-brazil-deals-with-stakes-in-two-firms.html
HIG Capital LLC, the Miami-based
private-equity company, is completing its first deals in  Brazil 
with the purchase of stakes in two mid-sized consumer and
industrial firms, said Latin America chief Fernando Oliveira.  “We want to establish a significant position in this
segment that is often overlooked by larger private-equity
companies,” Oliveira, who was hired in February, said in an
interview this week, declining to provide more details about the
acquisitions because negotiations are private. HIG has at least
20 ideas for investing in mid-sized Brazilian firms, he said.  Private-equity companies are betting on Brazil to take
advantage of the world’s second-biggest developing economy after
 China . Morgan Stanley Global Private Equity announced a
partnership yesterday with Sao Paulo-based OSF Merchant Banking
to pursue investments in Brazil.  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , which raised
$1 billion in June to invest in  South America , has joined with
TPG Capital to open offices in the country.  Oliveira said HIG plans to hire as many as 15 people by the
end of this year as he seeks to invest in companies with 5
million reais ($2.7 million) to 100 million reais of earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Each
investment will be between $5 million and $100 million, he said.  Oliveira this month hired Marcelo Cecchetto from Icatu
Holding SA and Rodrigo Azevedo from Dynamo Administracao de
Recursos, a Rio de Janeiro-based asset-management firm. He said
that he’s recruiting two more investment executives and will
continue adding people to HIG’s team in Brazil this year.  HIG is the first foreign private-equity company to set up
shop in Rio, according to Oliveira. Brazil’s second-biggest city
will host the 2016  Summer Olympics  and is home to the Maracana
soccer stadium, where the closing ceremony of the 2014  World Cup 
will be held. These events are generating demand for investment
in services and infrastructure, Oliveira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  