-- High Methane in Pennsylvania Water Deemed Safe by EPA
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-30T17:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/high-methane-in-pennsylvania-water-deemed-safe-by-epa.html
Tests by the Environmental
Protection Agency of water in Dimock,  Pennsylvania , found
elevated levels of methane consistent with leakage from gas
drilling nearby, according to scientists who reviewed the data.  Results from the first 11 wells tested by the EPA found one
with a methane level of 52 parts per million, which could be
explosive, and a total of six with more than the 7 milligrams
per liter at which drillers are required to notify the state.
The findings raise questions about the EPA’s March 15 statement
to Dimock residents that their water didn’t pose a health risk,
said Ronald Bishop, a chemist at the State University of  New
York ’s College at Oneonta.  “They sprang too early with these results, and in telling
people their water is safe,” Bishop, a critic of gas drilling
using hydraulic fracturing, said in an interview. “I’m used to
seeing better from them.”  Dimock, where actor  Mark Ruffalo  delivered water to
residents late last year, is one of the most closely watched
communities where residents say their water has been harmed by
the nearby drilling of  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  In fracking, water,
sand and chemicals are injected into deep shale formations to
free natural gas trapped in the rock.  Explosive Methane  Methane, the key constituent of natural gas, and fracking
gained prominence after a scene in the Academy Award-nominated
documentary “Gasland” in which a resident near a gas-drilling
site ignited the water coming out of a tap. A report by the
Colorado state oil and gas commission said it was unlikely the
gas came from drilling.  A build-up of methane poses a risk of explosion, although
the EPA says it’s not unsafe to drink in water. One Dimock
resident has said her water well exploded. Craig Sautner, a
Dimock resident leading efforts against Cabot, has said he
recorded a video showing gas from his well captured in a milk
jug that he then lit on fire in his garage.  Two other scientists who have done their own research in
the Dimock area say elevated levels of methane reported in the
EPA analyses is a sign that natural gas from the Marcellus Shale
is somehow migrating to the surface water table.  “These early  results  resemble what we  found  across the
region -- more methane and dissolved gases in the water but
little evidence of deep salts or fracking fluids,” Rob Jackson,
a professor of biology at the Nicholas School of the Environment
at  Duke University , said in an interview.  ‘Naturally Occurring’  Cabot says that the gas is naturally occurring across
Susquehanna County, where Dimock is located. It tested 2,000
water wells across the county and found 80 percent had pre-
existing methane, said George Stark, a company spokesman.  “The rock under the Susquehanna is charged with natural
gas,” Stark said in an interview. “We’re not surprised there
is methane in the aquifer. It’s naturally occurring and it’s
widespread.”  Dimock has been a test case for the EPA after state
officials had settled with Cabot, and allowed the company to
stop delivering water to residents there. The EPA initially
pledged to send its own water to the town, and then reversed
itself. A few days later it changed course again and said it
would give water to a few households -- and test the water.  The EPA tested water in 60 homes and released a statement
saying this month that data for 11 homes “did not show levels
of contamination that could present a health concern.” Then
local residents shared their results with “Gasland” director
Josh Fox, who sent them to scientists and reporters.  Families Get Results  EPA officials set up meetings with residents yesterday and
today to discuss the findings. The agency also posted the full
 results  for those first 11 homes online, and is preparing to
release results from other homes as they are ready.  The EPA notified state and local officials after finding
the one well with levels of methane exceeding 28 parts per
million, which is the maximum amount of methane than can be
dissolved in water before it will leave as a gas, said Terri
White, a spokeswoman for the EPA in Philadelphia.  “Methane is not explosive while in solution,” White said
in an e-mail. “Methane in water does not impair the odor, taste
or color, nor does it affect in any way the potability of the
water.”  The state standard of 7 parts per million is not a safety
standard because methane is “not considered toxic in water,”
she added in a separate e-mail.  Odor Source  Bishop hypothesizes that the gas gurgling into wells may be
kicking up mud that is leading to the unpleasant odor and taste
residents such as Sautner complain about.  Robert Poreda, a professor of earth and environmental
sciences at the  University of Rochester , and his colleagues have
tested their own 50 samples in the area since November and have
found similar results to the EPA’s, he said. Methane levels may
be even higher than the agency’s estimates, because the gas can
escape if samples aren’t drawn carefully, he said in an
interview. One risk is that the pathways allowing methane to
leak up into wells could also carry the chemicals used to
lubricate the wells or frack the rock, he said.  “If this were natural, why hasn’t their house blown up?”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  