-- India and China Skirt Iran Sanctions With ‘Junk for Oil’
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-03-30T15:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/india-and-china-skirt-iran-sanctions-with-junk-for-oil-.html
Iran  and its leading oil buyers,
China and  India , are finding ways to skirt U.S. and European
Union financial sanctions on the Islamic republic by agreeing to
trade oil for local currencies and goods including wheat,
soybean meal and consumer products.  India, the second-biggest importer of Iran’s oil, has set
up a rupee account at a state-owned bank to settle as much as
much as 45 percent of its bill, according to Indian officials.
China, Iran’s largest oil customer, already settles some of its
oil debts through barter, Mahmoud Bahmani, Iran’s central bank
governor, said Feb. 28. Iran also has sought to trade oil for
wheat from Pakistan and  Russia , according to media reports from
the two countries.  The trend is growing, sanctions specialists and U.S.
officials say, and is denying the Islamic Republic hard currency
to prop up the plummeting value of the rial and to fund nuclear
and missile programs. Iran already is starved for dollars and
euros to support the rial, and barter deals will force it to
spend billions of dollars of oil revenue on goods, according to
 Kenneth Katzman  at the  Congressional Research Service , a
nonpartisan government-research institute in Washington.  “Iran cannot stabilize the value of its currency with such
unorthodox payment methods, and that is why its economy is
collapsing,” Katzman, an Iran sanctions specialist, said in an
interview. “Iran is essentially on a junk-for-oil program.”  Local Currency, Gold  The second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, Iran said last month it will
accept payment in any local currency or gold as new sanctions
make it harder for trading partners to pay in dollars and euros.  The barter trend, lawyers and trade analysts say, is
exposing an unintended consequence of sanctions. Cutting Iran
off from the global financial system, they say, is driving trade
into informal channels and producing greater opportunities for
corruption and the diversion of funds for illicit purposes.  “Payments through the financial system are easier to
police, and there is less scope for corruption,” said Nigel
Kushner, a London-based attorney who specializes in Iran
sanctions and export controls.  While “the upside of denying Iran access to hard currency
for furthering its nuclear program outweighs the downside of
decreasing transparency and pushing trade underground, we could
be left very much in the dark as to who is dealing with Iran,”
Kushner said in an interview.  Harder to Police  “When you force trade out of established channels, you
have no way to measure it” or to verify that Iran’s trading
partners are abiding by global sanctions regimes, said Barbara
Slavin, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council, a Washington
research group.  Iran is feeling the impact of tightened sanctions on
finance, insurance, shipping and energy. The Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, known as Swift,
expelled Iran’s central bank and more than 20 other Iranian
banks this month, making it almost impossible for Iran to
complete large international funds transfers.  Exports from Iran will be cut by 600,000 to 700,000 barrels
a day because of the international sanctions, Michael Lo, an
analyst at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , said in an e-mailed note today.  Oil
prices  are set for a new rally in the fourth quarter as demand
outstrips growth in non-OPEC supplies, according to the bank.  The biggest winners in the rise of barter deals with Iran
are India and China, the world’s fastest-growing major
economies, which now are able to meet some of their burgeoning
energy demands by trading rupees and yuan or agricultural and
 consumer goods , analysts said.  Oil for Electronics  Iran is using yuan paid into Chinese bank accounts to buy
Chinese-made washing machines, refrigerators, electronic goods,
toys, clothes, cosmetics and toiletries, Katzman said.  Rupee payments to Iran from India may total at least $4
billion a year and will be deposited in India’s state-run  UCO
Bank (UCO) , which doesn’t have U.S. operations and is unlikely to be
affected by the global sanctions, according to an official with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be named because the
information is confidential.  Payments in local currencies such as the yuan and rupee,
which are not fully convertible, are less beneficial for Iran
than hard currencies such as dollars, euros, and Japanese yen.  Trevor Houser , an energy analyst and partner at the Rhodium
Group, a New York-based economic research firm, said paying for
Iranian oil in rupees is “a pretty good deal for India, and
it’s a pretty bad deal for Iran.” It limits the goods the
Persian Gulf nation can buy and “deprives Iran of the hard
currency they need for effective monetary policy,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Not Violations  India’s $2.7 billion in exports to Iran last year amounted
to less than a third of the $9.5 billion worth of crude oil that
India bought from the Islamic Republic, meaning it may prove
difficult to pay for as much as 45 percent of Iran’s oil exports
through barter.  Barter deals themselves don’t violate sanctions provided
that no laws are broken, such as dealing with sanctioned banks
and companies or providing technology for  Iran’s nuclear
program , according to three Obama administration officials who
spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of
the issue. So long as countries comply with a new U.S. law by
reducing Iranian crude imports, there’s no prohibition on paying
for that oil with legal goods and services, the officials said.  If India pays for oil with wheat, one U.S. official said,
that’s better than paying the Iranians in dollars or euros they
might use to buy additional centrifuges to enrich uranium.  Nuclear Issues  Another U.S. official said the administration has no
evidence that any country is using barter deals to conceal
increased oil imports from Iran or to trade in illicit goods.  Iran earned about $100 billion from crude oil exports in
2011, according to International Monetary Fund projections. U.S.
and EU sanctions imposed since November are intended to squeeze
the Islamic Republic’s economy, persuading its leaders to
abandon any illicit aspects of its nuclear program.  United Nations inspectors issued a report Nov. 8 raising
questions about possible military dimensions of Iran’s nuclear
program, adding fuel to U.S., EU and Israeli claims that Iran is
seeking to develop nuclear weapons. Iran says its program is
strictly for civilian energy and medical research.  China  and India have maintained commercial ties with their
Persian neighbor even as the sanctions have created obstacles.
Trade among the nations dates back 2,200 years to the Silk
Route, a trade network spanning Central and  East Asia .  ‘Merchant Mentality’  While neither China nor Iran has made details of existing
barter arrangements public, China’s  exports  to Iran increased to
$14.8 billion in 2011, compared with $900 million in 2001,
according to Chinese customs data. China imported $21.7 billion
in Iranian oil last year, the figures show.  India exported $2.7 billion worth of goods to Iran in the
financial year that ended in March 2011, according to India’s
Department of Commerce. Iron and steel articles were the biggest
category, accounting for $623 million. That was followed by $454
million in products including inorganic chemicals, precious
metal compounds and rare-earth metals, and $419.6 million in
cereals.  Seventy Indian business representatives met Iranian
companies and officials in Tehran and Tabriz this month to
discuss boosting trade, said Anand Seth, spokesman for the
Federation of Indian Export Organizations, which organized the
tour. The federation, a partnership between private companies
and the Indian Commerce Ministry, won’t release the names of the
Indian companies for fear of subjecting them to pressures from
the U.S., Seth said.  “Barter trade is nothing new for Iran, and the country’s
merchant mentality will adapt quickly to the new situation,”
Bijan Khajehpour, an Iranian business consultant based in
Vienna, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  