-- Iran Breaks UN Resolutions on Nuclear Program, Russia Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-03-30T15:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/iran-breaks-un-resolutions-as-nuclear-program-grows-russia-says.html
Iran  is breaching United Nations
resolutions and increasing the size of its nuclear program amid
an “alarming” escalation in global rhetoric toward its atomic
plans, Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said.  “The scale of the Iranian nuclear program is expanding,”
Ryabkov said yesterday in an interview in  New Delhi . This “is
in direct violation of UN resolutions.”  The so-called BRICS group of major emerging nations that
met yesterday in  India  said the situation in Iran can’t “be
allowed to escalate into conflict,” according to a communique.
Iran faces growing economic and financial sanctions over its
nuclear program, which the U.S. and its allies say is a cover
for making atomic weapons. Iran says it’s for civilian purposes.  Ryabkov’s comments “are eyebrow-raising to say the
least,” according to ING Groep NV economist Simon Quijano- Evans, who notes that U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
asked Russia this month to warn Iran it has one last chance to
reach a negotiated settlement over its nuclear program,
according to a March 14 report in Russia’s Kommersant newspaper.  “There is clearly more going on behind the scenes than
meets our eye,” Quijano-Evans said today by e-mail from  London .  A military confrontation over the nation’s nuclear plans
would trigger a new global economic crisis, Ryabkov said, adding
that he doesn’t rule out strikes against Iran by countries such
as Israel.  Energy-Price ‘Explosion’  The BRICS group is worried that a failure to reach a
political agreement will lead to “an explosion of energy prices
with a subsequent slowdown in the economic recovery and a
collapse in energy prices soon after that,” Ryabkov said.  “An escalation is under way, and that’s very alarming,”
he said of the global outcry against Iran. “In that sense, the
situation is worse than last year.”  A new round of talks over Iran’s disputed nuclear program
should begin by mid-April, according to Ryabkov. The situation
there isn’t “irreversible” and the Iranians “have done a lot
to show their constructiveness,” he said, adding that world
powers “shouldn’t be tempted into using military force.”  Russia “seems to be sending a pretty clear signal to Iran
that they are walking a tightrope, and face a clear and now
present danger of a strike by  Israel , and possibly its allies,”
Tim Ash, chief emerging-markets economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said yesterday in an e-mailed comment.  Inspection Opportunity  Iran is ready to cooperate and the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  should use the opportunity to examine the
country’s facilities, Ryabkov said.  Iran has rejected UN demands to suspend  uranium enrichment ,
which can be used for both generating electricity and making
nuclear warheads. Negotiations broke down last January after
talks in Istanbul between Iran and the five permanent members of
the UN Security Council --  China ,  France , Russia, the U.K. and
U.S. -- as well as  Germany .  The international community isn’t working hard enough “to
make the talks a really serious issue,” Ryabkov said, adding
that sanctions imposed on Iran have only spurred the country’s
efforts to develop its nuclear program.  “Some of our Western partners think more sanctions are
like amulets that will protect them from evil spirits. That’s
irrational,” he said. “Sanctions don’t take us to any result.
They have a counter result. Sanctions are only suffocating
Iran’s economy.”  While  Russia  opposes military action or increased sanctions
in Iran, it backed European Union foreign-policy chief Catherine Ashton’s call this month for the nation to reach a “full
settlement,” clarifying questions about its nuclear program.  Russia opposes Iran developing nuclear-weapons capability
because it would endanger global stability and “is taking into
account” objections by Arab nations to supplies of conventional
weaponry to Iran, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Feb. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  