-- Israel Posts February Jobless Rate of 6.5% in New Survey
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-03-29T15:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/israel-posts-february-jobless-rate-of-6-5-in-new-survey-1-.html
Israel ’s unemployment rate fell to
6.5 percent in February, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said.  Unemployment dropped from 6.6 percent the month before, the
Jerusalem-based bureau said on its website today.  Labor force 
participation fell to 62.2 percent from 62.6 percent. Both
figures are seasonally adjusted.  Today’s figures are the first published under a new format
that changes the labor force survey from quarterly to monthly,
to comply with Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development standards, the bureau said. The new survey covers
the entire labor force, including those in military service, and
increases the number of locations sampled, it said. Israel
joined the OECD in 2010.  The  economy  is forecast to expand 3.1 percent this year,
the  Bank of Israel  said March 26, raising its forecast from 2.8
percent. It cited “positive indicators” including imports,
services exports and business expectations. Growth was 4.7
percent in 2011.  The bureau reported fourth-quarter unemployment of 5.4
percent last month, based on its previous methodology. While the
new survey shows unemployment at a higher level, the trend
remains downward, as it was under the previous methodology, the
bureau said.  The updated unemployment rate, which shows that the Israeli
labor market is in worse shape than previously thought, may
affect monetary policy decisions later this year, Chaim Natan,
chief economist at Menora Mivtachim Investment House, said in a
telephone interview.  “Most economists expect unemployment to rise this year,”
Natan said. “Unemployment may reach 7 percent, and if growth
doesn’t strengthen we can forget about an interest rate increase,
and there is a greater chance that the monetary loosening will
continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 