-- Missing From the Court’s Debate: The Constitution
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-03-29T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/missing-from-the-court-s-debate-the-constitution.html
Now that the  Supreme Court  has
mercifully completed its three days of  oral arguments  over the
constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, we can pause for a
moment and take stock -- not of the statute, but of the justices
and our attitude toward them.  Let me put the point succinctly: Our court-worship has
gotten ridiculous.  Predictions abound about whether the court will hold the
statute’s individual mandate unconstitutional. The week before
oral arguments,  a survey  of former law clerks and lawyers who
have argued before the court put the likelihood at 35 percent.
(Why anyone would dignify such a question with an answer remains
the more intriguing mystery.) The day after oral arguments,
participants in Intrade’s prediction market had it at about  63
percent .  Some of these predictions undoubtedly rest on the vulgar
assumption that the justices are mere political hacks, doing the
bidding of party. But some are clearly based on the questions
asked at oral argument. That approach strikes me as bizarre.  When I was a Supreme Court law clerk in the early 1980s, I
witnessed counter-examples galore. Once, in a particularly tricky
civil-rights case, two justices spent the oral argument lobbing
softballs at the attorney for the plaintiffs, but voted with the
6-3 majority against his clients. Another justice was well-known
for his habit of peppering the solicitor general with tough
questions, but voting with the government anyway.  Powerful Demigods  In short, trying to guess the outcome from the oral
arguments is a fool’s game. But such silliness is fully in
keeping with our attitude toward the justices -- who, reviled
though they frequently are by activists of one stripe or
another, continue their firm grip on our collective imagination.
For all our cynicism and sophistication, we still seem to
consider the court, as Anthony Lewis  wrote  almost half a century
ago, “an extraordinarily powerful demigod sitting on a remote
throne and letting loose constitutional thunderbolts whenever it
sees a wrong crying for correction.”  Small wonder, then, that the political debate over the
Affordable Care Act and its individual mandate has landed there.
The oral argument transcripts are illuminating -- not on any
great questions of constitutional law, but rather on questions of
policy.  The argument was pressed with considerable distinction by
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, on behalf of the government,
and former Solicitor General  Paul Clement , on behalf of the
plaintiffs. On the day that mattered --  Tuesday’s battle  over
the individual mandate -- both men scored excellent points. But
nearly all of the points related to wisdom, not
constitutionality.  Under sharp questioning from Justices Antonin Scalia and
 Samuel Alito , the weakest point of the mandate was laid bare.
The 26 states arguing against the law are at least half right.
The scope of the power being claimed is scary. The claim on
behalf of the mandate is that individuals who do not buy health
insurance will nevertheless consume health-care services,
possibly very expensive ones, and therefore are affecting
commerce -- the  insurance industry  for others -- even if they
choose not to buy. The chain of reasoning is perfectly logical.  Yet nothing in the oral argument adequately refuted the
fears of the opponents that the government could require people
to buy broccoli or mobile phones in the right situation. Justice
 Sonia Sotomayor  did the best job of anyone in trying to recast
the solicitor general’s argument in a more palatable form,
contending that those who don’t buy health insurance in the
market are really just self-insuring, and the government can
regulate self-insurers. Chief Justice  John Roberts  subsequently
pointed out that the statute requires coverage of maternity
services, pediatric services and drug treatment services -- in
each case, items against which one might reasonably choose to
self-insure.  How Insurance Works  Both sides have a point. The mandate to purchase health
insurance does indeed run counter to the libertarian strain of
the American tradition, and the arguments in support of federal
power don’t have a logical stopping place. On the other hand,
one must also recall the egalitarian aspects of the American
tradition. Without the mandate, the provisions that insurers
can’t turn away applicants on the basis of pre-existing
conditions will collapse. As Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said on
the second day of argument, “If you’re going to have insurance,
that’s how insurance works.”  This bit of complexity leads to epistemic difficulty. A
young philosopher of my acquaintance says that she supports the
must-cover provisions of the new law, which require insurance
companies to cover people with pre-existing conditions, but
opposes the mandate, and was left gloomy by the difficulty of
holding both positions.  The dilemma is a weighty one, and arises because both
propositions have force. There is no “correct” balance between
liberty and equality. The arguments are in the first instance
philosophical, and in the second political.  The only answer I can offer is that we are supposed to
thrash those things out in politics. Let us concede that in the
case of the Affordable Care Act, the thrashing was badly done.
The thing was well intentioned, but horribly drafted and horribly
rushed. The political debate, so far as I can tell, consists
mostly of politicians and pundits and authors of fundraising e-
mails insisting that the other side is lying about the intent of
the law or the contents of the statute.  I suspect that an awful lot of the politicians and pundits
claiming that the other side is lying about the act’s provisions
haven’t read it. (I ask as often as I can, and the answer, almost
without exception, is “no.”) I once attended a debate on the law,
sponsored by a perfectly reputable organization, where it seemed
to me that neither debater had actually looked at anything but
the talking points prepared by the relevant side.  Reading Assignment  I have read the act.  All 974 pages . Every mind-numbing
repetition of “the Secretary shall promulgate” and “the Secretary
shall determine” and “the Secretary shall establish” -- language
that has the political virtue of shielding members of Congress
from responsibility, and the constitutional vice of creating an
entitlement whose boundaries its supporters can make no serious
pretense of understanding.  What is clear from the three days of argument is that the
justices and the advocates are intimately familiar with the law
and its legislative history. I’m glad that somebody is.  The trouble is that the real battle is ideological, not
constitutional. Not everyone is going to get every possible form
of health care. Somebody, in the end, is going to ration it. The
rationing may be done mostly by regulators and a little bit by
the market, or mostly by the market and a little bit by
regulators. As long as we are mortal -- as long as our bodies
fail -- there is no third choice. No amount of screaming will
produce one.  No matter which way the court rules, the question of how
best to provide health insurance will wind up back in the laps of
our elected representatives. Politics at its best comprises
reasoned arguments by reasonable people. When the justices toss
this battle back to the politicians, let’s all hope for less
shouting and more thinking.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln ,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Europe’s firewall  and
converting the  U.S. truck fleet to natural gas .  Jonathan Alter  on
 stand-your-ground laws .  Jonathan Weil  on vital new  accounting
rules . Brian Calle on Orange County,  California ,  opting out of
Obamacare .  Michael O’Hanlon  on helping  Colombian
counterterrorism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 