-- Italy Sells 8 Billion Euros of Bonds as Yields Decline
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-03-29T12:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/italy-sells-8-billion-euros-of-bonds-as-yields-decline.html
Italy  sold 8 billion euros ($10.6
billion) of bonds and floating-rate securities as borrowing
costs fell amid rising optimism that the region’s debt crisis is
easing.  The Treasury sold 3.25 billion euros of a 10-year bond to
yield 5.24 percent, the lowest since August 2011 and down from
5.5 percent at the previous auction on Feb. 28. Investors bid
1.65 times the amount offered, up from 1.40 times last month.
The Rome-based Treasury also sold 2.5 billion euros of five-year
bonds and 2.26 billion of a new floating 2017 bond to yield 4.18
percent and 4.6 percent respectively.  “Going forward, demand is the key factor to watch,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London , said by e-mail. “So far, it has been sovereign-carry-
trading domestic banks that have been mainly responsible for
shoring up Italy’s bond market. Foreign bond-buying needs to
increase significantly”.  Italy’s borrowing costs have fallen since Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ‘s appointment in November as his efforts to spur
economic growth and reduce the euro region’s second-biggest
debt, coupled with the European Central Bank unlimited three-
year lending, shore up demand for bonds.  Italian 10-year bonds stayed lower after the auction, with
the yield on the 10-year bond rising seven basis points to 5.18
percent at 2 p.m. Rome time.  Budget Cuts  Monti’s government passed 20 billion euros of Italian
expenditure cuts and tax increases in December to balance the
budget in 2013, followed by measures to spur competition and
ease bureaucracy. This month his government overhauled  labor
laws  to make it easier to fire workers while extending the
country’s unemployment safety net.  The Italian auction comes as euro-area finance ministers
are due to meet in Copenhagen tomorrow to decide how to build a
bigger firewall to protect against debt-crisis contagion. The
ministers are considering combining the capacity of the
temporary 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility
and its permanent successor, the 500 billion-euro European
Stability Mechanism.  Monti said yesterday he doesn’t expect “flames of crisis”
to return as euro-zone nations implement closer fiscal
cooperation and seek to boost the region’s bailout funds.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond has fallen by more than 2
percentage points since Monti became premier. He has predicted a
continuing rally, saying a solution to  Greece ’s challenges is
almost accomplished,  Spain  is employing discipline and Italian
actions have helped stop deterioration in confidence in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  