-- Italians Get Sticker Shock at the Pump
-- B y   C a r o l   M a t l a c k   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-03-30T13:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/italians-get-sticker-shock-at-the-pump.html
Enrico Cioni, a 36-year-old high
school teacher who lives near  Venice , bought himself a red Alfa
Romeo MiTo in 2010, figuring the sporty little hatchback would
be fun to drive and save on gas. Instead, as Italy raised gas
taxes 24 percent over the past year, his fuel spending soared to
200 euros ($267) a month.  “I don’t have any alternative during the week, as I have
to drive to reach the two schools where I teach”, Cioni said by
phone while driving from a high school in Valdobbiadene, home to
the Prosecco sparkling wine. “But I’ve cut the use of my MiTo
during weekends to save money.”  Austerity measures introduced by Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government have pushed Italian gas prices to the highest
in  Europe , an average of 1.82 euros per liter, or $9.17 per
gallon, with taxes accounting for about 54 percent of the total,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 2 issue.  It’s a profound shock for this country of car lovers, home
of supercar makers Ferrari SpA and Lamborghini SpA, where the
rate of vehicle ownership is among the highest in the world, and
one that’s producing even more economic pain, as Italians
curtail travel and shun new-car purchases.  After the latest gas-tax hike in December, auto sales fell
18 percent during January and February, and are expected to drop
to their lowest level since 1985 this year to about 1.6 million
vehicles, in a fifth consecutive yearly decline from 2.5 million
cars in 2007.  Hitting Bottom  “We are hitting the bottom; it can’t be worse than
this,”  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive  Sergio Marchionne  said at the
Geneva International Motor Show this month.  Fiat expects further sales decline in March because of a
strike by truck drivers, who blocked deliveries across the
country for more than one month, as they protested the increase
of fuel prices. Fiat has to shut down some of its plants in
recent weeks because of the strikes.  Promotor, an automotive research group based in Bologna,
estimates that gasoline and diesel consumption fell 9.6 percent
in Italy during the first two months of this year.  “We’re seeing a decline in revenue of about 10 percent to
15 percent as people are not using their cars as much as
before,” said Biagio Zagaria, who works at a gas station in
central Milan.  Travel Drops  Carlo Pileri, head of consumer association ADOC, predicted
that 7 in 10 Italians won’t travel during the Easter vacation
“mainly because of higher fuel prices and the cost of
services.”  Toll-road traffic in  Italy  fell 8 percent in the first two
months of 2012 because of the surge in gas prices, which
discouraged Italians from using their cars, along with bad
weather and the recession, Fabio Cerchiai, chairman of
Atlantia Spa, Italy’s biggest toll-road operator, said in an
interview in Cernobbio, Italy, today. Traffic in March fell 4
percent to 5 percent, he said.  The Italians hit hardest by higher gas taxes are those like
teacher Cioni -- working people who live in areas poorly served
by public transportation.  “Wealthy drivers don’t feel the pain, they keep on driving
their luxury cars,” said Gian Primo Quagliano, Promotor’s
president.  The rich have not escaped unscathed, though. The government
has raised taxes on high-end cars, and tax inspectors have
stepped up scrutiny of people who own expensive vehicles to
determine whether they are accurately reporting their income.  Tax Revenues  One risk for the government is that Italians will curb
their driving so much that gas-tax revenues will fall. It hasn’t
happened yet; Promotor said that despite the decrease in
consumption during January and February, total spending on gas
and diesel was up 11 percent to 10.1 billion euros.  But many Italians are clearly angry.  “The increasing gasoline price upset me and the people I
know so much that I drive less -- not because I can’t afford it,
but in a sign of protest,” said Ippolito Alfieri, founder of a
Milan advertising agency who drives a Volvo XC90.  In the northern town of Reggio Emilia, a farmers’ group
held a protest on March 24 in which it offered rides on donkeys
as a tax-free means of transportation. Consumer Group  Adiconsum 
has started a petition on its website asking the government to
cut levies on fuel.  A few Italians, though, have managed to escape the higher
fuel prices. Ivo, a 39-year-old from northern Italy who declined
to give his last name, said he now buys gas for his Renault
sedan from a black-market dealer who doesn’t pay taxes.  “ Gas prices  are too high, so I found a way to pay less
taxes and keep on driving,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Matlack in Paris at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net  