-- Liu Campaign Treasurer in Talks on Possible Plea, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-29T22:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/liu-campaign-treasurer-in-talks-on-possible-plea-u-s-says-1-.html
Lawyers for Jia “Jenny” Hou, the
campaign treasurer for  New York  City Comptroller John C. Liu who
was charged last month with fraud and obstruction, are in talks
with prosecutors on a possible plea, the U.S. said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman today granted a request
by Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian Jacobs to extend the case 30
days to April 30 so federal prosecutors can complete the talks
with Hou’s lawyers, Gerald Lefcourt and Sheryl Reich.  “Mr. Lefcourt, Ms. Reich, and I, along with Assistant
United States Attorneys Steve C. Lee and Justin Anderson have
had discussion regarding a possible disposition of this case but
the negotiations have not been completed,” Jacobs said in a
filing today in federal court in  Manhattan .  Lefcourt didn’t return a call left at his office seeking
comment on Hou’s case.  Hou, 25, of Queens, New York, who was responsible for
campaign finance disclosures, was charged in February by
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara with using straw donors to circumvent laws that
prohibited unusually large contributions to a campaign.  She was also charged with obstructing a federal grand jury
investigation in November for failing to produce documents in
response to subpoenas and falsely claiming that she had complied
with investigators’ requests.  Fundraiser Charged  Liu, a candidate for New York City mayor, wasn’t named in
the criminal complaint filed against Hou, who was the second
person tied to Liu’s campaign to be charged by federal
prosecutors in New York. Xing Wu Pan, a fundraiser for Liu, was
indicted Feb. 15 on  wire fraud  charges stemming from a scheme to
funnel $16,000 in contributions to the comptroller.  Hou is charged with conspiracy to commit wire fraud,
attempted wire fraud and obstruction of justice. Each count
carries a prison term of as long as 25 years, Bharara’s office
said.  The case is U.S. v. Hou, 12-mag-539, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  