-- Noda Woes Deepen in Japan as Tax, BOJ Plans See Opposition
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-03-30T10:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/japan-s-people-s-new-party-leaves-coalition-over-sales-tax-bill.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  faced new challenges to his leadership as a member of the
ruling group rejected his plan for a sales-tax boost and
opposition widened to his nominee for the central bank board.  People’s New Party leader  Shizuka Kamei  told reporters
today he would leave the coalition over legislation to double
the consumption levy by 2015. At the same time, the head of the
main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  in the upper house said
its members probably won’t support Ryutaro Kono for the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  position.  The setbacks add to Noda’s struggles, with the Cabinet
needing to draft the first stopgap funding bill in 14 years to
keep the government running after parliament failed to adopt his
2012 budget. The LDP has called for early elections as Noda
tries to become the  Democratic Party  of Japan’s longest-serving
premier since the party took power in 2009, after his two
predecessors didn’t last more than 14 months.  “It’s part of a broader problem as his ratings go down,”
 Robert Dujarric , director of the Institute of Contemporary Asian
Studies at  Temple University  in Tokyo, said of today’s events.
“It reflects paralysis on several levels.”  The LDP’s head of parliamentary affairs for the upper
house, Masashi Waki, said in an interview today the group is
unlikely to support BNP Paribas SA economist Kono for the BOJ.
Noda must rely on opposition support in the upper house, where
his ruling coalition lacks a majority.  Kono Rejection  The opposition New Komeito party will also probably reject
Kono, lawmaker Otohiko Endo said in an interview, citing concern
over Kono’s view on monetary policy. Yoshimi Watanabe, head of
Your Party, told reporters he’ll reject Kono as well.  Noda acknowledged resistance to his policies in a
nationally televised address today, saying that his political
future hinges on the passage of the  sales tax .  “Ruling and opposition parties will start discussing the
tax bill,” Noda said. “This task is unavoidable for our nation
and people, and we should not delay it further. We have to reach
an agreement.”  Kamei’s rejection of the sales tax today revealed a split
within the PNP as his deputy,  Shozaburo Jimi , pledged support
for the levy. Jimi told reporters that six of the party’s eight
members backed that stance in a meeting yesterday.  Discord within the PNP, a junior coalition partner, adds to
conflict within Noda’s DPJ. After the party completed the sales
tax plan on March 28, 70 members signed a statement to protest
ending discussions.  Noda’s Future  Noda’s political future will hinge on shifting alliances
within the DPJ and the LDP, said Yasuo Yamamoto, a senior
economist at Mizuho Research Institute.  “If LDP legislators who are supporting a sales tax
increase leave their party and join the mainstream DPJ, then
it’s easy to see the sales tax increase passing,” Yamamoto
said. “If parliament reaches a stalemate the chance diminishes
and there would be no other choice but for Noda to dissolve the
Diet and call for an election.”  Noda, who in September became  Japan ’s sixth leader in five
years, has an approval rating of 28 percent, down 4 percentage
points from January, the Mainichi newspaper said this month.  An impasse has the potential to push up bond yields,
raising borrowing costs as the government finances a record debt
burden. Japan’s benchmark 10-year  yield  was little changed from
yesterday at 0.985 percent at the close in Tokyo, down from a
three-month high of 1.06 percent reached March 15.  Stocks Fall  Japanese stocks fell after a report showed the nation’s
industrial production unexpectedly declined in February. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 0.3 percent to 10,083.56, paring
its monthly advance to 3.4 percent.  With the Cabinet approving the government’s sales tax
legislation today, the proposal can now move to parliament,
potentially initiating a battle with the LDP. Party leader
 Sadakazu Tanigaki  has suggested new elections should be called
to seek public approval before lawmakers move forward.  “It would be best” for Noda to seek a new mandate before
submitting his tax legislation, Tanigaki said March 2 on NHK
Television.  There is about a 60 percent chance that parliament will
fail to approve the levy during the current session, which ends
in June, said Yuichiro Nagai, an economist at  Barclays Capital 
in  Tokyo . Objection within the PNP itself doesn’t change those
odds, he said.  Still, “a sales tax will be eventually raised because most
of both ruling and opposition parties are acknowledging the need
for Japan to increase the levy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  