-- Japan May Understate Deflation, Hampering BOJ, Economist Says
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-03-29T00:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/japan-may-understate-deflation-hampering-boj-economist-says.html
The  Bank of Japan  may not be able
to overcome deflation even if price increases reach its 1
percent target because government data understates declines in
the consumer price index, a former BOJ official said.  “There’s a possibility prices may still be falling” even
if consumer prices increase 1 percent, Tsutomu Watanabe, a  Tokyo 
University economics professor who used to work at the central
bank, said in an interview in Tokyo this week.  Japan ’s  consumer price figures  use a fixed base year to
measure price changes, affecting the accuracy of the data the
further the numbers get from that year, Watanabe said. Countries
like the U.S. measure against a changing base year that can more
accurately capture underlying trends, he said.  Watanabe said sampling he has conducted at supermarkets
tracking prices and volumes of items sold using cash register
data suggest that consumer prices could be falling more than
suggested by the government’s figures, which are only compiled
through sampling conducted manually.  While official data show that the  consumer price index  has
fallen at an annual rate of about 1 percent in the past 10 to 15
years, Watanabe said his sampling methods suggest that those
declines are bigger, sometimes as large as 2 percent.  Since setting the inflation target in February, the BOJ has
pledged to pursue “powerful monetary easing,” including
through keeping  interest rates  close to zero, until the goal of
1 percent year-on-year increases in the consumer price index are
in sight. Prices by that gauge fell 0.1 percent in January. The
BOJ should clarify the logic behind selecting the 1 percent
target, Watanabe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  