-- JetBlue Pilot Subdued After Attendant Mouthed ‘Help Me’
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/jetblue-pilot-subdued-after-attendant-mouthed-help-me-.html
Skill and luck converged in the
cockpit and cabin of a  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  plane to bring it
safely to earth from more than 6 miles above the U.S. heartland.  The danger from a captain’s erratic behavior on Flight 191
at 34,000 feet (10,400 meters) was defused by the combination of
an assertive co-pilot and the presence of an off-duty pilot on
board along with a quartet of ready-for-action security-industry
professionals en route to a Las Vegas conference.  “It was pretty much the best set of circumstances you
could ask for in this situation,” said John Nance, a former
U.S. Air Force and commercial pilot with 40 years of flying
experience who is now a Seattle-based consultant. “The system
worked exactly as it should have.”  In a span of minutes, Captain Clayton Osbon was locked out
by the co-pilot alarmed by utterances in the cockpit, subdued by
the convention-goers as he banged on the door, and then tied up
with passengers’ belts while an off-duty pilot helped the first
officer land the Airbus SAS A320 in Amarillo,  Texas .  The March 27 incident left passengers shaken. After exiting
the flight deck to prowl the cabin and use a lavatory, the
captain tried to batter his way back to the controls and
bellowed incomprehensibly when grabbed by four men determined to
keep him out, travelers said.  “All I was thinking was that these 130 people on the plane
are frightened and thinking they’re going to die,” said David
Gonzalez, 50, a retired New York City corrections officer who
was the first to reach Osbon. “I wasn’t thinking about 9/11.
I’m fighting the pilot. It wasn’t like he was a terrorist.”  Las Vegas Convention  Gonzalez, director of business development for home-
surveillance company Tri-Ed/Northern Video Distribution in
Woodbury,  New York , spoke yesterday from Las Vegas, where he was
attending  International Security Conference West . So was Tony
Antolino, another of the foursome who helped corral Osbon.  “He started shouting about how they got us in Iran and
Iraq and  Afghanistan , and that they’re going to take us down,”
Antolino said. “When he started saying the Lord’s Prayer, we
tackled him to the ground and restrained him.”  Until the pilot left the cockpit and spent about 15 minutes
in the cabin, there were no clues for passengers that anything
was amiss, said Antolino, chief marketing officer for security-
system provider EyeLock Corp. in New York.  The twin-engine A320 was about halfway into the journey of
approximately 2,250 miles (3,620 kilometers), based on  data
compiled  by FlightAware.com, a real-time plane-tracking site.
Its altitude had been little changed for more than three hours,
and it was near the Texas and  Oklahoma  panhandle regions.  ‘Real Hero’  “The real hero is the co-pilot who was able to secure the
plane,” Antolino said. “If he wasn’t able to do that, it would
have been a tragic outcome.”  JetBlue declined to identify the co-pilot, the off-duty
pilot or other crew members besides Osbon. The New York-based
airline said in a website  posting  that “they handled the
situation perfectly.”  Since the late 1980s, airlines have trained pilots in crew
resource management, which emphasizes collaboration and
challenging captains’ decisions that may be deemed unsafe. Even
with that backdrop, Nance said he had never heard of a co-pilot
locking out a captain after briefly leaving the flight deck.  “That’s a pretty heavy responsibility to take on,” said
Richard Healing, a former member of the  National Transportation
Safety Board . “It would not be something anyone would do
without pretty strong evidence there is a potential problem.”  Flight Standards Officer  Osbon, 49, is a flight standards officer, a role in which
he instructs, evaluates and mentors pilots on A320s. Chief
Executive Officer Dave Barger told NBC’s “Today” show the
captain is a “consummate professional.”  Hours later, JetBlue said Osbon had been suspended as it
investigates the case, and U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldana for
the Northern District of Texas said he had been charged with
interference with a crew member.  The captain was late to a pre-flight crew briefing at New
York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, Saldana said in a
statement. In the air, he talked about religion and made remarks
that concerned the co-pilot, including saying “we need to take
a leap of faith” and that Flight 191 and its 135 passengers
were “not going to Vegas,” according to the statement.  Osbon also failed to follow airline procedures when he
exited the cockpit, banged on a lavatory door, and began making
comments about “Jesus, Sept. 11, Iraq,  Iran  and terrorists,”
according to the U.S. attorney’s statement.  ‘Little Bit Off’  “Something was a little bit off” when the captain came
into the cabin, said passenger Antolino. “When you fly a lot,
you get used to the rhythms of the plane, and he was spending a
lot of time outside the cockpit.”  When Osbon was in the restroom, the off-duty pilot was
shuffled into the flight deck and the cockpit door secured again
by changing the security code, said Gonzalez, whose Row 2 seat
was close to the action.  A captain “is a real threat if he’s up there in the
cockpit and has something happen to him, said Bill Waldock, a
professor of safety science at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University in Prescott,  Arizona . ‘‘Once he’s back in the cabin,
they can handle him.”  A pilot in uniform conveys authority, probably giving
passengers pause before a physical challenge, Waldock said.
Antolino said Osbon’s size, at an estimated 6 feet 4 inches and
250 pounds (113 kilograms), also made it a “struggle.”  ‘Help Me’  As Osbon kicked the cockpit door to regain entry, he
wrestled with two flight attendants, one of whom mouthed “help
me,” according to passenger Gonzalez, who said he stepped in to
apply a choke hold on the captain.  “Just as he was about to pass out, I let him down on the
floor and everyone jumped on, gave me belts and we tied him
down,” Gonzalez said. When convention organizers learned of
Gonzalez’s role, he was honored with an impromptu ceremony
yesterday at  Las Vegas ’s  Sands Expo & Convention Center , said Ed
Several, a spokesman.  While modern planes such as A320s can be flown by one
pilot, they’re safer when flown by two. With the off-duty pilot
also at the controls of Flight 191, the first officer declared a
medical emergency and diverted to Amarillo.  From a westerly course at a ground speed of 480 miles per
hour, the jet banked left to turn southeast to reach Amarillo’s
 Rick Husband International Airport , based on data compiled by
FlightAware.com.  Finding a Runway  Pilots are trained to touch down as quickly as is safely
possible in an emergency, and Flight 191’s reconstituted flight
crew did just that: They descended 28,100 feet in about 13
minutes, more than twice as fast as the approach they would have
used to  Las Vegas , the data show.  Law enforcement authorities met the plane on the ground,
where passengers were interviewed and then awaited the arrival
of another A320 sent in from  Long Beach ,  California , to ferry
them on to Las Vegas. JetBlue gave Flight 191’s passengers a
one-way refund and travel vouchers.  Gonzalez, the passenger, said Osbon briefly regained
consciousness after landing.  “He said, ‘We did it, we got it down’ and then blacked out
again,’” Gonzalez said. Osbon left the plane on a stretcher,
and a JetBlue spokeswoman, Jenny Dervin, said he remained
yesterday in a medical facility in Amarillo in  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation custody.  “This appears to have been handled as well as you could
hope,” Embry-Riddle’s Waldock said. “All those parts came
together very well and everyone did what they were trained to
do. It could have had a much more serious outcome.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  