-- JPMorgan Banker-London Star’s Gay Divorce Sets Precedent
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-03-30T09:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/jpmorgan-banker-gay-divorce-from-stage-star-sets-u-k-precedent.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  equity analyst
 Peter Lawrence  won a U.K. appeal cutting to 1.37 million pounds
($2.19 million) a divorce payout to his ex-civil partner, former
“ Priscilla Queen of the Desert ” star Donald Gallagher.  Lawrence must give Gallagher 33 percent of their assets
accumulated during the 11-year relationship, rather than the 42
percent share awarded by a lower court, the  Court of Appeal 
ruled yesterday in London.  Under the decision, the banker will keep the London
apartment he purchased before the coupling, even though the
property increased in value from 650,000 pounds when the couple
moved in together in 1997, to 2.4 million pounds. Gallagher got
the pair’s second home, valued at nearly 900,000 pounds.  “If this were a heterosexual marriage, and he were the
female partner married to a wealthy City trader, he would have
walked away with a considerably greater sum,” Matt Baldwin, a
spokesman for Gallagher’s law firm  Boodle Hatfield , said in a
phone interview referring to workers in  London ’s financial
district.  The decision comes about a year-and-a-half after the U.K.
Supreme Court took the country closer to U.S.-style divorces
with a ruling on pre-nuptial agreements, which are often used by
wealthy people marrying someone with less money. The October
2010 decision, on a settlement between a wealthy German heiress
and a former investment banker for New York-based JPMorgan, said
such accords can be given decisive weight in U.K. divorces.  Deferred Bonus  In yesterday’s ruling, on what lawyers called Britain’s
highest-value civil-partnership divorce, the appeals court
reduced a cash payout to Gallagher to 350,000 pounds and
rejected his 90,000-pound share of Lawrence’s deferred bonuses.
In the U.K., gay couples can’t marry and are the only ones
eligible for civil partnerships.  Lawrence initially offered Gallagher 420,000 pounds to find
new housing and a 183,000-pound share of his pension, according
to the appeal ruling. According to the decision, a lower-court
judge called the offer, “quite unrealistic.”  Under the appeal ruling, Gallagher will keep the couple’s
home in the English countryside worth nearly 900,000 pounds, his
“pride and joy,” and receive 200,000 pounds of Lawrence’s
pension, the panel of judges said.  “This successful and affluent couple had enjoyed the use
of two properties whilst they were happy together,” the appeals
court said in its judgment. “Once they fell out, each needed a
home of his own.”  Seven Months  Lawrence, 47, and Gallagher, 54, together for more than a
decade, separated seven months after getting a civil partnership
in December 2007.  Lawrence paid Gallagher 1,000 pounds a month for living
expenses from November 2008 to March 2010, when the actor
secured a lead role in “Priscilla.” The play, about a
transsexual and two drag queens on a road trip in  Australia ,
closed in London’s West End in December.  “Don has still come away with far more than Mr. Lawrence
ever offered him and the outcome is much closer to Don’s
original proposal,” James Ferguson, Gallagher’s lawyer, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Lawrence initially sought to categorize their partnership
as a “dual-career relationship” that would have helped divide
their combined money based on how much they earned. The lower
court and the appeals court rejected that idea.  Division of Assets  “This couple clearly intermingled and combined their
available capital and income to enjoy a high standard of
living,” the appeals court said.  The civil partnership was treated as a marriage for the
purpose of dividing assets, the appeals court said in the
ruling. Britain is considering legalizing gay marriage after
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , who leads the  Conservative
party , said he backs such rights.  “The case was not in fact about the principles of civil
partnership, which are the same as on divorce, but about how to
divide assets which were largely brought into the relationship
by one party,” Sarah Higgins, Lawrence’s lawyer with Charles
Russell LLP in London, said in a statement.  The ruling demonstrates the importance of using asset-
division agreements before marriages or civil partnerships, said
Michael Gouriet, a lawyer with Withers LLP who wasn’t involved
in the case.  “One person’s view of fairness is different from
another,” Gouriet said in a phone interview. “If you want to
mitigate against that uncertainty then have a pre-nup.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  