-- Kenya to Increase Value-Added Tea Exports, Regulator Says
-- B y   G i t h u a   K i h a r a
-- 2012-03-29T13:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/kenya-to-increase-value-added-tea-exports-regulator-says-1-.html
Kenya , the world’s biggest exporter
of black tea, plans to increase shipments of processed and
packaged tea to boost foreign-exchange earnings, said Sicily
Kariuki, managing director of the Tea Board of Kenya.  A feasibility study on value-addition was started in
December and is expected to be completed by June, Kariuki said
in a phone interview yesterday from Nairobi, the capital. A
“special zone” offering investor incentives may be established
to handle processing and packaging, she said.  “We shall know what shape the designated facility will
take once a feasibility study is carried out,” Kariuki said.  Kenya produced 377.9 million kilograms (833 million pounds)
of the tea last year, earning the country 109 billion shillings
($1.31 billion). All but 12 percent of the crop is sold in bulk,
according to the Tea Board.  Processing and packaging facilities are needed in Kenya to
prevent tea producers from seeking support services outside the
country, said Peter Kimanga, chairman of the  East Africa  Tea
Trade Association. Some growers in the region have joined the
 Dubai Tea Trading Centre , or DTTC, which offers a tax-free
environment as well as processing and blending facilities, he
said.  Members of the DTCC in East Africa include the Chai Trading
Co., a unit of the Kenya Tea Development Agency,  Finlays ’ Kenyan
subsidiary and  McLeod Russel India Ltd. (MCLR) ’s Ugandan and Rwandan
units, the center said in an e-mailed response to questions
today. Total tea traded through the center was 8.5 million
kilograms of tea in 2011, while “value addition to tea” more
than doubled to 4.3 million kiograms last year, it said.  “The center offers warehousing, blending and packing
facilities under one roof,” DTTC said. “Increasingly, merchants
are using this to develop blend recipes specific to countries’
and market requirements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Githua Kihara in Mombasa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 