-- Korea’s Inflation-Linked Bonds ‘Overpriced,’ Says SK Securities
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-03-29T05:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/korea-s-inflation-linked-bonds-overpriced-says-sk-securities.html
South Korean inflation-linked bonds
are overpriced as new policies including free school lunches
will slow consumer-price gains, according to SK Securities Co.  Inflation  (KOCPIYOY) will ease to 2.9 percent in March as university
tuition fees drop 4.2 percent, several regions adopt free meals
for students, and the government expands support for
kindergarten payments, Yum Sang Hoon, a fixed-income analyst at
SK Securities in Seoul, wrote in a report today. That prediction
is lower than that of all nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
with a median estimate of 3.2 percent, compared with 3.1 percent
in February. The data are due April 2.  “Education fees account for 11 percent of consumer prices
in  Korea , and March typically reports fast inflation as the
school year starts,” Yum wrote. “This year, March inflation
will be slower, despite oil-price spikes, due to welfare
policies.”  South Korea ’s 1.5 percent inflation-linked bonds due June
2021 yielded 0.98 percent, compared with 4 percent on similar-
maturity conventional sovereign notes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The inflation linkers are overpriced, and the so-called
breakeven rate can fall to 280 basis points from 302, according
to Yum. The rate measures the gap between inflation-linked and
conventional bond yields and indicates expectations for average
annual consumer-price gains until the debt matures.  Inflation linkers typically have lower coupons than
conventional debt because the principal increases at the same
rate as the consumer-price index. Korean linkers pay interest
twice a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 