-- Krishnan’s Astro All Asia Said to Consider $1.5 Billion IPO
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-03-29T05:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/krishnan-s-astro-all-asia-said-to-consider-1-5-billion-ipo-1-.html
Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan is considering an initial public offering of the
country’s largest pay-television broadcaster,  Astro All Asia
Networks Plc (ASTR) , according to a company official.  Astro has been approached by investment bankers about a
possible share sale, though substantive discussions have yet to
begin, said the official, who asked not to be identified as the
deliberations are private. The Kuala Lumpur-based company could
raise about $1.5 billion in an IPO by as soon as the end of this
year, said two other people with knowledge of the matter.  Astro was taken private in 2010 by Ananda Krishnan,
 Malaysia ’s second-richest man according to Forbes. Two other
companies he bought out have since sold stock to the public
after being restructured. Mobile phone operator  Maxis Bhd. (MAXIS) 
raised $3.6 billion in a 2009 IPO after stripping out
international operations.  Bumi Armada Bhd. (BAB) , Malaysia’s biggest
supplier of support vessels for the oil and gas industry, sold
$882 million of shares in July last year.  Maxis, which was the country’s biggest IPO at the time, has
risen 26 percent from its offer price. Bumi Armada has surged 45
percent since its listing.  At $1.5 billion, Astro would be Malaysia’s third-largest
IPO, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petronas Chemicals
Group Bhd. (PCHEM) ’s $4.8 billion IPO in November 2010 was the country’s
biggest first-time sale.  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Sdn., Malaysia’s biggest
plantation company, and Integrated Healthcare Holdings Sdn.,
 Asia ’s largest hospital operator, are also planning IPOs in
Malaysia, people with knowledge of the matter said last year.  When a group led by Ananda Krishnan and Khazanah Nasional
Bhd. purchased Astro, the deal valued the company at $2.8
billion. The buyers planned to accelerate Astro’s expansion in
markets including China and  India .  Ananda Krishnan also took gaming and power group Tanjong
Plc and satellite operator Measat Global Plc private in 2010.
1Malaysia Development Bhd. agreed this month to buy Krishnan’s
power assets for $2.8 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  