-- Kroll Says Connecticut AA Is Company’s First Public-Debt Rating
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-03-29T17:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/kroll-says-connecticut-aa-is-company-s-first-public-debt-rating.html
Connecticut (STOCT1)  became the first
public-debt issuer to get a grade from Kroll Bond Ratings, with
a AA rank assigned to its $14 billion of general-obligation
bonds, state Treasurer Denise Nappier’s office said.  The mark is Kroll’s third-highest, matching the level the
state receives from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the state Aa3, fourth-highest. Fitch
affirmed its rating today.  “Investors would welcome new credit rating options,”
Nappier said in a statement. “Kroll’s entry into this market
can only enhance the evaluation of Connecticut’s credit by
encouraging these agencies to be more accountable to issuers and
investors alike.”  Kroll has been in discussions with other public-debt
issuers about ratings, Jim Nadler, president of the New York-
based company, said in a phone interview today.  “We’re talking to entities across all of the municipal
sectors, including project finance as well as G.O. debt and
revenue bonds,” he said. He confirmed that  Connecticut  was
Kroll’s first for public securities issuers.  Kroll was founded in 2010 and is a Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organization registered with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to the release.
The company was founded by Jules Kroll, known for starting the
private-investigation firm that bears his name. Kroll also rates
bonds backed by commercial and residential mortgages.  Connecticut requested the rating before a planned $555
million general-obligation bond issue in April, according to the
statement. That sale will be used for projects such as housing
and school construction.  In October, Moody’s, S&P and Fitch reached settlements
resolving claims by Connecticut that the companies unfairly gave
lower ratings to public bonds than corporate bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  