-- MTN Sinks to Three-Week Low as Turkcell Sues: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-29T15:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mtn-sinks-to-three-week-low-as-turkcell-sues-johannesburg-mover.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  fell to the lowest
in more than three weeks after Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS
sued its Johannesburg-based rival for $4.2 billion in damages
yesterday in a federal court in  Washington .  The stock of  Africa ’s largest mobile-phone operator dropped
as much as 2.6 percent to 135.91 rand a share, the lowest since
March 6, and closed at 137.40 rand in Johannesburg.  MTN bribed officials, arranged meetings between Iranian and
South African leaders, and promised  Iran  weapons and United
Nations votes in exchange for a license to provide cell-phone
services in the Islamic Republic, Turkcell alleged in its
lawsuit. MTN bought 49 percent of Iran’s second-largest mobile
operator, now named MTN Irancell, in 2005 after the country
ended talks on awarding the license to Turkcell.  The lawsuit is a risk for investors buying into MTN’s
strong growth in under-penetrated markets, Rob Forsyth, head of
industrials at Investec Asset Management, said by phone from
 Cape Town .  “Those high-risk areas are becoming a little bit more high
risk,” Forsyth said. “As a result it’s taking a bit of the
shine off the MTN story.”  MTN Irancell contributed 11 billion rand ($1.5 billion) to
the South African company’s 121.9 billion-rand group revenue in
2011, MTN said on March 7.  The company’s shares fell 4.4 percent this year after
 Nigeria ’s government removed fuel subsidies, cutting consumer
spending power in the company’s largest market, and after
Turkcell said on Feb. 3 it may file a lawsuit against the
company. Rival Vodacom Group Ltd. has jumped 21 percent.  The latest news helps “quantify the risk,” David Lerche,
an analyst at Avior Research Ltd., said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at  