-- News Corp. Pay-TV Hack Claims Being Examined by U.K. Police
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-03-29T16:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/news-corp-pay-tv-hack-claims-being-examined-by-london-police.html
London police are considering
whether to investigate claims that a digital-security unit of
 Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  in Britain engaged in piracy of
smartcard technology to topple a pay-TV competitor.  The subsidiary, NDS, began hacking smartcard codes in the
mid-1990s and leaked them online to give viewers free access to
programs by competitor ITV Digital, which collapsed in 2002,
BBC’s Panorama program  reported  March 26. The Australian
Financial Review newspaper reported similar claims this week.  “We’re aware of the allegations and considering whether
the claims made are a matter for police,” the  Metropolitan
Police Service  said today in an e-mailed statement. The
department said it can’t speculate on when a decision will be
made.  News Corp., based in  New York , is already dealing with
three parallel Met investigations of phone hacking, computer
hacking and bribery of public officials by journalists at its
British tabloids, including the now-shuttered News of the World.
U.S. authorities are running similar probes of whether the
overseas actions violated U.S. law.  The  BBC  program and the Financial Review both interviewed
former hackers who claim they were located by News Corp. and
hired to protect its pay-TV technology before being tasked with
targeting competitors.  Phone-Hacking Scandal  NDS spokeswoman Amy Lucas declined to comment on the
potential police investigation. The company, founded in Israel
and based in Middlesex,  England , denied the claims this week, as
did News Corp.’s Australian unit, News Limited. The parent
company is also planning a response to the reports, Chairman
Rupert Murdoch wrote in a message on his Twitter Inc. account.  The allegations increase pressure on  James Murdoch , the
deputy chief operating officer of News Corp. and chairman of
U.K. pay-TV company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , as he
seeks to move past the phone-hacking scandal. The 39-year-old
was a non-executive director of NDS when some of the alleged
smartcard hacking took place.  The widening scandal could also affect BSkyB’s TV license
in Britain. Ofcom, the country’s media regulator, is evaluating
whether James Murdoch is “fit and proper” to hold a broadcast
license on behalf of BSkyB, in which News Corp. has a 39 percent
stake. Ofcom said yesterday it will consider all relevant
evidence.  The phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to close the
News of the World in July and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4
billion) bid for full control of BSkyB. More than 30 people have
been arrested in the probes, including journalists at News
Corp.’s Sun tabloid and the former chief executive officer of
its U.K. unit, Rebekah Brooks.  NDS, now co-owned by London hedge fund Permira Advisers
LLP, is being sold to San Jose, California-based  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker of equipment for computer networks, for
$5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  