-- Nike Judge Orders Reebok to Stop Putting Tebow on Jets Jerseys
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/nike-wins-restraining-order-against-reebok-over-tebow-jersey-1-.html
Nike Inc., the world’s biggest
sporting-goods company, persuaded a judge to temporarily block
 Adidas AG (ADS) ’s  Reebok International (RBK)  from using quarterback  Tim Tebow ’s name on  New York  Jets-related clothing.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan granted
Nike’s request for a temporary restraining order on March 28, a
day after the Beaverton, Oregon-based company filed a lawsuit.
Reebok’s licensing agreement with the  National Football League 
ends tomorrow and Nike is to become the official supplier of
licensed NFL apparel.  Castel blocked Reebok from manufacturing, selling or
otherwise marketing New York Jets-related apparel with the name
Tebow on it. The order doesn’t apply to Denver Broncos-related
apparel with Tebow’s name. Reebok must recall unauthorized Tebow
products, the judge ruled.  In the lawsuit, Nike claimed it, not Reebok, has rights to
use Tebow’s name. The judge scheduled a hearing for April 4 in
 Manhattan  federal court.  Tebow, 24, helped lead the Broncos to the NFL playoffs
after taking over as the team’s starting quarterback last year.
He was traded to the Jets on March 21.  Tebow, a Christian who prays on the field after his team
wins, was named the most popular professional athlete in the
U.S. in an ESPN poll this year. His Broncos jersey was the
second-highest selling of all NFL players last season, Nike said
in the complaint. Public reaction to Tebow’s sudden popularity
has been called “Tebow mania.”  Nike said it plans to introduce its new line of uniforms
for all 32 NFL teams at an event in New York April 3.  Lauren Lamkin, an Adidas spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call yesterday seeking comment on the ruling. Mary Remuzzi, a Nike spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The case is  Nike Inc. (NKE)  v. Reebok International Ltd., 12-
cv-2275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  