-- Nomura M&A Team Said to Win Top Recruits for Global Advisory
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   D a n i e l   H e r t z b e r g
-- 2012-03-29T06:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/nomura-s-m-a-team-said-to-win-top-recruits-for-global-advisory.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s
largest brokerage, plans to post as many as 15 top recruits to
its mergers and acquisitions team in April to meet cross-border
deal demand, two people familiar with the plan said.  The college graduates are among 50 hired through a two-
year-old elite recruiting program promising triple Nomura’s
normal starting salary in an effort to raise the firm’s global
investment banking and trading competitiveness, the people said
on the condition of anonymity, citing confidentiality. The M&A
team has 140 members in Japan.  Nomura, which ranked No. 1 in Japanese takeover advising in
2011, is  hiring  bankers as it expects cross-border deals to rise
this year. The country saw a record $201.3 billion of
transactions last year, including 807 Japanese firms that bought
businesses abroad, bolstered by a strong yen.  “Our pipeline is pretty strong,” Kentaro Okuda, joint
global head of M&A at Nomura, said in an interview on March 19.
“We’re keen to meet the demands of Japanese companies trying to
acquire overseas assets.”  Nomura’s Tokyo-based spokeswoman Keiko Sugai declined to
comment on the hiring plan.  Japanese drugmakers, manufacturers and household product
makers are aggressively acquiring assets abroad, Okuda said,
without naming any specific company. Okuda also expects Chinese
companies to increasingly buy Japanese assets or seek joint
ventures.  Pick of the Litter  Nomura is bidding to prevent top students from choosing
overseas firms such as  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  that often offer higher pay. They’ll be guaranteed a 6.5
million yen ($79,000) salary before bonuses, compared with 2.4
million yen for regular hires, according to Nomura’s website.  The recruitment system was started in 2010 to match pay
packages offered by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to graduates
in Japan before its September 2008 bankruptcy. Nomura acquired
Lehman’s Asian and European units later that year.  Nomura hired 604 graduates last year, 40 of them under the
new program, and allocated about five to its M&A team. Global
investment-banking candidates under the new program were
required to score more than 860 on the  Test of English for
International Communication . About 2 million Japanese annually
take the TOEIC exam, which has a maximum score of 990.  Companies in Japan offer jobs to university students as
early as a year before graduation. The academic year ends on
March 31 and new recruits start work on the following day.  Okuda Promoted  Okuda, who is being promoted to senior corporate managing
director as of April 1 after capturing Japan’s top advisory
ranking for Nomura, is also targeting bankers from rivals to
bolster that business, he said. Okuda, 48, will be the company’s
youngest executive in that post.  He joined Nomura in 1987 after graduating from  Keio
University  and holds a MBA degree from the Wharton School at
 University of Pennsylvania . He became global head of mergers in
2008.  Nomura advised on 137 transactions worth $66 billion in
2011, topping Goldman Sachs, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The New York-based firm led the ranking as late as
October after advising on Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd.’s $22.5
billion merger with Nippon Steel Corp.  Fee Building  Along with its push to take advising market share from
global rivals, the Japanese brokerage plans to build up its
related consulting business to generate additional fee revenue,
Hiroyasu Koike, head of Nomura’s risk solutions department in
Japan, said in an interview on March 26. Nomura will also
provide other services relating to M&A, including bridge loans
and permanent financing, he said.  The country had 2,300 M&A deals in 2011, including overseas
acquisitions made by Mitsubishi Corp., Kirin Holdings Co.,
Terumo Corp. and Tokio Marine Holdings Inc., data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Koike’s group offers risk consulting tailored to specific
deals, including advice on currency hedging for cross-border
transactions, and last year was involved in half of Nomura’s
outbound  Japan  advisory deals. He’s seeking to win business from
all the firm’s international deals in 2012.  Nomura was the No. 3 adviser for cross-border acquisitions
by Japanese companies last year, working on 26 deals worth $23.4
billion, Bloomberg data show. So far this year, Nomura ranks
second with four deals valued at $4.3 billion. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. is No. 1.  “We are aiming to offer our clients total solutions for
their M&A activities, from the choice of an acquisition target
to financing in the equity or bond markets as well as risk
control in the post-merger period,” Koike said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Hertzberg in New York at 
 dhertzberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  