-- Novozymes Says Biofuel Tie-Ups May Extend to Demonstration Plant
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-29T09:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/novozymes-says-biofuel-tie-ups-may-extend-to-demonstration-plant.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s largest
maker of enzymes, is considering broader partnerships in
cellulosic ethanol projects to promote its technology as
competition in the industry stiffens, an executive said.  The Danish maker of enzymes used in brewing, detergents and
biofuel may get involved in pilot or demonstration plants if
there was an “appealing reason,” Peder Holk Nielsen, who
oversees Novozymes’s enzymes business, said in an interview.
Talks with potential partners are under way, covering various
levels of cooperation, Nielsen said, declining to give details.  Novozymes is looking to go beyond customer rebates as more
companies enter the field.  DuPont Co. (DD)  bought Danisco for $7.1
billion last year, expanding into the market of enzymes that let
washing machines clean at lower temperatures, or help extract
cellulose from crop residues in second-generation biofuel.  Royal
DSM NV (DSM)  announced a venture with Novozymes customer Poet LLC in
January, securing an enzyme contract in the process.  “We have been working with people around the world on
other models,” Nielsen said in the March 27 interview. “We
have a whole register of things we’re ready to do. But we will
not get involved in the manufacture of ethanol for the sake of
it. It’s not our line of business.”  DSM took a financial stake in a $250 million biofuel
project with Poet, and the Heerlen, Netherlands-based company is
seeking more such tie-ups. Novozymes declined as much as 3.6
percent on the day the partnership was announced.  Still in the Game  Novozymes, which spends about 14 percent of sales on
research, aims to maintain a competitive edge to retain clients
like Poet as larger diversified chemical makers and startup
companies enter the enzyme market.  Novozymes has a “firm” supply contract with Poet for the
project, irrespective of DSM’s involvement, said 55-year-old
Nielsen, who was appointed head of enzymes in 2007. The current
contract between Novozymes and Poet extends to 2017, and by then
it will no longer be mandatory that DSM remains the sole
supplier to the joint venture, according to research by ABG
Sundal Collier.  DSM Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma said in February
that Poet’s existing contract with Novozymes will be
“respected” and then phased out, with DSM supplying both the
enzymes and yeast for the Emmetsburg, Iowa facility. The
intention then is to license the technology to other ethanol
producers, and Poet’s other plants, he said.  Biofuel Talks  Novozymes is working with more than 50 companies which are
at various stages of development, Nielsen said. While some need
cash, others just need the latest enzymes, and the level of
involvement with Novozymes varies from just contact to “deep
collaborative efforts,” he said.  The executive declined to comment on the potential of
partnering with  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , cited as the best candidate
for Novozymes by DNB Markets analyst Rune Dahl.  Enzyme makers are seeking to help jump-start the cellulosic
ethanol market. The U.S.  Environmental Protection (1065)  Agency sets
annual mandates for the amount of biofuel that must be blended
into gasoline, and has had to reduce the target for the past two
years because of a lack of commercial production of the fuel.  The Danish company predicts small growth in the U.S. corn
ethanol market this year. Its revenue stream will be bolstered
by new products entering the market that increase the yield from
crops.  “With the way we view the world today, we wouldn’t play it
the same as DSM has with Poet,” Nielsen said. “There will
always be competition and the best technology will always win.
DSM have bought an entrance ticket with their joint venture with
Poet. Now they have to prove they have the technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  