-- Obama Says Oil  Profits Justify Ending U.S. Tax Breaks
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-29T15:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/obama-says-oil-company-profits-justify-ending-u-s-tax-br.html
President  Barack Obama  said oil
company profits justify abolishing $4 billion in annual oil and
natural gas subsidies and shifting those savings to research on
clean-energy fuels.  With the Senate scheduled to vote on the matter later
today, Obama again urged Congress to repeal the tax breaks. The
measure is opposed by Republicans, who have the votes to block
the legislation.  “It’s not like these are companies that can’t stand on
their own,” Obama said in prepared remarks delivered in the
White House Rose Garden. Last year, the three biggest U.S. oil
companies took home more than $80 billion in profit, with Exxon
Mobil Corp. collecting almost $4.7 million each hour, he said.  “And when the price of oil goes up, prices at the pump go
up, and so do these companies’ profits,” he said. “Meanwhile,
these companies pay a lower  tax rate  than most other companies
on their investments -- partly because we’re giving them
billions in tax giveaways every year.”  Energy company subsidies are a staple of Obama’s re-
election campaign rhetoric, meant to highlight the differences
between himself and Republican presidential candidates and cast
them as defenders of such spending as they propose cuts in
health and other social programs to reduce a deficit forecast at
$1.3 trillion this year.  In his Feb. 13 budget, Obama said existing tax “loopholes
and expenditures” for the oil and natural gas companies amount
to an unwarranted “preference” of these industries over
others.  Criticism of Republicans  At Ohio State University March 22, Obama ridiculed
Republican presidential candidates as the “flat Earth crowd,”
who’d “rather give $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies to  oil
companies  this year than to invest in clean energy.”  “We have been subsidizing oil companies for a century.
That’s long enough,” he said.  Republicans today cited a March 3 Congressional Research
Service report that found repealing $22.8 billion in tax breaks
over five years would reduce the tax breaks for independent
companies and, on a small scale, “would make oil and natural
gas more expensive for U.S. consumers and likely increase
foreign dependence.”  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, in
an e-mailed statement, said Obama’s proposal is a political
gambit in an election year and called the plan a “tax hike on
American energy manufacturers” that he’d oppose.  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Republican Speaker  John Boehner , said today in an e-mail that the president is giving a
speech “with gas prices at $3.92 per gallon, calling for policy
that would make gas more expensive and increase foreign
dependence on oil. You wouldn’t believe it, right? Yet this is
happening.”  Ending such breaks would reduce the  deficit  by $41 billion
over a decade, according to Obama’s budget for fiscal 2013.  Subsidies were worth $24 billion for the five largest oil
companies operating in the U.S., including Irving,  Texas ’s  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Chevron Corp. in  San Ramon ,  California , Senate
Democrats said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  