-- Ocampo Sees His World Bank Bid as Necessary Challenge to U.S.
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/ocampo-sees-his-world-bank-bid-as-necessary-challenge-to-u-s-.html
Jose Antonio Ocampo, a former
Colombian finance minister and one of three candidates to become
the next  World Bank  president, said challenging the U.S.
monopoly on the job will force changes to future selections.  A 59-year-old professor at Columbia University in  New York 
who also served as under-secretary-general for economic and
social affairs at the  United Nations , Ocampo said he is talking
with countries including  Brazil  to obtain support for his bid.
He and Nigeria’s Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala are
seeking to end a tradition that has a U.S. citizen head the
bank.  “Maybe it will not change this time,” Ocampo said in a
phone interview yesterday. “We’re putting up the fight so that
the system will be changed forever. We are planting the seeds
for change.”  Dartmouth College President Jim Yong Kim, the U.S.
candidate, on March 27 embarked on a tour to garner support from
 China  to  Ethiopia . In an op-ed piece in today’s edition of the
Financial Times, he pledged to continue giving these countries,
which have been driving global growth, more voting power at the
bank if he is elected.  The new president will take over an institution that lent
$57 billion last year, as private investors step up their
funding for development projects, turning the World Bank into
more of a technical adviser. The 25-director board will pick a
candidate by April 20 to replace Robert Zoellick, whose term
ends June 30.  Colombian Indifference  Colombia is not campaigning for Ocampo. Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry told reporters last week that the country
is already well represented in Washington by Luis Alberto Moreno, the president of the Inter-American Development bank.  The government’s lobby efforts are focused on getting Vice
President Angelino Garzon elected as the next director-general
of the International Labour Organization, Echeverry said.  Ocampo said  Colombia  set priorities and that “it’s not
against my candidacy.” He said his interview with the World
Bank board would take place April 10.  Brazil put forth Ocampo’s nomination March 23 at the
request of the Dominican Republic, whom it represents on the
multilateral lender’s executive board, a Brazilian government
official said last week, adding the country had not decided whom
to support.  “The nomination of Jose Antonio Ocampo is full with
substantial symbolism and is representative of the undeniable
fact that in the 21st century the world must recognize and
listen to the voice of developing countries,” Alicia Barcena,
the executive secretary of the UN’s Santiago, Chile-based
Economic Commission for  Latin America  and the Caribbean, wrote
in an  op-ed published  in Poder360.  Ocampo said his career, which includes other posts in the
Colombian government and at the UN, as well as experience in
both policy and academic work make him the strongest candidate.  “I have migrated across sectors probably far more than any
of the other candidates,” he said.  The major priorities for the bank are “the fight against
poverty and the contribution that the bank can make to global
issues” such as  climate change , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 