-- OECD Urges Europe to Strengthen Firewall as Growth Trails U.S.
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 2012-03-29T09:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/oecd-urges-europe-to-strengthen-firewall-as-growth-trails-u-s-.html
The  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  urged European finance ministers to
lift the limit on emergency lending to governments to bolster
confidence as the region’s recovery lags that of the U.S.  “In the euro area, we’re not out of the woods yet,” OECD
Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Paris. “Policy must be prepared to deal
with possible negative events,” meaning the “firewall still
needs to be further strengthened.”  European governments are preparing for a one-year increase
in the ceiling on rescue aid to 940 billion euros ($1.3
trillion) to keep the debt crisis at bay, according to a draft
statement written for finance ministers. European officials will
gather in Copenhagen tomorrow to discuss the measure.  “Everyone knows what needs to be done,” Padoan said.
“I’m confident this will be achieved so that markets will not
be disappointed as they have been a number of times last year.”  Padoan’s remarks marked the release of the OECD’s interim
assessment of the Group of Seven countries. On a weighted
average, the three largest euro-area economies, Germany,  France 
and  Italy , will shrink by an annualized 0.4 percent in the first
quarter and grow by 0.9 percent in the second, while U.S. gross
domestic product will rise 2.9 percent and then a further 2.8
percent, the Paris-based organization said.  G-7 Growth  Growth across the G-7 economies will be about 1.9 percent
annualized in both quarters, the OECD said. Canada’s GDP will
rise 2.5 percent in each three-month period, while  Japan ’s
growth will be 3.4 percent and 1.4 percent, according to the
report. The OECD predicts the U.K. economy will shrink 0.4
percent in the first quarter and expand 0.5 percent in the
second.  “The forecasts for the first half of 2012 point to a
decoupling of GDP growth between  Canada  and the U.S. on the one
hand, and  Europe  on the other,” the OECD said in the report.
The situation in Europe is “expected to remain fragile.”  The European economy suffered at the end of last year as
the region’s sovereign debt crisis damaged confidence among
consumers and governments in Italy, France and elsewhere sought
to raise taxes and reduced spending to reassure bondholders.
Budget cuts will continue to restrain growth this year, the OECD
said.  Rising oil prices may pose a threat to the recovery, adding
about 0.25 percentage point to inflation across the 34 OECD
economies and reducing growth by about 0.1 and 0.2 percentage
point on average over the next year, the report said.  The OECD said that central banks should be ready to
maintain support for economies as governments fight to restore
their financial strength.  “ Monetary policy  remains very supportive,” the report
said. “This policy setting will be warranted for a considerable
time to come, as will maintaining support through quantitative
measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  