-- Oil Trades Near One-Week Low on Supply Gain, Talk of SPR
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-29T12:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-on-stockpile-gain-talk-of-release.html
Oil fell to trade near the lowest
in almost a week in New York as western countries discussed
tapping emergency reserves, and after stockpiles surged in the
U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer.  West Texas Intermediate futures declined as much as 0.7
percent after French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said today
prospects are “good” for a U.S.-Europe agreement on a release
from strategic reserves. Crude fell 1.8 percent yesterday as the
Energy Department said crude inventories rose the most since
July 2010. There is “no rational reason” for prices at current
levels and  Saudi Arabia  would like to see them fall, the
kingdom’s Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said.  “The biggest reaction to the data was in WTI,” said
Gerrit Zambo, a trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich who
correctly predicted at the start of the month that prices would
rise. “We’ve had a small break in the uptrend. There’s
uncertainty about where we go from here. Prices aren’t high
enough to be scary, and not low enough to be a buying
opportunity.”  Crude for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as 69 cents to $104.72 and was at $104.84 a barrel
at 1:29 p.m. London time. It dropped yesterday as low as
$104.67, the least since March 22. Prices are 6.3 percent higher
this year and set for a second quarterly gain.  Brent oil for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $123.84 a barrel, down 32 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $19 to the
West Texas grade. The gap was $18.90 yesterday, the widest based
on closing prices in almost two weeks.  Strategic Reserves  The U.S. and Europe may reach an agreement on using
strategic stockpiles to reduce the price of oil, Fillon told
 France  Inter Radio today. He called the prospects “good” and
said not to expect any “miracles” in reducing  oil prices .  Yesterday, Industry Minister Eric Besson said the U.S.
government had proposed a release, and Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said France was waiting for a report from the
 International Energy Agency  before making a decision.  The IEA, the energy adviser to 28 countries, coordinated
the sale of 60 million barrels of crude and refined products
last year after supplies from  Libya  were disrupted.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David
Cameron  discussed the move earlier this month. France will only
use its oil reserve in coordination with other countries,
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said on  Europe  1 radio.  ‘Increasing Talk’  “There is definitely increasing talk about releasing
stocks, and now they are talking so much, it’s going to be hard
not to do something,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing director at
consultants Petromatrix GmbH in Zug, Switzerland.  The Obama administration hasn’t made a decision and no
specific action has been proposed,  Josh Earnest , deputy White
House press secretary. The option “remains on the table,” he
said yesterday.  Oil has gained this year on speculation Western sanctions
aimed at halting Iran’s nuclear program will disrupt Middle East
shipments. Negotiations on the nuclear program will resume next
month, the Persian Gulf nation’s Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi said yesterday.  “It is the perceived potential shortage of oil keeping
prices high, not the reality,” al-Naimi said in an editorial
published in the Financial Times, echoing comments he made to
reporters on March 20. “There is no lack of supply. There is no
demand which cannot be met.”  Technical Breach  Oil may extend losses in  New York  after settling below its
middle Bollinger Band yesterday, signaling a breach of technical
support, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lower
Bollinger Band, representing the next support level, is around
$103.45 a barrel today and coincides with a Fibonacci
retracement indicator on the weekly chart. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near technical-support levels.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose  7.1 million barrels  in the week
ended March 23 to 353.4 million, the highest since Aug. 26, the
Energy Department report showed. Supplies were forecast to
increase 2.6 million barrels, according to the median estimate
of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Imports climbed 13
percent, the most in four months.  Gasoline inventories fell 3.54 million barrels to 223.4
million and supplies of distillate fuel, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, declined 711,000 barrels to
135.9 million, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  