-- Oil Declines on Equity Drop, Reserve Release Discussion
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-29T19:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/oil-steady-as-france-says-reserve-release-more-likely.html
Oil fell to a six-week low as U.S.
equities dropped and  France  said governments are moving closer
to an agreement on a release from emergency stockpiles to curb
price gains.  Futures slipped the most this year and stocks dropped a
third day as  Standard & Poor’s  said  Greece  may have to
restructure its debt again. French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said the prospects of an accord on tapping strategic
reserves are good and the  International Energy Agency  said it’s
ready to act if supplies are disrupted.  “The European woes are rearing their ugly head again and
that’s having an impact on all the markets,” said  John Kilduff ,
a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “The market is also down on talk that seems
to confirm that there will be some sort of global strategic
petroleum reserve release.”  Crude oil for May delivery dropped $2.63, or 2.5 percent,
to $102.78 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
lowest settlement since Feb. 16. It was the biggest decline
since Dec. 14. Prices are up 4 percent this year and set for a
second quarterly gain.  Brent oil for May settlement decreased $1.77, or 1.4
percent, to end the session at $122.39 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate, the grade traded
in New York, rose to $19.61, the widest since Oct. 24.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent at 3:07
p.m. before paring the decline in late trading. The dollar
strengthened 0.2 percent versus the euro. A stronger U.S.
currency reduces the investment appeal of commodities.  Technical Support  “Equities are having a real problem today and the dollar
is up,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at
Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “We’ve broken
through technical support, which has accelerated the move lower.
Thursday’s low of $104.50 was key support.”  The May contract settled below its 50-day moving average
for the first time since Feb. 10. The average was $104.01.
Technical analysts use historical chart patterns and tools such
as moving averages to predict price movements.  Consumers can “reasonably expect” a reserve release,
Fillon told France Inter Radio today. He said not to expect any
“miracles” in reducing  oil prices .  Yesterday, Industry Minister Eric Besson said the U.S.
government had proposed a release, and Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said France was waiting for a report from the IEA
before making a decision. France will use its reserve only in
coordination with other countries, Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said on Europe 1 radio.  Coordinated Release  The IEA, the energy adviser to 28 countries, coordinated
the sale of 60 million barrels of crude and refined products
from reserves last year after supplies from Libya were
disrupted.  The Obama administration hasn’t made a decision and no
specific action has been proposed,  Jay Carney , the White House
press secretary, said today.  Oil reached $110.55 on March 1, the highest level since May
4, amid speculation that Western sanctions aimed at halting
Iran’s nuclear program will disrupt Middle East shipments.
Negotiations on the nuclear program will resume next month,  Ali Akbar Salehi , the nation’s foreign minister, said yesterday.  “There are worries about the release of strategic
petroleum reserves putting some downward pressure on the
market,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in  New York . “Tension with Iran seems to have
eased a bit as well.”  Lower Prices  There is “no rational reason” for prices at current
levels and  Saudi Arabia  would like to see them fall, the
kingdom’s oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said yesterday in an
editorial in the Financial Times. The nation can boost output by
25 percent immediately, he told reporters in Doha, Qatar, on
March 20.  “Al-Naimi keeps trying to talk the market down,” Bentz
said. “It’s clear what they want to see.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments through the middle of April, according to
tanker-tracker Oil Movements. OPEC will  export  23.99 million
barrels a day in the four weeks to April 14, compared with 23.36
million in the period to March 17, the Halifax, England-based
researcher said today in an e-mailed report. The figures exclude
Angola and  Ecuador .  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude stockpiles rose  7.1 million barrels  last week to
353.4 million, the highest level since Aug. 26, an Energy
Department report showed yesterday. Gasoline inventories fell
3.54 million barrels to 223.4 million.  “People are taking the idea of a strategic petroleum
release more seriously,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at
Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “We’re also seeing a
secondary reaction to yesterday’s inventory numbers. That
explains why WTI is the weakest on the board and gasoline the
strongest.”  Gasoline for April delivery rose 0.51 cent to settle at
$3.4006 a gallon in New York. The contract touched $3.4455, the
highest intraday price since April 29.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 519,363
contracts as of 3:19 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 568,804
contracts yesterday, 11 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  