-- Oil Rebounds From Year’s Biggest Decline on Iran Tension
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-30T07:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/oil-rebounds-from-year-s-biggest-decline-on-iran-tension.html
Oil advanced in New York, heading
for a second quarterly gain, as investors speculated that
sanctions on  Iran  will tighten and that yesterday’s decline, the
biggest this year, was exaggerated.  Crude rose for the first time in three days after the 2.5
percent drop, the most since December. For the week, prices are
lower after U.S. stockpiles climbed to the highest level since
August and Western countries discussed tapping emergency
reserves. A technical indicator signaled prices may have fallen
too far, and U.S. lawmakers introduced a bill seeking to expand
sanctions on Iran.  “Any rhetoric concerning the tightening of sanctions will
increase pressure on the region, and as a result you have to
expect it to extend to  oil prices ,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity markets
newsletter in Sydney. “We did break below the very important
support of $104 a barrel, and I think we’ve had a technical
reaction on the back of that.”  Oil for May delivery gained as much as 82 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $103.60 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . It was at $103.27 at 2:57 p.m.
Singapore time, up 4.5 percent for the first quarter. That would
follow a gain of 25 percent in the last quarter of 2011.  Prices slumped yesterday to $102.78, the lowest close since
Feb. 16. West Texas Intermediate futures are down 3.3 percent
this week for a third weekly decline, the longest losing streak
since August.  Bollinger Band  Brent oil for May settlement gained 34 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $122.73 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded WTI was at $19.50, compared with yesterday’s
close of $19.61, the widest gap in five months.  New York  crude settled below its lower Bollinger Band for
the first time in almost two months yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is at $103.40 a barrel
today. Bollinger Bands indicate support and resistance levels
based on volatility and are used by investors to determine entry
points for buying or selling contracts.  Prices fell this week after a March 28 report from the
Energy Department said U.S. crude stockpiles climbed  7.1 million
barrels  to 353.4 million barrels, the highest level since the
period ended Aug. 26. They were forecast to increase 2.6 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Reasonable Expectations  Prices extended declines yesterday after French Prime
Minister  Francois Fillon  said consumers can “reasonably
expect” a release from emergency petroleum stockpiles.
Governments are closer to an agreement on the use of the
reserves, he told France Inter Radio. The  International Energy
Agency  said it’s ready to coordinate a release if there is a
serious supply disruption.  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has raised concern about supply
by threatening to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for
a fifth of the world’s oil, in response to sanctions.  U.S. Representatives Ted Deutch, a Florida Democrat, and
Robert Dold, an Illinois Republican, introduced the Iran Energy
Sector and Proliferation Sanctions Act in Congress yesterday.
The measure is the latest in a stepped-up campaign to tighten
sanctions aimed at depriving the Persian Gulf nation of revenue
for its nuclear and missile programs.  The nuclear program is growing, breaching United Nations
resolutions amid an “alarming” escalation over the country’s
plans, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said in an
interview in  New Delhi .  New York crude may decline next week on concern that the
European and Chinese economies will slow, reducing fuel demand,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Sixteen of 26 analysts, or
62 percent, forecast oil will fall through April 6. Three
respondents, or 12 percent, predicted prices will rise and seven
estimated there will be little change. Last week, 57 percent of
surveyed analysts expected a drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  