-- Tokyo Aims for Millionaires With First Business-Jet Terminal
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-03-30T10:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/tokyo-s-first-business-jet-terminal-narrows-gap-with-hong-kong.html
Tokyo ’s first dedicated business-
jet terminal opens tomorrow as  Japan (JGDPQGDP)  tries to lure millionaire
tourists from China and investment from multinationals adding
Asian offices.  The facility at  Narita Airport , the nation’s biggest
international gateway, will have dedicated customs and
immigration counters, allowing travelers to bypass queues. The
center will cost 250,000 yen ($3,040) per plane, said Hiroaki
Suda, a spokesman for state-owned Narita International Airport
Corp. There will be 18 parking spaces.  “We want to prepare ourselves so business leaders from
overseas can come to Japan, adding to the country’s growth,”
said Kunihiko Muroi, a parliamentary secretary at the transport
ministry. “We also want Japan’s young small and medium-sized
business owners to be flying around the world.”  Japan  has also expanded Tokyo’s two airports to boost
international flights, begun building new roads to ease
congestion and drawn up plans to merge  stock exchanges  to help
the city compete with  Singapore , Hong Kong and  Shanghai . The
terminal may also boost the use of  business jets  in Japan, where
the fleet totaled 55 at the end of 2010, compared with 12,074 in
the U.S., according to the Japan Business Aviation Association.  ‘High Hopes’  “We have high hopes for the new terminal,” said Junichi
Nagano, president of Tokyo-based business-jet operator  Japan Jet
Charter Co.  “It’s a big breakthrough for Japan’s gateway.”  The company will add an additional plane by the end of the
year, as demand for business jets from overseas, such as China,
grows, he said. That would raise the operator’s fleet to four.  The new center is located about 100 meters from the plane-
landing spots at Narita’s terminal two. It’s opening alongside
wider expansion work at the airport that has boosted the total
annual capacity to 250,000 takeoffs and landings a year from
235,000. That will rise to 270,000 by the end of March 2013,
Kosaburo Morinaka,  Narita Airport ’s president, said yesterday.  “Access to airports and landing slots in Tokyo has always
been a problem,” said Ernie Edwards, president of planemaker
 Embraer SA (EMBR3) ’s executive-jet division. By contrast, Hong Kong,
Singapore, Shanghai and Beijing all already have dedicated
business-jet centers.  The facility at Narita, about 70 kilometers (43 miles) from
downtown Tokyo, will be only the fourth dedicated business-jet
terminal in Japan, following two in the Nagoya area and one in
the western city of Kobe, according to the  Japan Business
Aviation Association .  ‘Big Step’  “This was a problem in Japan, where general aviation
wasn’t a priority,” Francois Chazelle, Airbus SAS’s vice
president for corporate jets, said at a Shanghai business-jet
show this week. The new Narita facility “is a big step.”  Tokyo’s airports had 2,573 business jet take-offs and
landings in 2011, according to figures from Japan’s transport
ministry. That was little changed from a year earlier, even
after the March 2011 tsunami and nuclear-power crisis.  There were about 5,000 business-jet movements at Tokyo,
Nagoya and Osaka airports last year. A total of 2,387 flights
nationwide involved flights to or from the U.S.  South Korea  was
the second-most popular destination while  China  ranked third.  Slow to Adopt  The country, the world’s third-biggest economy, has been
slow to adopt business jets because of limited slots for
international routes and competition from high-speed trains and
scheduled air services domestically, according to Geoff Tudor,
principal analyst at Japan Aviation Management Research.  “Business jet operation hasn’t taken off up to now in
Japan because business jet operations were discouraged by the
Japanese transport authorities,” said Tudor. “Japan’s air
transport bureaucracy didn’t want to provide room for elite
niche markets. That attitude has changed.”  Planemakers expect business-jet use in China to surge, as
rising wealth spurs purchases. Cessna Aircraft Co. and Embraer
both have plans to build aircraft in the country because of
anticipated local demand. The country’s fleet may increase to
2,470 planes by 2030 from 150 in 2010, according to Montreal-
based  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   Airbus has sold its first corporate jet in Japan, David Velupillai, a marketing director for Airbus Corporate Jets, said
in an interview at Tokyo’s Narita airport today. The plane, a
A319 VIP jet that costs $68 million, was sold to an individual,
he said.  ‘Bright Spot’  “ Asia  Pacific is the bright spot in the corporate jet
market,” said Velupillai. “The opening of the business jet
terminal here is great. It makes it much easier to fly from
Tokyo to other cities in Asia, even places that don’t have
regular flight services.”  While the new Narita facility will ease arrival for
business-jet travelers, it will still take at least 30 minutes
to reach downtown even with a helicopter. For that reason,
operators are also demanding a dedicated terminal at Haneda
airport, which is located near the heart of the city.  “We should have business-jet facilities at Haneda, not
just Narita,” said Kazunobu Sato, vice chairman of the Japan
Business Aviation Association. “We’ll keep pushing for more
take-off and landing slots.”  Tokyo has fallen behind other Asian cities as a center for
regional investment. Singapore and  Hong Kong  are both more
competitive cities, according to an Economist Intelligence Unit
report. The Japanese capital was also placed seventh among 15
cities in terms of attractiveness for an Asian headquarters in a
 survey  last year by the European Chamber of Commerce in China.
Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore took the top three spots.  Hong Kong, China  Japan is also trailing in terms of growth. Its economy will
likely expand 1.5 percent this year, about half the pace
predicted in both Hong Kong and Singapore, according to
economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. China is expected to
expand 8.3 percent.  The new Narita facility may help Tokyo close the gap on its
rivals and also play a small part in reviving the nation’s
economy by easing travel for investors, said airport President
Morinaka.  “We built the business terminal for people who value their
time and security highly,” he said. “We want Japan to regain
its strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 