-- Monti’s Labor Law Marks Return of Political Risk: Euro Credit
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-03-29T07:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/monti-s-labor-law-marks-return-of-political-risk-euro-credit.html
Investors are facing the return of
political risk in  Italy  as Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s plan to
make it easier to fire workers divides his ruling coalition.  Unless Italy is “ready for what we think is a good job, we
may not seek to continue,” Monti said on March 26, prompting
concern the government won’t last until elections due by May
2013. He made the comments after leaders of the Democratic
Party, which has backed his unelected government, said they
would seek to reverse the change in Parliament.  The rate on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond has risen 27
basis points to 5.11 percent since March 20 when Monti unveiled
his change to the firing rules, prompting Italy’s biggest union
to call a general strike. The  yield difference  with comparable
German bunds was at 327 basis points today, up from a seven-
month low of 278 the day before the announcement.  The labor market overhaul is the fourth major reform passed
by the government and the most divisive as Monti seeks to revamp
an economy that has grown less than the European Union’s average
for more than a decade. Easing firing rules while the country is
in a recession with  unemployment  at a decade-high 9.2 percent
was a tough sell to unions and the pro-labor Democratic Party,
one of the three main groups that back Monti in the legislature.  Market ‘Sensitive’  “The labor market reforms are critical for Italy, and it
is equally no surprise that Monti is having a rather more
difficult time in getting agreement on these,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.
in  London . “He has already had to make a lot of concessions and
the Italian  bond market  does appear to be rather sensitive to
any negative related news.”  The labor overhaul comes after Monti passed a 20 billion-
euro ($26.5 billion) austerity plan to eliminate the deficit, a
package to boost competition and a set of measures to cut red
tape. All that and the  European Central Bank (EURR002W) ’s unlimited loans
to the region’s lenders helped restore confidence in Italy’s
ability to cut a debt of almost 2 trillion euros.  Since Monti came to power in November, Italy’s 10-year bond
yields have fallen more than 2 percentage points after two
months crisscrossing the 7 percent threshold that led  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek rescues. Italian bonds are the best
performers in the euro region this year, gaining 11 percent.  Debt Sales  Those advances have produced a plunge in Italy’s borrowing
costs. The Treasury yesterday sold 8.5 billion euros of six-
month bills at 1.119 percent, the lowest rate since Sept. 2010.
The Rome-based Treasury will auction 8.25 billion euros of five-
and 10-year bonds today.  “Despite uncertainties surrounding the development of the
Italian government structural reforms process, mainly on the
labor market, demand for Italian bonds at this week’s auction
has been solid,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at
Newedge Group in London, said in an e-mail.  The labor market reform passed March 23 by Monti’s Cabinet
allows companies to fire workers for economic reasons without
the threat of a court ordering their reinstatement. Employers
say the current rule, which allows judges to reverse dismissals,
makes them reluctant to hire when times are good because they
can’t easily shed workers when the economy softens. Companies
will no longer have an excuse to avoid taking on workers, Monti
said when he announced the plan.  German Model  Monti imposed the change after two months of negotiations
with unions and employers failed to produce an agreement. The
next day the CGIL called a general strike and  Democratic Party 
leaders began to talk of reversing the change in parliament.  “It’s inconceivable that there will only be economic
compensation,” Pier Luigi Bersani, the head of the Democratic
Party on whom Monti relies for backing in parliament, said last
week. “This is a fundamental point, otherwise the narrative
isn’t ours, it’s not European, but American. Everyone says that
things work better in  Germany ,” so how can markets object if
the German model is adopted, he said.  Judges in Germany have the power to reinstate workers for
economic reasons.  Monti’s government has remained in power through the broad
support of the country’s three main political parties, including
the Democratic Party with its 205 seats in the 630-seat Chamber
of Deputies. The other two, former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty Party and the Third Way alliance
back Monti’s stance on the firing rule.  The issue may be hurting the premier’s popularity. Monti’s
approval rating declined 4 percentage points to 55 percent after
his cabinet endorsed the labor bill, a poll by IPR Marketing
showed yesterday. Still, Monti’s rating compares with 22 percent
for his predecessor Silvio Berlusconi in IPR’s poll in November.  Draft Law  Monti has made some concessions by having his Cabinet pass
the labor changes as a draft law, rather than a decree, which
would have implemented it immediately and limited the debate in
Parliament.  “Given the strong opposition coming mainly from some trade
unions, it cannot be ruled out that there will be some changes
on this front,”  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  economists Chiara Corsa and
Loredana Federico, both based in Milan, wrote this week in a
note to investors.  The government has “absolute respect” for Parliament,
though won’t “accept changes that weaken the sense” of the
bill, Labor Minister Elsa Fornero told la Repubblica in an
interview on March 26. Monti told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday
that he hopes the Parliament will approve the labor bill by the
end of the spring.  “Monti will set a high bar on this issue because he’s
aware that they need to tackle the labor market inefficiency,”
said Fabio Fois, a European economist at  Barclays Capital  in
London. Parties “will have to find a way to compromise without
watering down the overall structure of the reform,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne  