-- Orange County Dropped Out of Obamacare. Why Haven’t More?
-- B y   B r i a n   C a l l e
-- 2012-03-29T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/orange-county-dropped-out-of-obamacare-why-haven-t-more-.html
After the U.S.  Supreme Court   review
this week  of the federal health-care law, state and local
governments might think twice before carrying it out.  The 26 states that brought the suit against the  Affordable
Care Act  were unhappy about some fundamental parts of the law to
begin with. A few states have even refused to take money tied to
its implementation.  But so far  Orange County ,  California , appears to be the
only county government brave enough to express its opposition by
refusing funds made available under the law.  Earlier this month, its board of supervisors voted to
reject a $40,000 grant to the county’s health-care agency for a
workplace-wellness program because the funding was tied to
Obamacare. Last June, the same board, which oversees the
county’s $5.5 billion annual budget, voted against a grant that
would have provided  $10 million  over five years for health
programs, including anti-obesity and anti-smoking efforts.  If the  Supreme Court  votes to strike down the law, or key
provisions of it, state and local governments might incur
expenses because federal dollars would no longer be available to
finance the programs they approved. Maybe that prospect will
encourage other local and state governments to follow Orange
County’s lead.  States Take Lead  Michael Tanner, a senior fellow at the  Cato Institute ,
which is on the front lines in fighting the federal health-care
law, pointed to the movement on the state level to block
Obamacare. “Florida, Wisconsin and  Kansas  have not only refused
to take money but returned money previous governors accepted
from Obamacare,” he said, “but this is the first I’ve heard of
it on the county level.”  Orange County, which has more than 3 million people,
remains one of the most conservative counties in the country and
the “last conservative bastion in California,” as described by
John Heubusch, executive director of the  Ronald Reagan
Presidential Foundation . All five members of the elected county
board are registered Republicans; even so, the vote on the
health grants was split 3-2.  The states’ efforts against Obamacare have drawn all the
attention, probably because of the focus on the state-run
health-care exchanges outlined in the law. “Saying ‘no’ to a
state exchange is absolutely critical to the success” of suits
against the law, said Diane Cohen, a senior attorney at the
 Goldwater Institute , while speaking to lawmakers at a meeting of
the  American Legislative Exchange Council  last year.  Georgia , for example, has not authorized the creation of a
health exchange while the Supreme Court considers the law, but
as the state’s insurance commissioner said to the  New York
Times , “Whether the mandate is struck down or not, Georgia is
under the edict to establish an exchange.”  The architects of Orange County’s action expressed their
frustration in a different way.  In an e-mail, the board of supervisors chairman, John Moorlach,  explained  his rationale for voting to reject the
funds: “How do I, in good conscience, take money from a
government that is structurally bankrupt? How do I, also in good
conscience, take money from a program that I believe is destined
to fail? Socialized medicine will fail, and will fail miserably.
When do grant and funding recipients collectively stand up and
say, ‘Don’t make us complicit in your poor fiscal management!’”  Brazen Stance  That’s a pretty brazen stance for a local elected official.
Even if the supervisors continue to turn down federal funds, on
a practical level county residents will still be paying for the
program and subsidizing health care elsewhere.  Tanner of the  Cato Institute  said he doesn’t know if their
principled stance really impedes Obamacare, but “it’s important
in another way.” When the case against the new health-care law
was making its way through the lower courts, the federal
government and states were moving ahead with carrying it out.
The assumption was that it was “harder for the court to reject
something that has already been implemented.”  But, he said, this was not the case. “The fact that they
were moving forward with it worked against their legal case,”
because some states balked at enforcing the law.  The more states and localities that reject the money, the
more support for the case against the law. Conversely, taking
the grants makes the case for Obamacare stronger. Accepting the
money “should not have a legal impact, but it does,” Tanner
said.  Shawn Nelson, the vice chairman of the board of supervisors
who voted to reject the grant funding, said that elected
officials elsewhere should follow suit.  “Clearly, if everybody would step up to the table and not
take money, it would make a huge difference,” he said.  (Brian Calle is a columnist for the  Orange County Register 
and a senior fellow at the Pacific Research Institute. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Europe’s firewall  and
converting the  U.S. truck fleet to natural gas .  Jonathan Alter 
on  stand-your-ground laws .  Jonathan Weil  on vital new  accounting
rules . Stephen L. Carter on  arguing about health care .  Michael
O’Hanlon  on helping  Colombian counterterrorism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Brian Calle in Orange County, California, at
 bcalle@ocregister.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 