-- Toronto-Dominion’s Clark in ‘Final Years’ as Bank Chief
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-03-29T15:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/toronto-dominion-s-clark-in-final-years-as-bank-chief.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief
Executive Officer  Edmund Clark , who turns 65 in October, said
he’s in his “final years” as head of Canada’s second-largest
lender.  “I am in no hurry to leave,” Clark said today at the
company’s annual shareholders meeting in New York. “My passion
is still incredible for this business and our brand.”  Clark joined Toronto-Dominion in 2000 through the bank’s
acquisition of CT Trust Financial Services Inc., where he was
CEO. He was promoted to the top job in 2002, replacing Charles Baillie. Toronto-Dominion Chairman Brian Levitt said the
Toronto-based bank will make announcements on succession when
appropriate, adding that the company hopes an internal candidate
will replace Clark.  “The board is confident that Ed’s successor will be
internal and will carry on with the same vision and values,”
Levitt said in Toronto, where the annual meeting is being
simulcast.  Clark’s legacy at Toronto-Dominion includes exiting a
structured-products business years before the financial crisis
and expanding into U.S. consumer banking. Toronto-Dominion spent
more than $25 billion on U.S.  acquisitions  since 2004, and now
has more locations in the U.S. than in  Canada .  Maine to Florida  Toronto-Dominion is now “the eighth-largest bank in the
U.S., with over 7 million customers from Maine to Florida,”
Clark said today, adding that the lender’s  market value  has
tripled since 2002.  Clark , who holds a doctorate in economics from  Harvard
University , is the highest-paid bank CEO in Canada. He was
awarded C$11.4 million in compensation for last year. This
month, Clark was named to Barron’s Best CEO List.  Clark reiterated plans to become the third-largest lender
in  New York City , where the company will open about 50 branches
during the next four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net .
TD CN <Equity> CN 