-- Most Japan Pensions Have No Investment Experience, Survey Shows
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-03-29T04:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/most-japan-pensions-have-no-investment-experience-survey-shows.html
About 90 percent of managers under
 Japan ’s employee pension system have no prior experience
overseeing assets, according to a government survey made after
 AIJ Investment Advisors Co.  was found to lose client money.  Only 2 percent of managers at the 558 retirement plans
under Japan’s employee pension fund system were certified as
analysts at a brokerage or financial planners, the  survey  by the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare showed. Those who had
worked at financial institutions made up about 3 percent.  The results underscore concerns that retirement assets in
Japan may be at risk after AIJ, led by Kazuhiko Asakawa, was
found by regulators to cover up $1.3 billion of losses from
wrong-way derivative trades. Pensions in the country are seeking
ways to bolster returns that have been hampered by low bond
yields and two decades of slumping stocks.  Fund performance rather than risk drove investment
decisions at employee pension funds, the survey showed. Forty
percent of respondents said performance was the most important
element for making an investment. Investment process and risk
management accounted for 10 percent to 20 percent.  Eighty-eight  retirement plans  said they had either invested
with AIJ in the past or currently have money with the Tokyo-
based asset manager. Pensions that never knew of AIJ totaled 24
percent.  False Reports  Asakawa this week told a parliamentary committee he ordered
the falsification of fund performance reports that were
presented to clients -- mostly small to mid-sized retirement
plans. AIJ lost 109.2 billion yen ($1.3 billion) from derivative
trades directed by Asakawa over nine years, the Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission said last week, after a two-
month investigation that led to a revoking of AIJ’s
registration.  The AIJ case has raised public concern about pension plans’
use of former bureaucrats, who may not have the proper skills to
conduct due diligence. Some 721 former government officials
oversaw the employee pension plans in a practice locally known
as “amakudari,” which means “descent from heaven,” the
survey showed.  Fifty-one pensions out of the 88 that reported investing
with AIJ said ITM Securities Co. recommended its funds to them,
while one was directly recommended by AIJ, the survey showed.
Tokyo-based brokerage ITM was ordered by regulators to halt
business for six months last week for allegedly selling the
funds with the knowledge that reports of their value were false.  Hideaki Nishimura, founder of ITM, this week told
parliament that his firm never doubted figures provided by AIJ.  Fifteen retirement plans invested in AIJ after hearing
about the firm from their peers, the survey showed. Five funds
were recommended to put money with AIJ by Tokyo Pension Research
Institute, headed by Isao Ishiyama, a former employee of the
Social Insurance Agency, according to the report.  The survey by the health ministry, which oversees the
pension industry, was based on responses from 558 of the 581
plans under the employee pension structure as of March 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  