-- Mothers Trump Regulators as Campbell Dumps Chemical
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-03-30T14:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/mothers-trump-regulators-as-campbell-dumps-chemical.html
(Corrects NRDC headquarters in seventh paragraph of story
published March 29.)  Campbell (CPB) ’s soup and Chef Boyardee
pasta are banned from Lori Popkewitz Alper’s pantry in Bedford,
Massachusetts, because the mother of three says her family may
be harmed by the chemical that lines the metal containers.  Alper is part of the growing opposition among consumers to
bisphenol A, also known as BPA, which the  National Institutes of
Health  says may affect the development of young and unborn
children. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration , which since the
1960s has said BPA is safe, must reassess by March 31 whether
the chemical should be forbidden in food and beverage packaging.  An immediate ban would hurt the $60 billion can industry,
cutting profits at can makers  Silgan Holdings Inc. (SLGN) ,  Ball Corp. (BLL) 
and  Crown Holdings Inc. (CCK) , said Ghansham Panjabi, a Roseland, New
Jersey-based packaging-industry analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.
Campbell Soup Co. and  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  aren’t waiting for regulators
to act and are taking steps to ditch the compound.  “In investment terms, it’s all about what the consumer
thinks,”  Alexia Howard , a New York-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, said in an interview. “Over time, we will see a
decline in the use of cans.”  BPA, produced by combining phenol and acetone, mimics the
female hormone estrogen and may affect the brain and prostate
gland in fetuses and young children, according to the NIH. It
enters the body when it leaches from food and drink containers.
BPA, which is used in coatings that extend the shelf life of
canned foods, was found by the Center for Disease Control and
Prevention in  almost all  urine samples taken from 2,517 people
in a 2003-2004 survey.  ‘Hazardous Effect’  “The more I’ve learned about BPA and its hazardous effect
on everybody, not only children, I have certainly changed my
purchasing habits,” Alper, a mother of three boys, said in a
telephone interview.  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , a New York-based
environmental advocacy group, petitioned the FDA in 2008 to ban
the chemical in food and beverage packaging. After getting no
response, the council won a court settlement in December forcing
the agency to reassess whether it should outlaw BPA. Douglas
Karas, an FDA spokesman, declined to comment on the petition.  Campbell, the world’s largest soup maker, thinks BPA is
safe, Anthony Sanzio, a spokesman for the Camden, New Jersey-
based company, said in a telephone interview.  “We also recognize there has been debate over the use of
BPA,” he said. “We are committed to making the transition as
feasible alternatives are identified for each product.”  Can Alternatives  Campbell’s U.S. sales fell 2.3 percent last year, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Howard’s research found young
people and households with children age 2 and younger were least
likely to buy canned soup last year. She cut the company’s
target price in December by $1 to $31 a share on the expectation
that BPA concerns will continue to hurt revenue.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , the maker of Chef Boyardee and Slim Jim
snacks, has removed BPA from some of its Hunt’s tomato products
and is seeking alternatives for other lines, said  Teresa Paulsen , a spokeswoman for the Omaha, Nebraska-based company.
Heinz has also started the move to BPA-free cans, said  Michael Mullen , a spokesman for the Pittsburgh-based company.  Silgan,  North America ’s largest can maker, gets 10 percent
of its revenue from Campbell’s and 2.6 percent from ConAgra,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. About 10 percent of its
products are BPA-free and it plans to continue switching to
alternatives, Silgan Chief Executive Officer Tony Allott said on
a Feb. 1 conference call.  An immediate U.S. ban on BPA in cans would cut Silgan’s
per-share earnings by 21 percent, according to Panjabi.  Cytec Interest  Robert B. Lewis, a Silgan spokesman, Scott McCarty, a
spokesman for Broomfield, Colorado-based Ball, and Michael Dunleavey, a spokesman for Philadelphia-based Crown, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Cytec Industries Inc. (CYT)  is among the companies poised to grab
sales from BPA makers. Cytec has seen more interest in its
saturated polyester used in BPA-free can linings, said Jodi Allen, a spokeswoman for the Woodland Park, New Jersey-based
coatings maker.  Food makers also are packaging more products in plastic
pouches, which are more appealing to young consumers, Sanford C.
Bernstein’s Howard said.  Beverage Makers  Still, beverage makers aren’t joining the move to eliminate
BPA voluntarily.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft drink
maker, isn’t changing its can linings, said Petro Kacur, a
spokesman for the Atlanta-based company.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the
world’s largest snack-food maker, referred questions to the
Grocery Manufacturers Association, a Washington-based industry
group, which said BPA is safe for use in food packaging.  Global carbonated soft-drink sales were $175.1 billion in
2010, twice as much as canned food, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg Industries.  About 4.7 million metric tons of BPA valued at about $8
billion will be produced this year, one-quarter in the U.S.,
according to a report by GlobalData, a London-based publisher of
business intelligence. Three times as much BPA goes into
polycarbonate plastics -- used in items ranging from plastic
bottles to DVDs -- as is used to make epoxy resins for can
linings and other applications.  The biggest U.S. producer of BPA is  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC)  Jose Ramon Tarzona, a spokesman for Sabic, didn’t respond
to e-mail requests for comment. Bryan Iams, a spokesman for
 Bayer AG (BAYN) , the second-largest producer in the U.S., said
assessments by the FDA and the European Food Safety Authority
show BPA is safe.  ‘Very Small’  “BPA poses no human health risks based on current exposure
levels,”  Gregory Baldwin , a spokesman for  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the
third-biggest producer in the U.S., said in an e-mail response
to questions. Can linings are “a very small percentage” of the
Midland, Michigan-based company’s epoxy-resin sales, he said.  Manufacturers of baby bottles and cups have already stopped
using polycarbonate containing BPA. The American Chemistry
Council, a Washington-based industry group, petitioned the FDA
in February to  ban  BPA in those products while reiterating that
the chemical is  safe  when in contact with infants’ food.  Alper, the  Massachusetts  mother, said it’s empowering to
know that consumers’ decisions can prompt change even when
regulators don’t act.  “It’s affecting the bottom line, which is what it really
takes to make a change with a big corporation,” Alper said.
“Moms have a lot of power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  