-- Republicans Draw Bright Line on Spending With Budget Vote
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-30T13:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/house-set-to-adopt-republican-budget-calling-for-spending-cuts.html
U.S.  House Republicans  drew a
bright line in the election-year battle over government debt,
passing a budget calling for more than $5 trillion in spending
cuts.  Lawmakers yesterday approved 228-191 a $3.5 trillion plan
to overhaul Medicare, slash food stamps,  Pell grants  and other
programs for the poor, boost defense spending and reduce taxes
on high earners. No Democrats voted for Ryan’s plan; 10
Republicans opposed it.  The proposal is doomed in the Senate, where majority
Democrats say it would take too much from lower-income Americans
while giving tax breaks to the wealthy.  Senate Democrats  have
said they don’t plan to pass a budget this year.  The debate will continue through the November election as
lawmakers battle over contrasting visions of what to do about
the government’s $1.2 trillion deficit.  “We are offering the nation a choice,” said House Budget
Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican and the
plan’s chief architect. “We think America is on the wrong
track. We believe the president is bringing us towards a debt
crisis and a welfare state in decline.”  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Budget panel, said, “Apparently the
problem is not big enough to ask folks at the very high end of
the income scale to contribute one penny towards  deficit
reduction .”  Money From Millionaires  “Because our Republican colleagues refuse to ask
millionaires to contribute one cent to deficit reduction, they
hit everyone and everything else,”  Van Hollen  said.  Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney called it a
“bold budget that directly addresses the drivers of our
nation’s spending crisis,” praising House Republicans for
putting “conservative fiscal principles into action.”  The plan is “grasping onto the same failed economic
policies that stacked the deck against the middle class,” White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in a statement.  Ryan endorsed Romney for the Republican nomination in an
interview today on Fox News Channel, saying the former
Massachusetts governor “understands exactly what we need to do
stop America from having a debt crisis.”  “ Mitt Romney  has the skills, the tenacity, the principles,
the courage and the integrity to do what it takes to get America
back on track,” Ryan said.  Deficit-Reduction Plan  Lawmakers rejected several competing plans, including a
bipartisan budget proposal based on the recommendations of the
chairmen of President Barack Obama’s debt commission. Just 38
House members voted for that proposal, modeled after a deficit
plan written by former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson  of
 Wyoming  and President  Bill Clinton ’s former Chief of Staff
Erskine Bowles.  The Bowles-Simpson plan sought to cut projected budget
deficits by $4 trillion over a decade through a combination of
tax increases and cuts to entitlement programs.  “Americans are screaming for us to take off our red
jerseys on this side, to take off the blue jerseys on that side,
and put on the red, white and blue jerseys of the  United States
of America ,” said Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio
Republican.  That vote was a setback for supporters of the Bowles-
Simpson approach who were divided over whether to even ask for a
vote. Some expressed concern that a poor showing would make it
harder to resurrect the plan later.  ‘Doesn’t Help’  “Doesn’t help,” Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, said of the House vote on the
defeated proposal. “That’s why I thought it was unwise to
advance it at this point.”  Asked why lawmakers haven’t supported the Bowles-Simpson
plan, Bowles said: “It’s politically painful.” In an interview
on the “Charlie Rose” show broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg
Television, Bowles said, “As long as people are worshiping the
great god of re-election, then we’re going to have a hard time
getting to the promised land.”  Republicans demanded a vote on Obama’s February budget
request, which was unanimously defeated. A third budget plan, by
a faction of conservative Republicans who said their party’s
plan didn’t go far enough to cut spending, was  rejected  136-285.  The centerpiece of the debate was the Ryan plan, which
would lower the deficit to as little as $166 billion in coming
years, primarily though cuts to scores of social-welfare
programs.  Cuts to Medicaid  Medicaid, the health-care program for 50 million low-income
Americans, would be cut by one-third. Pell college tuition
grants,  food stamps , welfare,  farm subsidies  and the operating
budgets of most federal agencies all would face reductions.  The plan would also cut taxes by $2 trillion, with the top
rate falling to 25 percent from 35 percent. It would compress
the number of individual income-tax brackets to two from six,
with the bottom rate set at 10 percent.  The plan would threaten many tax breaks, such as the one
letting homeowners write off their mortgage interest, and would
use that revenue to replace what would be lost through the rate
cuts.  The plan’s biggest change would be to overhaul Medicare. It
would offer seniors, starting in 2023, subsidies to buy private
insurance, with the premise that competition would drive down
health-care costs.  Concept Won’t Work  Democrats maintain that the concept won’t work, saying the
subsidies won’t keep pace with health-care costs, leaving
seniors to either shoulder bigger bills or forgo care. It would
send “our seniors to swim with the sharks in the insurance
market, hope that the insurance companies grant them coverage
for what they may need,” said Representative  Tim Ryan , an Ohio
Democrat.  Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, backed
 Paul Ryan ’s proposal.  “This plan doesn’t end the Medicare guarantee; arithmetic
does,” Flake said. “Unless we change something, unless we put
it on solvent footing, the guarantee is gone. Medicare will be
bankrupt under the current trajectory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  