-- Overhaul Seen Expanding U.S. Food Aid to 17 Million More People
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-03-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/overhaul-seen-expanding-u-s-food-aid-to-17-million-more-people.html
Buying food overseas to aid needy
nations and blocking its resale would let the U.S. assist an
additional 17.1 million people, Oxfam America and the  American
Jewish World Service  said in a report.  Overhauling U.S. aid programs would cut payments to U.S.
farmers while making the nation more effective in offering
assistance, which exceeded $2 billion for 65 million people in
2010, according to a study released today. The change wouldn’t
add to federal spending, a consideration as Congress debates
reauthorizing farm programs that set aid policies, said Paul
O’Brien, America vice president of Oxfam, a British-based relief
organization.  “Save lives. Save tax dollars,” O’Brien said in a
statement. “This is a no-brainer.”  Shipping food to poor nations, then selling it to pay for
other projects, reduced U.S. humanitarian purchasing power by
$219 million over three years, the  Government Accountability
Office  said in  a report  last year. Rules that require buying
food from U.S. farmers, rather than from providers closer to a
famine-stricken area, wastes money, the watchdog also found.  A shift to buying commodities in the region may not provide
the local-purchase benefits cited by advocates, said Bryant
Gardner, a Washington lawyer who represents ship lines. Costs to
deliver the food within a region are significant and would
remain even if U.S. farmers and shipping companies are cut from
the program.  “Ton for ton, ocean transportation is the most
economically and environmentally sound mode of transportation
available,” he said.  The U.S. provided almost $2.3 billion to alleviate hunger
and encourage development in third-world nations in 2010, more
than half of such donations worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 