-- How Ralph Nader’s Sins Set Trayvon Martin’s Killer Free
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-03-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/how-ralph-nader-s-sins-set-trayvon-martin-s-killer-free.html
Oh, Ralph. If  Ralph Nader  hadn’t
gotten under Lewis Powell’s skin, we wouldn’t be having these
arguments over whether the individual mandate in Obamacare is
unconstitutional.  And “stand your ground” laws -- like the one at issue in
the Trayvon Martin case -- wouldn’t stand a chance in the rest
of the country.  And free market conservatives would not be unconsciously
defying police and doing the bidding of the  National Rifle
Association .  Yes, like Edward Lorenz’s “butterfly effect” (where the
course of a tornado can be traced all the way back to the
flapping of a butterfly’s wings thousands of miles away), it’s
all connected, and in ways that should make us more conscious of
how we associate ourselves with other political insects.  The butterfly flapping was Powell’s seminal Aug. 23, 1971,
“confidential memorandum” to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce titled
“ Attack on American Free Enterprise System .”  No More Appeasement  Powell, two months before he was appointed to the  Supreme
Court , argued that 1960s-style attacks on free enterprise from
college campuses, the pulpit, the news media, liberal
politicians and consumer advocates like Nader (whom he singled
out as “the single most effective antagonist of American
business”) were “quite new in the history of America.” He found
it bewildering that “the enterprise system tolerates, if not
participates in, its own destruction.” Business, he wrote, had
responded, if at all, by “appeasement, ineptitude and ignoring
the problem.”  Powell’s recommendation of a “more aggressive attitude”
toward generating conservative books, articles, institutes and
television programs bore fruit beyond his wildest dreams. His
memo kicked off a sustained conversation among business leaders
that led to the creation of hundreds of conservative legal
foundations, think tanks and university programs.  Among them were the  Heritage Foundation  (where, ironically,
the idea of an individual mandate was popularized in the 1990s)
and the Federalist Society, which has been instrumental in
adopting out-of-the-mainstream legal ideas such as a narrow,
pre-New Deal interpretation of the Constitution’s  Commerce
Clause . Justices Samuel Alito,  John Roberts ,  Antonin Scalia  and
 Clarence Thomas  are all former Federalist Society members.  Families like the Coorses, Kochs, Olins and Scaifes
subsidize the spread of conservative ideas with hundreds of
millions of dollars. “Appeasement” has given way to fierce and
sustained counterattack that has already shifted the center of
political debate far to the right and may soon invalidate the
centerpiece of a president’s domestic program for the first time
in seven decades.  But has this principled support for free enterprise created
a gun-toting Frankenstein?  One of the Koch brothers’ causes is the American
Legislative Exchange Council, which was founded in 1973 by
Illinois State Representative Henry Hyde, conservative activist
Paul Weyrich and others to share legislative ideas in “task
forces” made up of legislators, conservative foundations and
corporations. Over the years,  ALEC  and its corporate lobbyists
have written hundreds of “model bills” and used their muscle to
enact them, sometimes verbatim, in dozens of states.  Under the Radar  Because fewer reporters cover state government these days,
ALEC has mostly operated under the radar. But there’s nothing
subtle about it: Corporations seeking contracts, deregulation or
other favors from state government fund the campaigns of
Republican politicians, and then write the bills with ALEC’s
help. All the state legislators need to do is show up and sign
before heading off for poker or golf, often with the same
lobbyists who just did their jobs for them.  Many national Republicans are also connected to ALEC.
Recently, Representative  Eric Cantor   admitted  that he hadn’t
reported a $1,350 gift from the organization.  ALEC began with a pro-business agenda but soon started to
write bills for the whole right-wing wish list. Now, with the
 help  of the Center for Media and Democracy, people are
connecting the dots.  Anyone following the Martin case should learn this
chronology: In 2005, an NRA dynamo named Marion Hammer pushed
through a “stand your ground” statute in Florida that basically
provides a legal justification for anyone to kill anyone if he
or she feels threatened. The statute says explicitly that one
need not retreat in dangerous situations, though police have
long recommended doing just that. The NRA invoked the principle
of the so-called “castle doctrine,” though the  Florida   law  does
not limit the use of deadly force to the defense of one’s home.  Previously, if you shot and killed someone and claimed
self-defense, you nonetheless were usually arrested for at least
involuntary manslaughter. You might eventually get off, but the
presumption was there was at least cause to interview possible
witnesses and investigate.  Hundreds of years of common law and common sense were about
to be upended. Shortly after passage, Hammer persuaded ALEC’s
Criminal Justice Task Force (led at the time by a Texas state
representative and executives from Wal-Mart and the Heritage
Foundation) to adopt the Florida statute as a model bill. Today
24 other  states  have “stand your ground” statutes, many of them
verbatim copies of the Florida law.  So even though police are opposed to empowering vigilantes,
would-be George Zimmermans in half the country are entitled to
do what he did to Trayvon Martin and escape arrest. No wonder
critics call them “Kill at Will” bills.  The chances of repealing the Florida law after the Martin
shooting are slim to none. In fact, the NRA-ALEC alliance is
still pushing hard to expand its reach.  ALEC has succeeded in restricting voter registration in
Florida and other states (hurting Democrats, of course). And the
NRA is fighting a group that wants to prevent employees from
keeping weapons locked in their cars in company parking lots.  That group is the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the recipients
of Powell’s famous memo nearly 40 years ago. What goes around
comes around.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Europe’s firewall  and
converting the  U.S. truck fleet to natural gas .  Jonathan Weil  on
vital new  accounting rules . Stephen L. Carter on arguing about
health care. Brian Calle on Orange County,  California ,  opting
out of Obamacare .  Michael O’Hanlon  on helping  Colombian
counterterrorism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 