-- Toxic Kids’ Chatter Kills Adults in Weird Plague: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/toxic-kids-chatter-kills-adults-in-weird-plague-books.html
In the strange world of  Ben
Marcus ’s novel “ The Flame Alphabet ,” language has turned
poisonous. Only children are immune to its toxins, and so
children, all of a sudden, are dangerous: Their singing and
shouting and jabbering can kill.  As the book begins, the narrator, Samuel, and his wife,
Claire, are in the process of fleeing their 14-year-old
daughter, Esther. Some readers may wonder why it took them so
long, since Esther is toxic even before she becomes literally
poisonous to her parents.  It’s with a mixture of resignation and love that her father
notes “our little girl’s great project of faultfinding -- with
us, with others, with the world -- that would never be
complete.”  Esther isn’t alone. One of the curiosities of “The Flame
Alphabet” is how awful everybody is to everybody else.
Apparently world catastrophe doesn’t bring out the best in
people.  The emblematic scene is a frosty sexual encounter that ends
with an affectless woman, Marta, turning, as she’s making her
exit from the room, and unaccountably clobbering her partner --
Samuel, the narrator. He isn’t nearly as taken aback as I was:  “I wanted to smile at Marta, and I believe I did, through
salty warm blood, but I had fallen to the floor, and she left my
room too quickly to notice.”  Jewish Mysticism  What does it all mean? Marcus is a much-admired but
challenging writer with a reputation for experimental fiction.
Enigmatic scenes like that one and the mysterious details of the
virus (the faces of its victims shrink on the skull; a hard knot
under the tongue precedes the loss of speech) make you think
that the author has got to be driving at something.  So does an emphatic current of Jewish mysticism. The title
alludes to the ancient Jewish prohibition against uttering the
name of God:  “The flame alphabet was the word of God, written in fire,
obliterating to behold,” Samuel explains. And since, according
to one interpretation, “the entire alphabet comprises God’s
name,” then “all words reference God ... Therefore the
language itself was, by definition, off-limits.”  Or maybe it’s not language -- maybe understanding itself is
the culprit. “Spreading messages dilutes them,” Samuel
believes. “Even understanding them is a compromise.”  So one of the things he and Claire leave their home with is
a stash of anti-comprehension pills. “Language,” Marcus writes,
“is another name for coffin.”  Thomas Pynchon  In its mysteriousness, “The Flame Alphabet” brings to
mind Thomas Pynchon’s great short novel of 1966, “ The Crying of
Lot 49 .” Both books construct a metaphor so sprawling and
elaborate (in the case of Pynchon it was an underground
communications network) that in the end you can’t really tell
what it’s a metaphor for. They prod you to search for meaning
and then, diabolically, frustrate the search.  For all the abstraction of its arguments, physically “The
Flame Alphabet” is very specific. It’s full of nouns like
“rotting, “spoiling,” “putrefaction” and adjectives like
“rancid,” “rusted,” “clammy.” Nothing is very clean or
comfortable or fun.  Or funny. Except for a bitter sarcasm in some of the
exchanges, the book is marked by a complete absence of humor --
unless you count a bleakness so extreme that it sometimes goes
over the edge into comic (as in that encounter with Marta).
Whether this effect is intentional, though, I couldn’t say.  There’s a weird kind of integrity at play here (everything
about the book is weird), which makes “The Flame Alphabet”
easier to admire than to like. One thing Marcus could have
learned from Pynchon is the value of a few dumb jokes.  “The Flame Alphabet” is published by  Knopf (BTG)  (289 pages,
$25.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 