-- Lloyds Shunned With RBS as Investors Burden U.K. With Losses
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-03-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/lloyds-rbs-shunned-by-investors-leaving-u-k-resigned-to-losses.html
The U.K. must accept substantial
losses on its stakes in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  if the government is to sell off its
holdings within five years, say Britain’s biggest investors.  As the government sounds out Middle East wealth funds about
buying shares in the banks, the investors closer to home needed
to take the lenders back into private hands say taxpayer losses,
now at 30 billion pounds ($47.7 billion), are inevitable.  “The Treasury has had to admit the prospect of making a
profit on those stakes is now secondary to getting the best
value for the taxpayer,” said Richard Black, who helps manage
63.3 billion pounds at  Legal & General Investment Management ,
the biggest investor in the U.K. stock market. “The reality is
they aren’t going to pay dividends any time soon. Without
dividends, they’re quite unappealing prospects.”  With shares in the two lenders trading at about half the
price at which the government bought them in 2008 and 2009,
taxpayers are sitting on a paper loss almost equivalent to the
country’s annual military budget. That loss may have to be
realized if the government wants to lower the 2.8 billion-pound
annual interest costs of servicing the bailout at a time of cuts
across public services.  Taxpayers injected 45.5 billion pounds into Edinburgh-based
RBS and 20.3 billion pounds into London-based Lloyds during the
financial crisis in the biggest bank bailout in history. RBS
traded at 27.8 pence at yesterday’s close in  London , almost half
the 50.2 pence price the government paid. Lloyds trades at 33.4
pence, compared with the taxpayers’ 73.6 pence price.  U.K. Economy Shrinking  Weighed down by bad loans from the housing boom in the
mid-2000s, a U.K. economy on the brink of recession and about
240 billion pounds of assets still to dispose of, both RBS and
Lloyds are struggling to convince investors that they’ve turned
their business around.  “These banks have still got a lot of deleveraging of their
balance sheets yet to do and so it’s very difficult to know what
size they will turn out to be in the end and their ongoing
profitability,” said Jane Coffey, head of equities at  Royal
London Asset Management Ltd. , which manages 8 billion pounds of
U.K. stocks and is underweight Lloyds and RBS shares.  “It’s
going to take a long time for them to get into the shape that
they should be in going forward.”  A year ago the government was planning to return RBS to
majority private ownership by the end of 2014, creating the
opportunity for tax cuts before the next general election in
2015. At the time,  Eric Daniels , Lloyds’s former chief executive
officer, said the taxpayer would get a “handsome return” on
its investment.  Middle East Investors  RBS’s shares have  fallen  32 percent since while Lloyds’s
have slipped 43 percent as the European sovereign debt crisis
roiled financial markets and undermined economic growth. Even
so, the government held talks with investors including Abu Dhabi
sovereign wealth funds about a possible sale of part of its 82
percent stake in RBS, two people with knowledge of the situation
said this week.  The U.K. could start selling its stake in RBS at a loss,
Jim O’Neil, head of market investments at  U.K. Financial
Investments Ltd. , which manages the government’s holdings in the
banks, told a House of Commons Treasury committee on March 14.
Business Secretary Vince Cable said last month that the
government should use part of RBS to create a business lender to
support exports and industrial projects.  Spokesmen at RBS, UKFI and Lloyds declined to comment.  “The government would like to have something positive to
show for putting taxpayer’s money in,” said James Ferguson,
chief strategist at  Westhouse Securities Ltd.  in London. “But I
don’t think the government will get their money back,
personally, because RBS is still sitting on a lot of toxic
assets.”  ‘Time Bomb’  As part of his attempt to return the bank to private
ownership, RBS CEO Stephen Hester, 51, has shrunk the company’s
non-core division, the parts of the business designated for sale
or winding down, by more than 60 percent to less than 100
billion pounds and cut about 35,000 jobs since he took over from
 Fred Goodwin  in 2008. Hester said earlier this year his job is
equivalent to defusing the “biggest time bomb in history.”  “Hester was dealt an awful hand of cards and he’s played
it as well as he could do,” said Julian Chillingworth, who
helps manage 16 billion pounds at London’s  Rathbone Brothers
Plc . “It’s going to be a long road to recovery. It’s going to
take five years plus to turn these banks around.”  Rathbone, which was founded in 1741, is underweight Lloyds
and RBS shares.  No Dividends  Lloyds reduced its non-core assets by 53 billion pounds
last year to about 141 billion pounds, closed overseas units to
focus on the U.K. and announced about 43,000 job cuts. RBS is
seen by investors as being ahead in the restructuring of its
business as it started earlier, analysts say.  Still, neither bank has paid a  dividend  since 2008 and both
posted wider-than-estimated full-year losses last year and
downgraded their profitability targets on the anemic outlook for
the U.K. economy, three years after the financial crisis.  Britain’s economy probably slipped back into recession in
the first quarter, shrinking 0.4 percent following a 0.3 percent
contraction in the last three months of 2011, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said yesterday.  No dividends “restricts the potential investor base
because you’re not opening the stock up to income funds, the
majority of which would want to see some sort of yield,” said
Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital Group in Liverpool.  ‘Big Discount’  “You get paid almost 8 percent to own Vodafone or get 0
percent for these two with just the hope the share price goes up
at some point,” said Black, who manages Legal & General’s  U.K.
Equity Income Fund (LGUEIIA) . “That means you want to have a big discount
on what you think the fair price is because you’re not getting
any dividend to compensate you in the interim.”  Legal & General holds RBS and Lloyds stock through its
index tracker funds.  Not all institutional investors are negative on the banks’
prospects. Trading at between 0.5 and 0.6 of their book value,
or assets minus liabilities, the stocks present an
“interesting” opportunity to  Schroders Plc (SDR) , the third-biggest
investor in RBS and sixth largest in Lloyds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you just look at the amount of progress they’ve made
running down non-core assets that would lead you to believe
we’re past the darkest days,” said Jessica Ground, a  fund
manager  at Schroders who helps manage 17 billion pounds in U.K.
equities. “The fact that the shares are trading at such a
discount to book value makes them interesting to us.”  Others remain wary of what assets will remain on RBS and
Lloyds’s balance sheets, whether they are priced correctly and
how much the banks will able to sell them for now that they have
made the easier disposals.  “It’s still impossible to know with any confidence what is
really hidden in the balance sheets given their sheer scale,”
said Edward Firth, a banking analyst at  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  in
London. “Everyone accepts that there are toxic assets in there,
and nobody -- including the management -- really knows what they
are worth. While the balance sheet is infected, it is a very
brave individual that would bet the house.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  