-- Pakistan Seeks Russia’s Help to Finance Iran Gas Pipeline
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-03-29T11:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/pakistan-sending-team-to-russia-to-seek-iran-gas-pipeline-help.html
Officials from  Pakistan ’s petroleum
ministry will travel to  Russia  early next month for talks with
 Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  as the South Asian country seeks financial and
technical help to revive a stalled gas pipeline from Iran.  Pakistan is exploring different options and a visit by
technical experts to Russia is part of those efforts, Abdul
Basit, a spokesman for Pakistan’s foreign ministry, told
reporters in Islamabad today. The nation is struggling to
finance the $1.3 billion pipeline, already delayed by a decade,
in the face of sanctions over  Iran’s nuclear program .  New sources are crucial to Pakistan’s attempts at easing
its worst energy crisis as power blackouts for as long as 18
hours a day in major cities crimp economic growth and trigger
street protests against Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani’s
government. The $175 billion economy grew 2.4 percent in the
year through June 2011, one of the smallest expansions in a
decade, according to official data.  The ministry of finance on March 13 said a consortium of
 Industrial and Commercial Bank of China  and Pakistan’s  Habib
Bank Ltd. (HBL)  is showing “less interest” in the pipeline project.
The country may impose a tax on consumers, or seek government-
to-government arrangements with Iran,  China  and Russia to build
the pipeline, the ministry said the same day.  Alternative Project  Pakistan is responsible for completion of the pipeline by
2014, a deadline agreed by the two countries in 2010 after
political and security concerns delayed the project. Under the
agreement, Iran will provide about 21.5 million cubic meters of
gas a day to Pakistan for 25 years. The deal can be extended by
five years and volume may rise to 30 million cubic meters a day.  U.S. President Barack Obama has  publicly supported  an
alternative  gas pipeline  project, from Turkmenistan to
Afghanistan, Pakistan and India, that would bypass Iran. The
U.S. and its allies have tightened sanctions against Iran saying
the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program is a cover to make
weapons, while the Persian Gulf country has said it is only for
peaceful civilian purposes.  Pakistan’s gas shortfall is forecast to reach 2.22 billion
cubic feet a day in the fiscal year that began July 1, according
to government data. The pipeline will carry gas from the South
Pars field via Baluchistan province in southwest Pakistan to an
off-take point in Nawabshah. South Pars, which extends from
Qatar’s North Field, is the largest known gas deposit in the
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  