-- Pesticides May Quell Queen Bees and Hurt Homing Abilities
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/pesticides-may-quell-queen-bees-and-hurt-homing-abilities.html
Bee colonies exposed to a common
class of pesticides may produce fewer queens and the chemicals
may lead to insects’ deaths by impairing homing abilities,
according to two studies in the journal  Science .  Bumblebee colonies fed doses of imidacloprid, a
neonicotinoid insecticide routinely used on crops including corn
and rapeseed, produced about 85 percent fewer queen bees than
unexposed colonies, researchers found in a study led by  Penelope
Whitehorn  of  Scotland ’s University of Stirling that was
published today.  A separate study led by Mickael Henry of  France ’s  National
Institute for Agricultural Research  found honeybees given a dose
of thiamethoxam, another neonicotinoid, were about twice as
likely as untreated bees to die away from the hives, which the
researchers said suggested the chemical interfered with the
insects’ ability to find their way home.  Beekeepers in countries from  China  to the U.S. have
observed large-scale honeybee deaths in recent years that may be
linked to multiple factors, including pesticides, the  United
Nations ’ environmental agency said last year. The die-off may
have wider implications as 71 of the about 100  crops  that
provide 90 percent of the world’s food are bee-pollinated,
according to the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization .  ‘Urgent Need’  “Given the scale of use of neonicotinoids, we suggest they
may be having a considerable negative impact on wild bumble bee
populations across the developed world,” Whitehorn wrote in her
study. “We suggest that there is an urgent need to develop
alternatives to the widespread use of neonicotinoid pesticides
on flowering crops wherever possible.”  The studies led by Whitehorn and Henry add to evidence of
the pesticides’ negative effects on bees and possible links to
 colony collapse disorder , characterized by the sudden
disappearance of worker bee populations. Corn planting using
seeds coated with neonicotinoid insecticides was linked to
honeybee deaths, according to a study by researchers at Italy’s
University of Padova published earlier this month.  In the bumblebee study, the insects were divided into three
groups, two of which were fed pollen and sugar water with
amounts of imidacloprid similar to levels found in rapeseed
grown from insecticide-coated seed, the researchers wrote.
Bumblebees are valuable pollinators of crops and wild flowers
and vital components of ecosystems, according to Whitehorn.  ‘Widespread’ Effects  Imidacloprid is registered for use on more than 140 crops
in more than 120 countries, and the effects of the insecticide
on wild bumblebee reproduction are likely to be “widespread and
significant,” the U.K. researchers wrote. Global sales of
neonicotinoid-class pesticides exceed $1 billion a year, they
said in a separate statement.  In the French study, researchers fed foraging honeybees a
sugar solution with a non-lethal dose of thiamethoxam similar to
levels found in the field. They glued a radio-identification
chip to 653 treated and untreated bees for tracking and released
the insects away from the hive in four experiments.  “Our study clearly demonstrates that exposure of foragers
to non-lethal but commonly encountered concentrations can impact
forager survival, with potential contributions to collapse
risk,” Henry wrote in the study.  Computer simulations showed deaths from impaired homing
combined with natural mortality could reduce bee-hive
populations, according to the study.  Regulatory Questions  “Our study raises important issues regarding pesticide
authorization procedures,” Henry said in a statement released
by Science. Rules “mostly require manufacturers to ensure that
doses encountered on the field do not kill bees, but they
basically ignore the consequences of doses that do not kill them
but may cause behavioral difficulties.”  Other factors that may cause the collapse of colonies
include new or emerging diseases such as Israeli acute paralysis
virus, poor nutrition and bee management stress, according to
the U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency .  The research led by Whitehorn was supported by Agralan
Ltd., an Ashton Keynes, England-based supplier of gardening
products that provided the bumblebee colonies. The study led by
Henry was funded by a  European Union  program for French
beekeeping coordinated by the French Ministry of Agriculture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  