-- PetroChina Plans ‘Large Scale’ Acquisitions to Expand Output
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-03-30T01:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/petrochina-annual-profit-misses-estimates-after-refining-losses.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , surpassing  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO Rosneft as the world’s biggest publicly
traded crude producer last year, plans to buy additional assets
to ramp up output and expand into overseas markets.  “We will buy assets on a large scale,” Chairman Jiang Jiemin told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday. “Our focus is on
the Chinese market, but in the long term, we will expand outside
China,” he said, after the Beijing-based company posted fourth-
quarter profit that missed estimates because of losses from
selling fuels at prices controlled by the government.  PetroChina plans to invest at least $60 billion this decade
in global oil and natural gas assets to increase the share of
overseas output to half of its total, Jiang said in 2010.
Production outside  China  rose 18 percent last year, five times
faster than that of domestic fields, according to data from the
company’s earnings statement.  “The goal makes sense, as almost all of PetroChina’s
domestic oilfields are mature and have little room for growth,”
said Simon Powell, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian Oil and Gas
Research at CLSA Ltd. “All of the incremental growth will be
from overseas sites.”  Overseas oil and gas production reached 120.8 million
barrels last year, less than a tenth of the total of 1.3 billion
barrels, or 3.5 million barrels a day. Assuming daily output of
4 million barrels in six to seven years, PetroChina’s overseas
fields have to account for about 2 million, equal to the
production of  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Powell said.  PetroChina dropped 7.9 percent in the past year in Hong
Kong trading, compared with the 13 percent decline in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The stock rose 0.2 percent to
HK$10.76 as of 9:36 a.m. local time.  Global Markets  The unit of state-controlled China National Petroleum Corp.
bought a 50 percent share in the European refining operations of
Ineos Group Holdings Plc for $1.02 billion last year, building
on its acquisitions of processing plants in Singapore and  Japan .  “The world has 11 countries with populations of more than
100 million, and we are studying their markets,” Jiang said,
without identifying them. “In five to eight years, our overseas
business will account for about 50 percent of the company’s oil
and gas production, reserves, revenue and profit.”  Not all of PetroChina’s deals were successful. In June,
PetroChina walked away from a C$5.4 billion ($5.4 billion) bid
for Encana Corp.’s Cutbank Ridge gas assets after failing to
agree on the price. The acquisition would have been its largest
overseas purchase.  Earnings Slump  Fourth-quarter net income slumped 26 percent to 29.6
billion yuan ($4.7 billion), according to calculations made by
subtracting nine-month earnings from the full-year profit. That
compares with the mean estimate of 35.4 billion yuan in a survey
of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Mao Zefeng, a Beijing-
based spokesman for the world’s third-largest company by market
value, declined to confirm the figure.  Full-year profit dropped 5 percent to 133 billion yuan,
also trailing estimates, after crude rose at almost triple the
pace of China’s fuel prices last year. The government considers
changing fuel prices when the 22-day moving average of a basket
of crude varieties gains more than 4 percent from the last
revision under a system introduced in December 2008.  “PetroChina still lives in the mercy of government policy
changes in the refining sector,” CLSA’s Powell said.  The company’s refining segment posted an operating loss of
60.1 billion yuan last year, compared with a loss of 37.6
billion yuan at rival Sinopec, as  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (386)  is known.  Oil Output  Overall profit declined at PetroChina while Sinopec posted
a 2 percent gain. Hong Kong-listed  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , which doesn’t
refine oil, reported a 29 percent jump. Exxon and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, not bound by government fuel-pricing rules, reported
increases of 35 percent and 54 percent, respectively.  PetroChina’s oil output rose 3.3 percent to 886.1 million
barrels last year, or 2.43 million a day. That compares with
 Rosneft  and Exxon’s daily production of 2.38 million barrels and
2.31 million barrels, respectively. Unlisted Saudi Arabian Oil
Co. produces almost 10 million barrels a day.  While PetroChina is the world’s largest publicly traded
crude producer, the company still has “huge” potential to
expand its oil output, Jiang said.  Gas production increased 7.9 percent to 2.4 trillion cubic
feet (68 billion cubic meters) last year, PetroChina said. “In
three to five years, our natural gas production could easily
reach 120 billion cubic meters,” Jiang told reporters.  Shale Gas  Chinese companies are acquiring overseas shale-gas assets
to gain expertise in developing the resource in China, holder of
the world’s largest reserves of the fuel. PetroChina, which
bought a 20 percent stake in Shell’s Groundbirch shale-gas
project in British Columbia last month, said it will
“actively” develop coal-seam gas and shale gas.  PetroChina plans to produce 1 billion cubic meters of shale
gas by 2015, President Zhou Jiping told reporters yesterday.
China aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters annually by 2015
and ramp up output to between 60 billion and 100 billion by the
end of the decade.  “The key is to master shale-gas technologies,” Zhou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  