-- Pfizer Judge Certifies Class Action Over Celebrex, Bextra
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/pfizer-judge-certifies-class-action-in-celebrex-suits-1-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  failed to block class-
action status for investors who sued the world’s biggest
drugmaker over claims it misled them about the prospects of two
chronic pain-relief drugs, Celebrex and Bextra.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in New York, who is
presiding over a series of investor suits filed in 2004,
yesterday ruled that the main class of plaintiffs will be those
who purchased stock from Oct. 31, 2000, to Oct. 19, 2005.  The stockholders claimed New York-based Pfizer and its top
officers deliberately hid or misrepresented the results of
studies that suggested the drugs may have adverse cardiovascular
effects.  “Over the past seven years, this court has become familiar
with both the parties to and the subject matter of this action,
and so believes that concentrating this litigation in this forum
would promote judicial economy,” Swain said in her 30-page
ruling.  Swain said there’s an adequate similarity of claims that
would benefit from granting the request for class-action status,
which joins individual cases and allows plaintiffs to pool
financial and legal resources.  Heart Risks  Celebrex was linked to heart risks at high doses in
research released in November 2004, sending shares down as much
as 7.6 percent on Nov. 4, 2004. Bextra was among the drugs that
a U.S. Food and Drug Administration reviewer identified as
unsafe that month.  Swain has’t ruled on the merits of the lawsuit.  “We are disappointed in the court’s order and will
continue to vigorously defend the litigation,” Chris Loder, a
spokesman for Pfizer, said in an e-mail. “It is important to
note that the order does not address the underlying merits of
the litigation, which we strongly dispute.”  The cases are In Re Pfizer Inc Securities Litigation, 04-
cv-9866, 05-MD-1688, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 