-- Philippine Peso Weakens on U.S. Economic Data; Bonds Advance
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-03-29T08:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/philippine-peso-weakens-on-u-s-economic-data-bonds-advance.html
The Philippine peso fell as worse-
than-expected U.S. data added to concern the recovery in the
world’s largest economy is faltering. Bonds gained.  Orders placed with U.S. factories for durable goods rose
2.2 percent in February, less than the 3 percent gain forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey, a government report showed yesterday.
Global growth is still fragile and unsteady, Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday. The tax
agency exceeded its revenue target for February by 8.8 percent,
the government reported today.  “The  U.S. economy  is recovering but there are still
questions about its sustainability,” said Antonio Espedido,
treasurer at China Banking Corp. in Manila. “There is more
pressure for the peso to weaken.”  The peso closed 0.1 percent weaker at 42.98 per dollar in
Manila, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. The currency has
strengthened 2 percent this quarter. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 5.90 percent.  The yield on the 6.5 percent bonds due April 2021 fell 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 5.25 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  President  Benigno Aquino  forecast the economy will expand
as much as 6 percent this year from 3.7 percent in 2011. The
central bank cut its benchmark rate to 4 percent this month,
matching a record low.  The central bank is seeing ”modest, manageable” second-
round inflation and authorities will evaluate monetary policy
settings should risks persist, Assistant Governor Cyd Amador
told reporters today in  Manila . Pausing from rate cuts is ”on
the table,” Amador said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  