-- Plosser Says Fed May Need to Raise Rates Before End of 2014
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-03-29T19:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/plosser-says-fed-may-need-to-raise-rates-before-end-of-2014.html
Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  Charles Plosser  said the Fed may need to raise
interest rates before late 2014 and that additional stimulus
isn’t needed as the U.S. economy shows signs of strength.  “Now that unemployment is at 8.3 percent and falling and
inflation is over 2 percent and drifting up, we should not
anticipate additional accommodation,” Plosser said today in a
speech in Wilmington,  Delaware . “Indeed, in the absence of some
shock that derails the recovery, we may well need to raise rates
before the end of 2014.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this month
raised its assessment of the economy, while repeating its plan
to keep interest rates near zero at least through late 2014. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week that while he’s
encouraged by the decline in joblessness to the lowest level in
three years, continued accommodative monetary policy will be
needed to make further progress.  “I believe monetary accommodation is still called for, but
I do not believe it should be as accommodative or aggressive as
it was at the height of the crisis, when unemployment was over
10 percent and inflation was just 1 percent,” said Plosser, who
doesn’t vote on the FOMC this year. “Current conditions do not
warrant further accommodation.”  The Fed may need to raise interest rates as soon as the end
of 2012 or early next year, Plosser said in response to
questions from reporters.  ‘Begin Easing Off’  “If growth continues to improve and the  unemployment rate 
continues to fall, then there will be increasing pressure on us
to begin easing off of our policy stance,” Plosser told
reporters. If “we start to ease off on accommodation,” that
“doesn’t mean we’re going to race to the top,” because the
central bank would still have “very accommodative” policies in
place even with an  interest rate  increase, he said.  The Fed has kept the benchmark interest rate near zero
since December 2008 and has purchased $2.3 trillion of bonds in
two rounds of asset purchases. Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said on March 19 that it is “far
too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods,” and
“nothing has been decided” on more bond buying.  Signs of Improvement  Plosser said he hasn’t been debating the possibility of so-
called sterilized quantitative easing. The Wall Street Journal
reported this month that the Fed is considering a program aimed
at stimulating growth while restraining inflation. Under the
plan, the Fed would print money to buy long-term Treasuries or
mortgage bonds and tie up that money by borrowing it back for
short periods at low rates, the newspaper said, citing people it
didn’t identify.  “What is that? Where did that come from?” Plosser told
reporters. “I haven’t had any discussion about it.”  Plosser predicted the  U.S. economy  will expand by 3 percent
in 2012, above the Fed’s January forecast of growth from 2.2
percent to 2.7 percent this year. The Philadelphia Fed chief
said he has been “encouraged by recent employment reports,”
and that he’s seeing signs of improvement in manufacturing and
consumer spending.  “As we continue down the road to recovery, there will
undoubtedly be some bumps and setbacks along the way, but I am
generally optimistic,” Plosser said. “As growth continues and
strengthens, I expect further gradual declines in the
unemployment rate, with the rate falling below 8 percent by the
end of 2012.”  Risks Remain  Still, Plosser said that risks to the economic outlook
remain, particularly from the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe .
“Fiscal challenges” in the U.S. also pose some uncertainty, he
said.  While the housing market this year will probably stabilize
and may improve, a “strong” recovery is unlikely until the
overhang of foreclosed and distressed properties falls, he said.  “Even as the economy rebalances, housing and related
sectors are not likely to return to those pre-recession highs,”
Plosser said. “The housing crash that ensued destroyed a great
deal of wealth for consumers and the economy as a whole,” and
“monetary policy cannot paper over these losses, nor should it
try to do so.”  Additional monetary stimulus “could lead us down a very
treacherous path,” because of the risks of higher inflation and
“financial market distortions” caused by record-low borrowing
costs, Plosser said.  Inflation Threat  He reiterated that the Fed must monitor inflation risks
with prices accelerating faster than the U.S. central bank’s 2
percent target. “I am concerned about the drifting up of
inflation,” Plosser said. Higher  oil prices  are concerning
because accommodative monetary policy may allow them to
translate into broader inflation, Plosser said.  “Yet, should economic conditions significantly deteriorate
or the upside risks to inflation I have stressed fall and
significant risk of deflation emerge, we should rethink our
policy stance,” Plosser said.  “But neither of these events
seems likely to me at this juncture.”  He said that monetary policy shouldn’t “be a day trader”
and overreact to small changes in economic data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  