-- Political Calculation Seen in Lopsided Vote to Debate Energy Tax
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-03-29T04:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/political-calculation-seen-in-lopsided-vote-to-debate-energy-tax.html
Democrats and Republicans, at odds
on energy policy, share a certainty their positions will appeal
to voters this November.  The Senate showed rare bipartisanship in voting 92-4 to
debate a Democratic-sponsored bill repealing $24 billion in tax
breaks for the five largest oil companies operating in the U.S.,
including Irving, Texas’s  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  in
San Ramon,  California .  Almost every Republican who voted to take up the bill
opposes its passage, making the odds long that it will attract
the 60 votes needed to pass. The Senate is scheduled to vote on
it today after rejecting a similar bill in May.  “It’s stopping the milk truck so the dog can catch it,”
 Kevin Book , managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC,
a Washington-based policy-analysis firm, said in an interview.
“Republicans can point out something obvious, which is if you
raise the cost of production there’s a good chance some of that
raises the price of consumption.”  Democrats have used the repeal of the tax breaks to portray
Republicans as defenders of an oil industry that makes tens of
billions of dollars as they propose cuts to social programs to
pay down the deficit.  Energy has emerged as a major issue in the presidential
campaign, with candidates debating the merits of a Canada-to-
U.S. crude oil pipeline and expanded offshore drilling.  Gasoline (3AGSREG) 
prices rose to $3.911 a gallon this week, more than 32 cents
higher than a year ago, according to AAA.  Political Focus  That’s forced politicians to focus on  energy policy , which
normally isn’t a priority, said Bruce Oppenheimer, a Vanderbilt
University professor who has written on energy and politics.  Whether gasoline remains an issue in November depends on
whether prices recede, he said.  “When prices drop back down, maybe because of something
the government did or more likely not because of anything the
government did, the American attention to it drops off almost
immediately,” Oppenheimer said in an interview.  Neither side seems willing to bet on a decline. Republicans
said the Democratic proposal would worsen the situation, as they
also criticize President Barack Obama for blocking  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil pipeline, restricting offshore
production, and supporting solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, which
filed for bankruptcy protection about two years after winning a
$535 million U.S. loan guarantee.  Energy Policy Differences  Republicans are “happy to use this opportunity” to talk
about differences in energy policy, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said that,
“The country deserves to hear the truth about double dipping by
 oil companies : they take taxpayer money with one hand and raise
prices at the pump with the other hand.”  Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, said oil and gas
production has increased, repeating a point made by Obama.  No policy advanced by the Democrats or Republicans will
have much consequence to Americans squeezed by high gasoline
costs, Guy Caruso, a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, a Washington-based group, said in an
interview.  “There’s virtually nothing that Congress can do” to lower
gasoline prices, said Caruso, the former director of the Energy
Information Administration, which tracks and analyzes energy
information for the U.S. “Most of the federal legislation would
typically have a much longer time frame.”  Asian Growth  He blamed the price rise on a lack of capacity in the
system as Asian economies grow, as well as logistical
bottlenecks to U.S. East Coast markets and investors betting
that crude prices will remain high as contributing factors.  The legislation, introduced by Senator  Robert Menendez , a
New Jersey Democrat, would repeal about $24 billion over 10
years in tax breaks to the five oil companies, which also
include  London ’s  BP Plc (BP/) , Houston’s ConocoPhillips and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , based in The Hague.  Of the total repealed, about $11.7 billion would be used
for  energy efficiency  and renewable energy credits, and what’s
left over would help pay down the federal deficit.  The Senate debate followed Obama’s two-day, four-state
swing last week to promote his “all-of-the-above” strategy
that includes both clean energy and more domestic production.  The president visited Cushing,  Oklahoma , where he said he
was seeking to expedite approval of the southern leg of the
Keystone pipeline to connect Cushing to the Gulf Coast
refineries.  ‘Flat-Earth Society’  Obama said congressional Republicans were members of the
“flat-earth society” for opposing incentives for clean-energy
development while defending tax breaks for oil companies.  “Every time you fill up at the pump, they’re making
money,” Obama said at a stop at a solar project in Boulder
City,  Nevada , on March 21. “They are doing just fine.”  Mitt Romney , the leading Republican candidate for
president, has criticized Obama for denying the Keystone
pipeline, which would cross six U.S. states.  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , Romney’s
challenger for the Republican nomination, has said Obama hasn’t
done enough to develop domestic oil resources.  A poll the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press
released on March 19 shows attitudes on energy are changing.  While Americans view development of alternative energy
sources as a higher priority than more production of oil, coal
and natural gas, the gap has narrowed as gasoline prices have
increased, according to the poll.  Wind, Solar Support  Fifty-two percent of respondents favored more wind, solar
and other alternative sources, while 39 percent wanted more
fossil fuels. Last year, the split was 63 percent to 29 percent,
according to Pew.  The differences in  Washington  on energy are reflected in
voter opinions. About 89 percent of Republicans favor more
offshore drilling, versus about half of Democrats.  Democrats and independents are far more likely to favor
more spending for alternative energy research and higher fuel
efficiency standards, according to Pew, which is based in
Washington.  “The partisan gap on the question has grown,” said Leah
Christian, a senior researcher at Pew.  If the oil tax bill ultimately fails, it will join a list
of energy-policy proposals that haven’t cleared either the
Senate led by Democrats or the House controlled by Republicans.  Senate Democrats have blocked proposals from the
Republican-led House to expand offshore drilling or open the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to production.  Democrats have been unable to overcome Republican
opposition to climate-change legislation or a requirement that
utilities get more electricity from cleaner sources, such as
wind and solar power.  The tax bill is S. 2204.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  