-- Portugal’s Budget Amendment Adds No New Austerity Measures
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-03-29T14:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/portugal-s-budget-amendment-adds-no-new-austerity-measures-1-.html
Portugal can meet its debt-
reduction targets and changes to the 2012 budget that were
approved today at a Cabinet meeting include no new austerity
measures, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said.  Portugal is committed to meeting its  budget-deficit  target
of 4.5 percent of gross domestic product this year, Gaspar said.
The government is reducing spending and raising taxes to comply
with the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($104 billion) bailout from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  “Changes to the budget do not include additional austerity
measures,” Gaspar told journalists in Lisbon today after the
weekly Cabinet meeting. “The government is convinced it will be
able to comply with its commitments.”  The amended budget takes account for a deeper-than-expected
recession and the transfer of Portuguese banks’ pension funds to
the state, he said. The document predicts the economy will
contract 3.3 percent this year, in line with forecasts from the
European Commission and the IMF. The original budget had
forecast the economy would shrink 2.8 percent in 2012.  Gaspar said the government’s new forecasts are similar to
those of the Bank of  Portugal , which today said it expects the
economy to contract 3.4 percent in 2012 and not expand at all
next year as consumer spending drops and export growth eases.  A deeper economic contraction this year will have
consequences on Portugal’s revenue and expenditures, Gaspar
said. Changes in  interest rates  charged on short-term debt
should compensate for a possible decline in revenue, he said.  Portugal sold 1.61 billion euros of 12-month bills at the
lowest rate in more than a year on March 21, marking the second
one-year debt auction since the government requested a bailout
in April of last year.  The country narrowed its budget deficit to about 4 percent
of GDP in 2011 from 9.8 percent in 2010 following the transfer
of banks’ pension funds to the state. The government expects the
shortfall will reach 4.5 percent of GDP in 2012 and the EU
ceiling of 3 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  