-- Pound Gains Most in Two Weeks Versus Euro on European Sentiment
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-29T15:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/pound-rises-from-2-week-low-versus-euro-on-europe-sentiment-data.html
The pound rose the most in two
weeks against the euro after a European report showed  consumer
confidence  fell, boosting the appeal of U.K. assets as a haven.  Sterling pared its first quarterly drop versus the 17-
nation currency since June as  Europe ’s biggest utility GDF Suez
SA offered to pay 6 billion pounds ($9.55 billion) for the
shares in  International Power Plc (IPR)  it doesn’t already own,
fueling optimism capital will flow into Britain. Gains in the
pound were tempered after  Nationwide Building Society  said U.K.
house prices dropped this month. Gilts advanced as investors
sought safer assets.  “With the problems in the  euro zone  it will be difficult
for the euro to gain significantly against the pound,” said
You-Na Park, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “They both have a lot of problems and don’t look
that good.”  The pound climbed 0.5 percent to 83.38 pence per euro at
4:22 p.m.  London  time after rising as much as 0.6 percent, the
biggest gain since March 13. The U.K. currency has fallen 0.1
percent versus the euro this year. Sterling was little changed
at $1.5898, and dropped 0.7 percent to 130.80 yen.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
area fell to 94.4 in March from a revised 94.5 in February, the
European Commission said. A gauge of sentiment among
manufacturers dropped to minus 7.2 from minus 5.7 in February,
the report showed.  International Power  International Power’s board said it received an indicative
proposal of 390 pence a share for the 30 percent not already
owned by GDF. Shares in International Power jumped as much as 6
percent, the biggest gain since July 2010.  “In the past, if there were news regarding M&A, it was
always something that was able to move the  currency pair ,”
Commerzbank’s Park said.  The yield on the  10-year gilt  declined one basis point to
2.2 percent. The 4 percent bond due March 2022 gained 0.13, or
1.30 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 116.005.  Overseas investors cut their holdings of U.K. government
bonds by 4.67 billion pounds last month as a rally in higher-
yielding assets reduced demand for haven assets, according to
data published today on the Bank of England’s website.  The sales compared with net purchases of 9.41 billion
pounds in January. Overseas investors have been net sellers of
gilts for the second time in three months.  Gilts’ Decline  Gilts handed investors a 1.8 percent loss this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Treasuries dropped
1.2 percent in the period.  U.K. house prices fell 0.9 percent in March from a year
earlier, the first decline in six months, Nationwide said. U.K.
banks granted fewer loans for homes than economists predicted in
February,  Bank of England  data showed today.  “Disappointing Nationwide house-price data adds to the poor
tone” for the pound, said Jane Foley, a senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “We have been
stripped of some of the confidence that we entered the New Year
with, and we’ll have to see improved economic data to get that
confidence back.”  The pound may weaken to 85 pence per euro by year-end,
Foley said. Sterling will end 2012 at 83 pence per euro,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  The U.K. currency has gained 0.4 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro also gained 0.4
percent, and the dollar slid 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  