-- Harvard More Selective Than Yale as Ivy League Admits Freshmen
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/princeton-admits-7-9-of-freshman-applicants-for-2012-2013.html
     March 30 (Bloomberg) --Harvard College accepted 5.9 percent
of applicants for its freshman class, a record low and a smaller
percentage than its Ivy League rivals  Yale University  and
Princeton University.  Harvard offered seats to 2,032 students out of the 34,302
who applied for the 2012-2013 academic year, the school in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said yesterday in a statement. Yale
accepted 6.8 percent of applicants and Princeton 7.9 percent,
both also record lows, according to the schools. Students have
until May 1 to decide where to attend.  Princeton and Harvard reinstated non-binding early
acceptance programs this year -- where those who applied in
November found out in December whether they had been accepted.
The low admittance rates, a measure of the schools’ selectivity,
may deter some students from applying, said Darby McHugh,
college adviser at the Bronx High School of Science in  New York .  “It means we have to look beyond the Ivy League,” McHugh
said in an interview. “Kids apply to Ivy League schools just
because they’re Ivy Leagues and it’s not necessarily the right
place for them.”  Princeton’s acceptance rate was based on a total applicant
pool of 26,664, the Princeton, New Jersey-based college said on
its  website . Yale, in  New Haven , Connecticut, received 28,974
applications, the undergraduate admissions office said in an e-
mailed statement.  Columbia, Penn  Columbia University in New York admitted 7.4 percent of the
31,851 students who applied, Jessica Marinaccio, dean of
undergraduate admissions, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Cornell University, in Ithaca, New York, offered spots to
16.2 percent of its freshman applicants, according to an e-
mailed statement yesterday. The University of Pennsylvania
admitted 12.3 percent, the Philadelphia-based school said March
28.  Columbia, Penn and Cornell also belong to the  Ivy League ,
which groups eight colleges in the northeastern U.S.  Harvard offered spots to about 125 fewer students than last
year, because the return of its early action program makes
predicting how many students will accept more difficult, said
 William Fitzsimmons , dean of admissions and financial aid. The
school offered places to 772 students in December.  “One thing we cannot have is to be overcrowded in the
Harvard Yard,” Fitzsimmons said in a telephone interview.  Harvard expects to use its waiting list, Fitzsimmons said.
In some recent years as many as 200 students have been admitted
in May and June, he said in a statement.  $54,496 Price Tag  Harvard, the wealthiest school in higher education, had an
endowment of $32 billion as of June 30. Alumni of  Harvard
College , the undergraduate division of  Harvard University ,
include John Roberts, chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court,
and Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook Inc.  Tuition, fees and room and board at Harvard for 2012-2013
will cost $54,496, up from $52,652 for the current academic
year.  Yale is the second richest school with an endowment of
$19.4 billion. Alumni include former presidents George H.W. Bush
and George W. Bush.  Princeton counts first lady  Michelle Obama  and U.S. Supreme
Court Justices Samuel Alito Jr.,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan 
among its alumni.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 