-- PSG May Offer $10 Million for Arsenal’s Chamakh: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-29T09:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/psg-may-offer-10-million-for-arsenal-s-chamakh-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Chamakh to Paris?  Paris Saint-Germain may bid as much as 6 million pounds
($9.5 million) for Arsenal’s  Marouane Chamakh , the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  The Morocco striker has not been able to break into the
lineup since joining the London club two years ago on a free
transfer from Bordeaux. Italian side Fiorentina and Bordeaux are
also interested in the player, the club said.  Chelsea Chasing Zola  Chelsea has approached former player  Gianfranco Zola  to
join the club’s management staff, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  is looking for a “big-name
manager” to oversee a restructuring of the team, the paper
said. The West London club sacked manager Andre Villas-Boas
earlier this month after only eight months.  Kean Keen on Gignac?  Blackburn Rovers manager  Steve Kean  traveled to  France  to
try and sign Marseille striker Andre-Pierre Gignac, the  Daily
Mirror  reported. The former France player, 26, may want to leave
his team this summer after he got relegated to the reserves.  Messi Joins Small French Club  Lionel Messi  has signed for French second tier club Angers
SCO in Toulouse, the  Sun  reported.  The player is not the Barcelona star, but a 16-year-old
from Cameroon. His transfer initially confused statistics
company Infostrada, who keep a database of soccer players.  “We were shocked to learn that Lionel Messi had signed
with Angers,” the paper quoted an Infostrada spokesman as
saying. “We then found out that this is not the world famous
superstar but a 16-year-old prospect from Cameroon going by
exactly the same name.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports
desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  