-- Rajoy to Unveil Deepest Spanish Budget Cuts in 30 Years
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-03-30T09:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/rajoy-to-unveil-deepest-spanish-budget-cuts-in-30-years.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will
unveil the most austere budget since before Spain’s return to
democracy in 1978, risking a deeper recession in a bid to avoid
succumbing to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “There’s interest in seeing how they are going to manage
this particular trick of cutting the budget so aggressively,”
said  Harvinder Sian , an interest-rate strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in London, during a telephone interview.
“The recession will be dramatic.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond has risen 55 basis points
since March 2 when Rajoy unilaterally raised his deficit goal
for 2012, as a deepening economic slump compounded a bigger-
than-forecast shortfall last year. The yield was at 5.43 percent
at 11:05 a.m. in  Madrid , leaving the difference with comparable
German debt at 362 basis points, down from yesterday’s close of
365, the highest in almost four months.  Budget details will be released around 2 p.m. in Madrid
after the weekly Cabinet meeting. Rajoy, in power since
December, has pledged to trim the  deficit  to 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product even with the economy mired in the second
 recession  since 2009 and unemployment topping 23 percent.  Socialists’ Efforts  The promised deficit reduction of 3.2 percentage points of
GDP, the equivalent of 34 billion euros ($45 billion), would be
the biggest by that measure since at least 1980. That’s more
than the cuts of 2.7 percentage points achieved by his Socialist
predecessor,  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , in the previous two
years.  Zapatero managed that reduction by raising value-added tax
and cutting civil servants’ pay by 5 percent, options that Rajoy
has ruled out. Rajoy will also operate in an economy forecast to
shrink 1.7 percent this year, while Zapatero enjoyed an
expansion of 0.7 percent growth last year and a contraction of
just 0.1 percent in 2010.  “What I expect is some tweaking of loopholes of tax
exemptions for corporations and households as well as probably
quite a crackdown on ordinary spending by the central
government,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London, during an interview on Bloomberg TV.
“I would expect roughly a quarter of cuts to come from the
central government this time and the rest to come from the
regions.”  Riling Allies  Rajoy riled European Union partners with his March 2
announcement at a summit in Brussels that he had raised  Spain ’s
deficit target to 5.8 percent of GDP from the 4.4 percent
initially pledged. Earlier he had attended a ceremony to sign a
treaty aimed at ending the debt crisis by enforcing fiscal
discipline. EU allies pushed back and got Spain to agree on
March 12 to a 5.3 percent goal.  Rajoy tried to raise the target after his predecessors left
him with a deficit of 8.5 percent of GDP, dwarfing the 6 percent
the Socialists had pledged to the EU.  “The significance of the budget is to demonstrate
commitment,” said  Marc Chandler , the head of global currency
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman in  New York . “Budget
shortfalls last year and then this year and the way this was
handled did not build confidence.”  Tax Increases  Spaniards have already had a taste of Rajoy’s budget-
cutting. The premier raised income tax and slashed spending by 9
billion euros in December in a 15-billion euro package designed
to carry public finances through until the 2012 budget is
approved.  Fitch Ratings  said on March 27 that a deficit of 6 percent
was likely this year and that Rajoy’s goal to get Spain back
within the euro-region’s 3 percent deficit-ceiling in 2013 was
“unrealistic.”  Additional austerity will likely be met with more popular
unrest. Unions held a general strike yesterday, hobbling
transportation and manufacturing across the country. Less than a
week earlier, the  People’s Party  failed in a bid to unseat the
Socialists in a regional poll in Andalusia, the third biggest
regional economy. The PP also failed to make advances in voting
in Asturias region.  Polls had indicated that the PP would win in Andalusia and
the result suggests that Rajoy’s austerity drive may be eroding
the support that led to his landslide victory in December,
Ricardo Santos, a European economist at BNP Paribas in  London 
said in a March 26 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  