-- RBC Scores Top Premium Among Banks: Corporate Canada
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-03-29T20:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/rbc-scores-top-premium-among-banks-corporate-canada.html
Royal Bank of Canada  is attracting
the highest premium among the country’s bank stocks in at least
nine years after selling a money-losing U.S. lender and beating
analysts’ profit estimates for two straight quarters.  The  premium  investors are willing to pay for Royal Bank’s
stock relative to earnings surged to 13 percent over its
competitors March 13, the highest since at least February 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In November, shares of
Canada’s biggest bank by assets traded at a 9 percent discount,
their lowest in more than three years.  “This has run full circle,” said  Bob Decker  of Aurion
Capital Management Inc., who helps manage C$5.6 billion ($5.6
billion) including bank shares at the Toronto-based firm.
“They’ve regained lost ground through some tough decision-
making and some heavy lifting on the cost side, and I
congratulate them on that.”  Royal Bank’s price-to-earnings ratio, a measure of how
expensive the stock is, has been the highest among Canada’s six-
biggest banks since Dec. 6, even as its return on common equity
is the lowest, the data show.  The bank is trading at 13.3 times profit for the last four
quarters, compared with 12 for the eight-bank S&P/TSX Composite
Commercial Banks Industry  Index (STCBNK) . The stock has risen 12 percent
this year,  Canada ’s second-best  performing  bank stock after
 Canadian Western Bank. (CWB)  Royal Bank fell 1.3 percent to C$57.98 at
4 p.m. Toronto Stock Exchange trading. Royal Bank spokeswoman
Katherine Gay declined to comment.  Canadian Lenders  Investors’ renewed interest in the stock comes despite a
return on common equity of 14 percent in the last quarter. That
compares with  CIBC (CM) , which had the highest at 23 percent, and
 National Bank, (NA)  at 19 percent. Royal Bank’s return on equity
declined from a recent peak of 25 percent in 2007.  The rising cost of Royal Bank doesn’t trouble Decker, who
notes the bank, which has traditionally traded at a premium, is
on par with  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Nova Scotia  based
on earnings expectations in the next 12 months.  Royal’s increase in valuation accelerated after it reported
first-quarter net income on March 1 that topped analysts’
 estimates  for the second quarter in a row, driven by record
profit in Canadian  consumer lending .  Last year, Royal Bank sought to rein in costs and sell its
unprofitable U.S. consumer lender, RBC Bank, while posting
profit that missed analysts’ expectations. Royal Bank has missed
analysts’ adjusted profit estimates in five of the last eight
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Penalty Box  “Royal is coming out of the penalty box,”  John Aiken , an
analyst with  Barclays Capital  in Toronto, said in an interview.
“Investors want to be optimistic.”  The surge in valuation is prompting  Barry Schwartz  of
Baskin Financial Services to reconsider the stock.  “We’re actually thinking about exiting the position or
looking at one of the other banks because of how well it’s
done,” said Schwartz, who helps manage C$450 million for the
Toronto-based  money manager .  Schwartz says there is better value with  Canadian lenders 
including  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the fourth-largest lender, and
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the fifth-biggest, and
sixth-ranked National Bank of Canada.  “Investors overshot on the downside when lousy things were
happening for Royal, and now they’ve overshot on the upside,”
Schwartz said. “People shouldn’t be piling into Royal Bank
stock at this price, they should be looking at the
underperformers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  