-- Republicans Tampered With Court Audio in Obama Attack Ad
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-30T15:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/republicans-tampered-with-court-audio-in-obama-attack-ad.html
A Republican Party Internet
advertisement altered the audio of  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  oral
arguments in an attack on President Barack Obama’s health-care
law.  In a web ad  circulated  this week, the Republican National
Committee excerpts the opening seconds of the March 27
presentation by Obama’s top  Supreme Court  lawyer, Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli. In the ad, he is heard struggling for
words and twice stopping to drink water.  “Obamacare,” the ad concludes, in words shown against a
photograph of the high court. “It’s a tough sell.”  A review of a transcript and recordings of those moments
shows that Verrilli took a sip of water just once, paused for a
much briefer period and completed his thought -- rather than
stuttering and trailing off as heard in the edited version.  The ad marks a blurring of the line between the law and
politics, in which the nation’s highest court -- and the
justices and lawyers who decide and argue cases -- are becoming
fodder for Republicans’ and Democrats’ arguments over the
validity of the president’s signature domestic legislative
achievement.  RNC Communications Director Sean Spicer said the video was
a “mash-up,” condensing and splicing together several separate
pauses and stutters by Verrilli during the first two minutes of
his argument, produced to illustrate how much difficulty he had
defending the health-care law.  Multiple Clips  “Are there multiple clips in that video? Yes,” Spicer
said. “The point was that he continually had to stop because he
was having trouble making the case for why Obamacare was
valid.”  The  Democratic National Committee  declined to comment.
Obama’s re-election campaign also said it wouldn’t respond to a
query dealing with a matter currently before the Supreme Court.
White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday that
Obama was “pleased” with the presentation Verrilli made, which
was criticized by Supreme Court watchers and some media outlets.  Tracy Schmaler , a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
which includes the solicitor general’s office, declined to
comment.  The RNC said Verrilli’s halting performance is evidence
that the 2010 law he is arguing to uphold is invalid.  Less Water, Shorter Pauses  “It seems that Obama’s lawyer hit a bit of a snag trying
to defend the constitutionality of Obama’s  health-care 
takeover,” the RNC said in a statement accompanying the ad.
“Maybe he’s beginning to realize something the American people
already know: It’s hard to defend a law that is indefensible.”  Recordings of the court proceedings reviewed by Bloomberg
News reveal that the audio has been edited. While Verrilli
paused once to drink water during the opening moments of his
presentation, he stopped talking for only a few seconds before
continuing with his argument. In the RNC ad, he pauses for about
20 seconds, coughs, sips water and stutters.  In the RNC’s transcript of its ad, it quotes Verrilli as
follows: “For more than 80 percent of Americans, the ah
insurance system does provide effective access [pause]. Excuse
me. Ah [cough] it ah be-be because the ah the ah the [pause].
Excuse me.”  Finishing His Thought  In the actual proceedings, Verrilli finished his thought.
“For more than 80 percent of Americans, the, ah, insurance
system does provide effective access,” Verrilli says, pausing
briefly and saying, “Excuse me. But for more than 40 million
who do not have access to health insurance, either through their
employer or through government programs such as Medicare or
Medicaid, the system does not work.”  While such unflattering editing isn’t unusual for a
political campaign advertisement, it is atypical in the legal
world.  “Unbelievable,” said Walter Dellinger, who served as
solicitor general under Democratic President  Bill Clinton .
“It’s a dramatic instance of the politicization that has
surrounded this challenge, and totally unfair to one of the most
widely admired lawyers in public service.”  Peter Keisler, a former Republican federal judicial
nominee, said the ad could set back efforts to open the court --
which does not allow its proceedings to be televised,
videotaped, or recorded by the media or spectators -- to camera
coverage.  ‘Selective and Misleading’  “The selective and misleading editing of a Supreme Court
argument to make a political point is going to confirm the worst
fears of those who oppose cameras in the court,” said Keisler,
a partner at Sidley Austin LLP in Washington, who served as
acting attorney general and was nominated to the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Washington by former President  George W. Bush .  The RNC ad wouldn’t have been possible a dozen years ago --
at least not this quickly. Before 2000, the court didn’t make
its audio recordings available until the beginning of its next
term; in this case that would have been in October.  Starting with the 2000 Bush v. Gore ruling, which halted
the Florida presidential voting recount and made Republican
George W. Bush the winner, the court began releasing its
recordings in select cases at the end of the day.  Timothy R. Johnson, a  University of Minnesota  political
science professor who researches and writes about Supreme Court
arguments and decision-making, said the ad is the first to use
the Supreme Court’s audio recordings.  ‘Worst Nightmare’  “This ad is the justices’ worst nightmare,” he said.
“It’s the reason why they don’t want cameras in the court.”  Spicer said the RNC is proud of the video and the attention
it has generated.  “Is it novel? Are we ahead of the curve at the RNC? I hope
so,” Spicer said.  He said the  Republican Party  would continue to mine the
Supreme Court case for material that can be used in its
political attacks on the Obama health-care measure.  “The issue of Obamacare will unequivocally be a major
issue for this campaign,” Spicer said. “If there are great
pieces of the written opinion that talk about what an
unbelievable takeover of our health-care system and our economy
this has been, I strongly suspect we will use it.”  Legal specialists across the ideological spectrum said they
expect the health-care case and others dealing with such issues
as immigration to figure in the presidential campaign.  “We can be pretty confident no one is going to vote for or
against Obama based on how good or bad his solicitor general is
at arguing, but the bigger question of Obamacare’s
constitutionality certainly will play out in the campaign,”
said Curt Levey, executive director of the Republican-aligned
Committee for Justice.  “The attention to this argument and this case around the
Affordable Care Act is emblematic of the fact that courts
matter,” said Marge Baker, executive vice president for Policy
and Program at the Democratic-aligned People for the American
Way in  Washington . “No matter how this particular case comes
out, it’s very clear that voters understand that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  