-- Reserve Mangement, Bent Los Bid to Dismiss SEC Fraud Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-03-29T20:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/reserve-mangement-bent-los-bid-to-dismiss-sec-fraud-suit.html
Reserve Management Co.  lost a bid
for dismissal of a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
lawsuit claiming it defrauded investors seeking to redeem shares
in the Reserve Primary Fund after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in  Manhattan  today issued
a two-page order denying a dismissal request by defendants
including Reserve Management and Bruce R. Bent Sr., chairman and
founder of the  Reserve Funds Inc. (0218803D)   The judge also rejected the SEC’s request for a ruling in
its favor on the issue of liability.  Reserve Primary, which was run by New York-based Reserve
Management, on Sept. 16, 2008, became the second money-market
fund to break the buck, or drop below $1 a share. The news
sparked an industrywide run on money funds that worsened a
global freeze in credit markets.  The SEC sued in 2009, claiming the company failed to
provide key material facts before freezing the $62.5 billion
fund in September 2008.  Fran M. Jacobs, a lawyer for Reserve Management, didn’t
have an immediate comment on the rulings.  “We are pleased with the ruling and look forward to
proving our case,”  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, said
in a statement.  Gardephe didn’t rule on the merits of the case.  ‘Gaping Holes’  Reserve sought dismissal because of what it said in court
papers were “gaping holes in the SEC’s case,” including its
claim that statements the fund allegedly made weren’t
“material.”  The SEC said in court papers that it made sufficient
allegations to support its lawsuit, including a claim that the
company conveyed “disinformation” to  ratings agencies  and
others around the time of Lehman’s bankruptcy.  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management, 09-cv-4346, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 