-- Tribeca to Turn Boston Garage Into Chanel Store, Apartments
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-03-29T12:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/tribeca-to-turn-boston-garage-into-chanel-store-apartments.html
Tribeca Holdings  London  Ltd.,
managed by Irish investor Aidan Brooks, is turning a Boston
parking garage into a store for French luxury-goods retailer
Chanel SA and six homes.  A three-story shop with six condominiums above is being
built at 4-6 Newbury Street in the center of the city’s affluent
Back Bay neighborhood, according to the Boston Redevelopment
Authority’s website. Tribeca confirmed it owns the building in
an e-mail and declined to say what it plans to do with the
property. Iana dos Reis Nunes, a spokeswoman for Chanel,
couldn’t immediately confirm it’s leasing the space.  Retailers in the Back Bay’s shopping district include
 Hermes International (RMS)  SA,  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA’s Cartier.  Boston  retail rents are forecast to rise
by 4.2 percent this year, the most in five years, and sales of
retail property in the city more than doubled last year to $1.1
billion,  according  to broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc., citing
Property & Portfolio Research Inc.  The development will cost London-based Tribeca as much as
$50 million including the garage’s purchase price, a person with
knowledge of the transaction said. The person declined to be
identified because the information is private.  Tribeca filed a certificate of lease to Chanel Inc. in
April 2011 and a Brookline Bancorp Inc. unit gave a $15 million
mortgage to a unit of the U.K. company, Tribeca Newbury Street
Owner LLC, in December, Suffolk County  records  show.  Back Bay Rents  Rents on Newbury Street rose 4 percent in the 12 months
through June 2011 to about $130 a square foot a year, Cushman &
Wakefield said in a  report . That compares with $2,250 a square
foot on  New York ’s 5th Avenue, the world’s most expensive retail
location.  Tribeca bought shops on London’s Bond Street leased to
Cartier and Swiss watchmaker Hublot for 30.7 million pounds ($49
million) last year. Brooks has invested with Irish businessman
J.P. McManus in properties including the Rhinelander Mansion in
New York, which is leased to Ralph Lauren Corp., and at Rodeo
Drive in  Los Angeles , according to the Irish Times.  The Back Bay, famous for its Victorian homes and landmarks
such as the John Hancock Tower and Copley Square, is home to
some of Boston’s best restaurants, hotels, shopping and
nightlife, according to  website  of the Back Bay Association,
which represents local businesses and organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 