-- Roche Raises Illumina Bid to $51, Seeking Faster Deal
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-03-29T20:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/roche-raises-illumina-bid-to-51-seeking-faster-deal.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , the U.S. maker of
gene-mapping tools, rose above  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s increased
hostile takeover bid, indicating investors are betting that an
even higher offer will come.  Illumina gained 5.1 percent to $52.40 at the close in New
York after Roche raised its offer by 15 percent to about $6.7
billion, or $51 a share. Investors have until 6 p.m. New York
time April 20 to tender their stock, Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche said today in a statement.  Illumina’s technology may help Roche, the world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs, tailor medicines to individual patients.
Roche raised the bid after talking to Illumina shareholders in
the past several weeks and watching the stock price reaction,Roche Chairman Franz Humer said in a letter to Illumina Chief
Executive Officer  Jay Flatley .  “It’s increasingly obvious that they want the company and
they’re willing to go higher,” said Dan Leonard, an analyst
with Leerink Swann & Co.  Today’s increase came in less than a third of the time
Humer and Roche Chief Executive Severin Schwan took to raise the
bids for their last two large hostile takeovers. In their
letter, the Swiss company also repeated a request for San Diego-
based Illumina to open negotiations.  Illumina shareholders will decide April 18 whether to
replace board members with Roche nominees, which would clear the
way for talks from both sides.  Public Urgency  “The urgency is now in the public domain,”  Andrew Weiss ,
an analyst at  Bank Vontobel AG (BJVCSW)  in Zurich, said in a telephone
interview. He recommends buying Roche’s shares.  Illumina closed yesterday at $49.88, showing shareholders
expected Roche to raise the original bid, which valued the
company at $5.7 billion, or $44.50 a share.  “If you continue to decline to negotiate with us, we will
have no choice but to continue our effort to effect a
transaction unilaterally,” Humer said in the letter. “However,
I strongly hope that you will either agree to commence
discussions with us now or remove all obstacles so that your
shareholders can make their own determinations about the
adequacy of our increased offer.”  Leerink’s Leonard said Illumina is in a good position to
hold out for more. “I think other bidders are unlikely,”
Leonard said in a phone interview from  Boston . Instead, they can
afford not to come to the table and wait for a higher offer from
Roche. “As long as their stock is trading higher than Roche’s
offer, they don’t have to do anything,” he said. An  average
estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg give the company a
target price of $55.38.  Board Reviewing Bid  Shareholders should take no action on the increased offer,
Illumina said today in a statement. The board will review the
proposal and make a recommendation, the company said.  Roche  fell  1.8 percent to 157 Swiss francs in Zurich.  The drugmaker first announced its hostile bid Jan. 25 after
Illumina rebuffed its approaches. Illumina said the initial
offer was “grossly inadequate.”  Humer and Schwan have shown more patience in winning over
past acquisition targets. They waited seven months to raise
their 2007 hostile bid for  Ventana Medical Systems Inc. (VMSI) , and
seven and a half months before they increased a 2008 offer for
the 44 percent of Genentech Inc. that Roche didn’t already own.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  