-- Romney Thrived at Harvard as He Mocks Obama Tie to School
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-03-29T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/romney-thrived-at-harvard-as-he-mocks-obama-tie-to-school.html
Mitt Romney  likes to take jabs at
President  Barack Obama  for representing the values of the
Harvard faculty lounge. He should know.  Like the president, the former Massachusetts governor is a
graduate of  Harvard Law School . Unlike the commander-in-chief,
Romney also has a second Harvard graduate degree, in business.  While bashing Harvard is intended to paint Obama as an
ivory tower theorist out of his depth in the presidency, Romney
owes his chief White House credential -- his business career --
to the school.  That Ivy League pedigree undercuts Romney’s appeal to many
Republicans who already doubt that he shares their values. So as
he heads for his party’s nomination, Romney lacerates his alma
mater on the campaign trail, seeking to channel the resentments
of  voters  soured on elite institutions.  “I didn’t learn about the economy just reading about it or
hearing about it at the faculty lounge at Harvard,” Romney, 65,
said on March 18 in  Illinois , in a swipe at Obama.  Yet by all accounts, Romney thrived at Harvard, reveling in
the intellectual challenge and impressing classmates with his
drive and discipline.  “He was years ahead of us,” says  Howard Brownstein , a law
school classmate. “He had a gravitas. You thought: ‘This guy
could be president.’ And I remember thinking that in 1971.”  Gentle Persuasion  That year, Romney enrolled in a joint law and business
school program, which allowed him to earn two graduate degrees
in four years rather than the customary five. Of the 1,350
students in Romney’s combined law and business school classes,
only 15 earned the joint degree.  Brains and determination were taken for granted at Harvard,
the Cambridge, Massachusetts, institution that is consistently
ranked among the world’s top universities. Romney, seen as
smart, though not exceptionally so, stood out for the intensity
of his work ethic and his commitment to his Mormon faith.  “He was very serious about his religion and his
relationship with God,” says Mark Mazo, a member of Romney’s
law school study group. “That was highly unusual at the time.”  Mazo recalls peppering his friend with questions about
Mormonism one day over lunch. Romney, who regularly attended
church services and abstained from alcohol, tobacco and caffeine
in accord with Mormon practice, fielded the queries genially.
Then he offered to talk more in depth if Mazo were interested.  “Contrary to the stereotype of Mormons, he was not a
proselytizer,” says Mazo, now a  Washington  lawyer who has
donated $2,400 to Romney’s presidential campaign and $2,000 to a
political action committee that supports his candidacy. “He
was not going to bug you about it.”  All-Star Class  Romney was a traditionalist at a time when tradition was
out of favor. At Harvard Business School, his class was among
the first in which male students didn’t routinely wear jackets
and ties.  He reached Harvard after graduating from  Brigham Young
University  and completing an overseas mission as a member of the
Mormon Church. As the son of a prominent national politician, he
bore a famous name. He wasn’t alone: His law school classmates
included Susan Roosevelt, Teddy Roosevelt’s great-granddaughter.
A year behind him in the business school was the son of the U.S.
ambassador to the  United Nations ,  George W. Bush .  No Socializing  At 24, Romney was older than many of his classmates.
Married and a father, he lived with his wife, Ann, in an off-
campus rental in suburban Belmont. Apart from the occasional
lunch or pickup basketball game, the demanding course work
didn’t leave much time for socializing.  “When study time was over, he wanted to get back to his
family,” says classmate Tom Phillips, who later became chief
justice of the Texas state Supreme Court.  One night, while the Romneys, Brownsteins and a third
couple were strolling through town, some Cambridge youths began
verbally harassing them. Romney instantly positioned himself
between his wife and the local toughs in a way Brownstein
recalls as “chivalrous.”  Romney had agreed to attend law school at his father’s
request and carried  George Romney ’s battered, light-brown
briefcase to classes. The elder Romney, a former Michigan
governor, was then serving in President Richard Nixon’s Cabinet
after seeing his own White House ambitions dashed.  The early-1970s were a tumultuous time. U.S. troops were
still in  Vietnam . At Harvard, memories were fresh of the student
occupation of the school administration hall in April 1969,
which had  ended  when police cleared the building using billy
clubs and mace.  ‘A Constant Party’  On Cambridge Common, a city park adjacent to Harvard Yard,
the counterculture was in full swing. “Cambridge Common was a
constant party,” says Phillips. “There were musicians,
jugglers, and people doing things the law said they shouldn’t be
doing. If you opened your window for some fresh air, you were
likely to get a whiff of something else.”  If that doesn’t sound like Romney’s natural habitat, the
business school -- across the Charles River in Allston -- proved
more hospitable. Howard Serkin, who sat next to Romney for the
introductory lecture, teamed with him to establish a study
group, whose members shared responsibility for preparing the
individual cases that formed the core of the MBA program.  “He wanted our study group to be the No. 1 study group,”
says Serkin, chairman of  Heritage Capital Group , a Jacksonville,
Florida-based investment banking firm. “He wanted us all to get
straight A’s.”  ‘The Ultimate Pragmatist’  Romney’s innate bottom-line orientation found a home at
Harvard Business. Devoid of ideology, he instead sought truth
through facts, the essence of the business school approach.  “Mitt is the ultimate pragmatist. He’s only interested in
what will work,” says Brownstein, who later worked alongside
Romney at  Boston Consulting Group  and now runs his own crisis-
management firm in Conshohocken,  Pennsylvania .  At Ivy League rival  Yale University , law students often
went on to careers in government service. Harvard, in contrast,
sent more graduates to legal careers on  Wall Street  or in the
corporate world.  Still, the law school was a cerebral institution, populated
with aspiring politicians and devoted to understanding the norms
that govern society. The business school was defined by
empiricism, what worked and what made money.  “It’s on the other side of the river,” says Brownstein.
“But the difference is more than a river.”  Running a Gauntlet  HBS was regarded by Harvard faculty and students with a mix
of disdain and condescension, seen as both academically suspect
and financially gifted. For clean-cut business students,
venturing onto the main university campus meant running a
gauntlet of hostile looks.  “You felt like they didn’t want you to be there,” says
Mitch Kurz, who was a year behind Romney at HBS and later became
chief executive officer of Wunderman, an advertising agency.  At a time when many questioned authority, Romney embraced
it. To Harvard Law Professor  Detlev Vagts , who headed the joint
program from 1969 to 2005, that trait prevented Romney from
ranking as a truly exceptional student, such as the late
investment banker  Bruce Wasserstein , who graduated in 1971.
Romney, Vagts says, lacked “a certain sense that the way things
are are not the way they have to be -- that you could do things
differently.”  Vacuuming Up Data  Still, Romney excelled at both schools, proving especially
suited to the MBA program’s emphasis on isolating key questions
and then answering them by vacuuming up every bit of data.  As the  Vietnam War  wound down, the Watergate crisis began
to dominate political discussions, especially at the law school.
His friends recall Romney as interested in current events,
though memories of specific conversations are scarce. If the
business school was relatively immune to the forces buffeting
society -- just 11 percent of Romney’s HBS class was female --it
was an institution in transition.  With the  stock market  in free fall -- down more than 40
percent in 1973-74 -- the professional school began cutting
spending on new course materials and computers.  The MBA program traditionally had trained managers to run
large corporations. Now, one of the most popular courses,
“Management of Service Operations,” dealt with retail
franchises. As economic growth slowed and inflation soared,
employers such as General Motors and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  took the
extraordinary step of rescinding job offers to graduating
students.  “It was the last part of an era at HBS,” says Kurz.  New Rules  Far more than previous generations of Harvard Business
students, Romney’s class went into small business, consulting
and financial services, according to John Kotter, an HBS
professor who wrote a book on the class of 1974 called “The New
Rules.” Romney, who joined Boston Consulting Group upon
graduation and later built a private-equity startup into an
industry power, personified the shifting tides.  Today, as he advances toward the Republican nomination, he
scorns the school.  Matthew Dowd , a former adviser to President
George W. Bush, says Romney’s anti-Harvard jibes are aimed at
aligning him with Main Street constituents.  “Romney needs that,” says Dowd, now a Bloomberg political
analyst. “One of his big vulnerabilities -- because of his
wealth -- is he does not have a great connection with middle-
class and blue-collar voters.”  Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney, didn’t return an e-
mail requesting comment.  Romney doesn’t have problems connecting with those who
studied alongside him years ago. Many of his former classmates
support his presidential bid. Some are baffled by the public
perception of their Harvard friend.  ‘Like Everybody Else’  “Everyone says he’s robotic and can’t connect with
people,” says Serkin. “When he’s in an environment with people
he knows and likes, he’s just like everybody else.”  On the campaign trail, Harvard’s imprint can be glimpsed.
Phillips, a legal policy adviser to Romney’s campaign, says his
candidate took from the law school a respect for the judiciary
that kept him from endorsing former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s call to haul judges before Congress to explain
controversial rulings.  Serkin says a 59-point jobs plan that Romney announced in
September is classic  Harvard Business School . Even the
candidate’s reputation for changing positions on key issues may
originate in the agile, unemotional brand of analysis he imbibed
at HBS, according to Kurz.  Romney, he says, “seems to be doing what they teach you in
business school.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  