-- Credit Curbs Beat Rate Increases to Contain Brazil Inflation
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-03-29T20:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/rousseff-aide-says-brazil-rate-moves-are-arsenal-of-the-past-.html
Containing credit growth is a more
effective tool for fighting inflation than raising the  benchmark
interest rate , said Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel, a top aide
to President  Dilma Rousseff .  “At least in recent years, I’d say the variable interest
rate hasn’t been that significant for containing price
increases,” Pimentel said in an interview in  New Delhi . “The
central bank showed recently that so-called prudential measures,
basically reducing the space for credit, have a bigger impact
than simply moving interest rates. Increasing rates is part of
the arsenal of the past.”  Traders are wagering policy makers, after reducing the
benchmark rate to a near-record low 9 percent in May, will have
to reverse course and increase borrowing costs early next year
to rein in inflation that was the fastest since 2004 last year.
Central bank estimates show inflation will exceed the
government’s 4.5 percent target in 2013 even if policy makers
push the benchmark rate to 10 percent next year.  Pimentel, who is in  India  with Rousseff attending a summit
of leaders from  Russia , India,  China  and  South Africa  -- the so-
called BRICS group of major emerging markets -- said it was up
to the central bank to set rates according to its own
independent criteria.  “I am just an observer,” said Pimentel, a former mayor of
 Belo Horizonte  who like Rousseff was a member of the Marxist
underground that fought against Brazil’s 1964-1985 military
dictatorship.  Less Inflation Risk  Still, he said inflation concerns have receded, and policy
makers can lower interest rates further because they have other
tools to keep prices in check.  “The inflation risk isn’t as immediate as it used to be,”
he said.  The yield on  interest rate  future contracts maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in  Sao Paulo , rose 3 basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.53 percent at 5:28 p.m. local
time.  To contain credit growth that peaked at over 20 percent in
2010, the central bank that year raised reserve and capital
requirements for local banks, removing at least 61 billion reais
($33 billion) from circulation.  Analysts estimated the credit measures were equivalent to
lifting the benchmark rate by 0.75 percentage point, according
to the median estimate in a central bank survey published in
February 2011.  Some of those credit curbs have since been phased out to
stimulate growth that last year was 2.7 percent, less than
 Germany  and trailing other major  emerging markets  like China and
India. The pace of bank lending has since slowed, to 17 percent
in February 2012.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices rose 0.25 percent in mid-March, less than
all 42 analysts in a Bloomberg survey had predicted, taking the
annual rate to 5.61 percent, the lowest since 2010. Consumer
prices will rise 5.28 percent in 2012 and 5.5 percent next year,
according to the median forecast in a March 23 central bank
survey.  Policy makers, in their quarterly inflation  report  today,
said inflation will slow to the 4.5 percent target by year-end,
and then rebound to 5.3 percent in 2013, should policy makers
fulfill economists’ forecast for them to cut the benchmark rate
to 9 percent this year and raise it to 10 percent in 2013.  They reiterated today they see a “high probability” of
reducing the  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate to slightly above the record low of 8.75
percent to protect  Latin America ’s biggest economy from slower
 growth  in advanced economies.  Since August,  Brazil  has cut the benchmark interest rate by
2.75 percentage points to 9.75 percent, more than any other
member of the Group of 20 most industrialized nations. At the
same time, the government this month extended tax cuts announced
in December to boost sales of home appliances and other labor-
intensive products.  An exchange rate of 1.5 reais per  U.S. dollar  would be
“fatal” for Brazilian industry, while 2 reais per dollar would
be “very good” Pimentel said.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.8230 per U.S. dollar. The
currency has fallen 5.8 percent against the dollar this month,
the most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  