-- Rupiah Approaches Two-Month Low Before Fuel-Subsidy Vote
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-03-29T09:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/rupiah-approaches-two-month-low-before-fuel-subsidy-vote.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah rose the most in
more than a week, reversing an earlier drop, on speculation the
central bank sought a stronger currency to curb inflation.
 Government bonds  fell.  Bank Indonesia  will intervene in the currency and bond
markets to stabilize the rupiah, it said on its website on March
8. About 2,500 demonstrators gathered outside the presidential
palace and parliament in Jakarta today to protest the
government’s proposal for a 33 percent increase in fuel prices.
 Inflation (IDCPIY)  may accelerate to 6.8 percent from February’s 3.56
percent if the fuel-price increase is implemented, central bank
Governor Darmin Nasution said this month.  “Bank Indonesia is still in the market to protect the
rupiah,” said Rully Nova, a foreign-exchange analyst at PT Bank
Himpunan Saudara in Jakarta. “A stronger rupiah will help curb
inflation when fuel prices increase in April.”  The rupiah advanced 0.3 percent to 9,165 per dollar as of
4:54 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has dropped 1.3 percent this
quarter and touched 9,225 on March 23, the weakest level since
Jan. 12. One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged today at 8.25 percent.  Lawmakers have delayed a vote on the proposed reduction in
energy subsidies, which was scheduled for today, and were
debating whether to revoke a law that requires parliamentary
approval for any increase in fuel prices, Tamsil Linrung, deputy
chairman of the budget committee, said yesterday.  Funds Sell Bonds  Maintaining subsidies may hurt Indonesia’s growth by
causing the fiscal deficit to exceed the legal limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product, National Economic Committee
Vice Chairman M. Chatib Basri said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  on March 23.  Overseas funds  cut  holdings of Indonesian sovereign bonds
by 10.57 trillion rupiah ($1.1 billion) since Jan. 31 amid
concern about faster inflation. Foreign ownership of the
securities stood at 225.4 trillion rupiah as of March 26, data
from the Ministry of Finance show.  The yield on the 7 percent bond due May 2022 increased one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.93 percent,
according to final prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  