-- S.Korea Output Growth Slows, GDP Expands Less Than Estimated
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-03-30T01:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/s-korea-output-growth-slows-economy-expands-less-than-estimated.html
South  Korea ’s industrial production
 rose  at a slower pace in February and the nation’s economy
expanded less than the central bank initially estimated in the
fourth quarter.  Output rose 0.8 percent in February compared with a revised
3.2 percent gain in January, Statistics Korea said today. The
median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.3 percent drop. Gross domestic product grew 0.3 percent
in the three months to December from the third quarter, compared
with a January estimate of 0.4 percent, the  Bank of Korea  said.  South Korea ’s economy, which expanded the least in two
years last quarter, may bottom in the first three months of the
year before returning to a recovery path in the second quarter,
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said last week. Improvements in
global demand may aid the nation, with International Monetary
Fund official David Lipton saying this week that he expects
modest growth in the U.S., a mild recession in  Europe  and a soft
landing for  China .  “We’re apparently going through a trough but the speed and
magnitude of an economic recovery highly hinges on global
demand,” Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in  Seoul , said before the releases. “The Bank of
Korea will likely stay pat for a considerable period of time to
support growth amid easing inflation pressures.”  Exports Drop  The won rose 0.1 percent to 1,135.50 per dollar as of 10
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi Index declined 0.3 percent.  Slower industrial output growth in February compared with
January was largely due to production declines in
telecommunications, non-metallic minerals and electric
equipment, according to today’s report from Statistics Korea.  “Output rebounded quite sharply in January and that’s why
output growth slowed in February,” Jeon Baek Geun, director at
Statistics Korea, told reporters in Gwacheon today. “The
overall conditions seem to be improving from late last year.”  Exports dropped 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter from the
third, when shipments abroad gained 2.1 percent, today’s central
bank report showed. Corporate investment in facilities fell 4.3
percent from the previous quarter, when it slid 1.8 percent.
Private consumption decreased 0.4 percent after advancing 0.2
percent.  Growth Forecasts  The BOK forecast in December that the economy will grow 3.7
percent in 2012 and 4.2 percent in 2013, following 3.6 percent
growth last year.  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence rose to the highest
level in six months and the consumer sentiment index climbed to
a four-month high on signs that the outlook for global growth is
improving, according to central bank reports this week.  While the  European Central Bank ’s injection of more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system has
calmed markets, the best six months of job growth since 2006 in
the U.S. are boosting the optimism of consumers whose spending
accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “We expect the first-quarter economy to grow a little bit
faster than earlier expectations on  government spending ,” Kim Young Bae, director general at the central bank’s statistics
department, told reporters today in Seoul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  