-- Saccoccio’s Color Mazes, Balloon Gear, Fountain: Hot Art
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/saccoccio-s-color-mazes-balloon-gear-fountain-hot-art.html
Abstract painter Jackie Saccoccio’s
new exhibition is titled “Portraits.”  Yet you’d be hard-pressed to discern a face among the
pours, drips, rivulets and washes of color at  Eleven Rivington 
gallery on  Manhattan ’s Lower East Side.  The paint formed intricate, layered masses as it was moved
around by rotating and tilting the canvas. It’s crackled in some
places, like an Old Master.  In others, bubblegum-pink and apple-green burst through
black webs or purple clouds. The brush is used to enhance or
tame the drippings -- although there’s nothing tame about these
unsettling labyrinths of color.  The paintings are $17,500. The exhibition runs through
April 22 at 11 Rivington St.; +1-212-982-1930;
 http://www.elevenrivington.com .  Balloon Cave  The Polish-born artist known as  Olek  has used the old-
fashioned craft of crocheting to cover the Wall Street Bull, a
Mustang convertible and a rusty footbridge.  At Krause Gallery, she crochets with balloons instead of
yarn. The space is dominated by a large, cave-like structure
made with inflated balloons of all colors. Climb inside. It
feels joyful underneath the laced dome.  The show also includes full-body crocheted balloon suits
and photographs of people wearing them (in crocheted latex
frames, of course).  One of the available suits is made for two people, with a
shared middle leg that requires them to move as one. The piece
is titled “Couples Therapy.”  Prices range from $1,800 to $8,500. “Synthetic Nature”
runs through April 10 at 149 Orchard St.; +1-212-777-7799;
 http://www.krausegallery.com .  Fountains  Don’t be taken aback by a messy scaffolding structure in
the window of Stephan Stoyanov Gallery down the street. It’s
part of “Resisting the Immaterial,” an exhibition by Constance
Armellino.  The scaffold props up a plaster wall with a drainpipe in
the middle. Thick blue liquid is frozen in the act of spilling
from the drain, falling to and splashing on the floor.  Nearby is a makeshift fountain, frothing with real, though
alarmingly blue, water. Don’t drink it. The artist dissolved
toilet-bowl cleaning tablets to achieve the color. Titled “The
Paradiso Fountain,” the work was inspired by the plaza fountain
in the Italian movie “Cinema Paradiso.”  During a recent visit, I was invited to hop on its plywood
ledge and have a gin and tonic. For a moment it felt like the
old country.  Prices range from $2,999.99 to $14,999.99. The show runs
through April 1 at 29 Orchard St.; +1-212-343-4240.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 