-- Santander Proves Greenest as No. 2 Bank of America Becomes Solar
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2012-03-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/santander-proves-greenest-as-no-2-bank-of-america-becomes-solar.html
A $1 billion plan to put solar
panels on 160,000 U.S. military-base homes was collapsing in
September after a $344 million U.S. Department of Energy loan
guarantee fell through.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  stepped up to
finance the effort headed by SolarCity Corp. of  San Mateo ,
 California . Now, the SolarStrong project is en route to becoming
the country’s largest residential solar-energy installation.  SolarStrong was  Bank of America’s  second big bet on sun
power in 2011. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender in
June provided a $1.4 billion loan to  San Francisco ’s Prologis
Inc. for solar systems on warehouse roofs. The Energy Department
guaranteed 80 percent of the loan.  “We’d found that rooftop solar was an area that had
difficulty attracting capital,” says Jonathan Plowe, head of
the bank’s New Energy and Infrastructure Solutions group.  Support for solar propelled Bank of America to No. 2 behind
repeat winner Banco  Santander (SAN)  SA in Bloomberg Markets’ second
annual lineup of the world’s greenest banks. The ranking,
published in the May issue, tallies how much banks are investing
and lending to support clean energy and how they’re managing
their own power consumption and carbon footprints. The results,
which cover 48 banks with market values of $10 billion or more
each, are based on data compiled by Bloomberg from public
documents, company filings and websites.  Santander Repeats  Madrid-based Santander held its top spot thanks to its
equity investment in the $1 billion Crescent Dunes Solar Energy
Plant near Tonopah,  Nevada . It also helped arrange $210 million
in loans for First Wind Holdings Inc.’s Whitman County,
 Washington , wind farm.  No. 3,  Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , funded a 33 million
euro ($44 million) acquisition of two solar parks in Italy by
investors headed by Foresight Group LLP. It also cut total
energy use by more than 6 percent in 2010, climbing 17 places.
No. 4  Citigroup Inc. (C)  inched from fifth after investing $157
million in California’s Alta Wind Energy Center and cutting its
own  greenhouse gases  6.4 percent from 2009 levels.  London ’s
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  provided 413 million pounds ($656
million) to 13 projects, among them Scotland’s Millour Hill wind
farm, to complete the Top 5.  Banks are reducing their own power consumption, saving on
printing and stemming long-distance travel. Lloyds says it has
trimmed energy use 7 percent in the past two years by adjusting
its thermostats. Bank of America gives any employee who buys a
hybrid vehicle $3,000.  Clean-Energy Investments  Globally, clean-energy investments climbed 5 percent in
2011 to $260 billion, Bloomberg New Energy Finance says. Solar
headed the list, after panel prices tumbled 51 percent to 88
cents per watt.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  learned the risks of solar
investing. Hired as an adviser in 2008, the New York-based bank
helped raise almost $1 billion for Solyndra LLC. The solar
energy company declared bankruptcy last year after failing to
compete with low-cost panel makers in  China . Goldman, which was
second in the ranking published last May, tumbled to No. 18.  Environmentalists see a flip side to banks’ green
investing. Lenders have provided the coal industry with more
than 232 billion euros since 2005, according to Bankrolling
Climate Change, a 2011 report from nonprofits, including
 Germany ’s Urgewald. Coal-fired plants spew 40 percent of man-
made CO2 emissions, the Environmental Protection Agency says.  Subsidies Dropping  Green projects may slow as government subsidies decline,
BNEF says. A U.S. Treasury program that offered cash grants for
as much as 30 percent of renewable-energy projects’ capital
costs ended last year.  Europe ’s debt crisis has taken a toll as
governments cut energy incentives.  Plowe says Bank of America’s experience backing projects
without incentives shows it can be done.  “We created a blueprint to roll out financing with or
without government guarantees,” he says.  How We Crunched the Numbers  To rank banks’ environmental records, Bloomberg Rankings
looked at their efforts to reduce their own waste and carbon
footprints and at their investments in clean energy.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance and Bloomberg’s ESG Data
group, which collects information on environmental, social and
governance issues, gathered material from annual and corporate
responsibility reports, websites and other public documents. The
teams conducted independent research and used surveys and
telephone interviews to secure additional data and verify the
accuracy of their findings.  $10 Billion  We started with banks covered by the ESG team that are
members of predominant national benchmark indexes, such as the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX) , FTSE 350 and Nikkei 225 Stock Average. We
narrowed the universe to 48 banks in 19 countries by eliminating
those with market capitalizations of less than $10 billion and
insufficient environmental activities.  In the opportunity category, which tallies clean-energy
investments and accounts for 70 percent of the score, we
assessed banks’ support for clean-energy projects in 2011. We
considered wind, solar, geothermal, hydro, biomass/biofuels and
related technologies. We divided the efforts into public- and
private-equity investments, debt issuance and advisory services.
We ranked the projects from highest to lowest based on the total
installed electricity-generating capacity of the investments in
megawatt-hours, total dollars invested and total deal count.  Reducing Impact  The second part, reducing environmental impact, accounts
for 30 percent of the score. We looked at reductions in air
emissions and water use and at gains in  energy efficiency . We
used a three-year momentum approach with the most-recent data
receiving the greatest weight. Banks with more-aggressive and
mature programs and with measurable, multiyear declines in
greenhouse gas emissions and water and energy consumption earned
the most points. Banks that disclosed more data got more credit.  Each data point is peer ranked on a scale of 0 to 100. For
example, in underwriting activities, the banks reporting the
highest-dollar-value deals received the highest scores. Those
scores were then multiplied by the weight factor assigned to
that category to determine the overall value in the section.
This was done for every category to determine a total score for
the opportunity and environmental-impact categories.  To contact the reporter on this story: Kambiz Foroohar in New
York at   kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  