-- Sarkozy Is Merkel’s Plaything as French Campaign Satire Rules
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-03-29T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/sarkozy-is-merkel-s-plaything-as-french-campaign-satire-rules.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  laughed
until there were tears in his eyes when France’s best-known
satirist mimicked Germany’s  Angela Merkel  in falsetto, calling
him “ my lovely little playmobil .”  Sarkozy wasn’t alone. About two million people tuned in as
comic  Nicolas Canteloup  during a Europe 1 radio program on March
14 mocked Sarkozy for being Merkel’s toy at euro-zone summits.  As election fever heats up, political satirists portray
Sarkozy as “President Bling-Bling” with Ray-Ban glasses and
his opponent  Francois Hollande  as “Flanby,” to show he’s as
soft and wobbly as the Nestle pudding of that name. More biting
than the likes of the Daily Show’s  Jon Stewart  with dismissive
nicknames for the candidates, French political satirists draw on
a culture of clever wordplay and ridicule perfected to an art in
Louis XIV’s court more than 300 years ago.  “The French are passionate about politics; it’s an old
reflex,” said Patrick Eveno a professor of politics and media
at the  Paris Sorbonne  university. “It dates back to the
monarchy and the revolution. The president-king is the center of
interest and conversations, but he also needs a counterweight.
Political satire plays that role, like the king’s jester did.”  More than 68 percent  of France’s 65.6 million people have
registered to vote. With 23 days before the election, Sarkozy
leads in opinion polls for the first round. A victory for
Hollande, who leads in the polls for the decisive second round,
would bring the presidency back to the Socialist Party for the
first time since 1995.  ‘Amplifiers  Every word and every action of Sarkozy and Hollande are
quickly turned into a sketch, with their stump speeches
providing ample fodder for satirists. While pay TV  Canal Plus ’s
show “Les Guignols de l’Info,” and satirical weekly  Le
Canard Enchaine  dominated the political-humor space in the past,
now politicians’ own words, voices and video clips are set up in
ways that make the mockery appear real.  “A recent evolution is that now politicians are directly
approached and made fun of,” said  David Dubois , a professor of
political science and marketing at the  HEC-Paris business
school . “Some satirists do not use puppets as intermediaries
between the reality and the critiques anymore, which tends to
discredit politicians and their actions even more.” Dubois said
such satire plays the role of “amplifiers” in the campaign.  Beyond the satire, the election, with the first round on
April 22 and the second on May 6, has gripped the nation.  Twitter, Blogs  Dozens of radio programs, television shows, tweets,
blogs and interminable coverage on the web have captivated
millions of politics addicts. In one program on Jan. 29, 16.6
million people, or 25.5 percent of  France ’s population, watched
Sarkozy on six national channels.  France’s 2012 presidential campaign is the first to use
Twitter, Facebook and blogs on a large scale, although the
number of followers of posts by the main candidates is miniscule
compared with U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s 13.5 million.
Hollande’s team says he has about 211,500 followers, while
Sarkozy has 140,500.  Mitt Romney  has about 400,000.  A blog by Le Monde political correspondent  Arnaud
Leparmentier , called  “L’Elysee cote jardin”  or “Elysee: The
Garden View,” has had more than 10 million visitors since its
creation in October 2010.  The interest in politics in France translates into large
turnouts at the polling stations. Turnout this year may be near
the  record 85 percent  in the 2007 elections.  ‘Direct Dialogue’  In the U.S., the turnout at the 2008 presidential ballot
was 57.5 percent of the voting population. In  Germany  in 2009,
it was 70.8 percent and in the U.K. in 2010, it was 65 percent.  “People are very politicized in France; it’s like a
national sport,” said Arnaud Mercier, a professor of the
Universite de Lorraine in eastern France.  National TV channels have grilled the candidates in two, or
even three-hour-long debates with presidential hopefuls facing
 panels of voters , journalists and political opponents. A show
with Sarkozy on  France 2  TV this month drew 5.6 million viewers.  “Voters want to have a direct dialogue with their
president, because it is he who has all the power,” the
Sorbonne’s Eveno said.  Satirical programs are having similar successes.  “Le Petit
Journal,”  a TV show on Canal+ drawing its name from the 19th
century newspaper that sold about a million copies a day with
its caricatures, gives viewers a behind-the-scenes peek at what
politicians say when they believe microphones are turned off.  ‘Le Petit Journal’  The show, viewed by as many as two million people every day
and a favorite of young voters, is playing a key role in
France’s election, with candidates ignoring it at their peril.  “The Petit Journal is a protest tool,” said Universite de
Lorraine’s  Mercier . “It’s a powerful means to reveal the
candidates’ communication strategies and tactics, which is
something recent in French politics.”  Le Petit Journal’s success overshadows Canal+’s older
puppets-driven satirical program,  “Les Guignols de L’Info,” 
which in the 1995 presidential election showed former President
 Jacques Chirac  saying “eat apples” over and over, unwittingly
softening his image and helping him win.  Now, Les Guignols plays on Sarkozy’s ”president of the
rich” image and on Hollande’s “Flanby” nickname.  Meanwhile, the  Caveau de la Republique , a central Paris
theater that has been staging political satire since 1901, has a
new show called “Is There a Sarkozyst in The House?,” which
draws about 450 spectators every night. Many of today’s famous
French satirists began their careers at the Caveau.  Comedians Canteloup, Stephane Guillon,  Laurent Gerra  and
 Anne Roumanoff  are touring the country in sold-out shows
dissecting the candidates’ daily pronouncements. For Universite
de Lorraine’s Mercier, the ripping apart of candidates comments
with humor is “part of the game.”  “Politicians must play it, with a smile preferably,” he
said. “Not being mocked is like not existing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  