-- Saudi’s NCB Capital to Boost Global Investment With TCW, Amundi
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-03-29T09:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/saudi-s-ncb-capital-to-boost-global-investment-with-tcw-amundi.html
NCB Capital, a Saudi Arabian
 investment company  with 44 billion riyals ($11.7 billion) of
assets, is expanding outside of the region through alliances
with TCW Group Inc. and  Amundi Asset Management .  NCB Capital plans to start two funds in the second half of
2012 pending regulatory approval managed by TCW and Amundi, said
Chief Investment Officer Faysal Badran. TCW and Amundi now
manage a combined $550 million of international funds for NCB
Capital, the Saudi wealth manager said in a statement on March
24.  “The international funds business is a relative small
portion of our business, and that’s why we’re doing this deal,”
Badran, who is also NCB Capital’s head of asset management, said
in a phone interview yesterday. “We’ve always had international
funds but there was a desire to refocus on better performing
investment managers last year.”  NCB currently invests a lot of its assets under management
in  Saudi Arabia  and the other five nations in the Gulf
Cooperation Council, including Qatar, the United Arab Emirates
and Bahrain, Badran said. The unit of the kingdom’s largest bank
by assets  National Commercial Bank  may also start a fund that
invests in Islamic bonds in 2013, he said.  ‘Issuer’s Dreamland’  “There’s big demand for sukuk, especially given the level
of  interest rates  globally and in the region,” he said. “It’s
an issuer’s dreamland, so issuance has been very active.”  Global sukuk sales jumped to $10.9 billion so far this year
from $5.16 billion in the year-earlier period, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Average yields on sukuk worldwide fell 38 basis
points so far this year to 3.61 percent March 28, the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index shows.  “Most of our assets under management are generated through
 wealth management ,” Badran said. “We can’t claim to have a
global wealth management platform without having a full suite of
products.”  Amundi manages 659 billion euros ($876 billion) and is the
combined investment arm of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe
Generale  SA. TCW has about $124 billion of assets under
management and is a subsidiary of Societe Generale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  