-- Scene Last Night: Depressed Pope, Turturro, Volleyball
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-29T13:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/scene-last-night-depressed-pope-turturro-volleyball.html
Last night I watched “We Have a
Pope” in a private screening room on Park Avenue, with
playwright  Neil Simon  and actors Tovah Feldshuh and Josh Mostel.
Then I met the film’s director, Nanni Moretti, and his
girlfriend, Chiara Palmieri, over dinner at Desmond’s.  The comedy-drama, made in  Italy , requires an appreciation
for the absurdity of cardinals playing in a volleyball
tournament at the Vatican, relishing every “punto.”  “That scene alone was worth its price in gold,” said
Feldshuh, tucked into a white banquette at Desmond’s with a
plate of greens and burrata in front of her.  The cardinals -- from  Sri Lanka ,  Japan ,  Australia  -- are
sequestered at the Vatican because the man they’ve elected pope,
played by Michel Piccoli, has been unable to address the
faithful from the balcony on St. Peter’s Square.  A papal adviser brings in a psychiatrist to help. The pope
flees, taking up with a troupe of actors rehearsing Chekhov.  “I loved when he was walking on the street by himself,”
actor  John Turturro  said sitting across from Moretti at
Desmond’s. “It shows how the pope, or the president or any
world leader, how isolated they are from the world. Celebrities
also suffer somewhat from that.”  Had he himself ever had a job offer he didn’t want?
“Working in an office all day,” Turturro said.  Bible Diagnosis  Moretti, president of the jury for the 2012 Cannes film
festival, plays the psychiatrist. On screen he tries to console
the cardinals by reading a passage from the Bible describing the
symptoms of depression -- his diagnosis for the pope.  Moretti’s own advice for fighting the blues, speaking
through a translator: “Play sports, go to the movies and eat
chocolate.”  Moretti said he likes playing tennis and he used to play
water polo.  “We Have a Pope” will probably make about $1 million in
the U.S., said Ryan Werner,  Sundance Selects  marketing and
publicity executive.  “That’s the goal for a foreign film,” he added, though he
noted some recent aberrations: “Pina,” the Wim Wenders
documentary about dancer-choreographer  Pina Bausch , has made $3
million. The Iranian film “The Separation,” which won the
Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, has made $6 million.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  -- Editors: Jeffrey Burke, Lili Rosboch.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 