-- SEC Said to Review Credit Suisse VIX Note
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-29T11:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/sec-said-to-review-credit-suisse-vix-note.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators are reviewing a  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
exchange-traded note that became unhinged from its benchmark and
whipsawed investors, a person familiar with the matter said.  The  VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN (TVIX) , which seeks
to provide twice the daily return of the VIX volatility index,
climbed almost 90 percent above its  asset value  after the
Zurich-based bank stopped issuing shares in February. The value
of the note, which had risen to almost $700 million from about
$163 million at the end of 2011,  plunged last week  when Credit
Suisse said it would begin creating shares again.  The review by the SEC’s enforcement division comes amid
heightened scrutiny of exchange-traded funds and notes, which
had about $1.2 trillion in assets at the end of February,
according to the ETF Industry Association. The European
Commission said March 22 that it is examining potential
“conflicts of interest” affecting the securities.  The price swings in the VelocityShares ETN highlight the
risk posed by disruptions in supply and demand of the notes.
Because the notes are normally pegged to underlying assets such
as stocks, bonds and indexes, sponsors can create or redeem
shares to offset price distortions caused when investors buy and
sell them.  Gap Widened  The gap between the security’s price and the value of the
index it tracks widened after Credit Suisse suspended issuing
new shares, causing a supply shortage amid record demand for
volatility products that provide a hedge against losses on U.S.
equities.  The SEC probe was reported late yesterday by the Wall
Street Journal. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment,
as did Credit Suisse spokeswoman Sofia Rehman in  London . The
person who confirmed the probe was underway asked not to be
identified because the inquiry isn’t public.  Credit Suisse declined 25 centimes, or 1 percent, to 26.18
Swiss francs by 12:58 p.m. in Zurich trading. The shares have
advanced 19 percent this year.  The VelocityShares ETN aims to produce twice the daily
return of the S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures Index, which tracks
a trading strategy involving futures on the CBOE Volatility
Index. The VIX, as the CBOE gauge is known, is used as a
benchmark measure of U.S. equity derivatives and measures the
cost of protection from losses in U.S. stocks.  Unsecured Securities  ETFs issue shares that trade on an exchange, and can create
new shares or redeem existing ones. Exchange-traded notes, or
ETNs, like the one backed by Credit Suisse, by contrast, issue
unsecured securities that promise to deliver the return of an
index. The issuer, often a bank, typically uses derivatives
linked to the index to cover their obligation to shareholders.  If the issuer cannot repay the notes, investors lose their
money. Issuers may also decide to stop creating or redeeming
shares, which can unhinge the ETN from the security or index it
was designed to track, which in this case was the CBOE
Volatility Index. The VIX, as the CBOE gauge is known, is used
as a benchmark measure of U.S. equity derivatives and measures
the cost of protection from losses in U.S. stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  