-- SEC Registration Captures More Hedge Fund Advisers
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-03-29T04:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/sec-registration-captures-more-hedge-fund-advisers.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will oversee hundreds more private advisers at hedge
funds and private equity firms than it first predicted,
expanding the reach of one of the most controversial
requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The managers of such investment funds face a deadline
tomorrow to register with the SEC. The agency expects to receive
about 1,300 registration applications, according to SEC
spokeswoman Judith Burns. That is about a 70 percent increase
from the 750 advisers the agency said as recently as July that
it expected to register.  The 2010 financial regulatory overhaul included the
registration provision for hedge fund and private equity
advisers so the SEC could have a better understanding of what
had been an opaque corner of finance. The surge in registrations
reflects the gaps in the SEC’s knowledge of the sector, said
 Cornelius Hurley , the director of the Morin Center for Banking
and Financial Law at  Boston University (43751MF) .  “It’s an indication of how much” the SEC “did not know
beforehand,” he said in a telephone interview. “It’s pretty
big.”  Burns didn’t explain why the number is higher than the
agency estimated earlier.  The SEC hasn’t hired new staff to specifically focus on
reviewing the registration applications though the office that
conducts examinations has made 60 additional hires over the past
18 months.  The SEC completed the registration rule in June. The final
rule that the agency published in the Federal Register on July
19 estimated that 750 advisers would spend almost 38,000 hours
and more than $9.6 million to comply with the rule.  Registration Exemptions  The registration requirement applies only to private equity
companies and hedge funds that have more than $150 million in
assets under management. Foreign advisers without a U.S.
business and most venture capital funds are exempt.  Greenlight Capital Inc., BlackRock Capital Management Inc.
and Paulson & Co. Inc. are among the hedge funds that are
already registered with the SEC. The registration process hasn’t
been very difficult for hedge funds, said Jay Gould, a partner
at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pitman LLP in  San Francisco .  “It’s not a big deal,” he said. “For big managers and
funds, this has gone quite well.”  The process has been more complex for private equity
companies, said Pamela Hendrickson, the chief operating officer
of The Riverside Co., a New York-based firm that has registered
with the SEC.  ‘Hard to Write’  “It’s a regulation designed for the hedge fund industry
and not private equity,” she said in a telephone interview.
“Private equity and hedge funds don’t do the same thing so it’s
hard to write one set of rules.”  The biggest problem, she said, is the so-called custody
rule in the final regulation. That provision, intended to curb
fraud, requires most registered firms to direct client assets to
an independent custodian.  “Frequently, firms like Riverside hold their securities in
a vault at a  law firm  or other secure locations instead of
paying a third-party custodian,” she said. The rule “just
doesn’t make sense.”  Representative Robert Hurt, a Virginia Republican, has
proposed legislation that would exempt private equity companies
from the SEC registration requirement. His bill cleared the
House Financial Services Committee in June and hasn’t advanced
on the floor. In an e-mail, Hurt said he is still pursuing the
exemption and encourages the SEC to use its own authority to
shield private equity companies that aren’t highly leveraged
from registration.  “The registration requirements in Dodd-Frank for private
equity advisers are unnecessary burdens that will hinder small
business capital formation and  job creation ,” he said in the e-
mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  