-- Secret Vote Opens Health Law Review Shaping Court Legacy
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/secret-vote-opens-health-law-review-shaping-court-legacy.html
U.S. Chief Justice  John Roberts 
will probably ask each of his eight Supreme Court colleagues
gathered in an oak-paneled room tomorrow where they stand on the
law that would expand health insurance to at least 30 million
Americans and affect one-sixth of the economy.  The secret, preliminary vote, following the court’s
standard practice, will kick off three months of behind-the-
scenes deliberations on the fate of the law. The outcome will
shape Roberts’s own legacy, influence President Barack Obama’s
re-election prospects and potentially deepen the partisan gulf
that is already dividing the country.  “This is the defining case for this term and quite
possibly the entire Roberts chief justiceship if they’re going
to strike it down,” said Sanford Levinson, a University of
Texas law professor.  Almost six and a half hours of argument over the past three
days cast doubt on the survival of the law’s centerpiece
requirement that individuals get insurance. The hearings made
clear the justices are splitting along ideological lines, much
like a Democratic-controlled Congress was when it enacted the
law in 2010 without a single Republican vote.  The court’s decision will mark the first time it has ruled
on a president’s biggest legislative accomplishment in the
middle of his re-election campaign. The measure is being
challenged by 26 states and a business trade group as exceeding
Congress’s constitutional powers.  ‘Breathtaking’ Moment  The outcome will hinge on Roberts and Justice  Anthony Kennedy , said Susan Low Bloch, a constitutional law professor at
 Georgetown University Law Center  in Washington.  During arguments over the insurance requirement, both
justices trained the bulk of their questions on U.S. Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli, the Obama administration lawyer who
defended the law.  Roberts directed three-quarters of his approximately 20
questions to Verrilli during that two-hour argument. Roberts
said the health plan would “require people who are never going
to need pediatric or maternity services to participate in that
market.”  Kennedy said the law “changes the relationship of the
federal government to the individual in a very fundamental way”
by forcing people to buy a product.  “It was breathtaking when Kennedy expressed as much
skepticism as he did at the government’s individual mandate,”
said Ilya Shapiro, an opponent of the law and a senior fellow in
constitutional studies at the Washington-based  Cato Institute ,
which urges smaller government. “I almost began fist-pumping.”  Joining Forces  Should they conclude that the insurance requirement is
unconstitutional, Roberts and Kennedy would probably join three
other Republican appointees --  Antonin Scalia ,  Clarence Thomas 
and  Samuel Alito  -- in a 5-4 majority. The court’s four
Democratic appointees all suggested they would vote to uphold
the law.  A decision that the insurance requirement is
unconstitutional would require the justices to decide whether to
overturn some or all of the rest of the law as well. During
arguments yesterday, the justices suggested they would have to
invalidate provisions that require insurers to cover people with
pre-existing medical conditions.  The justices were divided on whether to go further and
throw out the entire  health-care law . The court’s Democratic
appointees urged a limited ruling, and the Republican justices
offered varying levels of support for toppling all provisions.  Not Over Yet  Supreme Court  arguments can be deceiving. In 2009, a
hearing suggested the court was poised to strike down a central
provision in the Voting Rights Act. In that argument, Kennedy
pointed to a “great disparity” in the way the act treated
different states and said a government lawyer defending the law
bore “a very substantial burden.”  Three months later, the court produced a compromise, an 8-1
decision that avoided ruling on the constitutionality of the
Voting Rights Act.  Still, the prospect of a similar compromise in the health-
care case may have evaporated during the first day of argument,
when the justices suggested they aren’t inclined to postpone a
decision until the law goes into full effect.  The nine justices should have a clear sense of each other’s
views tomorrow morning when, by tradition, they will meet in
their private conference room in a session closed even to their
law clerks.  Sitting in their assigned seats -- with the chief justice
at the head and the newest justice,  Elena Kagan , by the door in
case anyone knocks with a message or a delivery -- they will
discuss the case and then vote in order of seniority, with
Roberts going first.  Only the Beginning  That meeting may be just the beginning of the wrangling.
The justices at times shift their positions after they take that
initial vote. Kennedy, in particular, “has been known to change
his mind” after reading opinion drafts, said Michael Dorf, a
Cornell University law professor who clerked for the justice.  From the public’s standpoint, the case will enter a quiet
period until the justices release their decision, probably at
the end of June.  That announcement will mark Roberts’s biggest moment since
President  George W. Bush  appointed him chief justice in 2005.  Roberts said at his Senate confirmation hearing that year
that he prefers to be known “as a modest judge,” a job he
compared with being a baseball umpire calling balls and strikes.  Consensus Building  Democrats have complained that Roberts hasn’t proven to be
a consensus builder, joining 5-4 conservative majorities in
major cases involving school integration, abortion, and gun
rights.  “More than any other case he’s faced so far, the
Affordable Care Act litigation will define John Roberts’s tenure
and legacy,” said  Doug Kendall , president of the Washington-
based Constitutional Accountability Center, which supports the
law.  A ruling striking down all or part of the law would
establish the Roberts court as a bulwark against perceived
overreaching by Obama and congressional Democrats. It would also
trigger accusations that the court was engaging in “judicial
activism.”  The justices themselves debated that notion yesterday while
considering how much of the health-care law should survive if
the insurance mandate is found to be unconstitutional.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said throwing out an entire law
when only one part has been ruled unconstitutional is “sort of
taking onto the court more power than one, I think, would
want.”  ‘New Regime’  Kennedy countered that judicial restraint might call for
rejecting the whole statute if the insurance requirement is
voided. Cutting out just the coverage mandate would create “a
new regime that Congress did not provide for, did not
consider,” Kennedy said. “That, it seems to me, can be argued
at least to be a more extreme exercise of judicial power than
striking the whole.”  A decision striking down the mandate would also mark a new
legal path for the Roberts court, which has never before
considered the limits of Congress’s power over interstate
commerce. Roberts’s predecessor and former boss, the late Chief
Justice William Rehnquist, helped revive the idea that
Congress’s commerce power has limits.  Limiting Congressional Power  “Nobody really realized that the Roberts court majority is
as in love with federalism as the Rehnquist court before it,”
said  Tom Goldstein , an appellate lawyer whose Scotusblog
website, sponsored by Bloomberg Law, tracks the court. “It
looks like they may be very serious about recognizing limits on
Congress’s power.”  The public won’t get any more hints until the end of June.  “The Supreme Court is very good at keeping things under
wraps,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at
the  University of California  at Los Angeles School of Law. “The
clerks won’t talk, the justices won’t talk, no one will talk. We
are all going to wait and see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  