-- Republicans Block Repeal of Oil-Company Tax Breaks Obama Sought
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-03-29T20:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/senate-fails-to-advance-bill-repealing-oil-tax-breaks-correct-.html
Senate Republicans blocked a
Democratic bill to repeal about $24 billion in U.S. tax breaks
for the nation’s biggest  oil companies , three days after
agreeing to advance the measure as a way to debate energy.  President  Barack Obama , speaking at the White House before
today’s vote, had urged lawmakers to pass the legislation.
Republicans opposed repealing the tax breaks and blamed Obama’s
energy policies for the rise in gasoline costs.  High prices at the pump “are having a negative impact on
Americans’ daily lives,” Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said during the debate. “So
we think the American people are entitled to this debate.”  Republicans said the bill, introduced by Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, would keep raising gasoline
prices. They criticized Obama for blocking  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL oil pipeline, restricting offshore production, and
supporting solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, a solar panel maker
that went bankrupt two years after winning a $535 million U.S.
loan guarantee.  Obama said the top three oil companies operating in the
U.S. made more than $80 billion in profit last year, with  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  collecting almost $4.7 million an hour.  “It’s not as if these companies can’t stand on their
own,” Obama said.  Nine Votes Short  Senate Democrats fell nine votes short of the 60 required
to advance the tax-repeal bill. Maine Republican Senators
Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins joined all but four Democrats to
back the bill. Democratic Senators Mark Begich of Alaska,  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana,  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska, and Jim Webb of
Virginia voted with Republicans against the bill.  The legislation would raise almost $24 billion over 10
years by repealing breaks to Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil,
 London ’s  BP Plc (BP/) , Houston’s  ConocoPhillips (COP) , San Ramon,
California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , based
in The Hague.  Of the total repealed, about $11.7 billion be used to pay
for tax credits for conservation and renewable energy
development, with the rest going to deficit reduction.  In a show of rare bipartisanship, the Senate voted 92-4
March 26 to debate the legislation, a signal that both parties
saw a political advantage in debating energy issues with
Americans paying more to fill their tanks. The vote today was a
procedural step that effectively killed the measure.  Per gallon prices rose to $3.921 yesterday, from $3.595 a
year ago, according to AAA.  Campaign Issue  The rise has made energy a issue in the presidential
campaign, Bruce Oppenheimer, a Vanderbilt University professor
who has written on energy and politics, said in an interview.  Candidates have debated the merits of a Canada-to-U.S. oil
pipeline, expanded offshore drilling and subsidizing clean-
energy development to move away from dependence on fossil fuels.  Whether gasoline remains an issue in November depends on
whether prices recede, Oppenheimer said.  “When prices drop back down, maybe because of something
the government did or more likely not because of anything the
government did, the American attention to it drops off almost
immediately,” Oppenheimer said in an interview.  Energy analysts told a Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee hearing before the vote that gasoline prices have
increased because of tighter margin between oil supplies and
demand and geopolitical fears about  Iran ’s nuclear intentions.  ‘Magic Buttons’  Daniel Yergin, chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates, said the U.S. lacked “magic buttons” to push to
lower prices. More production in North America and elsewhere may
help reduce costs over time, he said.  Supply disruptions in Iran, South Sudan, Russia, Yemen,
China, Syria, and other nations will maintain pressure on
gasoline prices, said Frank Verrastro, director of the Energy
and National Security Program for the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington.  Democrats said the pump price is outside of Obama’s
control.  “We do not face cycles of high gasoline prices in the
United States because of a lack of domestic production or a lack
of access to federal resources or because of environmental
regulations getting in the way of us obtaining cheap gasoline,”
said Senator Jeff Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat and chairman
of the Senate Energy panel.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , the top Republican on the
committee, said more production in the U.S. and oil from Canada
can help moderate price increases.  “We recognize that there a lot of different factors that
are driving up the fuel costs,” she said. “But there are some
things that I think that we can influence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  