-- Serbian Cabinet Adopts Measures to Save 15.7 Billion Dinars
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-03-29T15:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/serbian-cabinet-adopts-measures-to-save-15-7-billion-dinars-1-.html
Serbia’s government adopted
measures to save 15.7 billion dinars ($187 million) to bring the
state budget deficit back toward its target for 2012 amid an
economic slowdown, Deputy Finance Minister Dusan Nikezic said.  Most of the funds, or 10.9 billion dinars, will come from a
cash transfer from local governments after a law last year gave
municipalities powers to collect more taxes and fees. A further
4.8 billion dinars will be saved through streamlined
discretionary spending, which includes business travel for
government officials.  “These measures prove that the government is pursuing a
responsible fiscal policy,” Nikezic said at a press conference
today in Belgrade. The government voted “unanimously” for the
measures aiming to achieve a “sustainable fiscal deficit.”  The Balkan nation of 7.2 million people can expect economic
growth of between “zero and 0.5 percent,” down from a previous
forecast for a 1.5 percent expansion. Negative trends have been
seen in the number of jobs available and an increase in the
number of actively unemployed persons by 1.8 percent, according
to the paper adopted by the government.  Subsidies Remain  The Cabinet will keep subsidies in agriculture, industry
and infrastructure and slash sovereign guarantees for borrowing
by public enterprises to 125 million euros from 432.5 million
euros and trim backing for  project financing  to 17.5 million
euros from 115 million euros, he said.  The government will also leave in place guarantees for JAT
Airways, aircraft maintenance company JAT Tehnika,
pharmaceuticals maker Galenika and a housing property as the
government converts former military barracks into civilian
accomodations.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s Cabinet announced measures
before general elections on May 6, adjusting the budget after a
20 percent revenue decline in February, when extreme weather
conditions and heavy snowfall kept dozens of factories, most
schools and many public institutions out of work for days.  The measures signal the government wants to make a
“systemic change” and include in the budget all “sorts of
fiscal forms that normally do not end up in the budget,
environmental taxes for instance,” said Milojko Arsic, an
economics professor and chief macroeconomist at the Belgrade-
based FREN Foundation for Economic Science Development.  IMF Pledge  Bringing the deficit back to 2012 budget targets was the
main pledge Cvetkovic made to the  International Monetary Fund ,
after agreeing to keep a $1.3 billion loan program frozen until
a new government is sworn in.  The IMF decided to freeze the program after it turned out
the 2012 budget gap would reach 5.25 percent rather than 4.25
percent of economic output. At the time, the IMF also saw the
level of originally planned sovereign guarantees as excessive.  Nikezic couldn’t tell how soon the government will manage
to bring the fiscal deficit down. The government reported a two-
month budget gap of 41.3 billion dinars at the end of February,
already exceeding the three-month deficit target of 26 billion
dinars agreed with the IMF.  Serbia aims for a full-year consolidated budget deficit of
152 billion dinars and the IMF would like to see the first-half
gap at 61 billion dinars at the end of June.  “Lots of budget revenue will arrive on the last day of
March and our goal is to keep the deficit at the levels agreed
with the IMF,” Nikezic said, adding that the government already
reduced “discretionary spending” in March.  Tim Ash of the Royal Bank of  Scotland  said the decision was
“important and potentially positive, as the issue of state
guarantees had been a sticking point for the IMF - one reason
the country failed to complete the first review under the
precautionary stand-by arrangement.”  It’s “brave of the government to make these changes or
reforms before parliamentary elections” and also “shows
commitment to reform,” he said in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  