-- Six Hazardous-Waste Firm Officials Indicted in Tax Fraud
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-29T16:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/six-hazardous-waste-firm-officials-indicted-in-tax-fraud-1-.html
Six officials from a hazardous-
waste remediation company in upstate New York were arraigned on
charges in connection with a tax-evasion scheme, the  Justice
Department  said.  The officers of Niagara Falls-based Sevenson Environmental
Services Inc. are accused of conspiring to defraud the  Internal
Revenue Service  by developing a scheme to pay bonuses to
themselves and other employees that weren’t reported to the
agency, the Justice Department said today in a statement.  The bonus pay, known as “deferred compensation” or
“Spanky bucks,” allowed some employees to obtain goods and
services that were paid for by the company and not reported to
the IRS, such as home improvements, landscaping and airline
tickets to  Australia  and  Los Angeles , according to the
indictment. The defendants are accused of fabricating documents,
falsifying invoices and filing false income tax returns.  “The defendants would and did advise certain employees of
their ability to obtain unreported bonus compensation in the
form of goods or services that would be paid for by the
corporation in lieu of a larger monetary bonus,” according to
the indictment. “The defendants would and did cause invoices
for personal goods and services to be submitted to Sevenson for
payment and to use a corporate  credit card  to pay for personal
expeditures.”  Prison, Fines  Sevenson’s Chief Executive Officer, Michael Elia, of
Newfane, New York, was indicted, along with vice presidents
Laurence Elia, Richard Elia, Philip DeLuca, Alfred LaGreca and
Frank Fracassi, according to the indictment.  The defendants, who were arraigned yesterday before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Leslie G. Foschio in Buffalo, face as many as
five years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted on the
conspiracy charge.  Lawyers for the defendants didn’t immediately return
telephone messages at their offices seeking comment on the
charges. Sevenson didn’t immediately respond to a message left
at the company’s headquarters seeking comment.  The company paid $1 million in unreported non-cash bonuses
to at least 23 employees from the late 1990s until at least
2007, according to the indictment. A total of about $311,000 in
incomes taxes weren’t paid to the IRS.  The case is U.S. v. DeLuca et al, 1:11-cr-00169, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  New York  (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 