-- Slovenia's Trade Union Threatens Vote on Austerity
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-03-29T15:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/slovenia-s-trade-union-threatens-vote-on-austerity.html
Slovenia’s biggest trade union is
threatening to organize a referendum on the government’s
spending cuts that are meant to allay investors’ concern over
the euro-region nation’s debt.  If the government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  fails to
take into account the union’s demands and the savings measures
are deemed as “unjust,” the union will seek signatures from
the public for a vote, the workers’ collective Zveza Svobodnih
Sindikatov Slovenije said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The proposed measures are unjust to the people and follow
the ideology of neoliberal capitalism,” the Ljubljana-based
group said in a statement. “We will do everything in our power
to prevent their adoption or enforcement.”  Premier Janez Jansa’s administration, which took power last
month after early elections in December, pledged to lower public
spending by about 800 million euros ($1.06 billion) and cut the
 budget deficit  to below 3 percent of gross domestic product by
year’s end by reducing public sector wages, benefits, pensions
and jobless payments.  The first post-communist nation to adopt the euro saw its
public debt surge to 47.4 percent of economic output last year
from 23 percent five years ago, according to Finance Minister
Janez Sustersic.  Slovenians have voted down several government bills in
referendums, including pensions changes in June which would have
extended the  retirement age  to 65. That rejection marked the
beginning of the rise in the country’s borrowing costs and
credit rating downgrades.  The yield on the government benchmark bonds maturing in
2021 rose from 4.456 percent in June to 5.232 percent at 3:48
p.m. in Ljubljana today, according to mid-pricing data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield surged above 7 percent in November, when
the debt crisis was threatening neighboring  Italy .  Slovenia, which adopted the euro in 2007, has a credit
rating of A+ with a negative outlook at  Standard & Poor’s . The
assessment was cut in two steps from AA, the third-highest
investment grade, after the pension changes were rejected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  