-- Small Businesses Short-Changed on Contracts for 10 Years
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-03-29T13:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/small-businesses-short-changed-on-contracts-for-10-years-1-.html
The  U.S. government  has missed its
small-business contracting goal every year in the past decade, a
sign of the continuing barriers facing companies competing with
larger rivals for federal work.  The government has a target of awarding 23 percent of
eligible prime, or direct, contracts to small businesses. It
awarded 21.8 percent of $423 billion in such awards in the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. The Pentagon, which represents
more than two-thirds of all prime contract revenue, has also
missed its goal for 10 years, according to federal procurement
data.  The shortfalls have spanned both Republican and Democratic
administrations, which have prodded officials to boost small-
business awards. President  Barack Obama ’s Office of Management
and Budget told agencies in a February 2011 memo that their
underachievement deprives taxpayers and “takes away
opportunities for small businesses to create jobs and drive the
economy forward.”  The government’s track record is “a real eye-opener,”
said Robert Burton, former acting administrator of the Office of
Federal Procurement Policy and now a partner at the law firm
Venable LLP in Washington. “As goes the  Department of Defense ,
goes the rest of the agencies. If DoD doesn’t make it, probably
the rest of the government isn’t going to make it.”  ‘Known Quantities’  Agencies may be reluctant to take chances on small
businesses, defined by the government as having fewer than 500
employees or less than $7 million in average annual sales. They
generally don’t have the performance records of large
corporations that are “known quantities,” Burton said.  “I’m convinced that if the government wanted to meet the
goal, they could do it, but I don’t know that the government
really wants to do it,” he said.  The  Small Business Administration  is working with agencies
to help them meet their goals, John Shoraka, a SBA acting
associate administrator, said in an e-mail.  “The goal is to make the goal,” Shoraka said. “Twenty-
three percent is within reach, and the SBA thinks it should be
the government’s objective to meet that goal.”  The federal government has “lofty goals,” said Steve
Westerlund, president of Aquasis Services Inc., a small business
in Pensacola,  Florida , that collapsed after doing work for the
Department of Defense for 27 years. “But nothing ever
happens.”  Closed Business  Westerlund said his company did “the non-sexy stuff,”
which included delivering mail, maintaining laundry equipment in
military dormitories, and providing administrative support for
Naval flight training at Whiting Field near  Pensacola .  His military contracting officer told him in September 2009
that 30 of his 100 employees were being converted from
contractors to federal workers, as part of a government effort
to outsource less of the work, he said. Westerlund’s company had
about $4.5 million in annual revenue at the time.  “I couldn’t believe it,” he said. “I knew that was the
beginning of the end.”  Westerlund lost his remaining employees the following year
and had to close his business. He said he’s now living off
savings and still looking for federal contracting work.  It’s getting harder to win federal awards, said Annette
Wright, president of Toledo, Ohio-based Unity Cable Technologies
Inc., which has done work for the Pentagon and the Department of
 Homeland Security .  Business Winner  Wright started her company in 1994 as a wireless cable and
electrical product supplier. She said she once had three
employees, and that she now can’t afford to support anyone
besides herself.  “I can’t pay anybody if I’m not winning contracts,”
Wright said. “I will bid on supplying blankets these days if I
can find them and be competitive on it.”  Small business  contract winners such as Jeanne Peck,
president of Nash Locke LLC, a McLean, Virginia-based technology
company, said they’re not surprised by the government’s poor
showing.  “I don’t want to sound like sour grapes, but I think
people are comfortable doing business with people and companies
they know,” Peck said. “Most little companies don’t have three
or four years to mess around building brand new relationships.
It is very hard to stay alive.”  Peck’s company won its first direct contract in September,
when the  Army Corps  of Engineers awarded Nash Locke a $52,800
order to manage a technology project, according to the
government’s federal procurement database.  Persuading the Government  The company had been a subcontractor for the Pentagon and
Department of Education for four years, which she said helped
keep her business afloat as she tried to persuade the government
to give her that first direct contract.  Some members of Congress want to boost the government’s
goal and penalize agencies.  Representative Sam Graves, a Missouri Republican, in
January introduced a bill,  HR 3850 , that would lift the target
to 25 percent and withhold the bonuses of senior agency
executives if their agencies miss goals.  “The fact that the federal government hasn’t met the 23
percent small business contracting goal is very disappointing,
not only for me but for thousands of small businesses who are
losing out on opportunities,” Graves said in an e-mail. “It is
particularly frustrating that the  Department of Defense , which
accounts for approximately 70 percent of all federal
contracting, has steadily decreased its small business share
over the past several years.”  Defense Department  The Pentagon’s direct awards to  small businesses  have been
decreasing since 2009. The Defense Department had a goal of
awarding 22.3 percent of eligible prime awards to small
businesses in fiscal 2011. It awarded 19.9 percent of $290
billion in such contracts that year.  Total military contracts, including subcontracts, to small
businesses have increased from fiscal years 2010 to 2011, Andre
Gudger, director of the Pentagon’s office of small business
programs, said in an e-mailed statement. The total figures for
subcontracts aren’t publicly available.  “DoD has several ongoing initiatives that will continue to
increase opportunities for small business participation in DoD
acquisitions,” Gudger said.  The  Department of Energy , the second-largest buyer across
the government, missed its goal of 6 percent last year, awarding
$1.3 billion, or 5.3 percent, to small businesses. The
 Department of Health  and Human Services, the third-largest
buyer, exceeded its goal of 19.5 percent, awarding $4.5 billion,
or 24 percent, to small firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in  Washington  at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  