-- Sony Names Lynton as Chief Executive of U.S. Media Divisions
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-03-29T20:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/sony-names-lynton-as-chief-executive-of-u-s-media-divisions.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  named studio Chairman
Michael Lynton as chief executive officer of the U.S.
entertainment business, putting film, television and music under
a single person to help unify the company’s content.  Kazuo Hirai, who on April 1 replaces  Howard Stringer  as
Sony CEO, is consolidating oversight of units that produced more
than 30 percent of Sony’s profit last year. Hirai, 51, has put
himself in charge of the company’s unprofitable TV unit, staking
his tenure on ending eight years of losses.  Lynton, 52, who will report to Hirai, will remain in  Los
Angeles  and continue to lead  Sony Pictures Entertainment (CPEI)  with
co-chairman Amy Pascal. In his role, beginning June 27, Lynton
will oversee  Sony Music Entertainment (7930) , Sony/ATV Music Publishing
as well as  Sony Pictures Entertainment , the Tokyo-based company
said in a statement today.  “He understands the vital importance of fulfilling Sony’s
unique promise of linking content and devices, and has been
instrumental in our efforts to make it happen,” Stringer said
in the statement.  Sony also named Nicole Seligman, currently general counsel
and executive vice president, as president of Sony Corp. of
America, gaining oversight among other duties of legal affairs
and communications. Seligman will be in  New York  and travel
frequently to Tokyo, a person with knowledge of the appointments
said last week.  Rob Wiesenthal, executive vice president and chief
financial officer of Sony Corp. of America, was named to the
newly created role of president of Sony/ATV’s international
operations, assisting with the planned purchase of EMI’s music
publishing, the company said in a separate statement.  ‘Painful’ Steps  Hirai, who’s been credited with making the PlayStation game
business profitable, has vowed “painful” steps to cut costs
and turn around a company facing a fourth straight annual loss
amid consumers’ flocking to devices from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for movies and games.  Soon after he was named for the top job last month, Hirai
reaffirmed his commitment to TVs. The world’s No. 3 maker has a
sales target of 20 million sets for the year ending March 31,
though the business may lose between 220 billion yen ($2.7
billion) and 230 billion yen.  Televisions are important as an output device, Hirai said
last month. “Withdrawing or shrinking would cut a link for
customers to experience” Sony content, he said.  Sony’s American depositary receipts declined 1 percent to
$20.93 at the close in New York today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  