-- South Africa Central Bank Keeps Key Lending Rate Unchanged
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-03-29T15:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/south-africa-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-lending-rate-unchanged.html
South Africa ’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged for a record 16 months after inflation
slowed in February, easing concern that price pressures may be
spreading in the continent’s largest economy.  The benchmark rate was left at 5.5 percent, Governor Gill Marcus told reporters today in  Pretoria , the capital. That was
in line with the estimate of all 18 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank has kept the  repurchase rate  at the lowest
level in more than 30 years, since November 2010, to support the
economy’s recovery as the debt crisis in  Europe  worsened. An
unexpected drop in last month’s inflation rate to just above the
3 percent to 6 percent target may have given the bank room to
postpone raising  interest rates .  “They are still more worried about growth” than
inflation, Carmen Nel, an economist at Rand Merchant Bank, said
by phone from Johannesburg after the decision. “The tone was
slightly less hawkish than in January.”  The rand extended its decline after the rate announcement,
reaching 7.7702 per dollar at 4:31 p.m from 7.729 before Marcus
began speaking. The yield on the benchmark rand debt due in 2015
fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.8 percent.  CPI Forecast  Inflation, which slowed to 6.1 percent in February, will
probably peak at 6.5 percent in the second quarter and average
6.1 percent in the final three months of the year, Marcus said.
The inflation rate is forecast by the bank to reach 5.2 percent
by the end of 2013 and average 5.6 percent in the first quarter
next year, she said.  Investors are paring bets the central bank will raise rates
this year. The yield on the forward-rate agreement contract due
in nine months dropped 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to 5.95 percent as of 3:41 p.m. in Johannesburg since the
February inflation data was released on March 22.  Prior to the February inflation figure, Marcus said price
pressures may be becoming “more generalized” as demand in the
economy picks up, adding to expectations the bank may be
preparing to raise interest rates. Spending in the economy rose
an annualized 5.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the fastest
pace in more than a year, the  Reserve Bank  said on March 19.  Cost-Push Inflation  Marcus said today inflation is still being driven primarily
by “cost-push” factors, such as rising food and energy prices.
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., South Africa’s power utility, will
raise average electricity prices 16 percent starting in April,
less than the proposed 25.9 percent.  “The MPC is of the view that while the main pressures on
inflation are of a cost-push nature, there is some evidence that
these pressures may be becoming more broad-based,” Marcus said.
“However these developments are in line with our previous
forecasts and are expected to remain contained by the relatively
subdued state of the domestic economy.”  The Reserve Bank raised its forecast for economic growth to
3 percent this year from a previous estimate of 2.8 percent,
while forecasting the economy to expand 3.9 percent in 2013, up
from an earlier prediction of 3.8 percent.  The decision “leaves us feeling comfortable with our view
that the Reserve Bank will leave the repo rate unchanged until
well into 2013,” Adenaan Hardien, an economist at Cape Town-
based Cadiz Asset Management, said in phone interview. “ Core
inflation  remains quite low. It remains relatively contained.”  Bertus van Zyl attended his last MPC meeting this week and
will retire, Marcus said, bringing the number of members on the
committee down to seven.  “He is very much part of the tradition of the bank,”
 Razia Khan , head of African economic research at Standard
Chartered Plc in  London , said in a phone interview today. “He
would have been one of the MPC members more likely to raise
rates pre-emptively in advance of there being an inflation shock
and that’s because of all the experience he’s had of the
numerous rand shocks over the years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  