-- Stalin’s Siberian Enclave Revives as Putin Seeks Mines for China
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-03-30T09:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/stalin-s-siberian-enclave-revives-as-putin-seeks-mines-for-china.html
When Alexander Gan fled the demise
of Soviet-era industry in Siberia’s Jewish Autonomous District
in 2000, it was a swampy backwater seven time zones east of
Moscow. A decade later, its border with resource-hungry  China  is
bringing work with iron-ore, copper and coal producers.  Gan, 48, left Russia’s Far East to find a job, part of an
exodus that shrank the regional population by 22 percent between
1990 and 2011, the fastest rate in the country. His return from
 Israel  to the Jewish enclave set up by Russian dictator  Joseph Stalin  in 1934 fits in with plans by President-elect  Vladimir Putin  to meet Chinese demand for raw materials.  “It was hard to live here after the U.S.S.R. collapsed;
there was no proper work, industry wasn’t developing,” Gan said
in his birthplace of Birobidzhan, a town on the  Trans-Siberian
Railway  an hour-and-a-half drive to the frontier with China.
“We are at the start of regional development and recovery. This
is good, but not yet enough. We hope it’s just the beginning.”  More than two decades after the  Soviet Union  lost its
European satellite states, the axis of Russian development is
tipping to the east as rail, pipeline and resources companies
gravitate toward  Asia . Gan found a job as a fitter and metal
turner at  IRC Ltd. (1029) , a Hong Kong-listed mining company that gets
90 percent of its sales from China.  Putin Pushing  IRC plans to employ 1,800 at the Kimkan Sutara iron-ore
mine where he works. Baikal Mining Co., a unit of billionaire
Alisher Usmanov’s Metalloinvest, may hire as many as 20,000 to
develop the Udokan copper deposit in eastern Siberia.  Putin is pushing development of the Far East and eastern
Siberia, and with it a revival of some mines dating back to Tsar
Nikolai II, after winning another six-year term as president.
During campaigning for the March 4 election, he said a state
corporation was needed to speed up projects.  Putin’s first deputy,  Igor Shuvalov , may be a candidate to
head the body, Vedomosti said yesterday.  Russia  may use earnings
from the 2.6 trillion-ruble ($90 billion) National Well-Being
Fund, it reported, citing a law drafted by the  Economy Ministry .  “The driver of Russia’s development isn’t in  Europe  any
more, it’s in Siberia,” said Artem Volynets, chief executive
officer of En+ Group, billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s mining and
energy holding company. “China has emerged as a major economy
in the last decade and is ready to consume commodities from
across the border. If we don’t do it, somebody else will: Africa
or  Australia .”  Volcanic Kamchatka  China’s economy  grew 9.2 percent last year, matching the
slowest pace since 2002, as the housing market cooled. That’s
still more than double the 4.3 percent expansion in Russia.  Volynets, who left his home on Russia’s volcanic Kamchatka
peninsula 4,200 miles (6,800 kilometers) from Moscow to live in
Washington and  London , now jets between the nation’s capital,
Siberia and  Hong Kong  for En+. He worked and studied in the U.S.
from 1991 to 1997 and then in London until 2003, where he was
employed as a corporate finance adviser.  With China’s emergence as the biggest commodity consumer,
Volynets said his country needs to encourage more people to live
and work in the Russian  Far East  and Eastern Siberia regions, a
territory accounting for 60 percent of the nation’s land and 8
percent of its people.  $425 Billion Needed  The state won’t be able to exile prisoners into Siberian
labor camps like Stalin, who also sought to stifle  Zionist  calls
for a home in  Palestine  by setting up the Jewish Autonomous
District. Instead it will need to lure workers to the region by
ensuring employment and building roads, houses and schools.  The Far East lost more than 20 percent of its population
from 1990 to 2011, according to data compiled by Andrei Kokoshin, a former deputy defense minister now at the Russian
Academy of Science. To reverse the trend, Russia must provide
startup funds and cheap mortgages, he said.  At least $425 billion of investment is needed by 2030, with
the state providing a quarter of that, or $6 billion a year, six
times its rate of spending in the past decade, Kokoshin said.  Among the prizes for companies ready to join the government
in opening the territory are Udokan, the world’s third-largest
copper deposit, with resources of 25.7 million metric tons of
the metal, and Russia’s top coking coal site, with 2.2 billion
tons, in Elga.  The drawback for investors is the cost of operating in the
region, said Pavel Maslovsky, the founder of London-listed gold
mining business  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  and its iron ore unit IRC.  Chinese Money  “The only advantage is its natural resources,” he said.
“A steel mill there will be uncompetitive compared with western
Russia or China, where labor and electricity are cheaper and the
climate is better. The Tsarist minister Petr Stolypin gave out
land for free there to motivate people to move. It’s possible to
subsidize power tariffs, maybe create a special tax regime.”  Other options lie over the border, where Chinese business
has funding for projects that yield the raw materials it needs.  Among works that have won money from China is a 2,300-mile
oil pipeline from Siberia to Daqing, near Harbin. China overtook
 Germany  as Russia’s largest trading partner because of the line.
Russia also plans to ship Siberian gas to its neighbor, helping
to boost trade to $200 billion by 2020, according to Putin.  Further cementing ties between the two nations, China State
Grid Corp. plans to study a 900-mile transmission link to bring
power to its northeast from Siberian plants, Volynets said.  Better Life  A venture between Deripaska’s Eurosibenergo and China
Yangtze Power Co. proposes to build power stations, while IRC
plans to construct a $300 million rail link, including a bridge
across the Amur river from the Jewish Autonomous District.  In Birobidzhan, the administrative center of a district
that makes up just 36,000 of the Far East federal area’s 6.2
million square kilometers of land, Gan is content to be back.  His daughter has stayed in the Russian Far East after
getting married and his son returned to the family home
following a stint away in the army.  “My life is stable now,” he said. “If more companies
such as IRC come to the region, life would be better here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  