-- Sun Hung Kai’s Co-Chairmen Asked to Assist in ICAC Probe
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-03-29T09:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/sun-hung-kai-s-co-chairmen-asked-to-assist-in-icac-probe-1-.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong
Kong’s biggest developer by market value, was suspended from
trading as Cable TV reported this afternoon that billionaire co-
chairmen Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  were asked to assist in an
investigation by the city’s anti-graft body.  Raymond Kwok was shown entering the Independent Commission
Against Corruption’s headquarters in the city’s Central business
district in footage broadcasted by Cable TV. Kwok didn’t speak
to reporters. Sun Hung Kai suspended trading of its stock
earlier today, pending the release of a statement.  “This will have a negative impact on the shares when
trading resumes,” said Adrian Ngan, Hong Kong-based analyst at
Citic Securities International Co. “The extent of the impact
will depend on whether charges are really being made.”  Sun Hung Kai  Executive Director  Thomas Chan Kui-Yuen, who
was in charge of land acquisitions by the $37 billion builder of
Hong Kong’s tallest office tower, was arrested by the body, the
company said in a March 19 statement. The developer has been run
by Thomas and Raymond since the ouster as chairman in 2008 of
their brother Walter, who alleged they opposed his questions
over  corporate governance  matters.  Margaret Ng, a spokeswoman for Sun Hung Kai, declined to
comment, as did Alan Tse, spokesman for ICAC.  Corporate Governance  Rafael Hui, a former consultant to the company, also has
been asked to help in the probe, Cable TV said today, without
citing anyone. Hui was chief secretary for  Hong Kong  from 2005
to 2007, as well as being secretary for financial services from
1995 to 2000.  Hui resigned as an independent director of AIA Group Ltd.
“to attend to other commitments,” the insurance company said
in a statement today.  The shares have dropped 4.1 percent since the company
announced Chan’s arrest on March 19, compared with the 2.6
percent drop in the Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the
city’s seven-biggest builders including Sun Hung Kai. The stock
fell 1.5 percent to HK$111.10 before it was suspended.  Chan, an executive director for Sun Hung Kai since 1987, is
responsible for land acquisitions and project planning,
according to the company’s latest annual report. His age is
given as 65 in the report, which was published in October. He
was paid HK$11 million ($1.4 million) in the financial year
ended June 2011, the report said.  Investigation Panel  Sun Hung Kai said in the March 19 statement that it set up
a panel of three board members to handle the investigation.  Former Chairman  Walter Kwok , the elder brother of Thomas,
59, and Raymond, 58, had in 2008 applied to the court to prevent
the board from removing him from office, alleging that his
brothers opposed his inquiries into impropriety in the way the
company awarded construction contracts, and other corporate
governance issues. Their ages are cited in the company’s latest
annual report.  The Kwok family’s combined wealth of $15.4 billion is third
on Forbes Magazine’s list of Hong Kong’s richest.  Walter Kwok, 60, became chairman in 1990 after his father’s
death before being ousted from the family’s trust that controls
Sun Hung Kai in 2010. He’s since set up his own property fund.  Going Public  Listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange in 1972, Sun Hung Kai
benefited from a three-decade surge in  home prices  to become the
city’s biggest developer. Under Walter Kwok, the company’s value
had ballooned 10-fold, while assets rose to HK$442 billion as of
December 2011.  Hong Kong, a former British colony returned to Chinese rule
in 1997, is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home
according to Savills Plc. Home prices in the city have surged
more than 70 percent since early 2009 on record low mortgage
rates and a lack of new supply.  Sun Hung Kai built and runs the 118-floor International
Commerce Centre, which at 484 meters (1,588 feet) is Hong Kong’s
tallest building. The developer also manages luxury apartment
projects such as the Arch in West Kowloon and the Larvotto in
the Island South district.  Kwok Tak Seng co-founded the company with billionaire Lee Shau-kee, who now controls Henderson Land Development Co. and is
the city’s second-richest man, and Fung King Hei in 1963. The
city’s richest man is  Li Ka-shing , chairman of  Cheung Kong 
(Holdings) Ltd., Hong Kong’s second-biggest developer by value.  Sun Hung Kai’s profit excluding property revaluation gains
or losses for the six months to Dec. 31 climbed to HK$11.8
billion from HK$10.4 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  