-- Sun Hung Kai Rode Boom to Become World’s Second Largest
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-30T08:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/sun-hung-kai-rode-boom-to-become-world-s-second-largest.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
 Hong Kong  developer at the center of a corruption probe, started
by investing in industrial buildings and survived a family brawl
to become the world’s second-largest real estate company by
value.  The builder of Hong Kong’s tallest office tower listed on
the city’s stock exchange in 1972 and went on to benefit from a
three-decade surge in  home prices . The company’s stock market
 value  stands at more than $30 billion, with assets of HK$442
billion ($56.9 billion) as of December. It lost $4.9 billion of
market value today after anti-graft investigators arrested the
billionaire brothers who run it.  The former British colony, where six of the 10 wealthiest
individuals control listed developers, is the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home, according to  Savills Plc. (SVS)  Home
prices in the city have surged more than 70 percent since early
2009 on record low mortgage rates and a lack of new supply.  “Just like their major competitors, Sun Hung Kai was in
the right industry during the biggest housing demand boom in
Hong Kong’s history,” said  Eddie Hui , a professor in the
Department of Building and Real Estate at the Hong Kong
Polytechnic University. “They’ve rode on that momentum and have
come a long way.”  Sun Hung Kai is known for its high-end apartments, which
have helped distinguish the company, Hui said.  Graft-Squad Arrests  The shares plunged as much as 15 percent, the most since
January 1998, and were 13 percent lower at HK$96.50 at the close
of trading in Hong Kong after a suspension yesterday. The stock
has dropped 17 percent since the company said March 19 Executive
Director Thomas Chan Kui-Yuen was arrested by the Independent
Commission Against Corruption.   Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the biggest U.S. mall owner, is
the world’s biggest real estate company by market value with
$44.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong’s anti-corruption agency arrested Sun Hung Kai
billionaire co-chairmen Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  in connection
with a probe into offenses suspected to have been committed
under the Prevention of Bribery Ordinance, the company said in a
statement late yesterday.  The company accounted for more than a third of all new-home
sales in Hong Kong last year, according to Centaline Property
Agency Ltd. The builder also has projects in at least 10 other
Chinese cities.  Family Wealth  The two Kwok brothers and their mother lost almost $2
billion on paper today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The shares, a 42.9 percent stake in Sun Hung Kai, are in a
family trust held by HSBC Holdings Plc and are worth $13.9
billion.  Walter Kwok , 60, became chairman in 1990 after his
father’s death and was ousted in 2008 following a boardroom
fight led by brothers Thomas, 59, and Raymond, 58. Their mother
Kwong Siu-hing took over as chairman before Thomas and Raymond
replaced her and now share the position. Their ages are as cited
in the company’s latest annual report.  Walter applied to the court in 2008 to prevent the board
from removing him from office, alleging that his brothers
opposed his inquiries into impropriety in the way the company
awarded construction contracts, and other corporate governance
issues. Walter is still a non-executive director of the company.  Henderson Land  Walter was ousted from the family’s trust that controls Sun
Hung Kai in 2010. He has since set up his own property fund.  Kwok Tak Seng co-founded the company with billionaire Lee
Shau-kee, who now controls Henderson Land Development Co. and is
the city’s second-richest man, and Fung King Hei in 1963. Lee
remains a non-executive director of Sun Hung Kai.  Hong Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , who helms  Cheung Kong
(Holdings) Ltd. (1) , the city’s second-biggest developer by market
value, is worth $24.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. The second wealthiest is Henderson’s Lee at
$19.5 billion.  Sun Hung Kai built and runs the 118-floor International
Commerce Centre, which at 484 meters (1,588 feet) is Hong Kong’s
tallest building. The developer also manages luxury apartment
projects including the Arch in West Kowloon and the Larvotto in
the Island South district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  