-- Sun Hung Kai Loses $4.9 Billion as Kwoks Arrested
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-30T09:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/sun-hung-kai-says-co-chairmen-arrested-for-corruption-probe.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) 
plunged the most in 14 years and lost $4.9 billion of market
value after anti-graft investigators arrested the billionaire
brothers who run Hong Kong’s biggest developer.  Co-chairmen Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  were detained by the
 Independent Commission Against Corruption , Sun Hung Kai said
late yesterday. Rafael Hui, a former No. 2 official in the
government, was also arrested, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be identified because
of the ongoing probe.  The arrests mark one of the highest-level investigations in
the ICAC’s 38-year history and come four days after a Hong Kong
leadership election in which close ties between government and
business emerged as a key campaign theme. Current Chief
Executive  Donald Tsang  is being probed separately by the ICAC
for accepting trips on the yachts and planes of tycoons.  “This will no doubt further strengthen the impression
among the public that there is a collusion between business and
government,” said Shiu Lik-king, a lecturer of public policy at
the  Chinese University of Hong Kong . “Politics is all about
perception. Once the public think you’ve done it, it won’t
matter even if you’re not convicted at the end.”  Sun Hung Kai plunged 13 percent, the most since January
1998, to close at HK$96.50 in Hong Kong after a suspension
yesterday. The stock has dropped 17 percent since the company
said March 19  Executive Director  Thomas Chan Kui-Yuen was
arrested by the ICAC.  Stocks, Bonds  Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc cut their ratings on the
developer’s stock, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. suspended the
rating.  “Investor short-term concern on corporate governance is
unavoidable,” Oscar Choi and Ken Yeung, analysts at Citigroup,
wrote in a note to clients today. Citigroup said it downgraded
the shares citing it expects the difference between the market
value and the value of the developer’s assets to widen following
the news of the arrests.  Sun Hung Kai’s $500 million of 4.5 percent bonds due
February 2022 dropped to 95.6 cents on the dollar to yield 5.07
percent, as of 10:07 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to BNP Paribas
SA prices. That’s the lowest price since the bonds were sold on
Feb. 6. The company has the equivalent of $10.6 billion of bonds
and loan facilities outstanding, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the outlook on the developer’s A+
 credit rating  to negative, saying that ICAC’s probe “may weaken
the stability of its management and reputation of the company.”
S&P said it aimed to resolve the “CreditWatch negative” in the
next three months. Moody’s Investors Service is assessing
whether the incident has any impact on Sun Hung Kai’s rating,
said Sydney-based spokesman Hector Lim.  Eight People Arrested  Thomas and Raymond Kwok, and Hui were released by the ICAC
late yesterday,  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported today.
Thomas and Raymond were detained in connection with a probe into
offenses suspected to have been committed under the Prevention
of Bribery Ordinance, the company said. They will keep running
the developer, and the arrests won’t affect the normal business
operations, Sun Hung Kai said.  Hui, 64, who was chief secretary from 2005 to 2007,
resigned as an independent director of  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  “to
attend to other commitments,” the insurance company said in a
statement yesterday. In his more than three decades in
government, Hui served as secretary for financial services and
set up the city’s public pension fund before being appointed as
the city’s No. 2 official.  The  ICAC  said it arrested two executives and a former
senior government official for suspected corruption, without
identifying anybody. Five other people were arrested earlier for
their alleged role in the case, it said yesterday.  Family Business  Raymond Kwok was shown entering the ICAC headquarters in
footage broadcasted by Cable TV yesterday. Margaret Ng, a
spokeswoman for Sun Hung Kai, declined to comment, as did Alan Tse, a spokesman for the ICAC.  Sun Hung Kai has been run by  Thomas Kwok , 59, and Raymond
Kwok, 58, since the ouster as chairman in 2008 of their elder
brother Walter. Walter is still a non-executive director of the
company.  Walter Kwok  applied to the  High Court  in 2008 to prevent
the board from removing him from office, alleging that his
brothers opposed his inquiries into impropriety in the way the
company awarded construction contracts, and other corporate
governance issues. Their ages are cited in the company’s latest
annual report.  Hong Kong Election  The two Kwok brothers and their mother lost almost $2
billion on paper today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The shares, a 42.9 percent stake in Sun Hung Kai, are in a
family trust held by HSBC Holdings Plc and are worth $13.9
billion.  Sun Hung Kai built and runs the 118-floor International
Commerce Centre, which at 484 meters (1,588 feet) is  Hong Kong ’s
tallest building, as well as the International Finance Centre
complexes in Hong Kong and  Shanghai .  In the election for the city’s next chief executive,
candidate and former chief secretary  Henry Tang  lost public
support after admitting knowledge of a basement built without
planning permission under a luxury home his wife owns. Thousands
of people took to the streets in early March to demand that
Chief Executive Tsang quit after it emerged he had taken trips
on yachts and planes of his tycoon friends.  Chief Executive-elect Leung Chun-ying, chosen by a panel
of 1,193 on March 25, has promised measures to close the wealth
gap and reduce  home prices . Savills Plc said the price of an
apartment in Hong Kong is almost two times higher than in  London ,
which placed second on the property broker’s list of most
expensive places to buy a home.  1970s Corruption  The ICAC was formed in 1974 after protests erupted in the
city when a chief police superintendent fled while under
investigation for possessing HK$4.3 million of assets. The
officer, Peter Godber, was extradited from  England  in 1975, and
was sent to jail for four years for conspiracy and accepting
bribes, according to the commission’s website.  The agency also uncovered corruption among senior officials
in the city’s legal department and the government property
agency since its formation. It prosecuted 275 people last year,
with 235 convicted according to its website.  Chan, an executive director for Sun Hung Kai since 1987,
was arrested by the ICAC, the company said in a March 19
statement. Chan, 65, according to the developer’s annual report,
is responsible for land acquisitions and project planning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  