-- Swedish High Street Rebound Ends Bets for Riksbank Cuts
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-03-30T13:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/swedish-high-street-rebound-ends-bets-for-riksbank-cuts.html
Sweden’s consumers are confounding
economic forecasters by spending at the fastest pace in 10
months, prompting investors to reverse bets that the central
bank will cut  interest rates .  Retail sales rose  an annual 3.4 percent in February, more
than twice the 1.6 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
and the fastest pace since April, the statistics office said
yesterday. A survey released March 28 showed  consumer confidence 
at a seven-month high while manufacturing confidence rose to the
highest since July, recovering from a two-year low in January.  Investors have pared bets on more central bank rate cuts,
after policy makers lowered borrowing costs to 1.5 percent last
month to stave off a recession. December futures on the
Riksbank’s key rate rose to 1.26 percent this week from 1.17
percent, suggesting traders are starting to hedge bets the bank
will cut once more.  “Economic indicators show that we have bottomed,”
Riksbank Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm told Bloomberg after a
speech today in Stockholm. “We saw a slight upturn earlier and
then everyone sat around waiting if things were to continue up
or if things would turn down. Well now things are continuing
pretty significantly upwards.”  Anticipated a Bit  The revival in  consumer spending , which comes amid rising
unemployment, may make it easier for the Riksbank to stick to
its forecast from last month for unchanged rates this year.  Improvements were already anticipated a “little bit” in
the Riksbank’s forecasts, Ekholm said, who last month called for
a rate cut to 1.25 percent and that it should bottom at 1
percent and stay there through the third quarter next year.  The krona is up 0.65 percent over the past three days
against the euro as traders pared rate cut estimates. It traded
up 0.2 percent to 8.8462 per euro as of 3:54 p.m. in Stockholm.  “We’re probably very close to the bottom of the economic
cycle,” said Robert Bergqvist, chief economist at  SEB AB (SEBA)  in
Stockholm and a former central bank analyst. “We’re at a stage
when we will start to see gradual improvements in the economy
and therefore I think it makes sense to stay put at 1.5
percent.”  European Money  Sweden’s economic expansion stalled last year as  Europe ’s
debt crisis sapped demand for exports from companies such as
truckmaker  Scania AB (SCVB)  and appliance maker Electrolux AB. The
economy relies on exports for about half its output.  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender, forecast this week that the
Swedish economy would shrink 0.3 percent this year and that the
Riksbank would need to cut rates to as low as 0.75 percent.  Sentiment is improving after the  European Central Bank 
pumped in more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in two
longer-term refinancing operations since December to ease the
region’s debt crisis. Stocks across Europe have surged,
including an 8 percent gain for the benchmark Swedish OMX index.  European finance  chiefs meet today in Copenhagen to discuss
boosting rescue funds for the region’s debt-stricken nations.  Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said tax cuts
since 2006 have helped sustain the Nordic country’s recovery.  “We have seen a real wage increase from 1995 and forward
that has strengthened real wages by 50 percent,” he told
Bloomberg yesterday in Stockholm. “The government since 2006
has put in place consistent policies to make it more worthwhile
to work. We’re talking about very strong improvements for low-
and normal wage earners which fundamentally strengthen the
purchasing power for broad groups in Swedish society.”  Positive Exports  Sweden ’s economic prospects have also picked up as the
outlook for its biggest trade partners brightens.  “We have also received more positive export figures during
the beginning of the year,” Ekholm said today.  Unemployment in  Germany  fell more than forecast in March,
adding to evidence that growth in Europe’s biggest economy is
gaining traction. The adjusted jobless rate slipped to 6.7
percent, a two-decade low, a report released yesterday showed.
Exports to Germany account for 10 percent of Sweden’s total
sales abroad, its largest market.  Sweden’s National Institute of  Economic Research  forecast
on March 28 that the Riksbank will probably keep its main rate
unchanged through 2013, after earlier predicting it would need
to reduce it to 0.75 percent. The group also forecast the
economy will grow 0.4 percent this year and 2.5 percent in 2013.  Several Signs  The institute estimated unemployment will average 7.7
percent this year and next, matching the Riksbank’s forecast.  “We’re seeing several signs of an improving economy, a lot
of economic surveys have been positive” and stock market prices
have risen, said Jesper Hansson, head of forecasting at the
institute, at a press conference yesterday.  SEB this week raised its growth forecast for Sweden by 0.2
percentage point for this year and next to 0.7 percent and 1.9
percent, respectively. According to Bergqvist, households “are
well positioned,” as wages, adjusted for  inflation , will rise
as much as 2.5 percent this year and as the government may enact
measures to stabilize the labor market.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the largest Danish lender, scrapped its
forecast for another Riksbank rate cut next month and predicts
the key rate will drop to 1 percent in 2012 versus an earlier
forecast of 0.5 percent. The confidence and retail sales data
were “fantastic” and the bank will also revise its forecast
for a 1 percent contraction of the Swedish economy this year,
said Chief Economist  Roger Josefsson .  “Many of the risks we included in our forecasts in
December have not materialized but the ECB has actually
succeeded in turning this around,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  