-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Decline to Eight-Month Low, BOE Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-29T08:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/u-k-mortgage-approvals-decline-to-eight-month-low-boe-says-1-.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  fell more
than economists forecast in February to the lowest in eight
months as economic uncertainty hurt demand for property and
banks tightened lending conditions.  Lenders granted 48,986 loans to buy homes, compared with a
revised 57,899 the previous month, the Bank of England said
today in London. Economists forecast a decline to 57,200 from an
initially reported 58,728, based on the median forecast of 21
economists in Bloomberg survey. A separate report from the
central bank said lenders expect mortgage availability to
decline “slightly” in the second quarter.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said earlier this week
that the financial crisis hasn’t gone away as banks continue to
work to shore up their balance sheets amid debt turmoil in
 Europe . U.K. home prices fell the most in two years in March,
data from Nationwide Building Society today showed, and the
housing market may come under further pressure as rising
unemployment undermines consumer confidence.  “Households are still being heavily squeezed and inflation
is running way ahead of wage growth,” Victoria Cadman, an
economist at Investec Securities in London, said before the
reports. “There’s no real impetus for them to turn around and
up their demand for mortgages, so it’s difficult to see any step
change coming through the next few months.”  Net mortgage lending rose by 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9
billion) in February from January, while  consumer credit  rose
381 million pounds, the central bank said.  Services Growth  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the data
were published. It traded at $1.5907 as of 9:36 a.m. in  London ,
up 0.1 percent from yesterday.  In a separate report today, the U.K. statistics office said
 services industries  grew 0.2 percent in January, adding to
evidence that the economy gained momentum in the first quarter.
The increase was led by distribution, hotels, and restaurants as
well as transport, storage and communications. Output gained 1.8
percent from a year earlier. The sector accounts for 76 percent
of the British economy.  Nationwide said in its report that British  house values 
fell 1 percent in March from February and were 0.9 percent lower
from a year earlier.  Part of the decline in mortgage approvals in February may
reflect the end of an exemption for first-time homebuyers from a
tax on some house purchases. While the tax holiday ended this
month, Cadman said some buyers may have sought mortgages early
to ensure they beat the deadline.  Credit Conditions  In its quarterly Credit Conditions survey, the  Bank of
England  said the decline in availability of mortgages in the
second quarter will impact both high and low loan-to-value ratio
borrowers. The predicted drop reflects “the tightening in
wholesale funding conditions since mid 2011 and bank balance-
sheet pressures,” the central bank said.  King said on March 27 that “the financial sector is not
back to normal” and “it will take a number of years before we
are through all this.”  Over the past three months, credit-scoring criteria had
been tightened, lenders said in the Bank of England survey.
Losses given defaults on mortgages fell slightly in the current
quarter, but are expected to increase “significantly” in the
next quarter, according to the report.  On corporate loans, the Bank of England said availability
was “broadly unchanged” in the first quarter and is expected
to remain unchanged over the next three months.  A measure of  M4 money-supply growth  the bank uses to assess
the effectiveness of its asset purchases slowed to 2.5 percent
in the three months through February on an annualized basis from
3.9 percent in the period through January, the central bank
said. The gauge excludes financial companies that specialize in
intermediating between banks, such as holding companies and non-
bank credit grantors.  Total M4 (UKMSM41M)  fell 1.9 percent in February from the previous
month and was down 3.4 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  