-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Fell in March Amid Government Squeeze
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/u-k-consumer-confidence-fell-in-march-amid-government-squeeze.html
U.K.  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly fell this month as households braced for Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget, when he pledged to
maintain his austerity push, GfK NOP Ltd. said.  An index of sentiment dropped to minus 31 from minus 29 in
February, the London-based research group said in an e-mailed
report today. The median estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey  of
19 economists was for no change. A measure of Britons’ outlook
for their personal finances fell 4 points to minus 10.  Osborne said March 21 he’ll freeze pensioners’ tax
allowances and raise a sales levy on the most expensive homes in
a bid to lower the  budget deficit . With the fiscal plans and
 inflation  squeezing households, the economic recovery is
struggling to gain traction in an environment supermarket
operator  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  says is “challenging.”  “These figures make depressing reading for the
government,” Nick Moon, GfK Social Research managing director,
said in the report. “Consumers are becoming increasingly
pessimistic about their personal economic circumstances over the
next twelve months.”  A measure of shoppers’ assessment of their personal
finances over the past 12 months dropped 4 points to minus 25,
and an index of their views on the economy over the period rose
1 point to minus 59.  Economic Outlook  A gauge of the outlook for the economy in the coming 12
months fell 1 point to minus 30, and an index of the climate for
making major purchases dropped 4 points to minus 31. GfK
interviewed 1,998 people between March 2 and March 11.  Osborne lowered the top rate of income tax to 45 percent
from 50 percent, saying it raised “next to nothing.” He said
he’d claw back lost revenue with higher taxes on homes bought
for 2 million pounds ($3.2 million) or more, the loss of tax
breaks for pensioners and a clampdown on evasion by the wealthy.
Moon said the budget is “unlikely to have a positive impact on
 consumer spending .”  The  U.K. economy contracted  0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter as services such as banks and airlines curtailed
business. Real disposable income fell 0.2 percent, the second
successive quarterly decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  