-- U.K. Should Reject EU Transaction Tax, Lords Lawmakers Say
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/u-k-should-reject-eu-transaction-tax-lords-lawmakers-say.html
A U.K. House of Lords panel said
the government should reject the  European Commission’s  proposed
financial-transaction tax, as it may pose a “severe threat” to
the City of  London .  The proposal is “wholly impractical and unworkable,” and
would have a “disproportionate” impact on the U.K. by hurting
London’s financial center, lawmakers from Parliament’s upper
chamber said in the report published in London day.  “The government should absolutely not agree to the
proposals in their current form,” Henry Harrison, the panel’s
chairman, said in a statement. “There is huge uncertainty about
the impact of any financial-taxation proposal on the U.K.”  Britain has led opposition to the tax, which Chancellor
George Osborne has called “a bullet aimed at the heart of
London.” The plan, backed by France and  Germany , would tax
stocks, bonds, money-market instruments and derivatives at
source, including at banks,  hedge funds  and insurance companies.  As well as having a “disproportionate” impact on the
U.K., the tax would harm the European Union economy as a whole,
the Lords report said. It also criticized the proposal as
“flawed” as it wouldn’t pave the way for the tax being applied
globally.  Even if the U.K. rejects the tax, its implementation may
still cost British-based companies as much as 22 billion euros
($35 billion) a year and cause 4,500 job losses, according to a
Feb. 6 report by Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club.  “The government needs to assess how we would be affected
if the proposals are taken forward by some or all euro-area
member states as a matter of urgency so that it can argue with
conviction and contribute to the debate,” Harrison said.
“This is an issue that we just can’t afford to ignore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  