-- U.K. Shale Exploration Should Resume, Environment Agency Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-03-29T11:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/u-k-shale-exploration-should-resume-environment-agency-says.html
Exploration of shale-gas resources
by companies including Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. should resume
after an investigation into hydraulic fracturing, the U.K.’s
 Environment Agency  said.  “There are significant environmental risks associated with
shale gas as there are with other industrial activities,” Tony Grayling, head of  climate change  and communities at the agency,
told delegates at a conference in Durham,  England , yesterday.
“We think those risks can be managed.”  Grayling’s comments came before a report from the
Department of Energy and Climate Change that will rule on
whether a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, will
be lifted after Cuadrilla said it caused two small earthquakes
last year. It will be published and open for public consultation
“soon,” he said in an interview, without elaborating.  Fracking, which involves injecting water, sand and
chemicals into rock formations to free gas deposits, has boosted
U.S. production of the fuel and pushed prices to a 10-year low.
 France  has halted the practice amid fears it may pollute
drinking water. Cuadrilla, which wants to exploit shale
resources near Blackpool in northwest England, says
contamination of aquifers is almost impossible.  “The idea that our activities would grow a fracture from
the well to an aquifer is completely insane,” Huw Clarke, an
exploration geologist at Cuadrilla, said at the conference,
organized by the Institution of Gas Engineers and Managers. The
shale resources near Blackpool are 7,000 to 10,000 feet deep,
compared with a saline aquifer no deeper than 1,000 feet and
fracturing’s maximum reach of 1,000 feet, he said.  No Groundwater Risk  There is no significant risk to groundwater at Cuadrilla’s
sites in Lancashire, so no permit is required to operate there,
according to Grayling. The chemicals used by Cuadrilla are not
considered hazardous under the groundwater directive, he said.  “We have a difficult balance to strike between being and
being seen to be precautionary, versus being and being seen to
be light touch,” he said.  Shale deposits are becoming more important for the U.K. as
the offshore reserves discovered in the 1970s that made Britain
self-sufficient are running dry and the country will import more
than half its gas supplies this year.  Cuadrilla is “very confident” that there is 200 trillion
cubic feet of gas in its license area, yet does not yet know the
recovery factor, Clarke said.  Companies with licenses in areas possibly holding shale-gas
resources in the U.K. include  IGas Energy Plc (IGAS) ,  Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE) ,
 BG Group Plc (BG/) , Celtique Energie Ltd. and Reach Coal Seam Gas
Ltd., according to a presentation by the Department for Energy
and Climate Change yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  