-- U.K. House Prices Drop Most in Two Years as Loans Fall: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-29T10:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/u-k-house-prices-decline-most-in-two-years-as-tax-holiday-ends.html
U.K.  house prices  fell the most in
two years and mortgage approvals dropped to an eight-month low
as economic uncertainty hurt demand for property and banks
tightened lending conditions.  Home values dropped 1 percent in March, the biggest decline
since February 2010,  Nationwide Building Society  said in an e-
mailed statement today. Lenders granted 48,986  property loans  to
Britons in February, compared with 57,899 in January, the Bank
of England said in a separate report in London.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that
the financial crisis hasn’t gone away as banks continue to shore
up balance sheets to protect themselves from the euro-area debt
crisis. The housing market may face further pressure as job cuts
undermine  consumer confidence , and a central bank survey
published today showed banks expect mortgage availability to
decline “slightly” in the second quarter.  “U.K. data releases this morning were in the round
somewhat disappointing,” said David Tinsley, chief U.K.
economist at BNP Paribas SA and a former  Bank of England 
official. Today’s data “confirms that the housing market
remains depressed by any historical comparison” and signals the
economy is going to have “a rougher road in the second
quarter.”  In a separate report, the  Office for National Statistics 
said U.K.  services industries  grew 0.2 percent in January,
adding to evidence that the economy gained momentum in the first
quarter. Output rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier. Services
account for 76 percent of the British economy.  House Prices  March’s house-price decline was the third drop in four
months and left the average value at 163,327 pounds ($259,000),
Swindon, England-based customer-owned lender Nationwide said.
From a year earlier, prices fell 0.9 percent, the first annual
drop in six months.  Part of the decline in mortgage approvals in February may
reflect the end of an exemption for first-time homebuyers from a
tax on house purchases below 250,000 pounds, BNP’s Tinsley said.
While the tax holiday ended on March 24, Tinsley said some
buyers may have sought home loans early to ensure they beat the
deadline.  Mortgage availability decreased this quarter for borrowers
with small deposits, while credit scoring criteria were
tightened and more loan approvals rejected, the Bank of
England’s credit conditions survey showed. Lenders predicted
that the availability of mortgages for all borrowers will fall
for the first time in two years in the next three months.  Income Squeeze  Britain’s economy shrank 0.3 percent in the  fourth quarter 
from the previous three months, more than an initial estimate,
data yesterday showed. Real household disposable income fell 1.2
percent last year, the biggest drop since 1977.  “The challenging economic backdrop is likely to continue
to act as a drag, with  house prices  moving sideways or modestly
lower over the next 12 months,”  Robert Gardner , chief economist
at Nationwide, said in today’s report. A slowdown in house
prices this month “was to be expected, given the imminent
expiry” of the tax holiday, he said.  Elsewhere in Europe,  economic confidence  in the euro region
unexpectedly declined in March, signaling that the economy may
struggle to regain strength in the first quarter. An  index  of
executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area fell
to 94.4 from a revised 94.5 in February, the European Commission
in Brussels said. Economists had forecast a gain to 94.5 from a
previously reported 94.4, the median of 29 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  OECD Report  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Chief
Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said that the euro area isn’t “out
of the woods yet.” The Paris-based organization released
forecasts showing annualized gross domestic product on a
combined weighted average for Germany, Italy, and France will
fall 0.4 percent in the first quarter, and will also drop by the
same amount in the U.K.  German unemployment  still declined more than forecast in
March, adding to evidence that growth in  Europe ’s biggest
economy is gaining traction. The number of people out of work
fell a seasonally adjusted 18,000 to 2.84 million, the
Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said today.  In  Japan , retail sales rose more than economists forecast
in February, increasing 3.5 percent from a year earlier, a third
straight monthly rise, the Trade Ministry said in  Tokyo .  South
Korea  returned to a current-account surplus in February as
exports rose amid signs of an improving U.S. economy and as the
euro-area debt crisis eased.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report today may show
fourth-quarter gross domestic product rose at a 3 percent annual
rate, unchanged from a prior estimate, according to a survey of
economists. A Labor Department report may show initial claims
for  unemployment benefits  were little changed at 350,000 in the
week ended March 24, another survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  