-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending March 27 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-03-29T12:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-march-27-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  For the second consecutive week, locally heavy rain provided
drought relief in the south-central U.S., while another in a
series of late-season Pacific storms brought beneficial
precipitation to much of the Northwest.  Much-needed rain fell
across the central Atlantic Coastal states, but rain largely
bypassed the Northeast.  Unseasonable warmth persisted nearly
nationwide, maintaining unseasonably high evapotranspiration
rates and crop water demands across the Great Plains and
Midwest.  Mid-Atlantic and Northeast: Mostly dry, warm weather prevailed,
with shower activity confined to southern-most portions of the
region.  In southern  New England , Moderate Drought (D1) was
expanded to account for 90-day precipitation deficits of 6 to 8
inches (less than 50 percent of normal).  Streamflows and well-
water levels have dropped further, and are in the lowest 2nd and
5th percentile, respectively, in this region. In addition,
locales from northeastern Pennsylvania into southern  New York 
and northern  New Jersey  will need rain soon to prevent a rapid
onset and expansion of D1.   Meanwhile, showers generally
disappointed from southern Pennsylvania into  Maryland  and
southeastern  Virginia , with amounts mostly less than half an
inch.  In southwestern Virginia, moderate to heavy rain (2-5
inches) eased Abnormal Dryness (D0), with streamflows and soil
moisture showing enough recovery to warrant the change.  Southeast: Locally heavy showers in northern and eastern
portions of  North Carolina  contrasted with mostly drier- and
warmer-than-normal weather elsewhere.  A slow-moving disturbance
generated 1 to 4 inches of rain across northern and eastern
North Carolina.; with a subsequent jump in streamflows and soil
moisture, D0 (Abnormal Dryness) and Moderate Drought (D1) were
reduced.  However, D0 was maintained in eastern and northern
portions of the state to reflect lingering 180-day precipitation
deficits of 4 to 6 inches (locally more).  Meanwhile, scattered
showers and thunderstorms occurred from central and eastern
South Carolina into southern Georgia and north-central Florida,
preventing any further drought increases.  Despite the shower
activity, streamflows exhibited only a minor improvement, and
were still mostly in the 10th percentile or lower where the rain
fell.  Dryness persisted across the rest of the region, with no
changes made to the drought designation.  In  Alabama , however,
the western-most drought area reported 3 to 5 inches of rain,
resulting in a small eastward shift of the western drought
boundary.  Delta: Very heavy showers and thunderstorms developed over the
Delta’s drought areas during the past week, with 3 to more than
10 inches of rain eliminating drought from the region.  Long-
term precipitation deficits linger in southern-most portions of
the Delta, with Abnormal Dryness (D0) maintained to reflect 180-
day precipitation departures of 12 inches or more (less than 50
percent of normal). Despite these underlying deficits, local
assessments indicated the impacts of the drought had essentially
ended with this week’s heavy rain.  South-Central U.S.: Moderate to heavy showers across central and
eastern drought areas contrasted with unfavorably dry, warm
weather in southern- and western-most portions of the region.  1
to 3 inches of rain provided additional drought relief in
eastern portions of  Texas  and much of central and eastern
Oklahoma.   In eastern Texas,   Severe Drought  (D2) was removed,
with only a small area of Moderate Drought (D1) left to reflect
slow-to-recover reservoir levels while the rain alleviated D0
(Abnormal Dryness) in a large part of Oklahoma. Additional
detailed assessment of the region’s ongoing and former drought
areas indicated that despite recent heavy rainfall, reservoirs
continued to run well below normal.  In many of these areas,
reservoir levels imply drought worse than depicted; the low lake
levels are due to a complex set of conditions, including long-
term decline in many reservoirs and meteorological drought
conditions within reservoir drainage areas that are worse than
drought conditions at the reservoir locations themselves.  Water
restrictions on areas served by those reservoirs may likewise be
more severe than the Drought Monitor depiction of drought status
in those areas.  From northern Texas into western Oklahoma,
beneficial showers (0.5-1 inch) provided some relief from Severe
(D2) to Exceptional (D4) drought.  Farther west, the southern
High Plains reported 90-degree heat with little if any rain,
keeping this region firmly entrenched in Severe (D3) to
Exceptional (D4) Drought.  Central and Northern Plains: Unseasonably warm, dry conditions
prevailed over the northern two-thirds of the region, while
beneficial rain soaked portions of  Kansas .  A slow-moving
disturbance produced 1 to 2 inches of rain over much of central
and southern Kansas, with locally up to 3 inches reported in the
southwestern quarter of the state.  As a result, 3-month
precipitation now averaged 100 to 160 percent of normal across
central and eastern Kansas, where D0 (Abnormal Dryness) was
removed.  Widespread improvements were also made in southwestern
Kansas, although the lingering impacts of long-term severe to
extreme drought will be slow to be erased.  From northern Kansas
into eastern  Montana  and western portions of the Dakotas, mostly
dry, windy, and warmer-than-normal weather (10-20 degrees F
above average) resulted in an expansion of D0  and D1 (Moderate
Drought).  Precipitation over the past 6 months has totaled
locally less than 50 percent of normal from northern Kansas into
western  Nebraska  and eastern Montana, and below 40 percent of
normal in western portions of the Dakotas.  The unseasonable
warmth (highs reaching the lower to middle 80s) has accelerated
crop development and heightened the need for rain over the
upcoming weeks. In contrast, additional assessment coupled with
a round of generally light showers (0.25-0.50 inch) led to a
minor reduction in D0 coverage in north-central North Dakota.  Midwest: Drought areas of the Midwest, which extend from
northwestern Iowa into northern portions of Minnesota and
Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, reported another week of record-
setting warmth (temperatures averaging 15 to 25?F, or more,
above normal).  Despite the arrival of a storm system in the
region’s northern tier, rain amounts were generally
disappointing (0.5 inch or less).  However, isolated, locally
heavy showers (1-3 inches) provided some relief from Moderate
Drought (D1) in northern Minnesota.    In contrast, Abnormal
Dryness (D0) was introduced across central  Illinois  and the
northeastern corner of Missouri, where increasing rainfall
shortages (90-day precipitation locally less than 50 percent of
normal) were noted.  Illinois has also reported remarkably low
streamflows for this time of year, with streams in the central
portions of the state reporting flow rates in the lowest 5th
percentile.  Western U.S.: Late-season storminess provided much-needed
precipitation across western and northern portion of the region,
while dry, unfavorably warm weather settled over central and
eastern drought areas of the west.  In northern portions of the region, another in a series of late-
season Pacific storms generated moderate to heavy rain and
mountain snow (2-6 inches liquid equivalent), maintaining
favorable spring runoff prospects from the Klamath Mountains
northward into the Cascades. Snowpacks increased in northwestern
 Oregon  and from northeastern Oregon into northern  Idaho  and
northwestern Montana. However, the lingering Moderate Drought
(D1) in central  Washington  received little if any precipitation,
with only minor reductions made to southeastern portions of this
area (where precipitation totaled more than half an inch).  In
northeastern Oregon, precipitation totaled locally more than an
inch, resulting in additional reduction of D1 and D0.  In southern portions of the region, showers in the west
contrasted with dry, increasingly warm conditions farther east.
Rain and high-elevation snow fell in the Sierra Nevada, although
snow-water equivalents remained in the lowest 5th percentile
(indicative of D3 drought) in southern portions of the range,
where Severe Drought (D2) persisted.   A weakening disturbance
produced 1 to 2 inches of rain along the southern  California 
Coast, preventing for the time being any drought intensification
in these locales.  The Southwest was dry, with water-year
precipitation totaling less than 30 percent of normal in the
newly-expanded Severe Drought (D2) areas of southeastern
California and neighboring portions of southern Nevada.
Expansion of Extreme (D3) drought was noted in southwestern
Arizona, as local assessment coupled with satellite-derived
vegetation information indicated deteriorating conditions in
this corner of the state.  In Colorado, most of the state was
now under Abnormal Dryness (D0) or worse, with Severe Drought
(D2) introduced in the northwestern quarter of the state, where
snow-water equivalents and water-year precipitation were in the
lowest 5th percentile (generally 50 percent of normal or less).  Alaska ,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico: In Alaska, cold conditions
continued, with temperatures averaging more than 10 F below
normal.  Dry weather prevailed, although the state’s snowpacks
remained at or above seasonal norms. In Hawaii, there were no
changes to the drought designation, with rain (locally up to 5
inches) mainly confined to the Big Island.   There were no
concerns for drought on Puerto Rico, with moderate to heavy rain
(2- 6 inches) reported the island.  Looking Ahead: A series of Pacific disturbances will maintain
periods of rain and high-elevation snow across the northwestern
quarter of the nation, with some light to moderate precipitation
also likely in the Sierra Nevada.  Meanwhile, dry, warm weather
will prevail from the Plains into the Southwest.  However, a
developing storm late in the period may provide some locally
heavy rain to the nation’s mid-section, although the track,
placement, and intensity of this storm system is yet to be
determined.  In the East, a pair of weak cold fronts will
produce mostly light showers, with a swath of heavier rain
possible across southern portions of the Northeast.  The CPC 6-
10 day forecast for April 3-7 calls for above-normal
temperatures across the Rockies and Great Plains, with near- to
below-normal temperatures east of the Mississippi and along the
Pacific Coast.  Drier-than-normal conditions are expected across
much of the southern and eastern U.S., including the central
Rockies and High Plains, with above-normal precipitation
confined to the Pacific Northwest.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  