-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Decline to Lowest Since April 2008
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-03-29T12:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/u-s-jobless-claims-fell-last-week-to-lowest-since-april-2008.html
The number of Americans seeking
 unemployment benefits  dropped last week to the lowest level in
almost four years, adding to evidence of an improving U.S. labor
market.  Initial jobless  claims  fell 5,000 in the week ended March
24 to 359,000, the lowest since April 2008, the Labor Department
reported today in Washington. The median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey called for 350,000 claims. With the
report, the government data also contain revisions dating back
to 2007.  Companies are retaining workers and hiring as sales pick up
along with confidence in the expansion. The pace of employment
has gained momentum in the past three months, helping drive
income growth that may ease the strain of higher gasoline
prices.  “The labor market is still improving at a modest pace,”
said  Russell Price , senior economist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. in  Detroit . “Across almost all sectors, companies have
shed as many workers as they possibly can. Now, they’re
responding to the modest improvements in demand.”  The number of people on unemployment benefit rolls dropped
to the lowest level since August 2008, while those getting
extended payments also decreased.  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
fell 0.4 percent to 1,394.6 at 8:35 a.m. in  New York .  Profit Growth Cools  The economy grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the final
three months of 2011, the Commerce Department said today. The
data also showed corporate profits climbed at the slowest pace
in three years, raising the risk that business investment and
hiring will cool.  Estimates of the 46 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for
initial claims ranged from 341,000 to 360,000. The Labor
Department revised the previous week’s figure to 364,000 from an
initially reported 348,000.  There was “nothing unusual” that affected last week’s
data, a Labor Department spokesman said.  The four-week moving average, a less-volatile measure than
the weekly figures, fell to 365,000 last week from 368,500.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
dropped by 41,000 in the week ended March 17 to 3.34 million.  Extended Benefits  In addition to the jobless claims, the number of Americans
receiving extended benefits under federal programs declined by
almost 79,000 to 3.24 million in the week ended March 10.  The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, fell to 2.6 percent, from
2.7 percent in the prior week, today’s report showed.  Forty-two states and territories reported a decline in
claims, while 11 reported an increase. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  The recent decrease in dismissals may soon be followed by a
pickup in hiring. Chief executive officers plan to increase
 capital spending  and hiring over the next six months as they
turned more optimistic about the  U.S. economy , a survey showed
yesterday.  CEO Outlook  The  Business Roundtable ’s economic outlook index increased
to 96.9 in the first quarter from 77.9 in the previous three
months, the Washington-based trade group reported. Readings
greater than 50 are consistent with economic expansion, and this
quarter’s measure is the highest since April-June 2011.  Forty-two percent said they will increase payrolls,
compared with 35 percent in the prior quarter, while 43 percent
plan to hold their staffing levels steady.  “The economy is not yet growing fast enough to overcome
productivity improvements and begin significant new hiring on
top of that,” Jim McNerney, chief executive officer of  Boeing
Co. (BA) , said yesterday on a conference call sponsored by the
Business Roundtable, a Washington association of chief
executives. “We’re still in this awkward growth phase. It’s
heartening that we’re growing, but it’s not enough.”  The U.S. jobless rate could drop to as low as 6 percent by
the first half of 2013, according to research from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York .  The relationship between the number of Americans newly
unemployed and those recently finding work indicates joblessness
will continue to decline, according to economist Aysegul Sahin.
The jobless rate held at a  three-year low  of 8.3 percent last
month after falling by 0.8 percentage point in the year ended
January, according to figures from the Labor Department.  New York Fed Study  “Simulations based on historical patterns suggest that the
fall in the  unemployment rate  could be quicker than many
forecasters predict,” Sahin wrote in a note on the bank’s
Liberty Street Economics blog co-written by research associate
Christina Patterson.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said while he’s encouraged by
the unemployment rate’s decline, continued accommodative
monetary policy will be needed to make further progress.  “A wide range of indicators suggests that the job market
has been improving, which is a welcome development indeed,”
Bernanke said March 26 to the National Association for Business
Economics. “Still, conditions remain far from normal, as shown,
for example, by the high level of long-term unemployment and the
fact that jobs and hours worked remain well below pre-crisis
peaks, even without adjusting for growth in the  labor force .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  