-- U.S. Fourth Quarter Third GDP Technical Note (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-03-29T12:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/u-s-fourth-quarter-third-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Gross Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  This technical note provides background information about the source data and
estimating methods used to produce the estimates presented in the GDP news
release.  The complete set of estimates for the fourth quarter is available on
BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov; a brief summary of “highlights” is also posted on
the Web site.  In a few weeks, the estimates will be published in BEA’s monthly
journal, the Survey of Current Business, along with a more detailed analysis of
the estimates (“GDP and the Economy”).  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 3.0 percent (annual rate) in the fourth quarter, the same
increase as last month’s estimate.  A downward revision to exports was offset by
an upward revision to nonresidential fixed investment.  The downward revision to exports was to both goods and services and reflected
fourth-quarter data from the international transactions accounts.  The upward revision to nonresidential fixed investment was primarily accounted
for by an upward revision to equipment and software.  Within equipment and
software, the revision was mostly accounted for by an upward revision to
software based on newly available fourth-quarter quarterly
services survey (QSS) data from the Census Bureau.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases--the prices paid by U.S. residents
for goods and services wherever produced--increased 1.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, the same increase as in last month’s estimate.  Gross Domestic Income and Corporate Profits  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output of the economy as
the costs incurred and the incomes earned in the production of GDP, increased
4.4 percent in the fourth quarter.  For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP
and GDI may differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of
largely independent source data.  However, over longer time spans, the estimates
of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of change.  Profits from current production increased $16.8 billion, or 0.9 percent
(quarterly rate), in the fourth quarter.  Domestic profits of financial
corporations increased $29.9 billion, domestic profits of
nonfinancial corporations increased $28.4 billion, and rest-of-the-world profits
decreased $41.5 billion.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at   atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  