-- Hungary President Cancels Appearances After Losing Degree
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-30T10:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/hungarian-university-strips-president-of-degree-on-plagiarism.html
Hungarian President  Pal Schmitt ,  a
close ally of Premier  Viktor Orban , called off today’s public
appearances after he was stripped of his doctoral degree for
copying most of his thesis 20 years ago.  Schmitt’s public programs, including a meeting with
Slovenian Foreign Minister Viktor Erjavec and an award ceremony
in Parliament, will be canceled, his press office said in an e-
mail today.  Budapest-based Semmelweis University repealed the doctoral
title as Schmitt’s thesis “didn’t meet the ethical and
professional criteria of scientific work,” Rector Tivadar
Tulassay told reporters in Budapest in televised remarks
yesterday. The president, who was returning from a conference in
 South Korea  yesterday, was unavailable for comment, a
spokeswoman at his office said.  The former Olympic champion fencer and member of the
 International Olympic Committee  has signed every piece of
legislation since assuming office in 2010. European Union
objections to some of those laws, including new regulations on
the central bank and the judiciary, have blocked Hungary’s talks
on an International Monetary Fund loan.  Comparing Texts  A university commission report, excerpts of which were
released March 27, confirmed that 180 pages of Schmitt’s 215-
page dissertation on sports were “partially identical” to
another work, while another 17 pages were “completely
identical” to a separate study, with neither receiving credit.
It blamed the university for overlooking the similarities with
the previous works.  Schmitt said on March 28 that the panel’s report was a
“sort of vindication” to him and that he didn’t think “for a
minute” he’d resign as his doctorate wasn’t the reason he was
elected president, the MTI news service reported.  Hungary ’s four parliamentary opposition parties have urged
Schmitt to resign. Orban’s ruling Fidesz party, in which Schmitt
was previously vice president, considers the matter “closed”
after the commission’s report, spokeswoman Gabriella Selmeczi
wrote in a March 27 e-mail.  “No one else can decide” but the president whether he
should resign, Orban said in an interview on public radio MR1-
Kossuth today.  German Allegations  German Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg quit
last March over allegations he plagiarized passages of his
doctoral thesis.  While Schmitt’s thesis included a bibliography, it didn’t
cite sources and didn’t include footnotes or endnotes, according
to the report, published on the university’s website. The
commission didn’t use the word “plagiarism” in the three-page
summary of its report.  While the office of the president is largely ceremonial and
the bulk of executive power lies with the prime minister,
Schmitt’s predecessors regularly returned legislation to
Parliament or sought Constitutional Court review. Schmitt said
in June, 2010 that he “wouldn’t block the government’s agenda”
as president.  Schmitt, who won Olympic gold medals in fencing in 1968 and
1972, was a deputy chairman of Fidesz from 2003 to 2007 and a
vice president of the European Parliament from July 2009 to May
2010. He has headed the Hungarian Olympic Committee since 1990
and was vice president of the IOC from 1995 to 1999. He was a
deputy state secretary for sports under communism in the 1980s.  Schmitt’s approval rating sank to 30 percent this month
from 49 percent when he took office in June 2010, pollster Ipsos
said on its website, without giving a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net 
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  