-- Murdoch’s News Corp. Denies Pay-TV Piracy Reports
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-29T21:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/murdoch-s-news-corp-denies-pay-tv-piracy-reports.html
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  denied
reports that a pay-TV software maker it co-owned was involved in
piracy aimed at toppling rivals as politicians called for an
investigation of the allegations.  The News Corp. subsidiary, NDS, set up a unit in the
mid-1990s to hack smartcard codes and leak them online, giving
viewers free access to competitors’ programs, the Australian
Financial Review newspaper  reported  March 28. The report, which
cites internal documents and e-mails, echoes a report on the
unit by the  BBC ’s Panorama program this week.  “The BBC’s Panorama program was a gross misrepresentation
of NDS’s role as a high quality and leading provider of
technology and services to the pay-TV industry, as are many of
the other press accounts that have piled on -- if not
exaggerated -- the BBC’s inaccurate claims,”  Chase Carey , News
Corp.’s president, said in an e-mailed statement.  NDS Executive Chairman Abe Peled called on the Australian
Financial Review to retract its story in a letter sent to
Editor-in-Chief Michael Stutchbury today.  The allegations increase pressure on  James Murdoch , the
deputy chief operating officer of News Corp. and chairman of
U.K. pay-TV company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , as he
seeks to move on from the phone-hacking scandal at the British
tabloid unit. Murdoch, 39, was a non-executive director of NDS
when the alleged smartcard hacking took place.  “If these allegations are true they mark a sinister new
low in the hacking scandal,” said U.K. lawmaker  Tom Watson ,
who’s on a parliamentary committee preparing a report about News
Corp.’s handling of the phone-hacking probe. Britain’s media
watchdog Ofcom “has a duty to investigate,” he said.  ‘Fit and Proper’  Murdoch, the son of Chairman Rupert Murdoch, already faces
calls from investors to step down from News Corp.’s board and
resign from his role at BSkyB. The BBC said there’s no evidence
he was aware of the NDS scheme.  Rupert Murdoch  said in a tweet today on his Twitter Inc.
account that News Corp. is planning a response to the media
reports.  “Seems every competitor and enemy piling on with lies and
libels,” the elder Murdoch wrote. “So bad, easy to hit back
hard, which preparing.”  ‘Makes a Mockery’  Ofcom, the regulator, is evaluating whether James Murdoch
is “fit and proper” to hold a broadcast license on behalf of
BSkyB, in which News Corp. has a 39 percent stake. Ofcom said
yesterday it will consider all relevant evidence.  The phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to close the
News of the World tabloid in July and drop its 7.8 billion-pound
($12.4 billion) bid for full control of BSkyB.  “If the allegations are proven, then it makes a mockery of
the regulations that protect viewers,” said  Mark Lewis , a
lawyer for victims of News Corp.’s phone hacking who testified
before the parliamentary committee. The claims “stretch the
definition of ‘fit and proper.’”  News Corp.’s Australian unit, News Limited, said in a
statement the Australian Financial Review’s report is “full of
factual inaccuracies, flawed references, fanciful conclusions
and baseless accusations which have been disproved in overseas
courts.”  ‘Seriously Misconstrued’  The piracy hurt News Corp.’s rivals in  Australia  and
Britain, helping to ruin one of them, the news reports said.
Both reports said NDS initially aimed to detect fraud and to
fight piracy against News Corp.’s own pay-TV offerings, and only
later began to promote and facilitated piracy.  The BBC “seriously misconstrued legitimate activities,”
Abe Peled, the executive chairman of NDS, wrote in a letter to
Panorama provided by News Corp. The documentary relied on
“manipulated e-mail chains” and took e-mails out of context,
he said.  Australia’s Communications Minister Stephen Conroy said
after the report that claims of criminal activity should be
probed by police.  A spokeswoman for the Australian Federal Police said today
that they are not investigating the NDS allegations and are only
assisting U.K. police with the phone-hacking probe.  The allegations may complicate a proposed takeover of
 Austar United Communications Ltd. (AUN)  by Foxtel, 25 percent-owned by
News Corp. The deal, if approved by Australia’s competition
regulator, would create the country’s largest pay-TV provider.  The BBC said NDS paid a hacker to crack the pay-TV
technology of British rival ITV Digital and leak the codes
online, contributing to the company’s collapse in 2002. At the
time, ITV was threatening pay-TV revenue at BSkyB, BBC said.  Cisco Sale  NDS, now co-owned by London hedge fund Permira Advisers
LLP, is being sold to  Cisco Systems Inc., (CSCO)  the largest maker of
equipment for  computer networks , for $5 billion.  “Recent media allegations date back over 10 years and
predate Cisco’s involvement with NDS,” Jim Brady, a spokesman
for  San Jose , California-based Cisco, said in a statement.
“Given we remain separate companies, it would be inappropriate
for Cisco to comment further.”  Vivendi Universal SA’s Canal Plus unit sued NDS in the U.S.
in 2002 over the same allegations and eventually resolved the
lawsuit by selling an Italian business to News Corp.  U.S. satellite-TV broadcaster  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  accused
NDS in court arguments in 2008 of hacking the security code of
its access cards and causing at least $90 million in damages.  NDS, which provided encryption technology for Dish rival
DirecTV Group Inc., was accused in that case of recruiting
satellite-TV hackers and pirates to crack codes. A jury in
 California  found that NDS wasn’t liable for a 2000 Internet post
with information on how to hack Dish’s cards.  Stolen Hard Drive  The internal e-mails cited by the Australian Financial
Review are from a stolen hard-drive that was used as evidence in
Echostar’s pay-TV piracy trial against News Corp., NDS
spokeswoman Amy Lucas said in an e-mail.  The Independent newspaper in Britain also reported today
that NDS paid 2,000 pounds to the police department in Surrey,
 England , in 2000 for “assistance given to us in our work.” NDS
said in a statement that there was nothing improper about what
it described as a charitable donation.  James Murdoch has given up several influential positions
following the phone-hacking scandal where journalists
intercepted the mobile-phone voice mails of politicians,
celebrities and victims of crime to get scoops.  Sotheby’s Board  Auction house Sotheby’s said March 16 that James Murdoch
will leave its board. He resigned from the board of London-based
drug maker  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in January and stepped down as
executive chairman of News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News
International, last month.  News Corp. has said James Murdoch will focus on his main
job as deputy chief operating officer to oversee the company’s
international television operations.  The younger Murdoch’s future at BSkyB also hinges on a
report that U.K. lawmakers are preparing on the phone-hacking
scandal following testimony he gave the committee last year that
was later contradicted by former subordinates.  Lawmakers began the inquiry in July about whether
Parliament had been misled about the extent of phone hacking
during a previous probe in 2009. It has questioned James Murdoch
twice for the new report, once alongside his father Rupert.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  