-- Uruguay Keeps Rate Unchanged as Bank Focuses on Inflation
-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 2012-03-29T21:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/uruguay-keeps-rate-unchanged-as-bank-focuses-on-inflation-1-.html
Uruguay’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today as policy makers
struggle to rein in inflation without damping economic growth.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Mario Bergara, left the rate at 8.75 percent after raising it 75 basis
points, or 0.75 percentage point, at their last meeting Dec. 29.  Inflation in the agriculture-based economy slowed to 7.94
percent in February from 8.05 percent the previous month and has
been above the upper limit of the central bank’s 4 percent to 6
percent target range for 26 months. Prices rose 8.6 percent in
2011.  “Price stability continues to be a focus of concern,” the
board said in a statement announcing the decision. Though price
rises are starting to slow, they are still significantly above
target, the board added.  External prices that influence costs in Uruguay continue to
rise while domestic demand remains strong. Economic activity is
expanding at a reasonable pace, policy makers said.  “The decision is consistent with the commitment to
fighting inflation,” said Alfonso Capurro, an economist at
CPA/Ferrere research company in Montevideo. “Inflation will be
lower in March but we expect it to be close to 8 percent in the
second quarter of the year.”  Government Determined  Bergara said on March 1 that the government is determined
to stem price increases.  “We remain concerned because rates still are above our
target, without being out of control,” he told reporters in
Punta del Este, Uruguay.  Inflation will slow to 7.21 percent in 2012 and 6.83
percent in 2013, according to the median estimate in a central
bank survey of 12 economists, banks, pension administrators and
industrial chambers released March 14.  “The country’s main economic challenge continues to be
inflation,”  Barclays Capital  said in a March 8 report. “The
results on the inflation front have been frustrating.”  A strengthening currency that policy makers are counting on
to help fight inflation will also contribute to slower growth
this year, Barclays said. Uruguay’s peso has gained 2.8 percent
to 19.4 per  U.S. dollar  this year.  Refinery Shutdown  Gross domestic product expanded 3.5 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, the slowest quarterly
growth rate in more than two years, the central bank said on
March 22. GDP expanded 5.7 percent in 2011, down from 8.9
percent in 2010.  The closing of Uruguay’s only refinery for maintenance and
a subsequent workers strike slowed growth from August until the
facility re-started in January. A drought that started at the
end of the year and rising import barriers in neighboring
Argentina are also hitting the $44 billion economy, said Pablo Moya, an economist at Montevideo-based Oikos Research Co.  The central bank committee’s next quarterly meeting will be
in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 