-- Hutchison Profit Doubles as Utilities, Oil Earnings Climb
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-03-29T12:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/hutchison-profit-beats-estimates-on-utilities-oil-earnings.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, posted full-year profit that more
than doubled after boosting earnings from U.K. utilities,
Canadian oil production and cosmetics stores in China.  Net income  rose to HK$56 billion ($7.2 billion) in 2011,
from a restated HK$20.2 billion a year earlier, the Hong Kong-
based company said today. Profit matched the HK$55.9 billion
average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Investment returns from Li’s $9.2 billion takeover of power
networks in southeast England in 2010, his biggest acquisition,
and higher oil prices fueled earnings at Hutchison, which also
booked one-time gains from sales of ports and property assets.
The Hong Kong parent company forecast its 3 Group mobile-phone
division in Europe and Australia will generate increased
earnings this year.  “The 3G business is improving, and  Hutchison (HUWA) ’s ports and
retail operations stand to benefit if there is a global economic
recovery,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at KGI Asia
Ltd., a Hong Kong-based brokerage. Hutchison may make more
acquisitions to strengthen its mobile-phone operations in
Europe, he said.  Revenue Increase  Hutchison fell 0.2 percent to 7.665 euros in Frankfurt
trading as of 1:15 p.m. local time, after the stock dropped 0.4
percent to HK$79.05 at the close of Hong Kong trading before the
announcement. The stock has gained 22 percent this year,
 outperforming  the benchmark Hang Seng Index, which has advanced
12 percent.  3 Group , Hutchison’s unit that offers 3G, or third-
generation, mobile-phone services in seven markets in  Europe  and
Australia, earned HK$1.5 billion before interest and tax last
year, compared with HK$2.93 billion in 2010. The decline was
“due to lower one-off gains,” Hutchison said.  The mobile-phone division posted its first annual profit in
2010, after reporting more than HK$157 billion of losses in the
previous seven years.  3 Group will make “an improved earnings contribution”
this year, Hutchison said.  In February, Hutchison agreed to buy Orange Austria in a
deal valued at 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) to expand its
operations in the European country.  Will Be ‘Consolidator’  There are opportunities for consolidation in the phone
industry in Europe, Hutchison Managing Director Canning Fok told
reporters in  Hong Kong  today. “We will be the consolidator; we
won’t be consolidated,” he said, without elaborating.  Hutchison, with investments in ports, telecommunications,
retail, property and energy in more than 50 countries, said it
increased revenue 12 percent to HK$233.7 billion in 2011.  Full-year profit at  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
Ltd. (1038) , the roads and utilities arm of Hutchison, rose 54 percent
to a record HK$7.7 billion. Cheung Kong led a group of Li-
affiliated companies to buy the U.K. power networks of  EDF SA (EDF) 
for 5.8 billion pounds ($9.2 billion) in October 2010. A year
later, it acquired  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG) , based in
Durham, England, for 2.4 billion pounds.  “Infrastructure and Husky should be the main drivers,”
Lorraine Tan, director of equity research at  Standard & Poor’s 
in  Singapore , said before the earnings announcement, referring
to Hutchison’s  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  affiliate. Hutchison is
expected to focus on further investments in utilities and may
review acquisitions of phone assets in Europe, she said.  Oil, Ports  Husky, the Calgary, Alberta-based oil producer part-owned
by Hutchison, said last month that full-year profit more than
doubled on higher margins and increased production.  Profit included a HK$44.3 billion one-time gain from the
spinoff of port assets in Hong Kong and southern China through
the separate listing of  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT)  in
Singapore in March 2011, Hutchison said. The parent company also
booked a profit from the 10.5 billion yuan ($1.7 billion)
listing of the  Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust (87001)  in Hong
Kong the same month.  Li, Hong Kong’s richest man, ranks 14th on the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index with a net worth of $24.7 billion. Nicknamed
“superman” by the Hong Kong media for his investing prowess,
he opened a plastic flower factory after World War II. Li began
focusing on Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots from
 China ’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 