-- Hutchison’s Three Sees Unlimited Data Pushing U.K. Growth
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-29T12:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/hutchison-s-three-sees-unlimited-data-pushing-u-k-growth.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Three U.K.
said there’s no sign of slowing growth in customer numbers as
the mobile operator’s unlimited data packages win subscribers at
the expense of competitors such as  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Three, the smallest of Britain’s four mobile-phone
companies, said today that subscriber numbers jumped 18 percent
in 2011 to 8.2 million after it started offering the unlimited
data plan. Operator Everything Everywhere introduced a similar
package in January, while Vodafone has sought to resist the
change by charging customers based on the amount of data used.  “Growth is sustainable, profitable and not stopping,”
Three Chief Financial Officer Richard Woodward said in a phone
interview today from division headquarters in Maidenhead,
 England . “We have no intention of slowing down,” as the
company’s offer differentiates it from other operators.  U.K. mobile service providers are encouraging customers to
use smartphones more while balancing the additional data load on
their networks. Three, which has a target of doubling its
customer base by 2015, has started to restrict unlimited tariffs
in a small number of areas, and is seeking additional
frequencies to add capacity.  Three would be interested in buying spectrum being sold by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and France Telecom SA’s Everything
Everywhere venture, unit Chief Executive Officer David Dyson
said on March 27.  Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao said last month that the
Newbury, England-based company wasn’t “religious” about its
data pricing and that the operator will probably “experiment
with different things in different markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  