-- Venezuela’s Capriles May Close Gap on Chavez in Polls, Leon Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-03-29T18:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/venezuela-s-capriles-may-close-gap-on-chavez-in-polls-leon-says.html
Venezuela ’s opposition candidate
Henrique Capriles Radonski may close the 13 percentage-point gap
in a Datanalisis poll against President  Hugo Chavez  in the
coming months ahead of presidential elections in October, Luis Vicente Leon, president of the Caracas-based polling company
said today in Caracas.  Datanalisis’ latest poll taken between Feb. 29 and March 7
showed that 44.7 percent of those surveyed plan to vote for
Chavez, 31.4 percent for Capriles, and 25 percent were
undecided, Leon said today. The poll has a margin of error of
2.72 percentage points, he said.  Datanalisis will publish their next public opinion poll in
June, Leon said.  “It’s normal for a group of people surveyed to say that
they’re going to wait to decide at the beginning of an electoral
process. A large number of those undecided were in Zulia state,
which is the state with the largest number of voters after the
Caracas metropolitan area.  “Those undecided in Zulia are an opportunity for Capriles
to grow since they’ll likely vote for him rather than Chavez.
Now some are undecided after their candidate Pablo Perez lost in
the primary vote.  “The gap between Capriles and Chavez can narrow as a group
of undecided voters will prefer Capriles and because the initial
solidarity with Chavez over his illness will diminish.  “Chavez’s strengths are that he has money, a powerful
institutional backing, but he’s sick and his campaign is a
virtual one. His challenge is to convince people that he can
rule for another six years.  “Capriles’ strengths are that he’s young, healthy and
represents the future but doesn’t have as many resources, and
the challenge is to guarantee to voters that if he wins he won’t
abolish the social programs and that there won’t be chaos.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  