-- Vinashin’s Binh Faces Jail After Debt Hurt Vietnam Rating
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-29T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/vinashin-s-binh-faces-jail-after-debt-hurt-vietnam-rating.html
A  Vietnam  court is set to issue
verdicts today on nine former executives accused of mismanaging
the nation’s biggest shipbuilder that almost collapsed under $4
billion of debt and helped trigger a downgrade of the country’s
credit rating.  Ex-chairman Pham Thanh Binh and eight other former
executives of Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group and its units
are charged with violating rules on economic management,
according to an indictment. They could face as much as 20 years
in prison. A separate investigation into embezzlement at a unit
of the company, known as Vinashin, is also being conducted,
according to the indictment.  Vinashin almost collapsed in 2010, blighting the country’s
image among overseas investors as its failure to make payments
on a dollar-denominated loan hampered Vietnamese companies
seeking to sell debt internationally. The controversy sparked
calls for a rare confidence vote in Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung, who had championed the shipbuilder. He accepted
responsibility for the company’s “shortcomings” in a televised
broadcast.  “This case has definitely made it clear to outside
observers that there are some serious structural problems in the
state sector,” said  Eddy Malesky , an associate professor in the
Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies
at the  University of California  in  San Diego . “The good thing
about it, is it has spurred renewed interest in getting a handle
on state-owned enterprises.”  Packed Courtroom  The nine defendants appeared this week in a packed
courtroom in the northern port city of Haiphong, flanked by
police officers and initially shackled. They were responsible
for losses totaling 910.5 billion dong ($43.7 million),
according to the indictment.  Binh, chairman from 1998 to 2009, was responsible for 852.7
billion dong of those through his involvement in two power-plant
projects and the purchase of a high-speed vessel, it said.  “Besides particularly large-valued state losses in terms
of money and assets, the defendants’ violations also delayed
production and business, badly affected the foreign investment
environment regarding Vietnam’s shipbuilding industry, and
negatively impacted workers’ lives,” the indictment read.  The former executives deny the allegations that they caused
economic harm. Some said they were following Binh’s orders.
Trinh Thi Hau, the only woman among the defendants, cried at her
seat after presenting her defense.  Sacrificed Youth  Binh, 58, dressed in a suit jacket and sandals, and other
defendants answered questions from a judge and prosecutors. Chu
Dong, Binh’s lawyer, said the former chairman “sacrificed his
youth” to develop the country’s shipbuilding industry and acted
on behalf of the firm’s and state’s interests, not for personal
gain.  Established in 1996, Vinashin expanded rapidly as demand
for marine transportation surged and Vietnamese leaders bet the
company would rival South Korean and Chinese shipbuilders. The
company once counted hotels and a scooter business among its
nearly 300 units as it diversified operations.  Vinashin was the sole recipient of $750 million raised in
the country’s first dollar-bond issue in 2005, and had planned
to build and export $1 billion of ships in 2009, a year before
its debts brought it to the brink of bankruptcy. The company had
over-diversified and failed to manage its cash flow and debt
properly, the Ministry of Transport said in July 2010, the same
month Binh was suspended during a government probe.  Government Support  Prime Minister Dung acknowledged “shortcomings” in
managing the company at a legislative meeting last year.  Vinashin won government approval in November 2010 for a
turnaround that included paring debt 38 percent and transferring
units to other state-owned companies such as Vietnam National
Shipping Lines and Vietnam Oil & Gas Group. Last year, the
company asked holders of a local currency bond it defaulted on
to write off as much as 90 percent of the money owed, bondholder
Sabeco Fund Management said.  The failure to pay the first installment on a $600 million
loan in December 2010 from a group of lenders headed by  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sparked concern that the country’s state-owned
companies might not receive government support if they had
problems meeting debt obligations.  Vietnam’s sovereign credit rating was cut one level to B1
in December 2010 by Moody’s Investors Service, who cited factors
including “debt distress at Vinashin” for the downgrade.
 Standard & Poor’s  followed with a similar move later that month,
placing Vietnam’s creditworthiness three levels below investment
grade on a par with Bangladesh and Gabon.  ‘Next China’  “When Vinashin was issuing debt and the government
supported them, people bought into the idea Vietnam was the next
 China ,” said Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based assistant
vice president at Moody’s, which has a negative outlook on
Vietnam. “That sheen has worn off. Some investors got burned.”  Elliott Associates LP, one of about 20 creditors with a 
stake in the $600 million loan, dropped a lawsuit against 
Vinashin in a London court, Daniel Billings of Kreab Gavin 
Anderson, hired to represent Elliott, said March 27. The 
shipbuilder had missed three payments totaling $180 million, 
people familiar with the matter said in January.  The government has called for raising efficiency and
competitiveness at state-owned enterprises. Prime Minister Dung
in January told companies to submit restructuring plans,
including the sale of stakes to private investors and disposal
of non-core businesses. The ruling Communist Party said in
December that “unprofitable or even money-losing” state-run
companies had become a burden.  De Guzman of Moody’s said the agency’s negative outlook on
Vietnam’s rating reflects “uncertainties” in the state-owned
sector and the country’s bank-restructuring plan.  “The fact they’re trying to hold these people accountable
is good. My hope is they don’t stop there,” De Guzman said of
the trial. “Some SOEs continue to lose money and act as a risk
to the government’s balance sheet. Actual reform still needs to
happen.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  