-- Vivendi’s SFR Cuts Ad Spending Amid Strategy Review
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-03-29T14:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/vivendi-s-sfr-cuts-ad-spending-amid-strategy-review.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  CEO Jean-Bernard Levy
will cut ad spending at the SFR mobile-phone unit and slow store
openings while he develops a new strategy for the business,
according to a presentation to unions.  Levy met SFR workers representatives yesterday as the
company briefed them about the business plan review, according
to documents obtained by Bloomberg News. SFR has until June 6 to
meet the unions again and present the results. SFR is halting
more than 100 projects until a new strategy has been determined,
according to the document.  Levy may also publicly unveil the plans before the end of
June, according to two people familiar with the matter. SFR
spokesman Nicolas Chatin declined to comment.  Vivendi, which took over the SFR venture from  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  for almost 8 billion euros ($10.6 billion) last year,
began an examination of the wireless division last month as the
mobile-phone division is losing customers to French discounter
 Iliad SA. (ILD)  Paris-based Vivendi said this week that Levy will head
SFR after Frank Esser, the unit’s chief of more than 11 years,
stepped down.  SFR will adapt its structure, capital expenditure and
operational costs to market conditions, Levy has said. The
company has also frozen hirings and research at SFR.  Vivendi declined as much as 1.5 percent to 13.61 euros in
Paris trading and was down 1.1 percent as of 4:21 p.m.  Shrinking Value  Vivendi’s market capitalization has shrunk by more than 30
percent since it agreed in April last year to buy Vodafonee’s 44
percent stake in SFR. At 17.2 billion euros, Vivendi, which also
owns the world’s biggest music and video-game companies, is
worth less than the 18 billion euros it valued the SFR unit
alone a year ago.  Levy takes on the additional role as Vivendi pledges to
take a break from making any big acquisitions to focus on
reducing debt. His predecessor,  Jean-Marie Messier , went on a
$77 billion acquisition binge to transform a water utility into
a global media giant. Since taking over, Levy has dismantled
Messier’s empire and expanded in new directions, making
selective purchases, including Brazilian phone company  GVT
Holding (GVTT3)  SA in 2009, to drive growth.  SFR lost 208,000 subscribers as of March 1, less than two
months after competitor Iliad, founded by French entrepreneur
Xavier Niel, started selling mobile-phone packages at a
discounted price. Iliad has captured as many as 2 million French
mobile customers according to regulator Arcep.  The new competition has prompted Vivendi to forecast an
earnings slump until 2013. The company said it will have to
adjust its costs structure to offset a projected decline in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of as much as 570 million euros at SFR in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  