-- Vodafone, Tata Get Deadline Extension for Cable & Wireless Bid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-03-29T08:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/vodafone-tata-get-deadline-extension-for-cable-wireless-bid.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Tata
Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  were given more time to make a bid for U.K.
fiber-network operator  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc. (CW/)   India’s Tata and Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone
operator, now have until April 19, Cable & Wireless said in a
statement today. The original deadline for bids expires today.
There’s no certainty that an offer will be made, the company
said.  Cable & Wireless climbed 2.2 percent to 34.76 pence at 9:21
a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of 955 million
pounds ($1.5 billion).  Tata Communications, a unit of  Tata Group , said March 1 it
may make a cash offer for Cable & Wireless. Before today, the
London-based company’s shares had jumped 72 percent since Feb.
10, the last trading day before Vodafone said it was in the
early stages of evaluating a potential bid.  The deadline extension will enable Vodafone and Tata to
“establish whether or not their preliminary discussions with
Cable & Wireless might result in a formal offer for the company
which the board of Cable & Wireless would be willing to
recommend,” the company said today.  Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line acquisition for
the first time since 2010, when it ended talks with  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s largest cable-operator. The
Newbury, England-based company may use Cable & Wireless’ fiber
network to boost its fixed-line system in the U.K. and relieve
the strain of surging data traffic. Cable & Wireless is the
owner of Britain’s largest business network.  Purchasing Cable & Wireless would complement Tata
Communications’ operations in emerging markets including South
Africa, the  Middle East  and Asia. Tata Group, which controls the
telecommunications company, has acquired companies in the U.K.
including Jaguar Land Rover and Corus Group Plc.  Tata Communications has arranged four banks to help finance
a $2 billion loan in advance of a possible offer, people
familiar with the matter said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  