-- Yankees’ Value Is $2.85 Billion After Dodgers Bid, Analyst Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/yankees-value-is-2-85-billion-after-dodgers-bid-analyst-says.html
The  New York Yankees  are worth a
Major League Baseball-high $2.85 billion after a group led by
basketball Hall of Fame player Magic Johnson bought the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  in a $2.3 billion transaction, according to an
estimate by a media analyst.  Tony Wible , a Philadelphia-based analyst who covers media
companies for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said his valuation
was based on the number of television households in the team’s
designated market area, or DMA.  “We believe the television rights are the main driver
behind the valuation of sports teams,” Wible said in a note to
clients that focused on Liberty Media Corp., owner of the
Atlanta Braves. “Therefore, we can compare transaction
multiples based on DMA size.”  The Dodgers transaction translates to $386 per television
household ( Los Angeles  has about 5.57 million TV households).
Previous transactions for Major League Baseball teams during the
past three years have been at valuations of $229 to $491 per
household, with an average of $315, Wible wrote.  Using the same $386 number and multiplying it by the New
York area’s 7.39 million TV households yields a $2.85 billion
value.  The Yankees’ success -- they have qualified for the
playoffs in 15 of the past 16 seasons and won five of their
record 27  World Series  in that period -- might make them even
more valuable, Wible said.  The Dodgers, who last won the World Series in 1988, missed
the playoffs the past two seasons after qualifying for
postseason play in 2008 and 2009.  Johnson and a group that includes Guggenheim Partners Chief
Executive Mark Walter also obtained Dodger Stadium and the land
around the ballpark in the transaction announced two days ago.
Yankee Stadium, which opened in 2009, cost $1.1 billion. Wible’s
valuation of the franchise didn’t include the ballpark or its
regional sports network, YES.  TV Agreement  The Dodgers, who have a broadcast contract with  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports, might land at least $4 billion over 20 years
in their next agreement, said former CBS Sports President  Neal Pilson . The team’s deal with Fox Sports unit Prime Ticket ends
after the 2013 season.  Johnson and his partners could choose to start their own
regional sports network modeled after the Yankees, who operate
the YES Network.  Forbes values the Yankees at a baseball-high $1.85 billion.
It listed the Dodgers’ worth at $1.4 billion.  The Dodgers’ sale price was more than twice the previous
record paid for a U.S. sports franchise, the $1.1 billion
developer Stephen Ross spent for the  National Football League ’s
Miami Dolphins.  More Bidders  Also vying for the Dodgers were groups led by billionaires
 Steve Cohen , who runs hedge fund manager SAC Capital Advisors
LP, and  Stan Kroenke , who owns football’s St. Louis Rams,
hockey’s Colorado Avalanche and Arsenal of English soccer’s
Premier League.  “This interest in this franchise and its historic sale
price are profound illustrations of the great overall health of
our industry,” Bud Selig, commissioner of baseball, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  