-- Myanmar Float Helps Exporters Buying Kyat in Black Market
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o ,   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-03-30T06:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/myanmar-float-helps-exporters-buying-kyat-in-black-market.html
Myanmar’s move to a managed float
of the kyat may weaken the grip of the black market, where
appreciation has been hurting exporters.  “The dollar has seen some weakening pressure against the
kyat and that is quite a big pain for exporters,” Toshihiro
Mizutani, managing director of the Japan External Trade
Organization in Yangon, said in an interview on March 28. “If
they can manage to keep it from rising fast it would help.”  The biggest financial market policy shift since President
 Thein Sein  took power a year ago is an attempt to unify the
multiple exchange rates in the Asian nation of 64 million people.
The official rate, pegged to the International Monetary Fund’s
special drawing rights, is 6.4 kyat per dollar, about 125 times
stronger than the black market rate and available only to state-
owned companies.  The central bank plans to gradually unify the “various”
other rates used by private enterprises and influence the market
rate, it said in a statement published in the state-run New
Light of Myanmar this week. The bank will publish a reference
rate for its currency daily starting April 1, scrapping a 35-
year fixed  exchange rate , it said.  It may set the new official kyat level near the black-
market rate at about 820 to the dollar, which has appreciated
from about 1,055 in 2009, according to a research report
yesterday by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch. The currency
may be allowed to move as much as 2 percent either side of the
 reference rate , the  U.S. bank  said.  Chinese Example  China also had an artificially strong currency until 1994,
when it abolished foreign-exchange certificates that had allowed
state-owned companies to buy dollars cheaper than in the black
market. Exporters were able to use a weaker exchange rate for
the yuan when bringing dollars back to China. The official and
market rates were unified at 8.7 yuan per dollar under a
“floating exchange-rate system,” devaluing the yuan’s official
rate by 40 percent.  “A managed float means it will be controlled around a
fixed range and should benefit everyone because it creates a bit
more stability,” Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange
research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in Singapore, said in an
interview yesterday. “It’s going to be somewhat similar to what
 China  is doing.”  Bordering China and  India  and with the second-largest land
area in Southeast  Asia  behind  Indonesia , Myanmar’s resources
include rubber and natural gas, as well as deposits of gold,
copper and gemstones. Gross domestic product is projected to
increase 5.5 percent this year, the same pace as 2011, according
to an IMF  estimate .  Imports Surge  “The current market exchange rate of 800 to 820 seems
appropriate as the rate was formed naturally based on market
demand and supply,” Yoon Hun Sup, a Yangon-based managing
director for Hyosung Corp., a South Korean chemicals and trading
company, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg yesterday.  Exports increased 19 percent in the fiscal year through
March 2011, while imports surged 55.5 percent, according to
JETRO, citing Myanmar government data.  Thailand  was the
country’s biggest market, taking almost 33 percent of overseas
shipments, followed by  Hong Kong  and China. China is the biggest
source of imports, followed by Singapore and Thailand.  “They have natural resources and they have a lot of
interest coming in the form of investment,”  Malayan Banking ’s
Supaat said. “The pressure is towards greater appreciation.”  ‘Next Economic Frontier’  Scrapping the complex multiple-rate system would reduce
constraints on growth in a country with the potential to become
“the next economic frontier in Asia,” the Washington-based IMF,
which has provided guidance to Myanmar, said on Jan. 25.  “It levels the playing field, makes life easier, more
transparent, more rational,” Sean Turnell, a professor at
Macquarie University in Sydney who has researched Myanmar’s
economy, said in a telephone interview on March 29. “It was
never possible to be entirely sure who was using what rate, and
that opens the window to rent-seeking and corruption.”  The U.S. and European nations have pledged to review
sanctions after April 1 by-elections involving dissident leader
 Aung San Suu Kyi . The U.S. bans imports from Myanmar, restricts
money transfers, freezes assets and targets jewelry with
gemstones originating in the country. The European Union bans
weapons sales and mineral imports.  Local laws prevent foreign banks from conducting
transactions in the country, something that must change in 2015
as part of an agreement with the 10-member  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations . As of November 2010, 13 foreign lenders
had set up representative offices in Myanmar, including 10 from
Asean member countries, according to the central bank.  Currency Reforms Positive  China was the largest foreign-direct investor in Myanmar
between from 2007 through 2011, pumping about $19 billion into
economy, followed by Thailand and  South Korea , according to data
on the Central Statistical Organization’s  website .  “The currency reform will be positive for overseas
companies doing business there,” Roh Dong Hoon, a Seoul-based
senior manager at Daewoo International Corp., a trading company
involved in a natural gas project in Myanmar, said in a phone
interview on March 29. “Last year, the currency strengthened to
700, and it was difficult for some foreign companies there as
they earn money in dollars, but have to pay income to local
workers in kyat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  