-- Suu Kyi Decries Myanmar Vote Flaws as Candidate Dodges Betel Nut
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-30T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/myanmar-economy-poised-to-take-flight-as-voters-head-to-polls.html
Myanmar dissident  Aung San Suu Kyi 
denounced irregularities in the first vote her political party
is contesting since 1990, a ballot Western nations are closely
watching as they consider lifting sanctions.  Suu Kyi is among those standing in by-elections tomorrow
for 43 of the legislature’s 664 seats to fill posts vacated by
lawmakers who joined President Thein Sein’s government. Her
National League for Democracy party questioned the fairness of
the election, citing vote-buying, incorrect voter lists and an
incident where a candidate was almost hit with a betel nut.  “I don’t think we can consider it a genuinely free and
fair election if we take into consideration what has been going
on in the last couple of months,” Suu Kyi told more than 300
journalists gathered yesterday at her lakeside home in Yangon.
“But still I will be willing to work toward national
reconciliation, so we will try to tolerate what has happened.”  Prospects of democratic foundations in the nation of 64
million people between China and  India  encouraged the U.S. to
consider easing sanctions, with companies from General Electric
Co. to  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  awaiting opportunities to invest.
At stake for Thein Sein is dismantling a legacy of six decades
of isolation that left Myanmar with per capita gross domestic
product of just 14 percent of neighbor Thailand’s.  ‘Historic Compromise’  The elections “aren’t going to fundamentally shift power
in the country, but they are hugely important in representing a
historic compromise” between Suu Kyi’s party and the
government, said Thant Myint-U, an author of two books on
Myanmar whose grandfather, U Thant, was the first Asian head of
the  United Nations . “It will end a long chapter in Burmese
history.”  A win would allow Suu Kyi, 66, to take legislative office
for the first time after spending 15 years under house arrest as
the military-led regime repressed opposition. Daughter of a
leader in Myanmar’s independence campaign from Britain, she won
the Nobel peace prize in 1991 and became a focus of foreign
perceptions of the nation’s politics.  Suu Kyi emerged on Myanmar’s political scene in 1988, when
she returned to the country to care for her ailing mother after
years of living overseas. Known in Myanmar simply as “The
Lady,” she was first detained prior to 1990 elections in which
her party won about 80 percent of seats for a committee that was
designed to draft a new constitution. The military rejected the
results.  Suu Kyi refused to accept an army-drafted constitution in
2008 and boycotted an election two years later in which  Thein
Sein ’s party won a majority. A meeting between Suu Kyi and the
president in August led to her party rejoining the political
system.  Democratic Nation  In the 90-minute briefing yesterday, Suu Kyi said her party
will accept the results if the will of the people is “fairly
reflected.” She called the irregularities “beyond what is
acceptable for democratic selection” while noting that her
supporters want her to press ahead.  “We have been energized and encouraged greatly by the
response of our people, by their eagerness and their
preparedness to take part in the political process of their
country,” she said. “It is the rising political awareness of
the people that we regard as our biggest triumph.”  Thein Sein called on all political parties to accept the
results in a March 24 speech published in the state-run  New
Light of Myanmar .  “We all need to work together to ensure that the outcome
is accepted by all the people,” he said.  ‘Game-Changer’  The shift toward greater political openness is moving in
parallel with efforts to rewrite investment laws and unify
multiple exchange rates that impede trade. The country will
adopt a managed float of its currency on April 1, scrapping a
35-year fixed rate in a move to modernize the economy, the
central bank said in a March 28 statement.  Rich in natural gas, gold and gemstones, Myanmar represents
one of  Asia ’s last untapped frontier markets, attracting
investors such as  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers Holdings,
who predicted a global commodities rally in 1999. Myanmar’s
opening is “a game-changer,” Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch said in a March 29 research note.  “Opening up more would send a signal all over the world
that Myanmar would be ready to take outside investment,” Anon
Sirisaengtaksin, chief executive officer of  PTT Exploration &
Production Pcl (PTTEP) , said in a March 27 interview. “It’s quite
prolific in terms of natural resources so it’s a great
opportunity.”  U.S. Sanctions  American sanctions ban investment in Myanmar and imports
from the country, restrict money transfers, freeze assets and
target jewelry with gemstones originating in the nation. The
European Union bans weapons sales and mineral imports.  The by-elections “are a tangible moment in the path to
reform, just like the release of political prisoners in
January,”  Derek Mitchell , U.S. special envoy to Myanmar, told
reporters on March 15. “We will respond after the elections in
an appropriate fashion if we believe they were held free, fair
and transparent.”  Myanmar invited a limited number of election monitors and
journalists from the U.S., European Union and neighboring
countries. Voters will pick from 17 parties and seven
independent candidates to fill 37 seats in the lower house, six
in the upper house and two for regional assemblies, according to
 Network Myanmar , a U.K.-based organization that promotes
reconciliation in the country.  ‘Credibility’  “The credibility of Sunday’s vote will not be determined
solely on the day, but in the lead-up to and following election
day,” the UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation
in Myanmar, Tomás Ojea Quintana, said yesterday in a statement.  Elections in three constituencies in Kachin state, home to
a violent ethnic rebellion, were suspended due to security
concerns. Myanmar’s army has displaced 75,000 ethnic Kachins
since last June in an area along the Chinese border,  New York- 
based  Human Rights Watch  said in a March 20 report, underscoring
the challenges that remain for Thein Sein as he aims to make
peace with political rivals.  “Myanmar will become a new model for other countries to
get through a transition with stability and irreversibility,”
Nay Zin Latt, one of nine advisers to Thein Sein, said by e-
mail. “The 2012 by-elections are much more free.”  Suu Kyi has appeared on state-run television and traveled
throughout the country during the campaign period, falling ill
on two occasions from exhaustion. Tens of thousands of people
holding banners and waving flags attended one of her  speeches  in
Kawhmu township south of Yangon where she is vying for a seat.  “The last 20 years, herself and the party were really
suffering based on confrontation and aggressive measures,” said
Nyo Ohn Myint, a former bodyguard for Suu Kyi who fled to
 Thailand  and still faces political charges in Myanmar. “This is
the time. We cannot look back and blame each other. Why don’t we
move forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  