-- Yen Rises on Slowing Global Growth Concern; Aussie Dollar
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-29T21:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/yen-rises-versus-major-peers-as-asian-stocks-extend-slump.html
The yen rose against all of its 16
major counterparts as concern increased that  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis threatens global economic growth and stocks dropped
amid safety demand.  Japan ’s currency reached an almost three-week high versus
the dollar on speculation the country’s companies will
repatriate overseas earnings before the end of the fiscal year
on March 31. The 17-nation euro fell from almost a one-month
high versus the dollar after economic confidence in the region
unexpectedly declined in March. Australia’s dollar weakened as
Chinese company earnings trailed estimates, spurring concern of
slower growth in Australia’s biggest trading partner. The pound
rose the most in two weeks against the euro.  “There are some safe-haven flows that are going back into
the yen and it’s exacerbated by year-end financing, which sees
repatriation into Japan,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York .
“There’s growing concerns that the global economy is slowing.”  The yen strengthened 0.5 percent to 82.46 per dollar at 59
p.m. New York time, touching 81.91, the strongest since March 9.
The yen trimmed its decline this quarter to 7.2 percent. Japan’s
currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 109.68 per euro. The euro
fell 0.1 to $1.3302. It touched $1.3386 on March 27, the
strongest level since Feb. 29.  Australia’s dollar fell as much as 0.8 percent to a two-
month low against its U.S. counterpart.  The pound climbed 0.6 percent to 83.36 pence per euro, the
biggest gain since March 13.  Downtrend Channel  The shared European currency could fall to $1.30 as it
drops into its downtrend channel, drawn from a high of $1.4247
reached at the end of October to a high of $1.3487 touched in
February, said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York.  The currency failed to rise above the trend channel this
month and is falling toward $1.3250 and its next major
retracement level of $1.3180, Galy said.  The euro has risen 0.4 percent this year as the region’s
debt crisis abated, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, which track 10 developed-market currencies. The dollar
has weakened 2.4 percent, while the yen has fallen 9.7 percent,
set for its biggest quarterly drop since the three months ending
December 2001, the indexes show. The  New Zealand dollar  has
strengthened the most in 2012, with a 3.2 percent gain, the
indexes show.  Emerging Markets  Iceland’s krona and the Argentine peso are the biggest
losers against the dollar this year among 25 emerging-market
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The krona
has lost 3.3 percent and the peso has fallen 1.7 percent. The
Polish zloty and the Hungarian forint, among the 21 emerging-
market currencies that gained against the dollar, have
strengthened the most, adding 10.3 and 9.6 percent,
respectively.  Implied volatility of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies was at 10.1 percent, compared with a low of 9.85
percent yesterday, according to the  JPMorgan G7 Volatility
Index (JPMVXYG7) . An increase makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates less attractive as the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Stocks slumped as Chinese company earnings missed
estimates, driving the MSCI World Index of shares down 0.3
percent after a 0.8 percent slide yesterday. Hennes & Mauritz
AB, Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer, and PICC Property
& Casualty Co.,  China ’s biggest non-life insurer, reported
lower-than-estimated results.  European Economics  An index of  executive and consumer sentiment  in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 94.4 from a revised 94.5 in February,
the European Commission said today. Economists had forecast a
gain to 94.5 from a previously reported 94.4, the median of 29
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  A draft statement dated March 23 and obtained by Bloomberg
News showed that European governments are preparing for a one-
year increase in the ceiling on rescue aid for indebted nations
to 940 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) to keep the crisis at bay.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on March 26 her country may
back plans for the European Financial Stability Facility and the
European Stability Mechanism to run in parallel.  “We do believe the approval for the rescue package will go
ahead tomorrow, and this may create more support for the euro in
the interim,” Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based currency strategist
at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , wrote in a research note today.  Greek Update  There may be “down the road another restructuring of the
outstanding debt” in  Greece ,  Moritz Kraemer , head of sovereign
ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , said at an event at the  London
School of Economics  yesterday. Greece pushed through the biggest
sovereign-debt restructuring in history earlier this month,
paving the way for an international bailout.  Speculation Japanese companies are repatriating overseas
earnings before fiscal year-end also boosted the yen.  That demand “is capping gains in dollar-yen,” said Kazuo Shirai, a trader at Union Bank NA in  Los Angeles . “I think the
yen will grind weaker” if it stays around the 82 per dollar
level, he said.  Australia ’s dollar fell against all but two of its major
counterparts, touching $1.0305, the weakest level since Jan. 17.  “The reality is that we will need to cut and cancel
existing programs if we are to meet” the government’s surplus
targets, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in a speech today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  