-- YPF Surges on Argentine Shale Oil Discovery: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-03-29T21:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/ypf-surges-on-argentine-shale-oil-discovery-buenos-aires-mover.html
YPF SA (YPF) ,  Argentina ’s largest crude
company, led gains by major Latin American stocks after saying
that it discovered as much as a 1 billion barrels of shale oil
resources in the western province of Mendoza.  YPF’s American depositary receipts rose as much as 8.8
percent intraday, the biggest gain among 457 stocks in major
Latin American indexes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It gained 5.3 percent to close at $28.60 in  New York .  YPF, based in  Buenos Aires , could double Argentine oil and
gas output in a decade developing shale deposits it said Feb. 8,
after announcing it holds about 13 billion barrels of oil
equivalent as part of its share of the Vaca Muerta formation
located in the south of the country. The company said today the
geology of that formation continues northwards into Mendoza.  “The news is positive, now what they need is the money to
extract the oil,” Guido Bizzozero, an equity analyst at Buenos
Aires-based brokerage Allaria Ledesma & Cia., said today in a
telephone interview. “The company doesn’t have that money, it
has to partner with someone or take on debt in the market.”  The company, which recently lost concessions in Mendoza and
other provinces including  Rio Negro  and Neuquen in a dispute
over investment, will spend about $300 million to develop the
shale oil, exploration head Tomas Garcia Blanco told reporters
today in Malargue, Mendoza province.  Mendoza, located in western Argentina, withdrew two YPF oil
concessions on March 23 as part of disagreements with the
national government over oil imports and dividends. The
Argentine government says the company must boost oil production.  Exxon Mobil Corp., the largest U.S. oil company, is in
talks with YPF to jointly tap the shale oil found at Vaca
Muerta, in Neuquen province, YPF spokesman Sergio Resumil also
said in Malargue today.  No Offer  Newspaper El Cronista reported today that Argentina is
seeking to buy a 33 percent stake in the company, without saying
where it got the information. YPF hasn’t received an offer from
the government, Resumil said.  YPF also said it began production at its conventional oil
at its Vizcacheras field that holds 20 million barrels.  YPF filed a complaint with Argentina’s supreme court
against the province of Chubut after it revoked some of the
company’s concessions in the southern province earlier this
month, said a company official today who can’t be named under
corporate policy.  A decade-long freeze on  oil prices , which set the maximum
producers could charge for exports at $42 a barrel, cut
investment. Production dropped to 35.3 million cubic meters in
2010 from 45.4 million in 2001, according to the most recent
data published by the Buenos Aires-based Argentina Oil and Gas
Institute. In the past three years, international crude prices
have more than doubled to about $103 per barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  