-- Yuan Snaps Two-Day Gain on Concern China’s Economy Is Slowing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-29T09:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-29/yuan-snaps-two-day-gain-on-concern-china-s-economy-is-slowing.html
The yuan halted a two-day rally,
headed for its first quarterly drop since December 2009, on
signs growth in the world’s second-biggest economy is slowing.  The currency has dropped 0.2 percent this quarter as the
average earnings of 505 companies included in the  Shanghai 
Composite Index trailed analysts’ estimates by 3.6 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A preliminary reading
of a purchasing managers’ index for March, published by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on March 22 ahead of final
data due on April 1, showed a contraction.  “The slump in Chinese corporate profits was a blow to
sentiment and triggered concerns over the economy,” said Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based currency analyst at Bank of East Asia
Ltd. “There will be less appreciation pressure for the yuan if
the economy slows further. Investors are waiting for the PMI
data for a clearer picture on the economy.”  The yuan closed at 6.3060 per dollar in Shanghai, unchanged
from yesterday, following a two-day advance of 0.13 percent,
according to the  China  Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The People’s Bank of China lowered the yuan’s  daily fixing 
for a second day, setting it 0.03 percent weaker at 6.2932. The
currency is allowed to move as much as 0.5 percent on either
side of the fixing.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan slipped 0.02
percent to 6.3150. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained
0.06 percent to 6.3355, a 0.5 percent discount to the onshore
spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.3 percent.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday
he remains concerned about China allowing its currency to
appreciate. China has “some ways to go” and the U.S. would
like to see them go further, he said in prepared text of remarks
to a House Appropriations subcommittee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  