-- Christie Targets Medicaid to Close $10.5 Billion New Jersey Budget Deficit
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2011-01-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-09/christie-targets-medicaid-benefits-as-new-jersey-deficit-looms.html
  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
may propose cutting Medicaid spending and employee benefits to
help close a $10.5 billion  budget deficit , even as he considers
contributing $512 million to the state’s underfunded pension.  The 48-year-old chief executive, who joined 28 other
Republican governors asking President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders last week for permission to reduce
Medicaid outlays below federally prescribed levels, said in a
Jan. 4 interview that “certainly” the program “is one of the
things we’re going to have to look at.”  The second-wealthiest U.S. state budgeted $3.1 billion for
Medicaid in the fiscal year ending June 30 and was scheduled to
receive $1.1 billion in federal stimulus funding, according to
the Treasury Department. Christie, who took office a year ago,
said he’ll tell lawmakers in his Jan. 11 State of the State
speech that New Jersey remains in a financial crisis and they
need to maintain fiscal controls as employment and revenue
recover slowly from the longest recession since the 1930s.  New Jersey has run consecutive annual deficits for a
decade. The governor told reporters last month that balancing
the next budget will be even tougher than with the current plan.  “First and foremost is continuing on the path of fiscal
discipline,” Christie said in his wood-paneled office at the
state Capitol in Trenton. “I’m not going to allow us to revert
back to the wild spending that we’ve had for the last decade.
It’s going to take years for us to dig out of this hole.”  Deficits Nationwide  States face deficits that may reach $140 billion in the
next fiscal year,  according  to the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities  in  Washington . The 2009 economic-stimulus bill and
the health-care overhaul signed by Obama last year bar governors
from reducing eligibility for the state-administered health-care
program for the poor and uninsured below a prescribed income
level.  From New York to Washington, governors are targeting
Medicaid for cuts.  New York ’s new governor, Democrat  Andrew Cuomo , said he wants to lower spending $2.1 billion, the Wall
Street Journal reported.  Rick Scott , the recently elected
Republican governor of  Florida , said he is looking to trim the
program by $1.8 billion.  Big Hole  Christie may face a deficit next year equivalent to more
than a third of his current budget, the nonpartisan Office of
Legislative Services projected in July. In the current year, he
closed a record $10.7 billion gap by slashing school and
municipal aid and skipping a $3 billion pension payment.  The governor didn’t specify how much he may take out of
Medicaid. He said he anticipates seeking to trim costs through
unspecified efficiencies, after leaving spending on the program
intact last year because of the economic slump.  New Jersey will also lose $900 million in federal funding
for Medicaid next year, even as it’s required to maintain
benefits, under conditions of the stimulus act, according to  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman.  “That’s a big hole to have to fill,” Christie said.
“We’re going to have to look at all options. We have to figure
out how we’re going to deal with that.”  Contract Talks  Christie said in the interview he’ll also seek savings in
contract talks with state workers’ unions later this year,
especially since the Jan. 1 expiration of a no-layoff agreement
instituted by his predecessor, Democrat  Jon Corzine . He declined
to provide details. Christie said he’d prefer to make moves
through negotiations with unions, not executive order.  “I think collective bargaining is an important process and
I want to participate in it fully with the workers of this state
so they feel whatever deal they end up getting is a fair deal,”
Christie said. “If I have to resort to other tactics, I will,
because I have to balance this budget.”  While he wants to cut Medicaid and worker benefits,
Christie said he may resume contributions to the state’s pension
system for the first time since 2008, when Corzine made a
partial payment of $1 billion. The fund had assets to cover 62
percent of its obligations as of June 30, down from 66 percent a
year earlier, according to Treasury Department data.  New Jersey’s pension deficit increased $8.05 billion, or 18
percent, this year to $53.9 billion, from $45.8 billion as of
June 2009. The state has failed to make actuarially recommended
contributions since 2003, according to bond documents. The
funding  shortage  was $28.3 billion in 2007.  Benefits Overhaul  Christie said the pension deficit would have grown this
year even if he made the $3 billion recommended payment. He said
his ability to make a $512 million contribution next fiscal year
will depend on the state’s financial condition.  “There’s a benefit problem,” Christie said. “We need to
get at the benefits and we need to get realistic with folks and
tell them the truth: promises were made that can’t be kept. We
need to go after the drivers of these costs.”  In September, Christie  proposed  undoing a 9 percent pension
increase enacted in 2001, raising the  retirement age  and
freezing cost-of-living raises for retirees. The governor said
he will push the Democratic-led Legislature to pass a measure
requiring require employees to contribute 8.5 percent of
salaries toward pensions, up from 5.5 percent now.  As the economic recovery took hold, the state collected 3.8
percent more revenue in the first five months of the fiscal year
than projected as income taxes ran almost 13 percent above
estimates, Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said on Dec. 14.  Work Remains  The increase may not herald the end of lean times for the
state, Christie and Sidamon-Eristoff said. It may be a one-time
infusion as high-income filers avoided potentially higher rates
that were averted when Congress approved an extension of the
Bush-era tax cuts.  “Imposing fiscal discipline is not a one-year fix,”
Christie said.  During his first year in office Christie enacted a 2
percent cap on the growth of New Jersey’s property taxes, which
at an average of $7,281 are the highest in the U.S. He also
placed a threshold on school superintendents’ pay and limited at
2 percent raises given to police and firefighters by arbitrators
when contact negotiations break down.  Getting the economy moving, as well as calls for austerity
and job creation, also will dominate the speech, Christie said.
The governor will also push a proposal to make it easier for
school districts to fire their worst teachers and base pay on
student performance.  Christie needs to get lawmakers to approve the remaining
items in his “toolkit” of measures designed to help schools
and municipalities stay within the new cap, which took effect
this year, said  Brigid Harrison , a professor of law and politics
at  Montclair State University . The proposals would cap contract
awards and curb payouts for unused sick-leave and vacation days.  “It’s the difference between his being able to achieve
political success and just being another politician with
promises to lower property taxes,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 