-- 
’Fear Factor’ From Stock Turmoil Sparks Deal Hunt in Art Market

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/-fear-factor-from-stock-turmoil-sparks-deal-hunt-in-art-market.html
As the stock market gyrated sharply
in recent weeks,  New York  art dealer Asher Edelman began
receiving calls from clients asking to sell works they owned by
major 20th-century artists, including  Pablo Picasso ,  Roy Lichtenstein  and Robert Rauschenberg.  And the sellers -- collectors, investors and other dealers
-- were willing to take about 20 percent less than they would
have only a couple of weeks earlier, Edelman said.  “I think there’s a big fear factor out there,” said
Edelman, a former  Wall Street  investor and the founder of art-
financing company  Art Assure Ltd . “People are afraid of what’s
going on in the world and they want to take some cash out of
their art.”  This month’s wild swings of the stock markets included the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  alternating between gains and
losses of more than 400 points for four days in a row during the
week ending Aug. 12, the longest such streak ever.  “Whenever you have stock price declines, you do get a lot
of margin calls, and people look for any form of liquidity that
they can find,” said Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist
at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .  Some art owners try to sell privately and avoid the risk of
having the work flop at auction. Others are looking for a
financial guarantee by a third-party before putting art on the
auction block. Many are using their collections to obtain credit
lines.  Thirst for Liquidity  “In the last three months, we’ve seen an increase in new
clients who want to use art as collateral for loans,” said
Suzanne Gyorgy, director of art advisory and finance services at
Citibank’s private-banking unit. “They anticipate market
volatility and want to have liquidity available for investment
opportunities.”  Art Finance Partners , a private New York firm that also
lends money using art as collateral, saw a sharp rise in
inquiries this month, according to partner Meghan Carleton.  “People need to figure out where their sources of capital
may be coming from in the next 30 to 60 days,” she said. “It’s
about short-term liquidity.”  The art market’s top tier would likely benefit because it’s
increasingly seen by collectors as an alternative to the
volatile capital markets, dealers and analysts said.  “We expect a very strong auction season this fall as high-
net-worth individuals globally reallocate more funds into top-
quality art for value-preservation purposes,” said Sergey
Skaterschikov, founder of  Skate’s Art Market Research , in an e-
mail.  ‘A Spike for Sure’  Art dealer Mark Borghi, who operates  galleries  in Manhattan
and Bridgehampton, New York, sold about $4 million of art in the
past three weeks. Among the works was a $1 million painting by
Joan Mitchell and a $125,000 drawing by  Ed Ruscha .  “It’s a spike for sure,” said Borghi, whose clients work
on Wall Street and at hedge funds. “Since this whole turmoil
has started, I’ve had meetings with new collectors who are tired
of the stock market and want to invest in the art market.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 