-- 
A Public Works Spending Deal Both Parties Can Embrace: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-23T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/a-public-works-spending-deal-even-the-republican-party-can-embrace-view.html
It’s one of  Washington ’s worst kept
secrets: President  Barack Obama  is likely to propose a new
public works program in a post-Labor Day speech.  The idea is to stimulate an economy on the verge of another
recession, upgrade the nation’s crumbling roads, bridges,
schools and transit systems, and put unemployed Americans,
especially the 6 million who have been jobless for six months or
more, back to work.  It makes economic sense. The president should think big --
upward of $100 billion a year for at least two years. The
temporary spending burst would increase short-term deficits,
some of which the congressional supercommittee would have to
offset to hit its $1.5 trillion, 10-year deficit-reduction
target. But the program could ultimately lower deficits through
reduced safety-net spending and higher  tax revenue  from the
newly employed.  Economists have estimated that spending $1 billion on
highways and mass transit increases gross domestic product by
$1.6 billion. Only extensions of  unemployment insurance  and food
stamp benefits are better at priming the pump, except they don’t
create jobs that benefit the public.  Unfortunately, a major public works program doesn’t make
political sense right now. Republicans have served notice that
they intend to stand pat against new federal spending. After the
painful debt-ceiling imbroglio that ended with a deal no one
liked, least of all  Standard & Poor’s , which lowered the
country’s AAA rating, the president doesn’t need another
debilitating fight this fall.  What he needs is a quid pro quo. He should offer to cut
government red tape in exchange for Republican support for a
public works initiative. Obama could start by using his
authority to streamline the permitting process. He could limit,
for example, environmental reviews to six months. Projects that
federal and state officials agree won’t have an impact should be
put on a fast track, similar to the Federal Communications
Commission’s 150-day “shot clock” for construction of cell
phone towers.  The biggest deregulatory bang would come from suspending
the Davis-Bacon Act, which sets construction wages. The 1931 law
requires contractors using federal money, whether gasoline-tax
proceeds, stimulus grants or Department of Energy loan
guarantees, to pay the local “prevailing wage,” as defined by
the Department of Labor. The president could use his authority
to suspend the law in a national emergency.  We realize this would anger labor unions and some workers.
But Davis-Bacon is a Depression-era anachronism, left over from
a time when it was considered bad form for contractors to bring
in workers from low-paid states, undercutting rivals who hired
locally.  The act also has racist origins. Its Republican co-
sponsors, Representative Robert Bacon and Senator James Davis,
and other members of Congress were concerned about constituents
losing jobs to cheaper labor, with some lawmakers openly
complaining of “colored” workers, barred from unions at the
time, taking jobs from whites.  Today, Davis-Bacon protects higher-wage organized labor at
the expense of those willing to perform the same tasks for less
money. About a third of the $862 billion economic stimulus
package Congress passed in 2009 went to projects governed by
Davis-Bacon rules. If a job requires skilled electricians or
plumbers, and only union workers are available or preferred,
then employers have no choice but to pay their higher wages. But
why should contractors pay more than the market bears for, say,
a home weatherization worker?  What’s more, many Davis-Bacon wages rest on spurious data.
Government auditors for more than a decade have complained that
the Labor Department has made a mess of collecting the
information needed to set prevailing wages. The agency relies on
voluntary responses to forms it sends to unions, contractors,
public officials and trade groups. Many employers ignore the
surveys, which they rightly see as flawed and a waste of time.
In 2004, the Labor Department inspector general found errors in
almost 100 percent of wage surveys it sampled.  The Government Accountability Office in March chastised the
Labor Department for failing to move faster to repair the
system, including by consulting with survey design experts. It
found that almost half of nonunion wage schedules were 10 or
more years old and that a fourth of the pay schedules reviewed
were based on six or fewer workers. Some job classifications
reflected the wages of three employees from two contractors.  Obama should temporarily suspend Davis-Bacon, then ask
Congress to repeal the act and let the market decide wage rates,
as it does for every other industry. Such red-tape cutting could
be the quid pro quo to get Republicans, who have long complained
about Davis-Bacon, to the bargaining table.  Such a deal would stretch federal money, resulting in more
jobs, especially for less-skilled workers who have been out of
work for more than six months. And it would finally allow Obama
to have a Works Progress Administration-style program that’s
been missing from his recovery plans. Over the next several
days, the editors will suggest more job-creation ideas.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 