-- 
A-Tec Chief Asks Penta Investment to Narrow Its Offer to Just Metals Unit

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-08-23T12:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/a-tec-chief-asks-penta-investment-to-narrow-its-offer-to-just-metals-unit.html
A-Tec Industries AG (ATEC) , which filed 
for insolvency last year, asked potential buyer Penta 
Investments Ltd. to narrow its offer to just one of the Austrian 
engineering company’s units.  Penta, a Prague-based  investment company , was approached 
last week by A-Tec Chief Executive Officer Mirko Kovats, who 
asked it to bid for only the minerals and metals division, said
Jakub Korinek, Penta’s investment manager in charge of the bid.  “We’re currently assessing the proposal, however we
consider this change surprising and confusing,” he said in a
phone interview from Vienna today.  A-Tec, majority owned by Kovats, filed for insolvency on
Oct. 20 last year after efforts by the Vienna-based company to
refinance a bond failed. The insolvency is  Austria ’s third
largest in postwar history. A-Tec officials didn’t immediately
return phone calls or e-mailed enquiries seeking comment.  “We stand behind our original offer that is in line with
the insolvency rules,” Kovarik said. He wouldn’t comment on
whether a price for the unit was discussed.  Penta, a Czech and Slovak private equity group, submitted a
bid to buy and restructure all A-Tec assets in June. Other
bidders for A-Tec include hedge fund Springwater Capital and
Pakistani billionaire Alshair Fiyaz, Format magazine reported,
without citing anyone. The company’s supervisory board is
meeting tomorrow to discuss bids, according to the report.  Founded in 1994 as a stock brokerage, Penta moved into
private-equity investments in 2000. It controls about 30
companies, including retail chain Zabka Polska SA and Aero
Vodochody, a Czech aircraft producer. Penta has 2.7 billion
euros ($3.63 billion) of total assets, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  