-- 
Macklowe Files Plans to Convert 137 Manhattan Rental Units to Condominiums

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-08-23T19:13:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/macklowe-files-plans-to-convert-137-manhattan-rental-units-to-condominiums.html
Harry Macklowe , the  New York 
developer, has filed plans to convert two rental apartment
buildings on Manhattan’s Upper East Side to condominiums.  The proposals were submitted this month to the New York
state attorney general’s office on behalf of 737 Park Ave. and
150 East 72nd St., said Stuart Saft, head of the real estate
group at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, who drafted and filed the plans
for Macklowe.  Sales of the converted units may be completed as early as
late next year or the first quarter of 2013 as long as the plans
are approved by July 2012, Saft said. State law requires
developers of condos and co-ops to file an offering plan, or
prospectus, for review before selling units to the public,
according to Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman ’s  website .  “The expectation is that we probably will be out of the
recession by then and the economy will be booming and it will
just be the right time to start selling apartments,” Saft said
today in a telephone interview.  Macklowe’s proposal for 737 Park Ave. calls for converting
all 103 units into condos ranging from $2.9 million for a one-
bedroom unit to $18 million for a penthouse apartment, Saft
said. Macklowe acquired the prewar building near 71st Street for
$253 million in August, according to city property records.  At the 72nd Street property, the 34 units will be converted
into the same number of condos, all either two- or three-bedroom
units, according to Saft. Prices will range from $3.5 million to
$6 million, he said. A limited-liability company that shares
offices with Macklowe Properties acquired the building in July
for $70 million, according to city records.  Macklowe was forced in 2008 to relinquish control of seven
 Manhattan  office towers after he was unable to refinance $7
billion of short-term debt used to buy the properties. The
credit crisis forced his company to sell its  crown jewel , the
General Motors Building at the southeast corner of Central Park.  Macklowe Properties sold three apartment buildings last
year to Chicago-based Equity Residential, the real estate
investment trust founded by billionaire  Sam Zell .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  