-- 
Madoff Trustee Defends ‘Clawbacks’ in U.S. District Court

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-23T13:10:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/madoff-trustee-defends-1-6-million-clawback-suit-in-u-s-district-court.html
The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm defended a “clawback” lawsuit against a doctor
who invested in the  Ponzi scheme , saying a U.S. appeals court
ruling backed up his claim that fictitious paper profits are an
“absurd” measure of investors’ holdings.  Gerald Blumenthal, the investor, is asking a U.S. District
Court judge to rule on his argument that the Madoff estate owes
him the amount reflected on his Madoff brokerage statements,
trustee  Irving Picard  said yesterday in a court filing. The
trustee is demanding return of $1.6 million in transfers deemed
“fraudulent” under bankruptcy law.  A federal appeals court in  New York  ruled on Aug. 16 that
in calculating what to pay Madoff customers, Picard should
ignore fictitious profit, which merely reflected the con man’s
“machinations.” While the court didn’t say what Picard can
take from investors, his argument for clawing back profit was
“bolstered” by the ruling, said  Peter Henning , a professor at
 Wayne State University  in  Detroit .  “It does not address the clawback suits directly, but that
is the basis for assessing the claims and pursuing the suits
against the net winners,” he said.  Jonathan Landers, a lawyer for Blumenthal, declined to
comment on the Picard filing.  Most of the 1,000 suits Picard has filed to gather money
for Madoff customers are aimed at taking back profit withdrawn
before Madoff’s 2008 bankruptcy, the trustee has said.  Mets Owners  New York Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, who are
trying to get a $1 billion lawsuit dismissed, are fighting the
trustee’s demand for $300 million in fictitious profit with
federal law governing brokerages.  Under federal regulations, brokerages must issue customer
statements and trade confirmations that are “legally
enforceable evidence” of a broker’s obligation to customers,
entitling customers to take out money, they have said in court
papers.  The appeals court ruling doesn’t apply to clawback suits, a
lawyer for the Mets owners told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
in  Manhattan  at a court hearing last week.  Rakoff said he will rule on the Mets owners’ request to
dismiss the case by the end of September.  The case is Picard v. Blumenthal, 11-cv-04293, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 