-- 
Thailand Stocks No Longer Cheap After Overtaking Peers, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-08-23T03:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/thailand-stocks-no-longer-cheap-after-overtaking-peers-credit-suisse-says.html
Thai stocks,  Asia ’s second-best
performers this quarter, are “no longer cheap” after gains
pushed valuations above its peers for the first time since 2004,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Valuations have played a large role in Thailand’s
outperformance since 2009,” Dan Fineman and Siriporn Sothikul,
analysts at Credit Suisse, wrote in a report dated today.
“Without the discount, the market loses a big catalyst.”  The SET Index has advanced 3.4 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 14 percent plunge for an MSCI index
of Asian stocks that excludes Japan. The Thai benchmark gauge
trades at a 5 percent premium to the Asian measure on a price-
to-earnings basis, after trailing for seven straight years,
according to Credit Suisse.  The analysts said they don’t expect buying momentum to
deliver more than another 5 percent outperformance for Thai
stocks.  “We suspect that some of the money entering  Thailand  is
from funds without Thailand in their benchmarks taking non-index
positions. This money could prove flighty,” they said.  The SET Index has risen 2.5 percent this quarter, the
second-best performance among 92 global indexes tracked by
Bloomberg, after victory by allies of exiled former premier
 Thaksin Shinawatra  in elections last month boosted expectations
for more political stability in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest
economy. The Pheu Thai party, led by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck
Shinawatra, pledged higher wages and more spending to accelerate
economic growth.  Politics, Earnings  “We consider the July 3 elections a solid step forward for
Thailand but fear that political risk will rise next year,” the
analysts said. “Earnings growth, meanwhile, should slow from 23
percent this year to 9 percent next year.”  The Southeast Asian nation’s economic expansion
unexpectedly slowed last quarter after an earthquake in  Japan 
disrupted trade and as faltering recoveries in the U.S. and
 Europe  cloud the outlook for global growth.  Gross domestic product rose 2.6 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, slowing from a revised 3.2
percent growth in the previous quarter, the government said
yesterday. The median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 3.6 percent gain.  Thailand’s central bank expects “difficulty” in balancing
risks to economic growth and inflation as the global economy
worsens, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters
yesterday.  -- With assistance by Richard Frost. Editor: Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  