-- 
Taiwan Bonds Drop on Unemployment, Fed Stimulus Speculation

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-23T08:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/taiwan-bonds-drop-on-unemployment-data-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
Taiwan’s government bonds fell, with
benchmark five-year yields rising the most in almost two months,
after the island’s jobless rate fell to a three-month low.  The  unemployment rate  was 4.37 percent in July, remaining
below 5 percent for a 10th straight month, government data
showed yesterday. The Taiex index of shares snapped a five-day
loss and the  Taiwan dollar  rose on speculation the  Federal
Reserve , which has unveiled two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing, will use additional measures to revive the world’s
largest economy.  “The Asian market was generally supported today by QE3
speculation, that’s why we see yields rising,” said  Albert Lee ,
a Taipei-based fixed-income trader at Cathay United Bank Co.
“But yields have gone down a lot recently and concern about the
global recovery is still going to be the main theme for the
market.”  The yield on the 2 percent bonds due July 2016, the most-
traded securities, rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 1.034 percent as of the 1:30 p.m. close in Taipei,
prices from Gretai Securities Market show. That’s the biggest
increase for benchmark five-year securities since June 29. It
dropped to 0.97 percent on Aug. 19, the lowest level for
benchmark five-year debt since Dec. 20.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to NT$28.990
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which holds its annual
symposium at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, this week, said on Aug. 9 it
is “prepared to employ” additional tools to bolster the
economy.  Taiwan’s overnight money-market rate, which measures
interbank funding availability, rose one basis point to 0.391
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  