-- 
Taiwan Opposition’s Presidential Candidate Pledges to Heed Voters on China

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-08-23T11:11:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/taiwan-opposition-s-tsai-pledges-to-heed-voters-on-china-policy.html
Taiwan  presidential candidate Tsai Ing-wen pledged her China policies would reflect the consensus
of the island’s voters that the “status quo” should be
sustained if she wins in January elections.  “Taiwan’s most precious quality is that of democracy,”
Tsai said at a briefing in Taipei today to lay out her approach
to China. While her  Democratic Progressive Party ’s view that
Taiwan is independent from China is clear, “the biggest
consensus among Taiwanese people is to keep the status quo.”  Under President Ma Ying-jeou, China and Taiwan have sealed
historic trade agreements by agreeing on a one-China principle
and shelving discussion of reunification. Tsai’s comments seek
to reassure voters that her victory wouldn’t cause a rift with
 China , the island’s biggest trade partner, while portraying Ma’s
three-year detente as a risk to the island’s sovereignty.  “Tsai has to convince voters the DPP isn’t a troublemaker
and all the things won’t be changed overnight, and that the DPP
is ready to talk and deal with China,” said Lo Chih-cheng, a
political science professor at Taipei’s Soochow University.
“The DPP is linking Ma’s China policies to domestic issues such
as jobs that are lost because of” the trade deals.  DPP Chairwoman Tsai, 54, helped pen the “state-to-state
relations” doctrine for former President Lee Teng-hui in 1999
that led China to brand him “a rat” and “the sinner of 1,000
years,” and cut off dialogue with the island. China regards
Taiwan as an integral part of its territory and has pledged to
regain control over the island by force, if necessary.  Defending System  “China wants the Taiwan people to accept we are part of
China, and that we accept the one-China principle framed by
China,” Tsai said later at a talk to Taiwan’s Foreign
Correspondents’ Club. “Our goal is to defend the political
system and the way of life that the Taiwanese people have built
over the past centuries.”  Ma, also KMT chairman, returned his party to power in 2008
after eight years of DPP rule saw increased tensions with China.
The KMT had governed Taiwan for more than 50 years after
retreating to the island in 1949 following defeat at the hands
of Mao Zedong’s communists.  In the 2008 presidential election, the KMT beat the DPP 58
percent to 42 percent by pledging direct flights to China,
lifting of investment restrictions by Taiwanese companies and
allowing more Chinese visitors to travel to Taiwan.  Ma, 60, reversed predecessor Chen Shui-bian’s independence
stance. Taiwan has since signed 15 economic agreements with the
mainland in a policy that Tsai derided as “boxed in a frame set
by China.”  President, Not King  Tsai’s rejected the notion that Ma had a democratic mandate
for his China policies because he was elected. “We elect a
president, we didn’t elect a king,” she told the FCC.  Tsai, who was vice premier and  Mainland Affairs Council 
chairwoman during Chen’s 2000-2008 administration, today said Ma
hasn’t done enough to win free trade agreements with other
countries. Cross-strait ties should be a part of Taiwan’s global
strategy, and the government must also pursue FTAs with the
U.S.,  Europe ,  Japan , the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
and other regional groups, she said.  Tsai needs to build on her support base among younger
voters and in the south of the island to narrow the gap with Ma
before elections on Jan. 14. Ma has support from 46 percent of
the electorate, against Tsai’s 39 percent, Taipei-based TVBS
Poll Center said last week.  Age Gap  Tsai has more support from voters aged between 20 and 39.
Ma leads by between 6 percentage points and 18 percentage points
among older groups of voters, who outnumber the under 40s by
10.7 million to 7.3 million, government data show. The poll of
1,234 adults between Aug. 11 and Aug. 15 had a margin of error
of 2.8 percentage points. The voting age is 20.  In her first TV campaign, Tsai highlighted a widening
wealth gap under Ma. The average income of the 20 percent of
households earning the most in Taiwan in 2009 was 6.34 times
greater than the income of the lowest-earning 20 percent, the
widest difference since 2001. The gap narrowed to 6.19 times
last year, the statistics bureau said last week.  Ma’s government plans to boost the minimum wage for the
second straight year in 2012, by about 5 percent, to help people
cope with higher costs and narrow the  income gap . It also
imposed property and luxury taxes on June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  