-- 
All Nippon Picks Frankfurt for 787’s First Long-Haul Route

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-08-23T07:48:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/all-nippon-to-fly-boeing-787-tokyo-frankfurt-starting-january.html
All Nippon Airways Co., the first
customer for the  Boeing Co. (BA)   787 , said its debut long-haul
service with the new aircraft will be to Frankfurt from  Tokyo ’s
Haneda airport.  The new overnight route, part of a wider venture with
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , will begin in January, ANA said in a
statement today. The airline will also use 787s on its Haneda-
Beijing route about once a week in December.  ANA’s first scheduled commercial flights with the 787s will
be domestic services to Okayama and Hiroshima from Haneda on
Nov. 1, it said. The carrier will begin receiving the new fuel-
efficient planes next month, more than three years late because
of production delays at Boeing.  ANA has ordered a total of 55 Dreamliners, making it the
largest airline customer for the aircraft. The carrier is due to
get 12 of the planes by the end of March and another eight in
the subsequent 12 months. It plans to operate a special 787
charter flight to  Hong Kong  in October.  The airline rose 0.8 percent to 244 yen at the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo. It has dropped 19 percent this year compared with a 15
percent slump in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The carrier plans to expand international flights  16
percent  in the year started April 1 as it adds the 787s and
takes advantage of a new terminal at Tokyo’s downtown Haneda
airport. Last year, it began flights to Munich, its fourth
destination in  Europe  after London, Paris and Frankfurt.  ANA will also begin a new route between Nagoya’s Chubu
airport and Hong Kong from Oct. 30, it said in a separate
statement. Japan Airlines Co. separately announced plans to
increase its Tokyo-New Delhi service to five times a week from
four starting the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  