-- 
Arsenal Seeks Delay Over Wenger’s Two-Match Touchline Ban: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-08-23T09:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/arsenal-manager-wenger-fights-two-match-touchline-ban-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wenger’s Fight  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger is fighting his new two-match
touchline ban from European governing body UEFA,  the Sun  reported.  He expects to be on the bench for tomorrow’s  Champions
League  playoff second leg at Udinese, and the Gunners want his
appeal to be deferred until after the trip to Italy. Arsenal
leads 1-0 from the first match.  UEFA said it will decide today whether to grant Arsenal's
request for a stay of execution over the ban.  Liverpool Exits?  Alberto Aquilani  and  Joe Cole  could be leaving Liverpool on
loan, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Aquilani may be joining AC Milan on a season-long deal,
while Cole could return to his native London with Premier League
newcomer Queens Park Rangers, the newspaper added.  Dirk Kuyt will fight to regain his place in Liverpool’s
team even though there’s renewed interest in him from  Inter
Milan , the  Daily Mail  reported.  Mata Snubbed Arsenal, Spurs  Chelsea-bound Juan Mata turned down Arsenal and Tottenham
to go to Stamford Bridge,  the Sun  reported  “It was also a question of sporting achievement, not
money. Arsenal and Tottenham were both interested in me but they
did not compare with the Blues,” said the Spain winger, who’s
moving from Valencia.  Hammer Barton?  West Ham may try to sign Joey Barton from Newcastle if the
London club sells midfielder Scott Parker,  the Mirror  reported.  The Hammers rate Parker at 8 million pounds ($13.3
million), the Mirror said. Barton has a year left on his
contract and can leave on a free transfer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 