-- 
As Sinai Deteriorates, Israelis Fear the Worst: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-08-23T00:30:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/as-sinai-deteriorates-israelis-fear-the-worst-jeffrey-goldberg.html
It wasn’t much noticed at the time,
but this past winter, as some Egyptians flooded  Tahrir Square  to
bring down a pharaoh, others were busy opening the gates of
Cairo’s jails.  Common criminals found their way to freedom, and so too did
an unknown, but possibly substantial, number of hardened
jihadists, including men involved in some unspeakable acts of
terrorism.  All indications are that these men, including some from a
group in al-Qaeda’s orbit, have returned to Sinai since their
spontaneous parole. Security officials in Egypt and Israel
suspect that some of these jihadists may have been involved in
repeated attacks on a natural-gas pipeline running between the
two countries.  And they worry about more grandiose plots as well -- plots
meant to unravel the Egyptian-Israeli peace accord.  The return of Egyptian militants is only one reason the
Sinai threatens to become the new Somalia. Another is that Gaza-
based terrorists now understand that the Sinai can be their
playground.  These men exploited the Sinai’s growing lawlessness a few
days ago, when, according to news reports, teams of terrorists
associated with the Popular Resistance Committees (a network for
which the word “shadowy” was practically invented) tunneled
from Gaza into Sinai, made their leisurely way down the
peninsula, and entered Israeli territory at will. There they
killed eight people at four locations and proved, conditionally,
that Egyptian authorities have lost control of the territory
returned to them by  Israel  as part of the Camp David peace
treaty.  A Portent  In their pursuit of these terrorists, Israeli gunships
mistakenly killed three Egyptian policemen. It was a terrible
mistake, of course, but it was a portent of things to come.
Egyptians railed against Israel in Cairo, and celebrated as a
hero the man who pulled down the Israeli flag from a building
housing Israel’s embassy. But the death of those three men was a
direct consequence of Egypt’s failure to secure its borders.  Back in the flush early days of the Egyptian revolution,
there were many people (I count myself as one) who were swept up
in the drama and promise of President  Hosni Mubarak ’s downfall.
Supporters of the revolution directed angry words at those -- in
 Washington , Jerusalem and the capitals of conservative Gulf
monarchies -- who didn’t seem quite so excited.  Many Israelis mourned the departure of Mubarak, not because
they opposed democracy, but because they feared precisely what
has come to pass: An Egypt unable, or unwilling, to fulfill its
security obligations.  Robert Satloff, the executive director of the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, told me this past weekend that
“the new reality -- a no-police-zone in Sinai, wall-to-wall
political opposition to peace, a Hamas-friendly civilian
leadership and a set of military rulers fearful that their fate
may be like Mubarak’s in a cage -- makes the cold peace of the
ancien regime seem absolutely balmy.”  Egypt , of course, isn’t Gaza -- Israel cannot simply invade
the Sinai (though history suggests that it is very good at doing
so) and clean out the terrorists. Such an invasion could cause
Egypt to make a decisive break with Israel, with profound
consequences for the region and for the U.S. It’s up to the
Obama administration, and European leaders, to stress to the
Egyptians that the security of their border with Israel must be
a top priority.  Maximum Restraint  What is also needed is maximum Israeli restraint, not only
in Sinai, but also in Gaza. The terrorists who carried out the
fatal attack last week came from Gaza, and so have the rockets
that have fallen regularly on southern Israel in the past few
days. There are loud calls for retaliation in  Jerusalem ; the
opposition Kadima Party has been leading the charge, demanding
military operations to root out terrorism.  But a full-blown Israeli attack on Gaza would be a terrible
idea, for many reasons. Hamas, the party in charge of Gaza, is
not firing the rockets (that is the role mainly of the Islamic
Jihad, which Hamas tries to control, intermittently). Israel’s
international isolation would only intensify if pictures of
Israeli tanks rolling through Gaza were broadcast around the
world, and Israel cannot afford more opprobrium now, a month
before the Palestinians ask the  United Nations  to recognize them
as a state.  Most importantly, such an attack would inflame Egyptian
public opinion, and cause Egypt’s current military rulers to
curtail whatever level of security cooperation they’re giving
Israel to prevent further terror attacks.  And these sorts of incursions rarely seem to achieve their
desired ends. In late 2008, Israel launched the unfortunately
named Operation Cast Lead in Gaza, which was meant not only to
suppress Hamas rocket attacks but also destroy Hamas’s
infrastructure. Israel failed to achieve the second objective,
and, although Hamas quieted its rocket launchers after the
incursion, it still possesses the capability to launch when it
pleases. (Israel can also afford more restraint now that it has
developed more sophisticated anti-rocket defenses.)  There are no immediate solutions to these problems. But the
best chance to maintain some semblance of peace and to limit the
impact of terrorism is for Israel to buttress its anti-missile
capabilities and work assiduously to convince Egypt that peace
in the Sinai is an overriding, and common, interest.  What Egypt has to do is what it did successfully for
decades: secure its border and keep jihadists in jail. We know
the Egyptians are capable of doing this. The question is whether
they still want to.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 