-- 
Asian Currencies Rise on Speculation of Fed Stimulus, Interest Rate Rises

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-23T08:44:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/asian-currencies-rise-on-speculation-of-fed-stimulus-interest-rate-rises.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
 South Korea ’s won, on speculation policy makers will continue to
raise borrowing costs to fight inflation and the  Federal Reserve 
will unveil stimulus measures to revive the  U.S. economy .  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of stocks snapped a three-day
decline before the Fed holds its annual symposium on Aug. 26.
The Federal Open Market Committee said earlier this month it is
“prepared to employ” additional tools to bolster the economy,
which was taken as an indication it is considering another round
of bond buying that increases the supply of dollars. The Bank of
Thailand will lift its benchmark  interest rate  tomorrow,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  A third round of quantitative easing “is on everyone’s
mind,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior currency
strategist at Scotia Capital, the investment banking unit of
Bank of Nova Scotia. “If domestic demand remains robust, Asian
central banks will still be biased for tightening.”  The won strengthened 0.6 percent to 1077.90 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Philippine peso gained 0.4 percent to 42.333 and
the Singapore dollar climbed 0.3 percent to S$1.2031.  Central bankers from around the world will meet at Jackson
Hole,  Wyoming  this week, where Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
foreshadowed the second round of quantitative easing last year.
More bond purchases by the Fed would likely support Asian
currencies by increasing the amount of funds available to be
invested in the region’s higher-yielding assets.  More Tightening  China , Malaysia, South Korea, the Philippines and Taiwan
will all lift borrowing costs further this year, according to
the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  Thailand ’s monetary authority will raise the one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.50
percent, according to 16 of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Four forecast no change. The baht was little changed at 29.84
per dollar, near a one-week high of 29.80 reached yesterday.  “Most players in the market are waiting to see the results
of the central bank meeting tomorrow and that’s why the market
is quiet,” said Norawit Suparinayok, a foreign-exchange trader
at Bangkok Bank Pcl.  China’s yuan advanced 0.07 percent to 6.3970 per dollar,
snapping a four-day decline, after the central bank set a
stronger daily reference rate for the currency and data signaled
the economy is still performing well enough to fuel inflation.  Yuan Appreciation Trend  The fixing was set at 6.3987 per dollar, the second
consecutive day it has been increased. The HSBC Flash China
Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 49.8 for August,
compared with 49.3 in July, according to HSBC Holdings Plc,
which released the estimate based on 85 to 90 percent of total
responses before it publishes the final data at the beginning of
September. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  “The trend is pretty much intact,” said  Nizam Idris , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  Singapore 
“The argument is that China needs a stronger currency to curb
money growth and inflation. The appreciation trend will have to
continue.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah, the Taiwan dollar and
India’s rupee gained 0.1 percent to 8,538, NT$28.990 and 45.63
per dollar, respectively. Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed
at 2.9675.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  