-- 
Asia Stocks Climb as Exporters Rise on Fed Stimulus Hopes, China

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-23T06:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/asian-stocks-climb-as-exporters-rise-on-speculation-fed-to-support-growth.html
Asian stocks increased, with the
regional benchmark index rising from its lowest level in almost
a year, as exporters climbed on speculation that the Federal
Reserve will announce measures to shore up the U.S. recovery.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the No. 1 contract
maker of mobile phones, climbed 3.7 percent in  Hong Kong  after a
report showed a contraction in Chinese manufacturing eased.
Samsung Electronics Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, gained 4.6 percent in  Seoul .  BHP Billiton
Ltd (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, advanced 1.8 percent in
Sydney.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.8 percent to 120.34 as
of 3:45 p.m. in  Tokyo , with almost four stocks increasing for
each that fell. Global equities erased more than $8 trillion in
market value in the past four weeks amid worsening economic data
in the U.S. and  Europe ’s smoldering sovereign-debt crisis. The
economic reports sparked speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve
will begin a third-round of asset purchases to help sustain the
recovery.  “Investors are hoping the Fed will show its commitment to
supporting growth,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based
strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages almost
$100 billion. “There’s a real risk of disappointment if some
sort of strong commitment doesn’t appear.”  Regional Indexes  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 1.2 percent.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index added 1.2 percent, while Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index also rose 1.1 percent.  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 2.2 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index, which fell 9.6 percent in the
last three trading days, rebounded 3.9 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.1
percent, having swung between gains and losses after falling as
much as 0.4 percent earlier. In  New York , the measure closed
0.29 point, or less than 0.1 percent, higher after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s decline in the last 15 minutes of trading wiped out
the day’s rally. The gauge climbed as much as 2 percent intra-
day on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will announce a plan to
stimulate the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  