-- 
Stocks Rise on Optimism for Fed, Valuations

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-08-23T23:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/asian-stocks-climb-as-copper-gold-advance-on-speculation-of-fed-stimulus.html
Global stocks rallied, snapping
three days of declines after valuations reached the cheapest
levels since 2009, as investors speculated the  Federal Reserve 
will act to spur the economy. Oil jumped while the dollar fell.  The MSCI All-Country World Index added 2.3 percent at 7:17
p.m. in New York, as weaker-than-anticipated U.S. economic data
increased optimism for stimulus measures. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index jumped 3.4 percent to 1,162.35, paring gains briefly
after an earthquake shook New York and Washington. Oil rallied
1.2 percent. The Dollar Index fell 0.3 percent. The yen slid
against the U.S. currency after Moody’s Investors Service cut
Japan’s sovereign-credit rating. Gold sank the most since May.  The MSCI gauge of global equities is rebounding from the
lowest level since September before central bankers meet this
week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Last year, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s hint of a second round of asset purchases, or
quantitative easing, spurred a 28 percent jump in the S&P 500.
Financial stocks in the S&P 500 rallied 3.2 percent, recovering
from an earlier decline, after the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.’s list of “problem” banks fell in the second quarter for
the first time since 2006 as the cost for bad loans eased.  “The reason for the rebound today might be in the bad
economic data that we saw earlier this morning,”  Philip Orlando ,
the New York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees about $355 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “What investors are reading is that the
Fed has got to do something.”  ‘Bernanke Put’  Optimism about more Fed stimulus grew after the Fed Bank of
Richmond’s business activity index dropped to minus 10 in August,
the weakest since June 2009. The monthly survey of producers in
the region covering the Carolinas, Maryland,  Virginia  and  West
Virginia  corroborated factory reports from Philadelphia and  New
York  that pointed to weakness in the industry. Also, the
Commerce Department said sales of new U.S. homes declined more
than projected in July to the lowest level in five months.  “Speculation of another form of the ‘Bernanke Put’ is
growing with each new data point that suggest the economy
continues to weaken,” Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC
strategist Adrian Miller wrote in a note to clients today. “We
caution the market on getting ahead of itself as the
cost/benefit analysis the Fed has used in the past in
determining whether another QE program is warranted in not
favorable at this point.”  Global Equity Rout  A four-week global equity rout has wiped about $8 trillion
from companies’ market value as  Europe ’s sovereign debt-crisis
and worsening economic reports in the U.S. raised concern the
global economic recovery is faltering. The  S&P 500  fell 16
percent from July 22 through the end of last week in its biggest
four-week loss since March 2009. Companies trade at an average
11.3 times estimated earnings, near the lowest level in 2 1/2
years.  U.S. stocks are cheap after suffering the biggest losses
since March 2009, said  Byron Wien , a senior managing director at
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest private equity firm.  “You got the market down to 11 times earnings,” Wien said
in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “Usually it sells at around 15. That
makes a number of stocks attractive here.”  The S&P 500’s rally, its biggest advance since Aug. 11, was
paced by companies most-tied to the economy, with energy and
technology shares climbing at least 3.9 percent. All 10
industries in the benchmark gauge advanced. The Morgan Stanley
Cyclical Index gained 2.9 percent, breaking a five-day losing
streak.  Bank of America, Goldman Sachs  Financial shares in the S&P 500 rose after dropping 1.3
percent earlier as the cost to protect debt issued by Bank of
America Corp. surged to a record. Bank of America lost 1.9
percent, paring its decline from 6.4 percent. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. gained 0.3 percent after losing as much as 3.2
percent.  Financial institutions in the S&P 500 tumbled 25 percent in
2011 through yesterday, the most among 10 groups, amid
speculation the government debt crisis in Europe will spur
banking losses. The industry has the second-biggest weighting in
the benchmark measure of U.S. shares at 14 percent. Goldman
Sachs and Bank of America slumped 37 percent and 52 percent,
respectively, the most since 2008, this year through yesterday.  Stocks briefly pared gains after the 5.8-magnitude
earthquake in Virginia rattled  Washington  and New York. More
than 66 million shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges at 1:55
p.m. New York time following the earthquake in Virginia, more
than any minute since just after the market opened at 9:30 a.m.  Chinese Manufacturing Index  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose for a second day, climbing
0.8 percent, after a preliminary purchasing-managers index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed
Chinese manufacturing may contract at a slower pace in August as
the world’s second-biggest economy weathers slumping global
confidence. The report helped ease concern that the economic
slowdown is deepening.  UBS AG rose 2.1 percent after Switzerland’s biggest bank
said it plans to cut 3,500 jobs to trim costs. Charter
International Plc, a welding and automation-equipment maker,
jumped 20 percent after saying it’s in talks with a potential
bidder other than Melrose Plc.  The Stoxx 600 has still lost 18 percent this year, driving
valuations down to 9.4 times estimated profits, near the lowest
level since March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasury Sale  Treasury 10-year yields rose five basis points to 2.15
percent. The government sold $35 billion in two-year notes today
at a record low yield of 0.22 percent. The securities are the
first of the maturity to be sold after S&P on Aug. 5 downgraded
the U.S. AAA long-term sovereign rating. The offering was the
first of three note sales this week totaling $99 billion. The
Treasury will sell $35 billion in five-year debt tomorrow and
$29 billion of seven-year notes on Aug. 25.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against
currencies including the euro, yen and pound, fell 0.3 percent,
as optimism over possible Fed moves to boost the  U.S. economy 
damped demand for safer assets. The  New Zealand  and Australian
dollars led gains against the U.S. currency, rising 1.4 percent
and 1.1 percent, respectively.  The euro climbed 0.6 percent versus the dollar, to $1.4444,
maintaining gains after a report showed German investor
confidence fell more than economists forecast. The yen weakened
0.1 percent to 76.73 per dollar after Moody’s lowered  Japan ’s
grade by one step to Aa3, with a stable outlook.  Oil Rallies  Oil rallied for a second day, climbing 1.2 percent to
settle at $85.44 in New York after an earlier decline of 1.2
percent, as equities advanced and the dollar weakened. Oil also
increased as fighting continued in  Libya , damping hopes the
country is close to resuming crude exports. Rebels said they
entered Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s compound of Bab Al
Aziziya in the capital, Tripoli, and raised their flag, Al
Arabiya reported.  Gold dropped as much as 3.5 percent in after-hours
electronic trading. The metal posted its first decline in seven
sessions, as some investors sold the metal after signs of
slowing growth spurred a rally to a record $1,917.90 an ounce.
The relative-strength index of futures in New York has topped 70
since Aug. 8, a signal to some investors that prices were poised
to decline. Bullion has jumped 14 percent in August.  S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 1 percent. Copper
climbed the most since Aug. 11, gaining 1 percent. Imports of
refined copper by  China , the world’s largest user, rose for a
second month in July, customs data showed yesterday. Inbound
shipments of scrap copper jumped 14 percent from a year earlier.  Credit-Default Swaps  The Markit SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default
swaps insuring the debt of 15 governments rose 2 basis points to
299. Greek government bonds slumped, with 10-year yields
climbing to 17.43 percent, the highest level in a month, amid
uncertainty over the details of a new loan package for the
Mediterranean nation.  Greece ’s two-year note yield jumped 120
basis points to 39.61 percent, driving the difference with
benchmark German securities to the most since at least 1998.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rallied 2 percent, after
falling to a one-year low yesterday. China’s Shanghai Composite
Index advanced 1.5 percent, Taiwan’s Taiex climbed 3.3 percent
and South Korea’s Kospi jumped 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Sutherland  in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  