-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Futures Tumble Most in a Year

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-08-23T22:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-futures-tumble-most-in-a-year.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Drops From Record Above $1,910 in Biggest Decline in a Year  Gold dropped the most in a year as some investors sold the
metal after signs of slowing growth spurred a rally to a record
$1,917.90 an ounce.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Novelis Says Aluminum Fees Still Too High in  North America  (1)  Aluminum premiums in North America and  Europe  are still
“too high” and would be remedied by higher deliveries from
London Metal Exchange stockpiles, said Nick Madden, chief
procurement officer at Novelis Inc.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises as China Manufacturing Report Eases Growth Concern  Copper rose the most in almost a week in New York after a
report on Chinese manufacturing eased concerns that the economic
slowdown is deepening.  MINING:  Canadian Gold Stocks to Form Nortel-Like Bubble, Sprott Says  Canadian gold stocks will enter a bubble like the one that
drove Nortel Networks Ltd. shares to surge fourfold in 13 months
in 1999-2000 as foreign investors push up prices, billionaire
hedge-fund manager  Eric Sprott  says.  A-Tec Chief Asks Penta to Narrow Its Offer to Metals Unit (3)  A-Tec Industries AG, which filed for insolvency last year,
asked potential buyer Penta Investments Ltd. to narrow its offer
to just one of the Austrian engineering company’s units.  PRECIOUS METALS:  ANZ Approved to Trade Gold Futures on Shanghai Exchange  The  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd has been
approved to trade gold on the Shanghai Futures Exchange,
becoming the second foreign bank permitted to do so, the
Melbourne-based company said in an e- mailed statement today.  Hochschild Mining Profit More Than Triples on Silver Prices (1)  Hochschild Mining Plc, a producer of silver in Peru and
 Argentina , said first-half profit more than tripled after prices
of the precious metal rose.  AGRICULTURE:  ADM Closing Illinois Soybean Plant as Domestic Demand Drops (2)  Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s third-largest
oilseed processor, is closing an Illinois soybean-processing
plant because of growing soybean exports, the rising cost of the
beans and decreased domestic demand for soybean meal.  Coffee Gains as Latin America Supply Tightens; Cocoa, Sugar Rise  Coffee rallied to the highest price since June in New York
on signs that rising demand is eroding inventories. Cocoa and
sugar also gained.  Orange Juice Falls as Crop May Dodge Hurricane; Cotton Declines  Orange-juice futures fell on signs that groves in  Florida ,
the world’s second-biggest citrus grower, may escape damage from
Hurricane Irene as the storm’s track shifts east. Cotton also
declined.  Wheat Rises to Two-Month High as U.S. Spring-Crop Outlook Dims  Wheat rose to a two-month high after a government report
showed adverse weather in the northern U.S. has deteriorated
spring crops.  Corn, Soybeans Climb as Report Shows Deteriorating U.S. Crops  Corn futures rose to a 10-week high and soybeans gained on
speculation that U.S. yields will decline as dry weather in the
Midwest intensifies.  Hogs Drop on ‘Excess’ Supply, Slowing Demand; Cattle Decline  Hog futures fell for the first time in three sessions on
signs of ample U.S. pork supplies and prospects for slowing
demand. Cattle prices also fell.  Florida Crops May Dodge Hurricane Damage as Irene Heads North  Orange groves in Florida, the world’s biggest citrus grower
after  Brazil , may escape damage from the first hurricane of the
Atlantic season as the storm’s track shifts east.  Kraft Lowers Maxwell, Yuban Prices as Coffee Costs Fall (2)  Kraft Foods Inc. lowered prices by a net 6 percent on some
U.S. coffee products, including Maxwell House and Yuban, after
the costs of beans declined.  SHIPPING:  Brazil-to- China  Ore-Shipping Rates Are Highest Since November  Costs to ship  iron ore  to China from Brazil, the world’s
second-largest dry-bulk trading route, rose to the highest level
since November as improved demand for the steelmaking ingredient
cut vessel oversupply.  ECONOMIES:  Greenspan Says Euro ‘Breaking Down,’ May Harm Stock Prices (1)  Former  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said
fissures in Europe’s common currency may lead to slowing in the
 U.S. economy .  New-Home Sales in U.S. Drop to Lowest Level in Five Months (2)  Sales of new U.S. homes declined more than projected in
July to the lowest level in five months, indicating the industry
is struggling to stabilize two years into the economic recovery.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Rise on Optimism for Fed, Valuations;  Crude Oil  Rallies  Global stocks rallied, snapping three days of declines
after valuations reached the cheapest levels since 2009, as
investors speculated the Federal Reserve will act to spur the
economy. Oil jumped while the dollar fell.  Dollar Tumbles Versus Peers Before Bernanke Speech; Kiwi Climbs  The dollar dropped versus most major peers as bets that
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may signal further
steps to boost the U.S. economy, including asset buys under
quantitative easing, damped demand for refuge.  Oil Rises for Second Day on Fed Stimulus Hopes, Equities Rally  Oil rose for a second day in  New York  amid speculation the
Federal Reserve will bolster efforts to stimulate the economy.  SPORTS:  MetLife Signs 25-Year Deal to Put Name on Giants, Jets Home (3)  MetLife Inc. agreed to place its name on the National
Football League home of the  New York Giants  and Jets in a 25-
year agreement that may be among the biggest stadium-rights
deals in U.S. sports.  Arsenal Coach Wenger Has Two-Game Suspension Delayed by UEFA  Arsene Wenger  will be able to coach Arsenal in tomorrow’s
 Champions League  playoff match at Udinese after having a two-
game suspension delayed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Millie Munshi in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  