-- 
Top Latin America Issuer Probing Samurai Market: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-08-23T21:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/latin-america-s-top-issuer-probing-return-to-samurai-market-mexico-credit.html
Mexico  may issue yen-denominated
bonds for the second time in 10 months, tapping into Japanese
investors’ growing demand for the higher yields offered on so-
called Samurai bonds.  The government hired three banks to arrange investor
meetings in  Japan , according to a person familiar with the
matter. The 1.41 percent yield on Mexico’s yen bonds due 2020 is
51 basis points, or 0.51 percentage point, more than that on
Japanese government debt. While that gap lures buyers looking
for alternatives to near-zero benchmark Japanese rates, it’s
below the 179 basis-point spread Mexico is paying over
Treasuries in the dollar market and less than the 204 basis-
point premium over German bunds in the euro market.  Mexico,  Latin America ’s biggest overseas issuer this year,
is preparing to join a rush by international issuers to borrow
in Japan this year. Foreign companies and governments have sold
1.7 trillion yen ($22 billion) of debt, known as Samurai bonds,
a 60 percent increase from the 1.06 trillion yen issued in the
same period of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Japanese have continued appetite for yield,” said
 Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist at MF Global in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “From a Japanese
perspective, you’re looking at a North American credit offering
a lot more yield than available elsewhere in  North America .”  Mexico is a standout in a region where international bond
sales have dried up in the past month amid concern the global
economy is sinking into recession. A yen offering would follow
the country’s $1 billion issue of 100-year bonds on Aug. 10.
Latin American companies and governments sold $2 billion of
bonds this month, after issuing $67 billion to start the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Uruguay,  Panama   A Samurai offering by Mexico would be the third by a Latin
American borrower this year, the most since Brazil,  Colombia  and
Uruguay issued yen debt in 2001. Uruguay sold 40 billion yen of
10-year bonds to yield 1.64 percent in May and Panama issued
41.5 billion yen of notes due 2021 to yield 1.81 percent in
January.  Mexico, which is rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, the second-lowest investment-grade ranking, last sold
yen bonds in October, issuing 150 billion yen of debt due 2020
to yield 1.51 percent, or 50 basis points more than benchmark
Japanese notes. Yields on the securities, which were backed by
the  Japan Bank for International Cooperation , have fallen ten
basis points since the offering.  Citigroup Inc., Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co. and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  are arranging Mexico’s meetings
with bond investors starting next week, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Mexico’s October sale of bonds in Japan was managed by
Nomura, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley and Mizuho Securities Co.  100-Year Bonds  “Mexico has a will to develop the Asian markets to
diversify its funding sources,” Alexandre Coelho, deputy head
of  investment banking  at Daiwa Capital Markets in New York, said
in a telephone interview. Daiwa I s the lead underwriter of
Latin American samurai this year. “They have developed a good
and solid investor base.”  The government’s sale of 100-year bonds, which yielded 5.96
percent, lifted its international issuance this year to $3
billion. While down from $4.1 billion in the year-earlier
period, it is still more than any other government in the
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alejandro Diaz de Leon, head of public debt, said in an
Aug. 10 interview after the 100-year bond sale was completed
that a yen offering forms part of the government’s financing
plans for this year.  Default Swaps  “We established as potential alternatives the Japanese
market and the euro market, which of course we continue to look
at,” said  Gerardo Rodriguez , deputy finance minister, in an
interview in June. “The bar for other alternatives has
increased because of the relative attractiveness of the U.S.
market with these lower yield environments.”  A press official at the  Finance Ministry  didn’t immediately
return calls for comment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed three basis points to
176 at 5 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
indexes.  The peso gained 0.4 percent to 12.3131 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose seven basis points to 158, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Market ‘Leader’  Yields on interest rate futures contracts for December
delivery, known as TIIE, rose two basis points to 4.73 percent,
indicating the central bank may cut the benchmark lending rate
that month.  Mexico has raised $4.8 billion selling samurai bonds since
1999, more than any other issuer in the region, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil  is the second-biggest seller,
having issued $3.4 billion.  “Mexico continues to be a leader in seeking foreign
markets for financing,”  Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura
Securities Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“They are always one of the first to issue and capitalize on
good moments to sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net 
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  