-- 
Australian Wheat Shipments at 2004 High Easing Shortages: Freight Markets

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-08-23T07:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/australian-wheat-shipments-at-2004-high-easing-shortages-freight-markets.html
Australia  may displace the European
Union as the world’s second-biggest wheat shipper as cargoes
jump to an eight-year high, easing a shortage that drove global
food costs to a record.  The country may export about 18 million metric tons in the
12 months from October, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of eight analysts and traders. That’s 1 million
tons more than predicted by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture ,
and the most since 2004 based on that data. Prices may decline
to $6.90 a bushel by the end of December from $7.7175 now, the
median of the estimates showed.  Wheat declined 16 percent since February as farmers planted
more crops in response to prices that rose 47 percent last year.
Extra supply is also coming from  Russia , once the fourth-biggest
shipper, which resumed sales last month after an almost year-
long ban imposed as drought ruined crops. Australia’s harvest,
which starts in October, is being closely watched because the
USDA is still forecasting a supply shortage globally.  “Australian exports are going to run at near-maximum port
capacity for the foreseeable future, at least until the end of
next year,” said Adam Davis, a commodity trader at Merricks
Capital Services Pty Ltd. in Melbourne. With stockpiles still
left from the last harvest and “another reasonable crop coming,
capacity is likely to be pretty high,” he said.  Even with this year’s decline, wheat traded on the Chicago
Board of Trade, a global benchmark, is still 6.4 percent higher
than a year ago. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of
eight commodities gained 37 percent in the past 12 months, led
by corn. Global food prices jumped 39 percent and reached an
all-time high in February, the United Nations estimates.  Second Place  Wheat exports from the European Union may slump 33 percent
to 15 million tons in the 2011-2012 season, taking Australia
into second place globally, according to USDA data.  Australia exports wheat through 20  grain terminals , from
Geraldton on the west coast to Newcastle in the eastern state of
New South  Wales , according to data on a government website. The
crop is usually hauled across oceans by panamaxes, the largest
ships able to navigate the Panama Canal, and smaller supramaxes.  Seaborne trade in grains will expand 1.3 percent to 243
million tons this year, the second-highest figure in at least a
decade, according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest
shipbroker. Australia will account for about 9 percent of the
total, the London-based company estimates.  About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to
the Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  Baltic Exchange  Returns for owners of panamaxes operating in the single-
voyage market dropped 48 percent in 12 months to $13,017 a day,
data from the Baltic Exchange show. Returns on supramaxes fell
36 percent to $14,149 a day, according to the London-based
bourse, which publishes rates for more than 50 maritime routes.  While Clarkson expects the global trade in grain, coal,
 iron ore  and other dry bulk commodities to rise 4 percent to a
record this year, a glut of ships is building. The number of
panamaxes expanded 23 percent to 1,862 vessels since the end of
2008 and owners have orders at shipyards equal to 47 percent of
existing capacity, data from Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay
show. The fleet of supramaxes jumped 97 percent to 1,297
carriers, with another 367 still on order.  Forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
bet on future transport costs, anticipate panamax rates no
higher than $13,518 through 2016 and supramax costs at a maximum
of $14,725, Baltic Exchange data show. Panamax returns reached
$94,977 in 2007 while supramaxes were chartered at $72,729 in
the same year, spurring the surge in orders for new vessels.  Anticipated Shipments  The farmers and exporters should fare better than the
shipping companies.  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  is eastern Australia’s
largest grain handler and the anticipated shipments after this
year’s harvest starts in October should boost sales, said John Welsh, a research analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney, who rates the
stock a “strong buy.”  GrainCorp will report a 93 percent jump in net income to
A$154.7 million ($162.2 million) in its fiscal year ending next
month, the most since at least 1997, according to the mean
estimate of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Shares of the Sydney-based company rose 8.6 percent this year.  The government ended a monopoly system on wheat exports in
2008, allowing companies from  Minneapolis , Minnesota-based
Cargill Inc. to Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra Inc. to
expand their businesses.  Bloomberg Survey  The exports predicted in Bloomberg’s survey are lower than
the record 20.1 million tons forecast by Australian  Bureau  of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences, or Abares, in
its June 15 crop report. The Canberra-based bureau estimates
this season’s shipments at 18.5 million tons compared with the
USDA’s forecast of 17.5 million tons.  Australia’s crop may also be smaller than expected.
National Australia Bank Ltd., Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  all cut their
harvest estimates this month because of dry conditions in
eastern growing areas. The Murray-Darling Basin, which extends
from southern Queensland to  South Australia , had the  driest  June
since 1986, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  Global wheat production will advance 3.7 percent to 672.1
million tons in the current marketing year, compared with
consumption of almost 675 million tons, the USDA estimates. The
grain is still trading about 18 percent above its five-year
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Corn Stockpiles  Combined stockpiles of wheat and corn, both of which can be
used as feed for livestock, were forecast to fall 3.6 percent to
303.4 million tons before the 2012 harvest, the lowest since
2008, according to USDA data.  Wheat may be Australia’s most valuable farm export in the
12 months ending in June,  according  to Abares. Agricultural
shipments were valued at A$30.4 billion in the previous year, or
about 10 percent of total exports, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from government statistics.  Asia-Pacific customers represented about 75 percent of
 shipments  in the year started October 2010, with  Indonesia 
taking about 20 percent of the total, according to Abares.  The eastern region of Queensland, New South Wales and
Victoria may harvest more than 9 million tons of higher-quality
milling wheat this year, compared with about 6 million tons last
year, according to  Emerald Group Australia Pty , a Melbourne-
based grain marketing company.  Grain Industry  Wheat production in  Western Australia , usually the biggest
shipper, will jump 76 percent to 8.05 million tons this season,
according to the state’s Grain Industry Association.  Stores  of the grain with bulk handlers at the end of June
totaled 13.4 million tons, including 7.3 million tons of milling
wheat used in bread and cookies and 6.1 million tons of lower-
quality wheat used to feed livestock, the  Australian Bureau of
Statistics  said Aug. 5. Stockpiles were 9.9 million tons a year
earlier, according to bureau data.  Stockpiles accumulated before the harvest in October should
be “large,” said  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “That, combined with
forecasts of decent harvests in the coming months, does bode
well for Australian wheat exports.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  