-- 
Baltic Exchange Members ‘Raised Concerns’ Over Cosco Charters

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-23T13:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/baltic-exchange-members-raised-concerns-over-cosco-charters.html
The  Baltic Exchange , the world’s
biggest shipping bourse, said some members “raised concerns”
over allegations that China Cosco Holdings Co. failed to make
charter payments for vessels it hired.  The concerns will be reviewed by the membership committee
when it meets in the next several weeks, Jeremy Penn, chief
executive of the exchange, said by phone today. Any behavior
deemed unethical can lead to membership being suspended or
canceled, Penn said, referring to the general procedures rather
than the specific concerns raised about Cosco.  A spokesman for Cosco, who asked not to be named in line
with corporate policy, declined to comment. In an Aug. 16
statement, the company said involving the media “may
potentially further complicate the existing situations.”  Cosco, the world’s third-biggest owner of dry bulk
commodities vessels, had at least three ships arrested in the
past two months as owners sought late charter payments,
according to legal filings in the U.S. and  Singapore . In each
case, Tianjin, China-based Cosco was locked into long-term
contracts at rates higher than market prices.  The London-based exchange has 593 global members and
publishes daily rates for more than 50 maritime routes. The last
company to be suspended by the Baltic Exchange was Perth-based
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. in 2009.  Cosco owned 24.8 million deadweight tons of dry bulk ships
in April, ranking it third globally behind Nippon Yusen K.K. and
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, according to data on the website of Mitsui.
Cosco also had an additional 222 ships on charter as of Dec. 31,
according to its annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  