-- 
Bank of Montreal Profit Rises 19%, Boosted by Investment-Banking Earnings

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-23T20:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/bank-of-montreal-profit-rises-19-boosted-by-investment-banking-earnings.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the first Canadian
bank to report third-quarter results, said profit rose 19
percent on higher investment-banking earnings, beating analysts’
estimates.  Net income climbed to C$793 million ($803 million), or
C$1.27 a share, from C$669 million, or C$1.13, for the period
ended July 31, the Toronto-based bank said today in a statement.
The bank’s profit has risen nine straight quarters, the longest
current streak among Canada’s six biggest lenders.  Canada’s eight-largest banks may increase third-quarter
profit before one-time items by 14 percent on average, driven by
lower loan losses, according to Kevin Choquette, an analyst at
 Scotia Capital . Low  interest rates , job growth and confidence in
the economy fueled spending in the period, benefiting banks.  “The Canadian banks are still in very good shape, and we
can probably expect more of these types of results,”  Doug Davis , vice chairman of Davis-Rea Ltd. in Toronto, which manages
C$460 million in assets including bank shares, said in an
interview. “This is a very positive early release and therefore
I think all the banks will do quite well in the quarter.”  Bank of Montreal, the country’s fourth-biggest bank by
assets, said it had adjusted profit of C$1.36 a share, beating
the C$1.31 average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Share Performance  Bank of Montreal rose C$2.45, or 4.3 percent, to C$59.80 at
4 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest
increase in two years, lifting other Canadian banks.  “BMO’s results provides some optimism for the sector as it
appears that sentiment may have been too cautious heading into
the quarter,” Barclays Capital analyst  John Aiken  said today in
a note.  Revenue rose 13 percent to C$3.27 billion from C$2.91
billion, the bank said. Loan-loss provisions fell 19 percent to
C$174 million.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney has kept the central
bank’s benchmark interest rate at 1 percent since September to
fuel an economic recovery. Economic growth this year will be 2.8
percent, the central bank said on July 19, compared with 1.8
percent in the U.S. Canada’s jobless rate fell to its lowest
level in more than two years in July, and home prices and sales
rose from a year earlier.  Bank of Montreal’s Canadian consumer-banking profit rose
1.9 percent to C$432 million, the bank said. Profit from its
U.S. consumer lender, BMO Harris Bank, rose 77 percent to C$92
million, after including 26 days of earnings from Wisconsin
lender Marshall & Ilsley Corp.  Marshall & Ilsley  The company completed a C$4.1 billion takeover of Marshall
& Ilsley on July 5, doubling the U.S. branches and deposits of
its Chicago-based business. The bank now has more branches in
 Chicago  than in Toronto.  M&I added C$117 million of revenue and $32 million profit
excluding C$53 million of integration costs to the results, the
lender said. Bank of Montreal estimates total integration and
restructuring costs will be about C$600 million.  Chief Executive Officer William Downe said today in an
interview that he sees some evidence of growth in the  U.S.
economy , even though he pegs the odds of a downturn at 50
percent.  “There are underlying areas of strength that are being
overlooked,” Downe said. “I do think there is good strength in
the commercial sector; profits have been good.”  Higher Trading Revenue  The bank’s BMO Capital Markets investment-banking business
had profit of C$279 million, more than double a year earlier,
driven by higher trading revenue and growth in fees from
advising on takeovers and arranging stock sales.  BMO Capital Markets was the top adviser for Canadian
acquisitions in the quarter, arranging 13 deals worth $14.6
billion, including Cliff Natural Resources Inc.’s C$4.43 billion
combination with Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Ltd.  The value of completed takeovers involving a Canadian
company surged 70 percent to $69.6 billion in the quarter,
according to Bloomberg data. Equity financings in  Canada  rose 32
percent to $10.7 billion in the period, helping boost fee
revenue for the country’s investment banks.  Trading revenue more than quadrupled to C$221 million, from
C$53 million in the year-earlier period, driven by trading of
equities, Canadian  government securities  and interest-rate
derivatives.  Downe, 59, said during a conference call that he expects
“moderation” of capital markets earnings in the near term, given
market volatility and economic uncertainty.  ‘Deals Come to Market’  “There’s a lot of M&A transactions to be done and a lot of
debt and equity raising, but I think most corporations are going
to sit back and wait,” Downe said in an interview. “The bright
side is when we do see some stability, you’re probably going to
see a lot of deals come to market.”  Bank of Montreal said it had profit of C$120 million on its
private-client group, which includes insurance and mutual funds,
up 14 percent from the year-earlier period.  National Bank of Canada (NA)  is scheduled to report results on
Aug. 25, followed a day later by Royal Bank of Canada, the
country’s biggest bank.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , the third-largest,
reports Aug. 30. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the fifth-
largest, reports Aug. 31 followed by  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
Canada’s No. 2 lender, on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  