-- 
Banks Pay Record Rate for Government Cash on Tightening Risk: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-24T04:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/banks-pay-record-rate-for-government-cash-on-tightening-risk-china-credit.html
Chinese lenders are paying record
interest rates for government funds as rising yields on central
bank bills fan speculation policy makers will further tighten
supplies of cash.  The  Finance Ministry  received a rate of 6.5 percent for 30
billion yuan ($4.7 billion) of six-month money offered at an
auction yesterday, the highest level in central bank data going
back to December 2006. The People’s Bank of  China  raised rates
on one-year bills last week for the first time since June,
boosting the yield by eight basis points to 3.58 percent,
compared with the 0.10 percent yield on 12-month U.S. Treasuries.  China has limited scope to stimulate the world’s second-
biggest economy even as a faltering recovery in the U.S. and
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis dim the outlook for global
expansion. Inflation has exceeded Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s target
every month this year and economic growth that’s double the pace
of Brazil and  Russia  may give the government confidence to
continue raising benchmark rates that have already been boosted
by a total 75 basis points in 2011.  “Increases in the one-year bill yield have proved a good
leading indicator of interest-rate hikes in China,” said Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based economist with Daiwa Capital Markets Ltd.
“The turbulence in global markets has settled down and with
inflation pressure still strong the central bank needs another
rate increase to fully contain inflation expectations.”  Benchmark Rates  The central bank last raised its benchmark one-year lending
and deposit rates on July 7, the third increase of 2011, after
boosting yields at auctions of one-year bills in each of the two
prior weeks. The yield was left unchanged at 3.58 percent at a 3
billion yuan sale of the securities yesterday. The one-year
deposit rate is 3.50 percent, while inflation accelerated to a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  Yields on three-month and three-year bills also sold last
week were eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, higher
at 3.16 percent and 3.97 percent respectively.  China is unlikely to raise  interest rates  again this year,
though two more increases are expected in 2012, said Lu Ting, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Credit Suisse Group
AG and Morgan Stanley cut their 2011 estimates for global
economic growth in the past week, while Citigroup Inc., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. reined in forecasts
for U.S. expansion.  Reserve Requirements  “The global situation is getting worse and it doesn’t make
sense for the central bank to raise rates at this point,” said
Lu, who is based in  Hong Kong . “But with inflation set to
average 4 percent for a few years, deposit rates still need to
go up by another 50 basis points.”  Chinese consumer-price gains are set to top 5 percent in
2011, the most in three years, according to estimates from Daiwa,
Deutsche Bank AG and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. The country’s
inflation rate is still slower than the 6.9 percent rate in
 Brazil , 9 percent in Russia and 9.2 percent in  India .  The central bank has held off from raising banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios since June 20, the longest pause since a
series of nine increases began in November. The ratio for major
lenders climbed 4.5 percentage points to a record 21.5 percent
in that time, draining 3.3 trillion yuan from the banking system,
according to Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist with
 Barclays Capital .  The deteriorating outlook for the global economy is also
reducing the availability of cash as overseas investors favor
safer bets than emerging-market assets, according to Bank of
America’s Lu.  Foreign Currency  “The financial problems in the U.S. and  Europe  are likely
to mean some slowdown of inflows of dollars or other foreign
currency into China so the supply of liquidity into the banking
system will decline in the short term,” he said.  The 6.5 percent rate banks paid for six-month deposits of
government cash at yesterday’s auction, compares with 5.5
percent at the last sale of similar-term funds in May.  China’s seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 75 basis points to
4.45 percent as of 12:35 p.m. in  Shanghai , retreating from a
four-week high, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It jumped 1.97 percentage
points in the five days after the central bank’s bill yield was
raised on Aug. 16 as funds were set aside to subscribe for a 5.5
billion yuan convertible bond sale by GD Power Development Co.  The one-year swap rate, or the fixed cost needed to receive
the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell five basis points
today to 3.78 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yesterday’s closing level was the highest in two weeks.  ‘Cash Shortage’  Five-year credit-default swaps on China’s sovereign bonds
rose four basis points yesterday to 117 basis points, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Increases
suggest deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness and
declines show improvement.  The yuan strengthened 0.13 percent to 6.3888 per dollar
today in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It’s gained 0.8 percent this month, the best performance
among  Asia ’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, and
touched a 17-year high of 6.3820 on Aug. 16.  “Banks are expecting the cash shortage to extend,” said
Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank
Co., the nation’s sixth-largest bank. “There is less capital
available for banks, with capital inflows declining and bill
redemptions shrinking.”  Speculative Capital  A total of 351 billion yuan of central bank bills and
 repurchase agreements  will mature next month, compared with 352
billion yuan in August, and redemptions will decline to 298
billion yuan in October, according to Liu.  The central bank’s foreign-exchange purchases fell to 219.6
billion yuan in July from 277.3 billion in June, the lowest
level since February, official figures show.  Net inflows of speculative capital dropped to around $18
billion in the second quarter from $85 billion in the first
three months of 2011, Morgan Stanley estimated in a July 12
report. China had a net outflow of $5.8 billion in July, Guotai
Junan Securities Co. analysts led by  Jiang Chao  estimated in an
Aug. 22 report, reflecting “a sharp rebound in global  risk
aversion .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  