-- 
Bank Swaps Fall Relative to U.S. as Sales Cut: Australia Credit

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-08-23T15:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/bank-risk-reaches-2010-low-to-peers-after-debt-sales-cut-australia-credit.html
Bond markets are judging Australia’s
banks to be the safest in at least a year relative to European
and U.S. firms after the South Pacific nation’s lenders cut
their dependence on overseas funding that helped bring about the
first credit-rating downgrades in seven years.  The average price of credit-default swaps tied to bonds of
Australia’s four biggest banks traded at 83 basis points less
than that of  Europe ’s 13 biggest lenders this month, the largest
discount since at least 2005, CMA prices show. The gap to U.S.
firms was 61 on Aug. 22, about the most since May 2010.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and Westpac Banking Corp.,
the nation’s two largest lenders, said this month they can avoid
bond sales for as long as six months if debt markets freeze
again as they did after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008. Instead of borrowing offshore, banks are obtaining
funds from Australian households that are saving at about the
highest rate in a quarter century.  “It’s a sweet spot for the Aussie banks at the moment,”
 John Manning , a Sydney-based credit analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, told Bloomberg in an interview yesterday.
Bond markets have “recognized the preemptive work that the
banks have done in reducing their reliance on wholesale
funding,” whereas European banks, French ones in particular,
“have done very little,” he said.  Credit-Default Swaps  The average for five-year credit-default swaps on
Commonwealth, Westpac,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. climbed 50 basis
points this quarter to 178.7 on Aug. 22, CMA data show.  A similar gauge for six of the biggest U.S. banks soared
113 to 239.4 and the average for 13 European lenders jumped 101
to 247, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Investors may benefit from the relative strength of
Australia’s banks by writing credit-default swaps on the big
four lenders and collecting the premiums, Manning said. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Commonwealth Bank,  Australia ’s largest lender, said Aug. 10
it funded all its lending growth in the year ended June 30 from
customer deposits, which now account for 61 percent of total
funding, compared with 58 percent 12 months earlier.  Bolstering Balance Sheets  “What we’ve been endeavoring to do is to make sure that
we’ve got very much a bullet-proof balance sheet,” Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Norris told the Australian Broadcasting
Corp. in an interview on Aug. 14. “So that’s meant that we’ve
looked very carefully at our exposures and so certainly we have
had no appetite for European sovereign debt.”  Commonwealth Bank also “prefunded” its lending business
to ensure it can stay out of debt markets for as long as six
months “to make sure that we don’t end up getting caught if
things were to go really pear-shaped,” he told the ABC.  Australia’s four-pillar banks, so named for a law that
prevents them buying each other, were among global lenders
confronted with frozen credit markets after Lehman went bankrupt
in September 2008.  The turmoil forced the lenders to drive up borrowing costs
relative to the central bank’s benchmark rate, and exposed their
potential vulnerability to offshore investors, an issue cited by
Moody’s Investors Service in May when it cut the ratings on the
four banks one level to Aa2.  First Reduction  That was the first reduction applied to any of the lenders
by a major ratings company since National Australia was lowered
to AA- by  Standard & Poor’s  in March 2004.  Since the Moody’s downgrade, the weakest demand since at
least 1977 for housing credit among Australian households who
are living with the developed world’s highest borrowing costs,
and a surge in savings, has eased that reliance on foreign
bondholders.  Australia faces as many as 100,000 job losses and rising
unemployment that will force the central bank to cut  interest
rates  by November, its first reduction since April 2009, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch strategists said this month.  Investors are betting RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower
borrowing costs by at least a percentage point by December,
interbank cash-rate futures show.  Bond Rally  The global turmoil has spurred Australian  government bonds 
to their biggest rally since 2008, with benchmark 10-year yields
dropping 81 basis points since June 30 to reach 4.40 percent
yesterday in Sydney.  Local interbank borrowing costs have also tumbled, with the
six-month bank bill rate touching 4.48 percent on Aug. 11, the
lowest since March 2010. The banks have responded to the slide
in yields by cutting fixed  mortgage rates .  Bank of America Merrill Lynch followed economists at
Westpac, Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty and Deutsche
Bank AG in predicting a lower policy rate after an Aug. 11
report showed unemployment surged to an eight-month high in
July.      BlueScope Steel Ltd., Australia’s largest steelmaker,
said this week it will stop exports and cut about 1,000 jobs
after reporting a second-half loss on a record-high Australian
dollar and higher costs.  The Australian dollar rose 0.7 percent to $1.0477 as of
4:40 p.m. in Sydney yesterday. The so-called Aussie, the world’s
fifth-most traded currency, climbed 17 percent over the past
year and reached $1.1081 on July 27, the most since exchange
controls were scrapped in 1983.  Slowing Economy  The slowing economy has eroded demand for mortgages among
households, who increased borrowing at the slowest annual rate
in June since 1977, when the central bank began measuring
monthly data.  “Fiscal 2012 is going to be another year of surplus
deposit funding,” said RBS’s Manning. “Benign credit growth is
not going to abate in the medium term. Consumers are still quite
cautious.”  ANZ Bank said last week that deposit growth this year has
exceeded loan growth by about A$15 billion, and customer
deposits now constitute 62 percent of the Melbourne-based
lender’s funding base, up from 50 percent three years ago.  “There is no question the global environment is
difficult,” ANZ Bank CEO  Mike Smith  said on a call with
investors Aug. 18. “But the bottom-line is that we are very
well positioned.”  Flight to Quality  Gail Kelly, CEO of Westpac, the nation’s second-biggest
bank, said Aug. 16 that deposit growth “fully funded” lending
growth for the 10 months ended July 31, allowing it to pay back
ahead of time some of its debt due in 2012.  “When you get a crisis like this there tends to be a
flight to quality, which can sometimes help us,” Mark Joiner,
chief financial officer of Melbourne-based National Australia
Bank, told investors this month. “If we see the right
conditions we’ll continue to issue, but we’re not having to.”  National Australia, the nation’s largest business lender,
said this month it has raised A$29 billion of the A$25 billion
to A$30 billion the bank initially aimed to borrow in the 12
months through Sept. 30.  RBA Deputy Governor Ric Battellino said yesterday that
Australia’s banks are having no problems raising funds.  “As far as the Australian financial system goes, it’s been
very much less affected this time around than it was in 2008,”
Battellino said in Sydney in response to questions after a
speech. “The banks are having no trouble raising funds.
Liquidity is ample. So it’s a very different situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  