-- 
German Stocks Advance for First Day in Six; Deutsche Telekom, MAN SE Rise

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-23T16:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/benchmark-dax-index-increases-bmw-man-volkswagen-shares-lead-advances.html
German stocks rose for the first
time in six days, rebounding from an 18-month low, amid
speculation that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
take steps to bolster the U.S. recovery.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  jumped 4.8 percent and  Wacker Chemie
AG (WCH) , the second-largest producer of solar-grade silicon, rallied
3.4 percent after analysts raised their recommendations for
telecommunications and solar-power companies.  MAN SE (MAN) , Europe’s
third-largest truckmaker, gained 2.2 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 58.6, or 1.1 percent, to 5,532.38 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt . The gauge dropped 8.6 percent
last week as concern escalated that the global economy is
slowing and as the leaders of the euro area failed to restore
investor confidence. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  rose 1 percent
today.  “Everybody wants to know what the Fed is going to do,”
said  Markus Wallner , a senior equity strategist at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt. “Investors are eager to hear whether the Fed
will make any hints regarding a third round of quantitative
easing, which would inspire the markets. However, it should
still remain a volatile week.”  The DAX is trading at 8.4 times the estimated earnings of
its constituent companies, near the cheapest valuation since
October 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  Central Bankers  Central bankers will meet on Aug. 26 at an annual
conference sponsored by the Fed Bank of  Kansas City . Bernanke
said at last year’s meeting the Fed was prepared to “do all
that it can” to ensure economic recovery and suggested that it
would purchase more securities if growth slowed.  German investor confidence fell more than forecast in
August to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years. The ZEW Center
for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of
investor and analyst expectations, which aims to predict
developments six months in advance, dropped to minus 37.6 from
minus 15.1 in July. That’s the lowest since December 2008.
Economists had predicted a decline to minus 26, according to the
median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  A separate report showed that a manufacturing purchasing
managers’ index for  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
unexpectedly held at 52 in August. Economists had projected a
drop to 50.6, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Job Vacancies  The number of registered job vacancies in Germany slipped
in the second quarter, signaling that companies are hiring fewer
people as economic growth weakens. The economy had 974,000
vacancies in the second quarter, about 80,000 less than in the
first quarter, the Federal Labor Agency’s IAB research unit
reported. Germany’s economy almost stalled in the second
quarter, growing 0.1 percent.  Deutsche Telekom, Europe’s largest phone company, jumped
4.8 percent to 9.56 euros after Barclays Plc upgraded the
telecommunications industry to “overweight.”  Wacker Chemie surged 3.4 percent to 95.53 euros and Manz
AG, the maker of machinery for the solar-panel industry, soared
4.7 percent to 22.91 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised
the stocks to “buy” from “neutral.” The brokerage also
upgraded  Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN) , the maker of solar
production equipment, to “buy” from “sell.” Centrotherm’s
shares rallied 5.8 percent to 23.13 euros.  MAN, BMW, Continental  MAN rallied 2.2 percent to 59.16 euros as  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
said it submitted a merger control filing for MAN to the
European Commission. The carmaker said it expects to receive
regulatory approval in the second half of the year. Volkswagen
increased 2.6 percent to 104.40 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  climbed 2.6 percent to 51.37
euros after WestLB AG raised the company’s shares to “add”
from “neutral.”  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
supplier, added 1.8 percent to 45.96 euros.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  rose 1.8 percent to 44.18 euros after the
Leverkusen-based chemical maker said the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  granted fast-track designation to the Alpharadin
drug that the company has developed with Algeta ASA to treat
castration-resistant prostate cancer.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
slipped 1.9 percent to 10.60 euros and  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  plunged 10
percent to 2.55 euros after Deutsche Bank AG cut the shares to
“hold” from “buy” and to “sell” from “hold,”
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  