-- 
Biden Warns Against Betting on Demise of U.S., Japan; Hails Ally

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-23T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/biden-warns-against-discounting-u-s-japan.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  predicted
the U.S. and  Japan  would rebound from their respective problems,
describing the two countries’ alliance as “indispensable” to
ensuring peace in the Asia Pacific.  “While you’re struggling to deal with one of the greatest
natural disasters any country has faced and we are dealing with
getting our budget in order, there are voices in the world who
are counting us out,” Biden said yesterday in Tokyo before
meeting with Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  on the final leg
of his Asia tour. “They’re making a very bad bet.”  The visit to Japan follows a four-day trip to  China  hosted
by counterpart Xi Jinping, who is the frontrunner to succeed
President  Hu Jintao  in 2013. Biden said he went to China to
build a relationship with Xi and wanted to make clear that the
U.S. is a Pacific power and Japan a key ally. The U.S. has about
38,000  service personnel  stationed at bases in Japan.  “Without those bases it’s going to be very hard to help
manage the successful and peaceful re-rise of China,” said
former Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage. “Without
those bases, because of the tyranny of time and distance, we
couldn’t effect meaningful security cooperation.”  Biden underscored Japan’s importance as a strategic ally in
Asia, describing the relationship as the “anchor” of U.S.
policy in the region.  ‘Indispensable’  “This alliance always plays an indispensable role” in
ensuring security for the  Asia  Pacific region, he said later in
the day during a visit to the city of Sendai, one of the areas
hardest hit by the March 11 magnitude-9 temblor.  “If there was ever a single set of circumstances for the
world to understand what the Japanese people are made of” it
was “this god awful tragedy that you have had to go through,”
Biden told an audience including U.S. soldiers who helped in
recovery efforts and families displaced by the disaster.  The earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and cooling at
the Fukushima nuclear power plant, about 220 kilometers (137
miles) north of Tokyo, causing the worst atomic disaster since
Chernobyl in 1986.  At a  community center , Biden commiserated with families
displaced by the quake. “My heart goes out to you,” he said.
“Losing a home is only exceeded by losing family.”  The trip is “a statement of solidarity in the wake of the
tragedies of March,” said  Jeff Bader , who was the senior
director for Asian Affairs at the National Security Council
until April. “When a senior official goes to China, there’s a
desire to demonstrate to the rest of the neighborhood that our
presence in Asia is not solely about China.”  Kan thanked Biden for the “enormous” assistance from the
U.S. in the wake of the earthquake, adding that his visit was a
demonstration “to the world that Japan is open for business.”  Death Toll  More than 20,000 were dead or missing following the
earthquake as of Aug. 13, according to Japan’s  National Police
Agency . The temblor triggered the biggest two-day rout of
Japanese stocks since October 1987.  Kan is set to stand down this month, leaving his party to
choose a successor who can restore public faith shattered by the
nuclear crisis and a procession of five leaders in as many
years. His approval rating is below 20 percent over his handling
of the March 11 earthquake.  Whoever succeeds Kan will face a country burdened by
deflation, an aging population and the world’s largest debt as
well as the threat the yen’s rise to a post-war high poses to an
export-led recovery.  The government downgraded its growth forecast for Japan
this month, saying GDP will increase 0.5 percent in the year
started April, compared with its January forecast for a 1.5
percent expansion. The changes reflect the earthquake’s impact
on output and consumer spending, the Cabinet Office said.  Before Japan, the vice president made a one-day stopover in
Mongolia. He leaves Japan today, headed for  Hawaii .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Tokyo  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  