-- 
Bitter Public Rift Ended New Wave Tango of Godard-Truffaut: DVD

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/bitter-public-rift-ended-new-wave-tango-for-godard-truffaut-peter-rainer.html
No filmmakers were closer than Jean- Luc Godard and Francois Truffaut, and no falling out was more
bitter or more public.  The documentary “Two in the Wave,” available on DVD from
Lorber Films, details what went right and wrong in the
friendship of these great French New Wave directors who changed
the face of cinema. The story, fleshed out with clips from more
than 30 films and rare interviews with both men, is as
galvanizing as any of their movies.  Though Godard and Truffaut shared an early infatuation with
film, their backgrounds were starkly different.  Godard was the son of a doctor and a banker’s daughter.
Truffaut grew up as a working-class truant, spending time in
reformatories and prison for stealing.  He used the proceeds from one of his heists to pay off the
debts of a film club he started at 16. Movies were more than a
refuge for the lonely Truffaut; they were his salvation.  “Two in the Wave” includes a photo of Godard and Truffaut
in 1949, when they were teenagers. It’s an extraordinarily
evocative image because it seems so offhanded.  As young men they spent endless hours watching classics at
the legendary Cinematheque Francaise in Paris.  They worked as maverick film critics for the seminal
magazine Cahiers du Cinema alongside future New Wave directors
Claude Chabrol and Eric Rohmer, and shared a passion to overturn
the studio-engineered romantic realism of the day.  Feature Debuts  Both made innovative short films before breaking through
with extraordinary feature debuts.  Truffaut’s semi-autobiographical “The 400 Blows” (1959),
starred Jean-Pierre Leaud as a juvenile delinquent. Godard’s
“Breathless” (1960), from an idea supplied by Truffaut,
featured Jean-Paul Belmondo as a murderous rogue.  Leaud was central to the evolving careers of both
directors. In the documentary we see a rare clip of his screen
test for “The 400 Blows” at the age of 14.  Leaud would go on to appear in Truffaut’s humorous Antoine
Doinel series, including “Stolen Kisses,” and “Day For
Night,” where he played a movie director not unlike Truffaut.
He acted for Godard in “Masculine-Feminine” (1966), playing a
journalist who has an affair with a rock singer, and in “La
Chinoise,” about Maoist revolutionaries in Paris.  Bitter Split  Godard and Truffaut were stylistically at odds. Godard’s
movies, at least through “Weekend” (1967), were poetic,
disjunctive essays on art, love and politics. Truffaut’s films,
like “Jules and Jim” (1962), were more sweepingly lyrical.  “Two in the Wave,” directed by former Cahiers editor
Antoine de Baecque, claims the Godard-Truffaut friendship
ruptured in 1968 because they were heading in opposite
directions: Godard’s work was becoming increasingly didactic
while Truffaut was making more mainstream films like “Day for
Night.”  It’s a neat theory but the simple truth may be that Godard
resented Truffaut’s commercial success.  Godard attacked Truffaut in a letter when “Day for Night”
came out, calling him a “liar” and “a big shot of Hollywood
on the Seine.” Truffaut responded: “You pretend to be a victim
when you get exactly what you want, preserving your image as
uncompromising even if that means attacking helpless people.”  Godard, at 80, is still active and more iconoclastic than
ever. Truffaut died of a brain tumor, at 52, in 1984. After
their public spat they never spoke again.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg news. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  