-- 
BlackBerrys Work Through Quake While Calls Fail in Boon to RIM

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-23T20:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/blackberrys-work-through-quake-while-calls-fail-in-boon-to-rim.html
BlackBerry e-mail messages were
delivered as usual after an earthquake struck Virginia today
while calls failed, a potential boon to manufacturer  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM)  as it tries to win back lost market share.  The device, indispensable for many bankers, executives,
lawyers, politicians and Washington lobbyists, relies on
thousands of RIM servers for its e-mail service instead of phone
companies’ networks. Some calls failed because systems of
carriers including  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  were clogged as
people tried to reach friends, relatives and colleagues.  The BlackBerry, after its debut a decade ago, became the
No. 1 smartphone in the U.S. by ensuring clients’ communications
are reliable, a selling point that helped it attract users
including President Barack Obama. RIM is now trying to revive
sales growth after losing its lead position to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  “RIM certainly has a reputation for being reliable when it
comes to messaging and being secure and that’s what they’ve
built their success on,” said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at
Gartner Inc. in Teaneck, New Jersey.  RIM’s service has operated normally all day, said Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for the Waterloo, Ontario-based company.
Verizon,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  experienced a surge
in phone calling and said they had no immediate reports of
network damage after the 5.8 magnitude earthquake.  ‘Heavy Call Volume’  “You have to call several times to get through some
places,”  Peter Thonis , a spokesman for New York-based Verizon,
said in an interview. “It’s very temporal. I know of no network
issues at this time” on the wireless or landline networks, he
said.  Scott Sloat, a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, said the company is “experiencing an intermittent mass
calling event, as is expected following an incident of this
nature.” Sprint Nextel has had no reports of “impact to its
network” and encouraged customers to send text messages rather
than place calls to reach family and friends, he said.  “We have no reports of network damage, but we are seeing
heavy call volume,” said  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-
based AT&T.  RIM rose 99 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $27.50 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has lost 53
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  