-- 
Boeing’s 787 Glut Casts $16.2 Billion Cloud Over FAA Approval

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-08-23T20:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/boeing-s-787-glut-casts-16-2-billion-cloud-over-faa-approval.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , set to get government
approval of its new 787 Dreamliner this week and deliver the
first jet next month, expects to spend most of 2012 unwinding
the record inventory built during three years of delays to the
world’s first composite-plastic airliner.  Boeing amassed $16.2 billion worth of inventory related to
the  787  through June 30, with so many almost-finished jets the
company ran out of room to park them. There are 35 scattered
outside the Everett, Washington, plant, in leased space across
an adjacent airfield and in a facility in  Texas . Many lack seats
and lavatories and have black plastic over the windows and
concrete blocks hanging from the wings to keep them from tipping
over before engines are installed.  “This is like dinner in the anaconda right now,” said
Bill Batcheller, chief investment officer for Tower Wealth
Management, which has $140 million under management and has been
considering buying Boeing shares after selling them in early
2010. “It’s a big bulge in the middle of the balance sheet, and
it’s got to work its way through.”  Even with U.S. Federal Aviation Administration approval
expected Aug. 26 and first delivery due next month, most of the
planes will sit for weeks and months more -- boosting production
costs because each needs different fixes and eating into returns
on the capital invested. Boeing had to build a temporary factory
inside a leased hangar in Everett to handle the extra load.  ‘Boat Anchor’  The mothballed jets represent almost $6 a share in
inventory growth since 2009. Counting four planes in the factory
and six test jets, Boeing has more 787s on hand than  Richard Branson ’s  Virgin Atlantic Airways  has planes in service.  Working capital as a percentage of revenue is approaching
50 percent, from less than 25 percent in 2009, showing that
Boeing has more money tied up in its production flow.  “It’s like they’re dragging a boat anchor equivalent to 25
percent of their sales, which is at the expense of the
profitability of their enterprise,” said Wolfgang Demisch, a
partner at Demisch Associates LLC, an aerospace financial
consultant in New York. “It’s bloated with inventory, and
somebody has to pay for that, and it’s the shareholder.”  Boeing tumbled 42 percent from the first 787 delay in
October 2007 through yesterday, worse than the 6.1 percent
decline by Airbus SAS parent European Aeronautic Defence & Space
Co. and the 31 percent drop on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Aerospace & Defense Index. The U.S. planemaker’s shares climbed
$2.39, or 4.1 percent, to $60.77 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps tied to Boeing bonds, which rise as
investor confidence falls, closed yesterday at the highest since
Dec. 7, 2009, gaining 1.3 basis points to 84.5 basis points,
according to data compiled by CMA. A basis point is $1,000 a
year on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “The production delays have created a huge glut of
inventory, bloating the balance sheet,” said  Joel Levington , a
managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York, which doesn’t own Boeing bonds.
“It has been a large concern to us.”  Boeing is getting help in carrying the cost. It created a
production system for the 787 using suppliers around the world
to build most of the plane. They usually don’t get paid until
Boeing does. Airlines generally pay about 60 percent of the
price of a plane in installments leading up to its delivery.  Eating Dirt  Boeing expects inventory growth to moderate as deliveries
progress, said Chaz Bickers, a spokesman at the company’s
Chicago headquarters. The planemaker’s “strong core operating
performance and cash management” provide a foundation to
support the 787 and 747-8 development programs, he said.  Boeing can “eat some of the dirt of the inventory cost”
by spreading it out over the initial block of 787s, using so-
called program accounting, said Demisch, the consultant. The
company plans to reveal the size of that accounting block with
its third-quarter earnings in October.  It’s unlikely that the program will show a positive gross
margin over an initial block that will probably be 1,000 planes,
said  Douglas Harned , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York.  Profitability for the 787 is “the most important
outstanding issue regarding the investment case for Boeing,”
Harned said in an Aug. 16 note. He rates the shares as “market
perform.”  First 1,000 Jets  The Dreamliner is Boeing’s fastest-selling jet, racking up
more than 800 orders before it even flew. The planes have an
average  catalog price  of about $202 million, and Boeing plans to
assemble 10 a month by 2013 -- a record for wide-body jets.  The program has the potential to be the company’s most
lucrative ever, say Barclays Plc analysts Joe Campbell and
Carter Copeland.  The problem is that Boeing has probably spent $300 million
to build each 787 and will realize revenue of as little as $50
million apiece for the early models, the analysts estimate.  The 45th plane to be built -- in the factory now -- will
probably cost Boeing at least $184 million, Harned estimated
after analyzing inventory figures. That would make the average
cost over the first 1,000 jets, including a learning curve, at
least $116 million per plane, he projects. FAA approval this
week after a flight-test program that began in December 2009
would set the stage for delivery of the first 787 to All Nippon
Airways Co. next month.  Rain and Fire  About half the 787s in Boeing’s inventory were already
built last year, before the company had to push back targets
again because of a fire during a test flight. Testing took 20
months instead of the eight originally planned.  Each plane is in a different state of readiness, since
Boeing kept improving processes after the jets began rolling out
of the factory in 2009.  They have undergone waves of repairs based on testing
discoveries, and numerous jobs remain on “various and sundry
components” before they’re ready for delivery, said Scott Fancher, Boeing’s 787 chief.  One of those jobs has been to install new condensation-
collection systems to handle “rain in the plane” found in
flight tests, a byproduct of the extra moisture in the air
allowed by the composite fuselages. Workers also have had to
replace electrical power distribution panels with redesigned
parts after the fire grounded the test fleet at the end of 2010.  Delivery Plans  The modifications have forced Boeing to pare its delivery
plans for this year by several planes, to fewer than 14.  Not only does Boeing have to hurry to fix the jets at the
front end of the factory so they can be delivered, it also needs
to cure its manufacturing woes at the back end so that shipments
can get on track once the 787 is certified for use.  Production has been stalled at a rate of two a month for
more than a year and Boeing has routinely frozen the final-
assembly line in Everett for catch-up sessions, the most recent
of which was a four-week pause last month.  “We want to see a little more clarity on when we can start
anticipating a steady flow of deliveries and a sense that we’ve
really got the factory floor straightened out” before buying
the stock again, Batcheller said. “At that point it becomes
attractive.”  Most airlines’ contracts have clauses providing penalties
for delays, so Boeing needs to make up for the lost time. Some
of the changes generated by tests are already in the production
pipeline and won’t have to be made retroactively.  “Anytime you’re building an airplane out of sequence, the
amount of work that’s required probably goes up by a factor of
10, because they have to unbuild all the things you built on top
of whatever you have to change, and then build it all back,”
said Demisch, the consultant. “It’s better than starting the
airplanes from scratch, but it’s cost that will be added to
production and make the likelihood of a profit on this program
over the next half-dozen years very, very low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at   sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  