-- 
Bank of America Has ‘No Reason’ to Raise Capital as Stock Falls, Bove Says

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-23T20:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/bofa-has-no-reason-whatsoever-to-raise-capital-as-stock-falls-bove-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the U.S.
lender that lost half its market value this year, has sufficient
capital to weather mounting costs tied to souring loans, said
 Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities.  “Bank of America has so much cash on its balance sheet
that it could pay back all of its short-term debt and a big
chunk of its long-term debt,” Bove said in an interview today
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”
“There’s no reason for the bank to have to go out and raise
capital whatsoever.”  The firm fell as much as 6.4 percent in New York trading
today and the cost to protect its debt from default surged to a
record before retreating.  Henry Blodget , the former Internet
stock analyst turned blogger, wrote today on Business Insider
that charges and loan costs may force the bank to raise as much
as $200 billion.  “Mr. Blodget is making ‘exaggerated and unwarranted
claims,’ which is what the Securities and Exchange Commission
stated publicly when he was permanently banned from the
securities industry in 2003,” the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based bank said today in an e-mailed statement.  Blodget, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst, was banned
for life from the securities industry after regulatory inquiries
into how analysts touted stocks during the Internet boom. He was
hit with $4 million in fines and repayments after watchdogs
including the SEC faulted his reports on companies including
go2.com. Merrill was acquired by Bank of America in 2009.  Mortgage Liabilities  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, has sought
to stem his bank’s stock slide by repeatedly saying that it
won’t need to issue shares to comply with new international
capital standards. Moynihan spent about $13 billion this year in
settlements with buyers and insurers of bonds containing
defective mortgages, including deals with  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , Assured Guaranty Ltd. and institutional investors.  “You have one, a question about what your mortgage-
liability exposures are; two,  consumer credit , given some of the
negative data points that have happened; and three, the crisis
in Europe,” said  Joel Levington , a managing director of
corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New
York. “That’s what’s weighing on investors’ minds.”  The economy grew at a weaker-than-projected 1.3 percent
annual pace in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said
July 29. Growth in the prior quarter slowed to 0.4 percent, the
weakest three-month period since the recovery began in 2009.  Cutting Costs  Moynihan told investors this month he would focus on
trimming expenses to manage through a “protracted economic
recovery.” The CEO has announced 6,000 job cuts this year and
an efficiency initiative called Project New BAC that may result
in thousands more, said two people with knowledge of the plan.  Bank of America had a Tier One capital ratio of about 6
percent as of June 2011 under the new rules recommended by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , according to an Aug. 9
note from Jonathan Glionna of Barclays Plc. The bank probably
has until 2019 to reach 9.5 percent, the level required of the
world’s largest banks. That’s enough time to bolster capital by
selling assets deemed risky, Moynihan has said.  The lender had $119.5 billion of cash as of June 30,
according to a quarterly filing. Commercial paper and other
short-term  borrowings  totaled $50.6 billion, and the company had
$426.7 billion in long-term debt.  Commercial Real Estate  Blodget’s analysis cited $182 billion in commercial real
estate loans, while the company listed $44 billion of the assets
as of June 30, according to its most recent quarter filing.  “The commercial real estate figures are off by a factor of
four” in Blodget’s review, according to the bank’s statement
which also challenged his data on possible losses in  Europe .  Credit-default swaps tied to Bank of America, which rise as
investor confidence deteriorates, jumped 5.2 basis points to
385.8 as of 3:48 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  The stock pared its losses after Bove’s remarks and changed
hands for $6.30 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, down 12 cents from yesterday’s close.  Bank of America’s stock decline “has taken on a life of
its own” and is increasingly sensitive to speculative reports
about the company’s health, such as Blodget’s post today, said
Jonathan Hatcher, a Jefferies Group Inc. credit strategist.  ‘Life of Its Own’  “I don’t know if it’s even an analysis -- he takes the
worst-case scenario from every blog, and adds that up and puts a
bow on top,” said Hatcher, a former Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. bank examiner. “We can make up all kinds of numbers, but
the question is, what will really happen?”  Blodget defended his report.  “It seems premature, at best, to suggest that someone
actually knows what the ‘worst-case scenario’ is here,” he
wrote in an e-mail. Bank of America “has only itself to blame”
for failing to convince investors about its asset quality and
capital levels, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  