-- 
BP’s Oil Fund Pays Out $5 Billion to Victims

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-08-23T20:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/bp-oil-claims-fund-pays-out-5-billion-to-victims-in-first-year.html
BP Plc paid more than $5 billion to
204,434 claimants in the past year from a fund created to
compensate victims of its 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the
worst in U.S. waters.  The Gulf Coast Claims Facility, which draws on $20 billion
set aside by the London-based  oil company  after the spill, has
received more than 947,000 claims from 50 states and 36 nations,
according to a summary released today by claims administrator
 Kenneth Feinberg .  “Overall, we’ve largely succeeded in getting money out to
eligible claimants,” Feinberg said on a conference call with
reporters.  In total, about $6.7 billion has been drawn from the fund,
which also pays for clean-up costs and restoration projects
through payments provided to local governments, Feinberg said.  Feinberg, a Washington lawyer who ran a fund to compensate
victims and families of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, released
the report as the Gulf claims facility marked the first
anniversary of accepting applications for compensation.  His firm, Feinberg Rozen LLP, is being paid $1.25 million a
month by BP to run the facility and has drawn complaints from
Gulf Coast residents and policymakers who said payments have
come too slowly and in smaller amounts than sought.  “The only success Mr. Feinberg has had is in coercing
desperate victims of the spill to have to accept whatever was
offered,”  Mississippi  Attorney General Jim Hood said in a
statement about the $5,421 paid to state businesses and $5,297
to individuals. “It looks like he did a good job for BP, not
for Mississippians.”  ‘Mixed Bag’  Tony Kennon, mayor of Orange Beach,  Alabama , said the
claims process was a “mixed bag” for residents in the coastal
community who in many cases were left waiting for months for
compensation.  “For the most part, folks aren’t necessarily happy with
the amount, but are happy to be out of the process and ready to
move on,” he said in an interview.  Kennon credited Feinberg for shifting “his philosophy more
in a direction we thought was fair” regarding the types of
claims eligible for compensation.  Claimants have been paid with emergency checks to cover
short-term losses of up to six months and through interim
payments that victims can seek periodically. Neither type
requires claimants to waive their right to sue BP or other
companies involved in the spill.  BP Lawsuits  Only in accepting final payments do spill victims forgo a
court remedy. BP faces more than 350 lawsuits by thousands of
property owners, fishing interests and tourism businesses
claiming harm from the spill linked to the explosion and sinking
of the Deepwater Horizon rig.  Feinberg said about $3 billion of the $5 billion paid so
far didn’t require businesses or individuals to waive their
legal rights.  About 125,000 individuals and businesses seeking payment
have been denied because they didn’t prove the losses were tied
to the spill, Feinberg said.  More than 2,200 claims have been sent to the U.S. Justice
Department as possible fraud, Feinberg said.  Residents and businesses in  Florida  received about $2.02
billion, or 40 percent of the total. Louisiana collected the
second-highest total, about $1.52 billion, or about 30 percent,
followed by Alabama and Mississippi, according to the summary.  97% Reviewed  Responding to critics who’ve said the process wasn’t
compensating victims quickly enough, Feinberg said about 97
percent of the claims submitted have been reviewed.  People and businesses have until August 2013 to apply to
the claims facility for compensation. Facing criticism the
process wasn’t transparent, Feinberg agreed in July to an
independent audit after a meeting with U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder.  BP has said the Gulf Coast economy has improved so much
that most payments for projected damage caused by the spill
should be stopped. About 4,400 claimants each week still apply
to the fund, Feinberg said.  “We have our work cut out for us,” Feinberg said. “We
aren’t going anywhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  