-- 
Brazilian Real Gains as Commodities Rise Amid Fed Stimulus Speculation

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-08-23T21:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/brazilian-real-gains-as-commodities-rise-amid-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
Brazil’s real strengthened as
commodity prices rallied amid speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  will unveil further measures to support the  U.S. economy 
this week, spurring global growth.  The real advanced 0.7 percent to 1.5968 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, from 1.6078 yesterday.  Prices for commodities, according to the UBS Bloomberg
Constant Maturity Commodity Index, rose 0.9 percent amid
speculation that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal
additional measures to stimulate the economy. Bernanke is
scheduled to speak Aug. 26 in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, at an
annual conference sponsored by the Fed Bank of  Kansas City .  “With improvements in the external environment, risk
assets end up rising,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief
strategist at Credit Agricole do Brasil SA in  Sao Paulo , said by
phone. “The real is a risk asset.”  Twenty-one of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg strengthened against the dollar.  The increase in commodity prices is helping push the
currencies of emerging-market commodity producers higher,  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Hot Money’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last month unveiled a plan
to tax short dollar positions in the futures market. Since
October, the government has tripled a tax on foreigners’ fixed-
income purchases to 6 percent, increased costs for banks betting
on the real and imposed restrictions on lenders’ borrowing
abroad. Mantega is seeking to stem the real’s gains after it
reached a 12-year high on July 26. The advance is crimping
exporters’ profit margins and swelling the current-account
deficit.  Brazil  can’t allow an invasion of “hot money” and must
deter speculation in the derivatives market, Mantega said in Sao
Paulo yesterday. The so-called global “currency wars” will
continue in coming years, he said.  The central bank said it bought dollars at 1.6015 reais in
the spot market today. Regular dollar purchases are part of the
central bank’s efforts to stem gains in the currency, which has
strengthened 45 percent since the end of 2008.  The country’s monetary council is empowered to set new
margin requirements for derivatives operations in order to
reduce their profitability, Mantega said today during a Senate
hearing in Brasilia.  The yield on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts due
in January 2013 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 11.43 percent. The yield on the contracts due in
January 2012 rose two basis points to 12.13 percent. It
indicates that traders anticipate the central bank will cut the
benchmark Selic rate, currently at 12.50 percent, by at least 50
basis points this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Creating conditions to cut  interest rates  in Brazil is a
“priority,” Mantega said during the hearing. Lower rates would
be “very healthy” because they would cut the cost of servicing
the nation’s debt, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  