-- 
Bright Food Said to Hire ANZ, NAB for Manassen Acquisition

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-08-23T08:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/bright-food-said-to-hire-anz-nab-for-manassen-acquisition-1-.html
Bright Food Group Co.,  China ’s
second-largest food company, hired banks to help finance its
purchase of  Australia ’s Manassen Foods, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  will provide a A$200 million ($210 million)
three-year loan, A$155 million of which will be used to
refinance debt and A$45 million of which will be used for
working capital, the person said, asking not to be identified as
details are private.  Separately, the two banks will help arrange up to $315
million of financing in a three-year term facility, the person
said. That facility, for a Bright Food special purpose unit
based in Hong Kong, will be syndicated to other lenders from
next week, the person said. It will offer margin and fees for a
so-called top-level all-in payment of low 200 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate, the person said.  Bright Food said Aug. 17 it had signed a deal to buy a 75
percent stake in  Manassen Foods , which makes Albatros bread and
Harringtons chocolates, from Champ Private Equity. The state-
owned Chinese company will pay about A$400 million for the share,
another two people familiar with the matter said last week.  The deal requires regulatory approval from the Chinese and
Australian governments, Shanghai-based Bright Food said in an e-
mailed statement Aug. 15. The company is also raising 1 billion
yuan ($156 million) via a bond sale and will use about 700
million yuan of that to help replenish operating capital,
according to an Aug. 19 statement.  Bright Food aims to have as much as 30 percent of total
sales from overseas markets in five years and has been looking
for foreign assets in sugar, dairy, wine, food distribution and
manufacturing industries, Chairman Wang Zongnan said in April.  Manassen Foods, founded in 1953, has brands in dry
groceries, confectionery, cookies and cakes, perishables and
frozen foods, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net 
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  in  Hong Kong  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  