-- 
British American Investment of Kenya Gets Bids for 60% of Shares on Offer

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-08-23T07:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/british-american-investment-of-kenya-gets-bids-for-60-of-shares-on-offer.html
British American Investment Co., the
Kenyan financial-services company, said it received bids for 60
percent of the shares on sale in its initial public offering as
demand was curbed by the U.S. debt crisis.  The company raised 3.5 billion shillings ($37.6 million),
compared with the 5.85 billion shillings it had sought, it said
in an e-mailed statement today from Nairobi. The offering of 650
million shares attracted only 23 foreign investors and 72
institutional buyers, it said.  “Generally the market conditions at this time were not
conducive; inflation is high,  interest rates  are up,” Suki
Muia, an analyst at Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital  East Africa 
Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  The Nairobi Stock Exchange’s All Share Index has fallen 31
percent over the past 12 months and is the world’s fourth-worst
performing equity measure over that period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation in East Africa’s biggest
economy surged for the ninth straight month in July to 15.53
percent, while the shilling weakened to 95.1 per dollar on Aug.
9, the weakest intraday level since 1994.  British American, whose shares will begin trading on the
Nairobi Stock Exchange on Sept. 2, sold 390.6 million shares at
9 shillings each, it said. The company said earlier this month
the funds raised will be used to finance its expansion.  Regional Expansion  The company plans to begin operations in  Tanzania ,  Rwanda ,
Burundi and  Southern Sudan , Group Managing Director Benson Wairegi said on Feb. 10.  “The board of directors will now have to prioritize on
some of our projects and the timing for their implementation,”
Wairegi said in today’s statement.  British-American Investments Co. is the holding company of
 Kenya ’s  British American Insurance Co. , British American Asset
Managers, a  fund manager  that began operations in 2004, and
Britam Insurance Co. Uganda Ltd., established in November 2010,
according to its website.  “We have surpassed the minimum success threshold of 50
percent set out in the prospectus and also met the minimum
shareholder’s requirement of 1,000 to list on the main
investment market segment of the  Nairobi Stock Exchange ,”
Chairman Nicholas Ashford-Hodges said in the statement. The
company now has 28,000 shareholders compared to seven before the
IPO that closed on Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 