-- 
Cairn Joins Cove Energy, CCC to Bid for Lebanese Fields

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-08-23T08:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/cairn-joins-cove-energy-ccc-to-bid-for-lebanese-fields-1-.html
Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) , the U.K. oil
explorer drilling in Greenland, joined  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  and a
unit of  Consolidated Contractors Co . to bid for exploration
licenses off Lebanon and expand in the  Mediterranean Sea .  The partners will tender next year for the licenses to seek
oil and gas in the Levant Basin of the Eastern Mediterranean
Sea, said Cairn Chief Executive Officer Simon Thomson.  “There is lot of interest in this basin,” Thomson said
today on a conference call. The company will consider bids for
licenses in Cyprus to further expand in the Mediterranean, “but
we are very focused on the Lebanon opportunity right now.”  Cairn, based in Edinburgh, said on Aug. 3 it planned to
expand beyond current operations off the shores of  Spain .  The Levant Basin may hold about 1.7 billion barrels of
recoverable oil and 122 trillion cubic feet of natural gas
resources stretching from  Egypt  to  Turkey , according to U.S.
Geological Survey  estimates .  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  is leading
exploration in the region after discovering the Tamar and
Leviathan gas fields off  Israel . The two deposits may hold 25
trillion cubic feet of gas, more than double the U.K.’s proven
reserves last year, the U.S. explorer estimated in December.  “We would not get too carried away yet on the Lebanon
potential,” Phil Corbett, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, wrote in an e-mailed report. “It remains to be seen
whether Cairn and partners can get access to prospective
licences on relatively attractive terms.”  Cairn said first-half sales rose fourfold to $1.3 billion
from a year earlier on output from its Indian fields. Cairn had
$1 billion of cash at end-June, it said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  