-- 
California $382,519 Prison Doctor Shows Budget Gaps Don’t Bar Big Salaries

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/california-382-519-prison-doctor-shows-budget-gaps-don-t-bar-big-salaries.html
Jeffrey Wang closed his struggling
medical practice in Visalia, California, in 2007 to take a job
as a physician treating inmates in  Corcoran State Prison , where
murderer Charles Manson is locked up.  “The first few months I regretted it,” the 54-year-old
Wang said in telephone interview from the prison, about 175
miles (280 kilometers) northwest of  Los Angeles . “But the pay
was much higher and the benefits were much better.”  Wang made $382,519 in 2010, including overtime and extra-
duty compensation. He was one of almost 100 doctors, dentists
and other medical practitioners in the state who got at least
$300,000 last year to work behind bars, according to the
controller’s office.  California prison doctors earn more than counterparts in
New York, Texas and Florida, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The highest-paid physician in  New York ’s penal system in 2010,
for instance, collected $200,147, including overtime, according
to the state comptroller’s office.  The most that a Texas prison doctor can make is about
$220,000 annually, corrections officials said. The top
compensation for a medical employee in Florida was $230,711 in
fiscal year 2011, with no overtime, a corrections department
spokeswoman said.  “The job markets recognize that these are not nice places
to work,” said Stuart Bussey, president of the  Union of
American Physicians and Dentists , the Oakland-based labor
organization for prison health professionals. “These doctors
are working in places that are not desirable to live, working up
to 12 hours a day and with clients that they would never have to
work with in private practice. It’s almost like war pay.”  Court Orders  California  prison officials say they’ve had to boost wages
to comply with federal court orders and because of the
difficulty recruiting doctors to work in crowded facilities
filled with violent offenders. One psychiatrist earned $566,029
last year, including overtime and extra-duty pay.  California taxpayers shelled out $770 million to medical,
dental and mental-health staff to care for convicts last year,
even as lawmakers slashed programs for poor children and the
elderly to erase a $20 billion deficit.  The compensation discrepancy underscores a broader trend in
California, where government workers are paid more than in other
states for similar duties. From city managers who make more than
the governor to prison guards who earn double what their
counterparts in  Texas  do and Los Angeles firefighters who
collect twice the national mean, high salaries prevail in a
state with persistent budget shortfalls, officials including
Governor  Jerry Brown , a 73-year-old Democrat, have said.  Weak Recovery  The weak recovery from the recession that ended in June
2009 has churned up a backlash against the pay and benefits of
public workers nationwide, as taxpayers saw their own job
prospects and 401(k) retirement-plan balances shrink.  States had to deal with initial fiscal 2012 budget gaps
estimated at $103 billion, according to the Washington-based
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . That is drawing
attention to pay packages on the public purse that outstrip
those outside government.  “A felon in  Florida  or New York is the same as a felon in
California,” said David Kline, a vice president with the
Sacramento-based  California Taxpayers Association . “They commit
the same crime, yet in Florida and other states they are able to
keep their prisoners behind bars for less.”  $9.8 Billion  California runs the nation’s largest corrections system,
with about 161,000 prisoners. The state will spend $9.8 billion
on its prisons and parole system this fiscal year, about 11
percent of an  $85.9 billion budget . That’s up $224 million from
last year but shy of the record of $10.1 billion set in fiscal
year 2008.  California’s prisons are at 175 percent of capacity,
according to the state Corrections and Rehabilitation
Department. The U.S. Supreme Court this year ruled that the
state must comply with a court order to reduce its prison
population by 37,000 inmates within two years.  A federal judge  took over  the prison health-care system in
2005 as a result of class-action lawsuits filed by inmates,
alleging that inadequate care amounted to  cruel and unusual
punishment . The court said prison care was so poor that an
inmate needlessly died on average once every week.  To improve care, the court ordered the state to hire more
staff and attract better doctors by raising pay. The state
didn’t oppose the raises.  ‘License and Pulse’  Before the court order, the state was “basically employing
as doctors anybody who had a license and a pulse. That was the
way it was talked about,” said Clark Kelso, the court-appointed
receiver in charge of California’s prison health-care. “The
problem that the prison system had here was attracting qualified
clinical personnel.”  Today a prison doctor in California can earn $248,172 a
year plus overtime or extra-duty compensation. A chief physician
can make as much as $265,648 plus extra pay. According to the
Bureau of Labor statistics, the  mean annual wage  of a physician
in the U.S. in 2009 was $180,870; in California, it was
$191,650.  Last year, when Wang made $157,263 in overtime at Corcoran
State Prison, almost half of the medical staff positions there
were vacant.  “If I’m going to need to hire a doctor in prison, it makes
no sense to say I’m going to pay him 20 percent less than the
private sector but say public service is the reason they should
come in and work anyway,” said Kelso, who was appointed in 2008
after his predecessor ordered the medical pay increases. “If I
am going to get a competent doctor, I’ve got to price my
compensation package to attract them.”  Clinical Staff  The pay of clinical staff in places like Texas is less, in
part, because Texas prison doctors aren’t unionized and the cost
of living in the state is lower. Medical employees haven’t been
granted a raise in at least two years, said  Owen Murray , vice
president of offender health services at the University of Texas
Medical Branch, which oversees the care of about 80 percent of
 state  prisoners.  A dentist in a California prison can earn as much as
$288,636 a year plus overtime and extra duty pay, according to
figures from the state Corrections Department. In Texas, prison
dentists can make as much as $150,000, while in New York, it’s
$141,585, according to figures provided by those states.  $1.46 Billion  Kelso, the California receiver, has a $1.46 billion budget
for the fiscal year that began July 1, including $1.3 billion
for inmate medical care and $127 million for pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies, according to the state  Finance Department .
Under court control, the vacancy rate for most clinical staff
dropped to about 8 percent from as high as 50 percent in 2005,
in part because of the higher wages and better benefits, Kelso
said. Still, the medical department suffers 15 percent annual
turnover.  Kelso is only responsible for the medical care of inmates.
Dental and mental-health treatment is still controlled by the
Corrections Department.  Of almost 100 California health-care professionals who were
paid more than $300,000 in 2010, the top earners included
doctors who were paid lump-sum settlements or who retired and
cashed out stockpiles of unused vacation, Kelso said. Those
figures are not typical of what most doctors earn, he said.  Competency Concern  One doctor, Jeffrey Rohfling, was paid a record $777,423 in
2010 even though, until this month, he wasn’t allowed to treat a
patient in six years because of concerns about his competency,
the  Los Angeles Times  reported in July.  Rohfling, whose base salary was $235,000 a year, was
awarded the rest of the money last year when the state settled a
lawsuit claiming he had been fired unfairly in 2007, state
records show. He was reinstated at  High Desert State Prison  in
Susanville and awarded two years of back pay. Rohfling’s
attorney, Joseph Polockow, didn’t return calls for comment.  More than 750 employees, or 10 percent of those working for
Kelso, have amassed 712,240 hours of unused vacation that they
must take or cash out when they retire, according to an internal
report obtained by Bloomberg. One doctor who has worked for the
prisons for 31 years built up almost three years of time-off,
the data shows.  Vacation Cap  State policy says workers shouldn’t accumulate more than
640 hours a year of vacation time. When workers break the cap,
managers are supposed to develop a plan to draw down the time.
But the law doesn’t forbid employees from banking the hours if
they don’t use them.  Much of the backlog accumulated when former governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  in 2009 ordered all state employees to take three
days of unpaid furlough each month in an attempt to shave $1.7
billion from payroll costs.  While most state agencies shut down operations for those
three days, prisons had to remain open. So guards and the
doctors, dentists and other clinical staff were told to accrue
the furlough days and take them instead of vacation days at a
later date.  California needs to examine all prison operations,
including health care, to figure out why costs are so high and
where money could be saved, said Kline of the California
Taxpayers Association.  “We are far above the national average and we need to take
a look at why,” Kline said. “Other states are not under court
order and are paying less, so there is a way to do it. It’s just
a matter of figuring out why we haven’t found that way, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 