-- 
Call Girl, Bouncer Spar With Beale in ‘Bluebird’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-08-23T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/call-girl-bouncer-spar-with-sad-hack-beale-in-bluebird-jeremy-gerard.html
Jimmy MacNeill was a successful
novelist and drunk when, five years ago, his young daughter was
run over and killed.  Now he’s a London cabbie, quietly abiding the stories and
bits of wisdom proffered by his late-night fares. Played with
supremely self-confident understatement by Simon Russell Beale,
Jimmy is easy to warm to and wholly unbelievable, not a
character but a young playwright’s construct.  Simon Stephens was 26 when he wrote “Bluebird,” which is
being given its U.S. premiere at the  Atlantic Theater  Company’s
tiny Stage 2 in Chelsea. He went on to become one of the U.K.’s
most acclaimed dramatists. In the 1997 “Bluebird,” we can hear
a distinctive playwright’s voice still in formation, in a drama
shaped not by plot but by a series of monologues leading to the
Big Reveal.  Russell Beale, whose gifts for nuance and the small gesture
have served him well in shows as disparate as “Spamalot” and
“Hamlet,” has made the Atlantic run one of the toughest
tickets in town. He’s surrounded by a wonderful cast who sell
the inevitable apercus and aphorisms with conviction.  “The main distinguishing factor of the aging process is
the overwhelming sense of regret,” says Michael Countryman,
playing a man who hails the cab after seeing his child’s
murderer released from prison early for good behavior.  Word Mangling  “Do you believe in the intransience of love?” asks Todd
Weeks, in one of the more unfortunate bits. “What about the
communicability of the human spirit?” Is there a play doctor in
the house?  And yet empathy shines through. Standouts among the other
passengers are Charlotte Parry as a prostitute en route to an
assignation and John Sharian as a seen-it-all night club
bouncer. Best of the company is Atlantic veteran Mary McCann as
Jimmy’s estranged wife, Clare, matching his sad survivor with
her own hard-won liberation from a ruined past.  Set designer Rachel Hauck makes the postage-stamp stage
seem spacious, with just a few chairs and a pay phone at the
rear, lit in shadow by Ben Stanton. Director Gaye Taylor
Upchurch seems a little too fond of those chairs, calling for
busyness between scenes when stillness would do. That’s a lesson
she could learn from her star.  Through Sept. 9 at 330 W. 16th St. Information: +1-212-645-
1242;  http://www.atlantictheater.org .
Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 