-- 
Cameron Urged to Say If He Knew of News Corp. Coulson Severance Payments

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-08-23T14:30:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/cameron-urged-to-say-if-he-knew-of-news-corp-coulson-severance-payments.html
Britain’s opposition  Labour Party 
called on Prime Minister  David Cameron  to say whether he knew
that  Andy Coulson  continued to receive payments from News Corp.
while he was working as his head of communications.  Cameron said last month that with hindsight it had been a
mistake to hire Coulson a few months after he resigned as News
of the World editor in 2007 following the jailing of one of his
reporters for phone-hacking. Coulson quit his government job in
January and was arrested July 8 as revelations of hacking at the
now defunct newspaper widened.  The  BBC   reported last night  that News Corp.’s News
International unit paid Coulson hundreds of thousands of pounds
as part of a severance package after he began working for
Cameron’s Conservative Party.  “David Cameron needs to say whether he knew about the
payments to Andy Coulson,” Labour’s culture spokesman, Ivan Lewis, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The details of Mr.
Coulson’s termination agreements with News International must be
published and we need to know whether these payments, in the
form of honoring a two-year contract of employment after he had
been forced to resign in disgrace, were declared to the
parliamentary authorities.”  Cameron defended his record on dealings with  News Corp. (NWSA)  in
an emergency session of Parliament on the phone-hacking scandal
on July 20. Coulson has denied any knowledge of illegality.  ‘Profound Apology’  “If it turns out I’ve been lied to, that will be a moment
for a profound apology, and in that moment, I can assure you I
will not fall short,” Cameron told lawmakers. “With 20-20
hindsight and all that has followed I would not have offered him
the job and I expect he would not have taken it.”  The Conservative Party said in an e-mailed statement today
that senior party officials had no knowledge of Coulson’s
severance arrangements.  Coulson told Parliament’s  Culture, Media and Sport
Committee  in July 2009 that he was not paid by both News
International and the  Conservative Party  at the same time.  “Your sole income was News International and then your
sole income was the Conservative Party?” Labour lawmaker  Tom Watson  asked Coulson. “Yes,” Coulson replied.  Watson has written to the  Electoral Commission  to report
the payments, which he said may be in breach of rules on party
funding. They may have broken regulations on sponsorship and the
reporting of donations, Watson said in a letter to the
commission posted on his  website .  “News International consistently does not comment on the
financial arrangements of any individual,” spokeswoman Danielle
Allen said. Coulson’s lawyer, Jo Rickards, didn’t immediately
respond to a message requesting comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  