-- 
Caribe Media Files Bankruptcy Restructuring Plan Giving Lenders Equity

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-23T21:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/caribe-media-files-bankruptcy-restructuring-plan-giving-lenders-equity.html
Caribe Media Inc., a publisher of
directories in  Puerto Rico  and the Dominican Republic, filed a
reorganization plan giving control of the company to its
lenders.  Senior secured lenders, owed about $127 million, would get
all of the reorganized company’s equity and share in a
$55 million exit loan, according to the plan filed Aug. 18 in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . The lenders are
projected to receive a recovery of 79 to 95 cents on the dollar.  Subordinated noteholders owed about $58.5 million won’t
receive any recovery under the plan.  Caribe sought Chapter 11 protection from creditors in May,
citing as much as $500 million each in assets and liabilities.
The company, based in  San Juan , Puerto Rico, has about
$184 million in funded debt.  The company filed bankruptcy so its lenders could pursue
$44.2 million they claim was wrongly transferred to affiliates
as dividend payments.  Before the filing, an unofficial committee of senior
secured lenders “raised issues regarding approximately
$44.2 million in dividend payments that Caribe Media Inc.
transferred to non-debtor Local Insight Media Inc.,” Caribe
Chief Financial Officer Chris Batson said in court papers.  Property Transferred  The money was moved in 2009 and 2010, and the committee
believes the transfers were “improper” and subject to scrutiny
under “federal or state fraudulent conveyance laws,” Batson
said. A fraudulent conveyance occurs when assets or property are
transferred and the company doesn’t receive equivalent value in
exchange.  The company’s main operating units provide directory
services to Puerto Rico and the  Dominican Republic , controlling
80 percent and 98 percent of the market respectively, court
papers show. Caribe is indirectly owned by Local Insight Media
Holdings Inc., based in Englewood,  Colorado , which filed for
Chapter 11 protection in November.  The case is In re Caribe Media, 11-11387, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 