-- 
Caroline Wozniacki Seeded First at U.S. Open, Serena Williams Slotted 28th

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-23T17:38:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/caroline-wozniacki-seeded-first-at-u-s-open-serena-williams-slotted-28th.html
Serena Williams was seeded at No. 28
at the U.S. Open tennis tournament, while  Caroline Wozniacki  of
 Denmark  was made top seed in line with her world ranking.  Williams, a three-time winner, will be playing in  New York 
for the first since 2009, when a penalty point for verbally
abusing a line judge who called a foot fault cost her the
semifinal match against eventual champion Kim Clijsters of
 Belgium . Williams, a 13-time Grand Slam champion from the U.S.,
missed the tournament last year because of a foot injury.  Following the rankings of the WTA tour, tournament
organizers made current Wozniacki the top seed even though the
21-year-old from Denmark hasn’t won a Grand Slam singles title
and lost back-to-back opening matches in Toronto and Cincinnati
this month. Williams, 29, won the title in Toronto.  “After careful deliberation regarding  Serena Williams ’s
seeding, we decided to maintain the objective criteria in place
to determine the women’s singles seeds at this year’s U.S.
Open,” Jim Curley, the tournament director, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Williams was seeded eighth at Wimbledon in June after not
playing for almost a year because of illness and injury, and
being ranked No. 26 at the time. Wimbledon is the only Grand
Slam event that bases its seedings order on both rankings and
proven records on grass courts. Williams ended up losing in the
fourth round.  Williams is the only seeded U.S. player in the women’s
draw. Her older sister Venus is ranked No. 36 and wasn’t seeded.  Clijsters Withdraws  Clijsters, who won the Australian Open at the start of the
season, pulled out of the  U.S. Open  last week with an injury. Li
Na of  China , who won the French Open to become the first Asian
player to take a Grand Slam singles title, was seeded sixth,
while Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic is
fifth. Vera Zvonareva, last year’s runner-up in New York, was
seeded second, while another Russian, former champion Maria Sharapova, is third.  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus is fourth.  Serena Williams is the 11-8 favorite at U.K. bookmaker
William Hill Plc to win the U.S. Open, which starts Aug. 22 at
the National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows. Kvitova is
second favorite at 5-1, followed by Sharapova at 11-2. Azarenka
is at 9-1, while Wozniacki is 16-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  