-- 
McGraw-Hill Shareholders Put Forward Plan to Break Company Into Four Units

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-08-23T20:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/mcgraw-hill-shareholders-say-company-should-be-broken-up-into-four-units.html
McGraw-Hill Cos., owner of  Standard
& Poor’s , has “underperformed its potential” and should break
into four parts, shareholders Jana Partners LLC and  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan  proposed.  The shareholders presented a plan to separate the company
into four units -- S&P, the S&P index business, information &
media, and education -- as well as buy back more shares, Jana
said late yesterday in a regulatory filing.  McGraw-Hill officials, who met with the shareholders
yesterday in  New York , didn’t respond to the proposal, said a
person with knowledge of the talks, who declined to be named
because the discussions haven’t been made public. The company is
considering dividing in two, with the education publishing unit
being spun off or sold, the person said. Jana and Ontario
Teachers’, whose shares are managed by Jana, together own a 5.2
percent stake and said they want to boost  shareholder value .  A spokesman for Jana, a New York-based hedge fund, didn’t
return a call seeking comment. Lydya Castillo, a spokeswoman for
Toronto-based Ontario Teachers’, didn’t return a call.  McGraw-Hill wouldn’t comment on specific talks with
shareholders, Patti Rockenwagner, a spokeswoman for the New
York-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “McGraw-Hill’s portfolio review is well advanced and
expected to result in significant actions in the next few months
to accelerate global growth, align appropriate cost structures
and build shareholder value,” according to the statement.  ‘Sizable Discount’  The company “has consistently underperformed its potential
and traded at a sizable discount,” Jana said in the filing. In
particular, it said the education unit is a “drag” on the
company’s value.  McGraw-Hill education accounted for 39 percent of the
company’s 2010 revenue, while contributing only 23 percent of
its operating profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Terry McGraw said last month that
the company is conducting a strategic portfolio review. In June,
McGraw-Hill said it planned to sell its broadcasting group and
hired Morgan Stanley to find a buyer.  Evercore Partners Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
also advising McGraw-Hill.  Separately, McGraw-Hill said late yesterday that S&P will
replace President Deven Sharma with Citibank NA Chief Operating
Officer Douglas Peterson. S&P’s Aug. 5 decision to reduce the
U.S. credit rating to AA+ roiled global markets and boosted
demand for Treasuries, sending the yield on the 10-year note,
the benchmark for home mortgages and  car loans , to a record low
2.03 percent.  McGraw-Hill rose $1.65, or 4.5 percent, to $38.69 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
climbed 6.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  