-- 
Chilean Traders See Rate Cut Two Weeks After Economists Forecast Increase

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-08-23T03:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/chilean-traders-see-rate-cut-two-weeks-after-economists-forecast-increase.html
Traders in  Chile ’s interest-rate
swap market are estimating that a global downturn may warrant
the first interest rate cut in more than two years, a fortnight
after economists forecast an increase.  Six-month interest rate swaps fell to 5 percent on Aug.
18, indicating at least one rate reduction from today’s 5.25
percent level this year. Economists surveyed on Aug. 9 by the
central bank forecast a quarter-point increase.  Chile is joining countries including Mexico and  Brazil ,
where traders are betting central bankers will cut  interest
rates  to protect their economies from the global downturn.
Policy makers on Aug. 18 kept rates unchanged for the second
straight month after five consecutive increases. They dropped
language accompanying the July decision on the possibility of
raising borrowing costs as concern mounts that the U.S. will
slip back into recession.  “The market is preparing for the worst-case scenario,”
Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones
in Santiago, said in an Aug. 22 telephone interview about swap
traders. “Traders are forecasting two, and in some cases three,
rate decreases in the coming 12 to 18 months.”  Forecasts by economists and traders may come back into line
when the central bank releases estimates for growth and
inflation in its quarterly report, or Ipom, on Sept. 7, Selaive
said.  “The central bank in its last monetary policy decision
left the door open to any type of decision: raising rates,
keeping them on hold, or reducing them,” said Mario Arend,
chief economist at Celfin Capital in Santiago. “My vision as an
economist is that the central bank is leaning toward keeping
rates stable.”  Slowing Down  The central bank’s policy is designed to anchor inflation
at 3 percent over two years, it said in the Aug. 18 statement.  Policy makers in the latest Ipom published in June
estimated inflation would close the year at 4 percent. Since
then, inflation has slowed, reaching 2.9 percent in July from
3.4 percent the previous month.  Economists in the August central bank poll cut their year-
end inflation forecasts to 3.6 percent from 4.2 percent in June.
Twelve-month breakeven inflation, a measure of future price
increases derived from the gap between nominal and inflation-
linked yields, slipped to 2.40 percent yesterday from 3.39
percent on June 1.  “Any future changes in the monetary policy rate will
depend on the implications of domestic and external
macroeconomic conditions on the inflationary outlook,” the bank
said Aug. 18.  Adjusting for Risk  Morgan Stanley yesterday cut its forecast for Latin
American economic growth this year and next, saying the region
is “unlikely to be spared” from a global slowdown.  The region’s economies will expand 3.6 percent next year
from a previous forecast of 4.6 percent, Morgan Stanley’s chief
 Latin America  economist,  Gray Newman , said in an e-mailed
report. Chile was the only country for which he didn’t cut his
growth forecast.  Six-month Chilean interest rate swaps closed at 5.02
percent yesterday, while one- and two-year swaps were 4.83
percent and 4.62 percent respectively.  “Against these risks of a global recession triggered by
the U.S., the interest rate markets looked a bit off,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency strategist at RBS Securities Inc.
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an interview yesterday.
“Latin America has been at an advanced stage of the economic
cycle, and the market is now adjusting for these bigger risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  