-- 
Chile Swap Falls as Gregorio Says Central Bank May Cut Rates

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-08-23T21:27:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/chile-swap-falls-as-gregorio-says-central-bank-may-cut-rates.html
Chile ’s three-month interest-rate
swaps fell to the lowest level since May after central bank
President Jose De Gregorio said policy makers may lower
borrowing costs should a global slowdown reduce commodity prices
and damp growth in the world´s biggest copper producer.  The swap rate, which reflects traders’ views of future
 interest rates , fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 5.12 percent, the lowest level since May. The swap
fell this month below the central bank’s benchmark rate for the
first time since 2009, indicating traders are betting on a cut
from the current 5.25 percent.  Chile, whose economy expanded 10 percent in the first
quarter from last year and 6.8 percent in the second quarter, is
seeing signs of a deceleration in demand growth that might
accelerate in the rest of the year,  De Gregorio  said at the
Bloomberg Chile Economic Summit in Santiago today.  “If the world decelerates enough to provoke a deceleration
that exacerbates gaps, expands excess capacity,” the central
bank could change the “trajectory” of its monetary policy, De
Gregorio said.  Policy makers on Aug. 18 kept rates unchanged for the
second straight month after five consecutive increases. They
dropped language accompanying the July decision on the
possibility of raising borrowing costs as concern mounts that
the U.S. will slip back into recession.  “The central bank always says the rate decision depends on
the global situation,” Eugenio Cortes, head of currency
forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA, said in an
interview. “Of course if they see a deeper slowdown, they could
cut the rate, but I think the most probable scenario is that
they keep rates unchanged for the rest of the year.”  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 467.34 per  U.S. dollar , from
467.67 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  