-- 
Chile Central Bank May Cut Rate If Global Slowdown Hits, De Gregorio Says

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 
2011-08-23T15:39:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/chile-central-bank-says-it-may-cut-benchmark-rate-if-global-slowdown-hits.html
Chile ’s central bank may cut rates
if a global slowdown reduces commodity prices and damps growth
in the world´s biggest copper producer, where domestic demand is
showing signs of slowing, bank President Jose De Gregorio said.  “If the world decelerates enough to provoke a deceleration
that exacerbates gaps, expands excess capacity,” the central
bank could change the “trajectory” of its monetary policy, De
Gregorio said at the Bloomberg Chile Economic Summit in Santiago
today.  Chile’s three-month interest rate swap rate fell to the
lowest since May after De Gregorio’s comments. The swap rate,
which reflects traders’ view of future  interest rates , fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.17 percent at 10:25
a.m. New York time. The swap fell this month below the central
bank’s benchmark rate of 5.25 percent for the first time since
2009, indicating traders are betting on a cut.  Policy makers on Aug. 18 kept rates unchanged for the
second straight month after five consecutive increases. They
dropped language accompanying the July decision on the
possibility of raising borrowing costs as concern mounts that
the U.S. will slip back into recession.  Signs of Slowdown  Chile, whose economy grew 10 percent in the first quarter
from last year and 6.8 percent in second quarter, is seeing
signs of a deceleration in demand growth that could become more
pronounced in the rest of the year,  De Gregorio  said. It is less
probable that policy makers will raise rates beyond today´s 5.25
percent, he said.  Policy makers, in the minutes of their June meeting,
estimated inflation would close the year at 4 percent. Since
then, inflation has slowed, reaching 2.9 percent in July from
3.4 percent the previous month.  Economists in an August central bank poll cut their year-
end inflation forecasts to 3.6 percent from 4.2 percent in June.
Twelve-month breakeven inflation, a measure of future price
increases derived from the gap between nominal and inflation-
linked yields, slipped to 2.40 percent yesterday from 3.39
percent on June 1.  Future Changes  “Any future changes in the monetary policy rate will
depend on the implications of domestic and external
macroeconomic conditions on the inflationary outlook,” the bank
said Aug. 18.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 468.18 per dollar.  Morgan Stanley yesterday cut its forecast for Latin
American economic growth this year and next, saying the region
is “unlikely to be spared” from a global slowdown.  The region’s economies will expand 3.6 percent next year
from a previous forecast of 4.6 percent, Morgan Stanley’s chief
Latin America economist,  Gray Newman , said in an e-mailed
report. Chile was the only country for which he didn’t cut his
growth forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in Santiago at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  