-- 
China Says Dalai Lama Rival Visits Tibetans

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-08-23T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/china-says-dalai-lama-rival-visits-tibetans-and-urges-obedience.html
China ’s official Tibetan spiritual
leader, the Panchen Lama, in a visit to the country’s northwest
has told Tibetan Buddhists to obey the law in what analysts say
is a government effort to undermine anti-Chinese protest and the
exiled Dalai Lama.  The government-appointed lama, Gyaltsen Norbu, 21, made a
13-day visit from his home in Beijing to an ethnic Tibetan
region and performed rituals at one of Tibetan Buddhism’s most
prominent monasteries,  Xinhua reported . The visit was part of
China’s attempt to boost Norbu’s religious credentials for an
eventual role in choosing a successor to Tibet’s main spiritual
leader, the Dalai Lama, said D.S. Rajan, director of the
independent  Chennai Centre for China Studies  in  India .  With the  Dalai Lama , 76, continuing his 50-year-old
campaign for Tibetan autonomy from Chinese rule, “China’s
government says it will choose his successor and the Panchen
Lama traditionally has a voice” in that process, Rajan said in
a phone interview yesterday. “They want to create a cooperative
Tibetan religious leadership” to undermine anti-Chinese
protests that have erupted each year since 2008 riots that were
the deadliest in Tibet for two decades, Rajan said.  Since March, two Tibetan monks in Sichuan province have
immolated themselves while others have demonstrated in favor of
the Dalai Lama’s return to China, leading to police curfews and
detentions of hundreds of monks, Tibetan exile groups say. Those
protests are several hundred kilometers south of the area
visited by Norbu.  ‘Puppet Figure’  “This Tibetan boy has no credibility or legitimacy in the
eyes of the Tibetan people,” said Lobsang Sangay, the new prime
minister of the Dalai Lama’s exile government. “He has become a
puppet figure who parrots those things that Beijing dictates for
him to do,” Sangay said in an interview last week in the Indian
capital, New Delhi.  The Dalai Lama says Chinese rule is destroying  Tibet ’s
distinct culture and environment. While China calls him a
“splittist” who secretly seeks independence for the region,
President  Barack Obama  met him last month and renewed the U.S.
call for Chinese leaders to negotiate with him.  In Tibetan Buddhism, the Panchen Lama traditionally ranks
second only to the Dalai Lama. In 1995, the Dalai Lama
recognized a six-year-old, Gedhun Choekyi Nyima, as the
reincarnated Panchen Lama, and authorities took custody of the
boy and his family a few days later.  Soon after, the Chinese government recognized Norbu as the
Panchen Lama, and he was moved to the Chinese capital. He made
his first visit to Lhasa, the Tibetan capital in 1999, Xinhua
reported at the time, and he has visited Tibet every year or two
since, according to Sangay and Chinese state media accounts.  Foreigners Barred  Last year, China named Norbu to the government’s top
advisory body, the  Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference , Xinhua reported.  On Aug. 21 Norbu ended a trip to Gansu, a province on the
northern edge of China’s Tibetan-inhabited area. He visited the
Labrang Monastery, where monks joined Tibet-wide protests in
2008 against Chinese rule. Chinese troops reinforced the area
and foreigners were barred from visiting in the days leading to
Norbu’s arrival, said the Washington-based  International
Campaign for Tibet , which backs the Dalai Lama.  Xinhua said Norbu gave lessons and blessings to 50,000
Tibetan Buddhists in which he “reminded local Buddhists to
abide by the law” and “said he was impressed with religious
freedom enjoyed by local people.” He visited new government
housing built for nomads and “made cash donations to several
families living in poverty,” Xinhua said.  While little is known of Nyima’s fate, Tibet’s Chinese-
appointed governor said last year he is living in Tibet. Sangay
said the Dalai Lama’s government believes that is unlikely.  “We know that his parents are kept in China, not in a
Tibetan area, and the family is kept separated,” with Nyima,
his siblings and his parents in different locations, Sangay
said, citing informants in China. “They are all watched and
monitored on a daily basis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  