-- 
China Telecom Profit Gains 12% on Mobile Subscriber Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-23T09:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/china-telecom-profit-gains-12-on-user-growth.html
China Telecom Corp., the country’s
biggest fixed-line carrier, reported second-quarter profit rose
12 percent as its mobile-phone unit increased its subscriber
base by almost half.  Profit excluding gains from connection fees rose to 5.09
billion yuan ($796 million) in the three months ended June 30,
from 4.54 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-based company
said in a  statement  on its website today. That was in line with
the 5.05 billion-yuan average of six analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman Wang Xiaochu has taken advantage of his Code
Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, international network
standard to attract new subscribers with smartphones including
Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Ace and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.’s Moto XT800. Wang may strike a deal by the end of
this year to become the second Chinese carrier after China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. to offer Apple Inc.’s iPhone, according
to UBS AG analyst Wang Jinjin.  “The CDMA business continued to drive up revenue growth,”
Wang wrote in a report to clients on Aug. 8. “Compared with two
to three years ago when China Telecom first started the CDMA
business, the ecosystem of CDMA handsets has largely improved
owing to China Telecom’s efforts.”  China Telecom rose 4.8 percent to HK$4.60 at the 4 p.m.
close in  Hong Kong  trading today. The benchmark  Hang Seng  rose 2
percent.  Second-quarter sales rose 12 percent to 61.4 billion yuan,
beating the 59.7 billion-yuan average of six analysts’
estimates.  The company now offers more than 100 smartphone models for
the third-generation network, with many priced around 1,000
yuan, Wang said in the statement.  ‘Critical Breakthrough’  “In the first half of the year, we have achieved a
critical breakthrough in 3G smartphones,” Wang said. “We
closely followed the market momentum of mobile Internet
services, leveraging the convergence of wireline and mobile
services and riding on smartphone handset terminals.”  In the second quarter, the company’s mobile unit added 8.12
million users, boosting its subscriber base to 108.4 million at
the end of June, up from 74.5 million a year earlier.  The company ranks third in wireless users in the Asian
nation, behind  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and China Unicom.  China Telecom entered the wireless market in 2008 by
acquiring the smaller of China Unicom’s two mobile divisions in
a government-led revamp of the Chinese mobile-phone industry.  China Mobile on Aug. 18 posted a 7 percent gain in second-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates after data traffic
rose on demand for games and videos from smartphone users. China
Unicom will report earnings tomorrow.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  