-- 
China Life Profit Falls 28% as Shanghai Stock Slide Hits Investment Return

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-23T13:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/china-life-profit-falls-28-as-shanghai-stock-slide-hits-investment-return.html
China Life Insurance Co., the
nation’s biggest insurer, said first-half profit fell 28 percent
as declines in the local stock market hurt investment returns.  Net income fell to 12.96 billion yuan ($2 billion), or 0.46
yuan a share, from 18 billion yuan, or 0.64 yuan a share, a year
earlier, the Beijing-based insurer said in a statement to the
 Hong Kong  stock exchange today.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.6 percent in
the first half, reducing the value of China Life’s equity
holdings, as the government tightened monetary policy. Growth in
net premiums earned slowed to 6.1 percent, from 13 percent a
year earlier, as efforts to lower the share of less-profitable,
shorter-duration contracts hampered policy sales.  “Investment income probably wasn’t great as the
performance of the stock market was poor in the first half,”
said Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based analyst at Core Pacific-
Yamaichi International Ltd., before the announcement. “Premiums
will likely see some mild growth for the rest of the year given
the lack of policy stimulus or an easing in monetary policy.”  Net realized gains on financial assets slumped more than 90
percent to 601 million yuan, according to today’s statement. Net
investment income, mainly dividends and bond yields, rose 23
percent to 30.3 billion yuan.  Further Declines  Shanghai-listed stocks fell in the first half as the
government raised  interest rates  and ordered banks to set aside
more reserves to curb accelerating inflation. The benchmark
index has tumbled another 7.5 percent since June 30 amid concern
U.S. economic growth will slow and the European sovereign-debt
crisis in  Europe  will worsen.  China Life rose 4.3 percent to HK$22.95 in Hong Kong today
before the earnings, paring this year’s decline to 28 percent.  The insurer’s gross premiums slipped 5.7 percent in July
from a year earlier as sales through agents and banks continued
to decelerate, indicating a “slower than expected” recovery in
its business, Ping An Securities Co. analyst Dou Zeyun said in
an Aug. 16 report. The impact from product-mix adjustments to
refocus on regular-premium contracts and slower growth in
individual contract renewals will “continue into the second
half.”  Ping An, the nation’s second-biggest life insurer, boosted
net premiums by 39 percent in the first half, as it focused on
telemarketing and cross-selling through its banking and
securities operations.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  