-- 
China’s Manufacturing May Contract at Slower Pace This Month, Survey Shows

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-23T04:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/china-s-manufacturing-may-contract-for-a-second-month-hsbc-survey-shows.html
China ’s manufacturing may contract
at a slower pace in August as the world’s second-biggest economy
weathers slumping global confidence.  A preliminary reading of 49.8 for a manufacturing index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today
compares with a final reading of 49.3 for July. The final
August number is due Sept. 1. A reading below 50 indicates a
contraction.  The data suggests that growth in China is moderating rather
than collapsing and the slide in the index in July may have been
a one-off “blip,” HSBC said. Investors are focused on the
outlook for the nation as U.S. growth falters and European
officials grapple with a debt crisis that is yet to be resolved.  “This should help lower fears of a hard landing akin to
2008 autumn’s sharp slowdown,” saidQu Hongbin, a Hong Kong-
based economist for HSBC. “Inflation, not growth, remains the
top near-term macro risk.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local time break in trading.  Faltering U.S. and European growth and a deepening debt
crisis in the  euro zone  have triggered a four-week rout that’s
wiped out more than $8 trillion in global equity values. China’s
commerce ministry cautioned today that exporters face weak
demand and rising costs.  ‘Soft Landing’  “China is on track for a soft landing despite the external
risks, with accelerating inland growth and investment in public
housing and new projects,” Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, said before the
announcement.  HSBC’s preliminary index, known as the Flash PMI, is based
on 85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey of
executives in more than 400 companies.  The preliminary number has matched the final reading twice
since HSBC began publishing the series in February. The final
reading fell below 50 in July for the first time in a year. The
official manufacturing index released by the statistics bureau
and the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing had a
reading of 50.7 in July.  China’s central bank has raised  interest rates  five times
since mid-October, imposed loan quotas and raised banks’ reserve
requirements nine times since November to cool inflation and
growth.  Chinese officials need to observe and prepare for risks
from the “turbulence in the global financial markets and as
uncertainties in the global economic recovery increase,”
according a  statement  issued after a cabinet meeting chaired by
Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Aug. 9.  Tougher credit conditions have led to slowing orders from
Chinese  steel mills , said Neville Power, chief executive officer
of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,  Australia ’s third-biggest
producer of  iron ore , on Aug. 19. Still, the company’s head of
China sales, David Liu, said underlying demand for steel in
China remains “very, very strong.”  Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG last week cut estimates
for China’s expansion as the debt burdens and elevated
unemployment of developed nations threaten demand for exports.  --Li Yanping. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  