-- 
Codelco Bets China Growth Will Justify $20 Billion Copper Mine Investments

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C r a z e   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-08-23T22:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/codelco-bets-china-growth-will-justify-20-billion-copper-mine-investments.html
Codelco, the world’s largest copper
producer, sees “robust” demand for the metal underpinning
prices and the company’s plan to spend almost $20 billion to
revamp its mines, Chief Financial Officer  Thomas Keller  said.  Global copper prices are “reasonable” at current levels,
Keller told reporters yesterday at the Bloomberg Chile Economic
Summit in Santiago. Copper has plunged 10 percent this month
after the metal used to make power cables and electrical wires
more than tripled in value since 2009.  The Santiago-based company is moving ahead with plans to
invest almost $20 billion over five years to expand its mines,
betting that Chinese demand will help prices rebound amid a
shortage of global copper supplies, Keller said.  China  consumes
about 35 percent of Codelco’s output, according to the state-
owned company’s website.  “Copper is on very sound footing to withstand these
difficult times,” he said. “Our investment plan won’t be
impacted by the short-term copper price indicators.”  Prices for the metal rose the most in more than a week
yesterday after a report on Chinese manufacturing eased concern
that an economic slowdown is deepening. Chinese imports of
refined copper rose for a second month in July, while inbound
shipments of scrap copper jumped 14 percent from a year earlier,
customs data showed this week.  Copper futures for December delivery climbed 3.95 cents, or
1 percent, to $4.0145 a pound yesterday on the Comex in  New
York , the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Aug. 11.  Strikes, Bad Weather  Codelco and other mining companies in Chile, which supplies
a third of the world’s copper, are struggling to raise output
this year amid strikes and bad weather in the Atacama Desert.
Chilean production of the metal may have been cut by about 8
percent because of the disruptions, Codelco Chief Executive
Officer  Diego Hernandez  said Aug. 12.  “Long-term” copper prices may average between $3 and $5 a
pound, Keller said, compared with an average of less than $2.50
a pound in the past decade.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an Aug. 8 report that
copper will rebound to $11,000 a metric ton, or about $4.99 a
pound, in 12 months as supplies tighten because of growth in
emerging economies.  Codelco is seeking to raise debt to finance investments
that will average more than $3 billion a year for most of this
decade, Hernandez said in an Aug. 4 interview.  ‘Turbulence’  “I don’t see current turbulence negatively affecting
Codelco’s financing capability,” Keller said. “It’s the
reverse. Today assets like Codelco are particularly
attractive.”  The company may raise as much as $2.5 billion in bonds and
loans by the end of 2012 to fund record spending on its mines in
 Chile , including the century-old Chuquicamata mine, Hernandez
said. The company may sell more than $1 billion in bonds, he
said.  In October, Codelco sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds to
yield 3.965 percent, 130 basis points more than similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries, in a transaction arranged by Deutsche Bank AG
and HSBC Holdings Plc.  Codelco may spend more than $30 billion between 2011 and
2022, as much as it spent in the past 35 years, to meet rising
global demand for the metal, according to an undated
presentation on the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  