-- 
Colombian Peso Declines on Bets for Further Currency Measures

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-08-23T17:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/colombian-peso-declines-on-bets-for-further-currency-measures.html
Colombia ’s peso fell, erasing an
earlier advance, on bets policy makers will take further
measures to ease gains in the local currency.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 1,784.15 per  U.S. dollar  at
12:57 p.m. New York time, from 1,780 yesterday. Today’s drop
pared the peso’s gain this year to 7 percent, the best
performance among the most-traded Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The market gets nervous when the peso gets closer to
1,750 on speculation the central bank will take further
measures, and the  exchange rate  will turn around pretty fast,”
said Jose Luis Alayon, an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Acciones y Valores SA.  In a bid to ease the peso’s rally, Finance Minister Juan
Carlos Echeverry said in April that the government would create
an overseas fund with as much as $1.2 billion from dollars
bought in the local market through the end of 2011, and forgo
repatriating funds from abroad for the rest of the year. Since
Sept. 15, the central bank has bought a minimum of $20 million
daily in the  currency market , and plans to keep up the purchases
until at least Sept. 30.  Banco de la Republica will probably extend its daily
purchases through the end of the year, said Alayon.  Foreign Borrowing  Andres Pardo , the head analyst at financial services
holding company Corp. Financiera Colombiana, known as
Corficolombiana, expects policy makers to impose limits on
foreign borrowing as part of an effort to stem peso gains.  The Colombian currency earlier rose as much as 0.2 percent
on bets the  Federal Reserve  will take steps to bolster the  U.S.
economy , according to Po Jeng, an analyst at Interbolsa SA,
Colombia’s biggest brokerage.  Central bankers from around the world meet this week in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming, for a conference that last year resulted
in Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaling a second round of
asset purchases that buoyed equity markets.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due in July 2024
rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.33
percent. Yesterday the yield fell to 7.29 percent, its lowest
level on a closing basis since the bonds were issued in 2009.
The price fell today 0.380 centavo to 121.792 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 Bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  