-- 
Comscore, Website Data Tracker, Sued for Alleged Secret Software Installs

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/comscore-website-data-tracker-sued-for-alleged-secret-software-installs.html
Comscore Inc. (SCOR) , a company that
measures website traffic, was accused in a lawsuit by two
Internet users of surreptitiously installing data-mining
software on their computers.  The company’s secret installation of the programs, which
come bundled with free screen-saver software and other
applications, violates Illinois and U.S. laws including the
federal Electronic Communications Privacy Act, according to a
federal lawsuit filed yesterday in  Chicago .  “The scope and breadth of data that Comscore collects from
unsuspecting customers is terrifying,” Californian Jeff Dunstan
and Illinois resident Mike Harris said in their complaint.  Comscore, based in Reston,  Virginia , compiles Internet
traffic data from about 2 million consumers in 170 countries and
then markets the information to financial analysts, advertising
agencies and other businesses, according to its own  website .  Harris and Dunstan said the company’s software collects
user names and passwords, credit card numbers, and prices paid
for  consumer goods  purchased on line, in addition to logging the
sites consumers visited and ads they’ve clicked on.  “We have reviewed the lawsuit and find it to be without
merit and full of factual inaccuracies,” Andrew Lipsman, a
Comscore vice president, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Comscore intends to aggressively defend itself against these
claims.”  The plaintiffs seek a class action, or group, status to sue
on behalf of anyone who had Comscore surveillance software
installed without their permission and on behalf of anyone who,
like Dunstan, paid to have it professionally uninstalled.  They also asked for a court order barring the company from
continuing its allegedly unlawful practices.  The case is Harris v. Comscore Inc., 11cv5807, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  