-- 
Copper Climbs on Speculation Fed Will Take Steps to Bolster U.S. Economy

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-23T12:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/copper-advances-on-speculation-fed-will-take-steps-to-stoke-u-s-economy.html
Copper rose in New York on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will act to bolster the economy
in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest consumer of the metal.  The Fed holds its annual symposium this weekend in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming . Last year Chairman Ben S. Bernanke hinted that
the central bank might embark on a second round of asset
purchases. Prices also gained as figures indicated that
manufacturing in China, the largest copper user, may contract at
a slower pace.  “The important news this week will be obviously Bernanke’s
speech in Jackson Hole,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in  London . “That’s what people are waiting for.”  Copper for December delivery climbed 5 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $4.025 a pound by 7:54 a.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Prices increased as much as 1.4 percent, the most in
almost a week. Copper for three-month delivery rose 1.8 percent
to $8,880 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  The Fed bought $600 billion in Treasuries from November
through June in a second stage of so-called quantitative easing,
or QE2. The central bank said this month U.S. economic growth
was “considerably slower” than anticipated and it’s ready to
use a range of policy tools to boost the economy.  Factory Gauge  A Chinese manufacturing index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed a preliminary reading
for August of 49.8, compared with the final 49.3 for July. The
final August figure is due Sept. 1. A level below 50 signals a
contraction. The gauge “is close to expansionary territory,”
Commerzbank AG said in a report.  Imports of scrap and refined copper into  China  in July rose
from the previous month and were above the year-to-date average,
customs data showed yesterday. Inbound shipments of refined
metal gained for a second month and scrap imports rose to the
highest level since December.  “The fact that demand in China is relatively robust is
also shown by yesterday’s import figures,” Commerzbank analyst
 Daniel Briesemann  said in the report.  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the LME added 1.1
percent to $2,361.75 a ton. The lightweight metal for immediate
delivery closed at a discount of $36.50 a ton to the three-month
contract yesterday after the so-called contango reached $36.65,
the widest level since September 2010.  Stockpiles of aluminum alloy tracked by the LME climbed to
131,060 tons, the highest level since at least 1994, on a gain
in Gwangyang in  South Korea , daily exchange data showed.  Zinc, lead, nickel and tin also rose in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  