-- 
Copper Futures Climb as Report on China Manufacturing Eases Growth Concern

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-23T17:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/copper-futures-climb-as-report-on-china-manufacturing-eases-growth-concern.html
Copper rose the most in more than a
week in  New York  after a report on Chinese manufacturing eased
concerns that the economic slowdown is deepening.  A Chinese manufacturing index released by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics showed a preliminary reading for August of
49.8, compared with the final 49.3 for July. Imports of refined
copper by China, the world’s largest user, rose for a second
month in July, customs data showed yesterday. Inbound shipments
of scrap copper jumped 14 percent from a year earlier.  “We’re higher across the board in metals, mainly on
account of a weaker dollar as well as the release of the Chinese
manufacturing number overnight,”  Edward Meir , a senior analyst
at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,  Connecticut , said in a
report.  Copper futures for December delivery climbed 3.95 cents, or
1 percent, to close at $4.0145 a pound at 1:30 p.m. on the Comex
in New York, the biggest gain for a most-active contract since
Aug. 11.  Prices also rose on speculation that the Federal Reserve
will act to bolster the economy in the U.S., the second-biggest
copper consumer. The Fed holds its annual symposium this weekend
in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. Last year at the same event, Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke signaled a $600 billion bond-purchase program.  “The important news this week will be, obviously,
Bernanke’s speech in Jackson Hole,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in  London , said today in a telephone
interview. “That’s what people are waiting for.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery rose $130, or 1.5 percent, to $8,850 a metric ton
($4.01 a pound).  Aluminum, zinc, lead and tin also rose in London. Nickel
fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  