-- 
Oil Rises a Second Day on U.S. Fuel Demand, Libya Crude Production Outlook

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-23T06:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/crude-oil-fluctuates-before-u-s-stockpile-report-brent-premium-widens.html
Oil advanced for a second day in  New
York  as investors bet U.S. fuel demand may rebound and a
recovery in Libyan crude output will take longer than expected.  Futures climbed as much as 1.2 percent before a government
report tomorrow that may show U.S. gasoline inventories shrank
last week while crude stockpiles rose. Prices also gained after
a manufacturing gauge improved in China, the world’s biggest
energy user. London-traded Brent rebounded, after dropping as
much as 3.2 percent yesterday as Libyan rebels entered Tripoli.  “The market got a little ahead of itself in terms of
thinking that the Libyan conflict might be all over in a week,”
said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney,
who predicts New York crude will average $115 a barrel this
year. For West Texas Intermediate, the main grade traded in New
York, “it still obviously has a focus on what’s happening in
the U.S. in terms of petroleum demand.”  Crude for October delivery climbed as much as 99 cents to
$85.41 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $85.32 at 2:32 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract earlier fell as much as 0.4 percent. It gained 2.4
percent yesterday.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $109 a barrel, up
64 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, after
closing 0.2 percent lower yesterday. The European benchmark
contract was at a premium of $23.63 to U.S. West Texas
Intermediate crude futures compared with a record of $26.21 on
Aug. 19.  Fuel Supplies  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show gasoline
stockpiles declined 1 million barrels from 210 million barrels
in the seven days ended Aug. 19, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. Crude inventories probably increased a
second week by 1.5 million barrels, the survey shows. The
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will report its own
data today.  “Energy prices are expected to hold in a mixed direction
today before tomorrow’s data potentially offer some support,”
Tom Pawlicki, a Chicago-based analyst at MF Global Holdings
Ltd., said in a note. “The question for  Brent crude , as well as
the Brent-WTI spread, will be exactly when Libyan oil output is
restored and to what capacity.”  Libya Revolt  Brent dropped yesterday, narrowing its record premium above
U.S. futures by the most in five weeks amid speculation that an
end to Muammar Qaddafi’s rule will lead to a recovery in the
nation’s crude production. Rebel fighters hunted for the leader
and declared his regime over as the dictator’s forces kept up
their fight in parts of Tripoli, the capital now mostly in rebel
hands.  The Libyan revolt, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 100,000 barrels a
day last month, a Bloomberg News survey showed. That’s less than
10 percent of the 1.6 million barrels the nation pumped in
January, before the uprising.  Repairing damaged infrastructure and well heads at  oil
fields  will take “several months and perhaps longer than a
year,” Barclays Plc’s analysts, Helima Croft and Amrita Sen,
said in a report e-mailed today. “Indeed, while the advancement
of the rebels into Tripoli may have raised the specter of a
speedy reincorporation of Libyan oil into the world market, we
remain doubtful whether this will occur.”  It may take until 2012 before oil exports resume if the
government falls,  Emmanuel Fages , an energy analyst with Societe
Generale SA in Paris, said yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said resuming shut production will be “challenging,” according
to an Aug. 22 report.  Front-month U.S. crude futures are 16 percent higher the
past year. Prices also gained today amid speculation oil demand
growth in  China , the world’s second-biggest consumer, may
accelerate. A preliminary reading of 49.8 for a manufacturing
index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today
compares with a final reading of 49.3 for July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  