-- 
Danish Banks Won’t Get Pooled-Funding Rescue

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-08-23T08:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/danish-banks-won-t-get-pooled-funding-rescue-nykredit-says.html
Denmark ’s regional banks are
unlikely to penetrate a funding wall by pooling their borrowing
needs as market conditions grow too inhospitable, according to
the head of Europe’s biggest covered-bond issuer Nykredit A/S.  “It is difficult, and I think the solution will be that
people have to go to the market individually,” Nykredit Chief
Executive Officer Peter Engberg Jensen said in an interview in
Copenhagen. “Setting this up would be rather difficult in the
market that we have right now.”  Nykredit’s Markets unit said last month it was looking into
arranging combined debt sales for some of the country’s roughly
120 banks as bond investors shun Denmark’s bail-in laws. The
lifeline would have helped the industry build up liquidity as
banks wait for lawmakers to provide details on proposals aimed
at avoiding more  bank failures . Nykredit’s efforts to come up
with a solution have failed to result in a workable model,
Jensen said.  “These are very, very difficult market conditions, because
the liquidity is so low,” Jensen said in the Aug. 18 interview.
“If you go to the market, you would like to be rather sure that
you also can sell the things.”  International funding markets have been closed to most
Danish banks since Fjordbank Mors A/S in June became the
country’s second lender after Amagerbanken A/S to seek
resolution, forcing losses on senior creditors. Government
efforts to encourage consolidation have so far failed, prompting
lenders to seek other avenues as they struggle to refinance $35
billion in state-backed debt by 2013, when the government
guarantee ends.  ‘Anything Impossible’  Lenders such as Spar Nord Bank A/S, Denmark’s fourth-
biggest listed bank, are now dumping assets to generate cash in
the absence of market demand for their bonds.  “These kinds of funding tools are closed at this point,”
said Thomas Hovard, chief analyst for corporate bonds at Danske
Bank A/S, in a phone interview. “The international situation
makes almost anything impossible in terms of senior debt, and
the Danish banks have their own challenges.”  While the government is working on a new bill to help banks
consolidate and sidestep  Europe ’s toughest resolution laws,
lenders continue to face liquidity shortages. The central bank
responded last week by broadening its collateral terms to accept
bank loans starting Oct. 1 for an indefinite period. The new
collateral terms required changes to Denmark’s Securities
trading Act, the bank said.  Not Enough  Still, the measures proposed may not be enough to prevent a
liquidity squeeze, according to Glenn Martin Vestergaard, senior
portfolio manager at PFA, Denmark’s second-biggest pension fund
with $55 billion in assets under management.  “There are a lot of state-guaranteed bonds out there and
it will be very difficult for many banks to refinance,”
Vestergaard said in an interview last week. His fund is
underweighting Danish bank stocks relative to other equities in
the Nordic country, even after the government announced its
proposals to help the industry, he said.  Denmark’s banks have underperformed European financials
this year. Danske Bank A/S and Jyske Bank A/S, the country’s
biggest lenders, has both lost 44 percent since January,
compared with a 31 percent slide in the 46-member Bloomberg
index of European banks and insurers.  Collapsing Banks  An “unusually high number” of banks have collapsed,
 Standard & Poor’s  said July 28. Eleven lenders have failed since
2008, and bad commercial property and agriculture loans may push
another 15 into default, S&P said. Moody’s Investors Service cut
six banks’ ratings in May, citing weakened government support
and an economic slow-down.  House prices  slipped 0.6 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, a “significant worsening” that suggests the
housing market has frozen, the Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks said today. Prices fell 1.9 percent from the final three
month of last year.  The country’s biggest lenders should be able to withstand
the fallout of more regional bank failures, Ulrik Noedgaard,
director general of the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority,
said in a June 29 interview.  Denmark’s four biggest banks, Danske, Jyske, Nykredit and
Sydbank A/S, all passed the European Union’s stress tests last
month. Their  capital ratios  ranged from 9.4 percent to 13.6
percent, exceeding the test’s 5 percent minimum, the European
Banking Authority said July 15.  SEB Model  Efforts to help the country’s regional banks may stall as
policy makers struggle to thrash out the details of their plans
ahead of elections due by November. The government has yet to
set a date for finalizing proposals put forward on Aug. 12,
including taking over bad loans from ailing lenders and
extending guarantees in the event of a takeover.  SEB AB, which is also looking into a model to sell pooled
bank debt, has slowed its work as it waits to hear the outcome
of the political discussions, Michael Frisch, head of financial
institutions group in Copenhagen, said.  “The borrowers and the lenders would like to see how the
bank package plays out, since it will have an effect on the size
of the market, timing and prices. We will wait and see how that
ends,” Frisch said yesterday in a phone interview. “There will
be a market for this.”  Stockholm-based SEB was the lead bookrunner for Danish bank
sales of senior state-guaranteed debt in 2009 and 2010.  “The devil is in the detail,” Nykredit’s Jensen said.
“You could pool. It would naturally be a thing that should be
possible, but still you also have to be sure that there is
demand in the market.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 