-- 
David Beckham’s Superdry Crush Fails to Keep Investors Smitten

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-08-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/david-beckham-s-superdry-crush-fails-to-keep-investors-smitten.html
After spending more than a decade
building U.K. clothing chain Cult, Julian Dunkerton lost a
follower. His business partner had no desire to keep expanding
and they fell out.  The partner “had everything he wanted -- a big house, a
fast car and couldn’t see the reason,” Dunkerton, chief
executive officer of  SuperGroup Plc (SGP) , said in an interview. “For
me, there’s always a reason to grow. If nothing else, you grow
to protect because with growth comes power and power protects.”  Dunkerton, 46, built on Cult’s success and went on to
create Superdry, the biggest clothing brand of SuperGroup, with
devotees from  David Beckham  to Shakira. He’s now being
criticized by analysts for overreaching after more than 40
percent expansion in its U.K. retail space last year.
Undeterred, he will keep adding stores in the U.K. as well as
ramping up expansion in  Europe , the U.S. and  Asia .  “The growth targets are pretty aggressive, we’d like to
see them be more cautious on the U.K. rollout and more focused
internationally,” said Sanjay Vidyarthi, an analyst at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank, who recommends investors sell the stock.
Growing too fast could overexpose the brand in the U.K., wiping
out its appeal, he said, while adding franchises too quickly
could mean it loses control of the brand’s positioning.  SuperGroup, which helped build recognition for its brand
with fans like  Leonardo DiCaprio  and Zac Efron, is opening at
least 70 owned and franchised outlets globally this year. That’s
a step up from last year, when it opened 44 international
franchised and licensed shops and had a net of 18 new U.K.
outlets. Dunkerton is also exploring larger shops in European
shopping malls. SuperGroup still operates 18 Cult shops.  Overexpansion  Overexpansion has beset other retailers intent on rolling
out shops after surging demand that followed their formation. In
2003, Fast Retailing Co.,  Japan ’s largest casual clothing chain,
was forced to close 16 of 21 Uniqlo outlets in the U.K., its
first overseas market, after expanding too quickly without fast
enough distribution from its Chinese factories, analysts said.  In retail, “there’s no precedent for somebody who has a
combination of overt branding, is mass market and has
longevity,” said Andy Wade, an analyst at Numis Securities with
a “buy” recommendation on the shares.  SuperGroup’s retail revenue increased 39 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year, compared with 92 percent in the
previous three months, as the Cheltenham, England-based retailer
struggled to maintain the agility needed to stock all the stores
at the right time. It’s since partially recovered to growth of
48 percent in the 10 weeks ended July 10.  Wrong Stock  “In April, when the weather was sunny, they still had
hoodies in store, they had the stock wrong, and they weren’t
flexible enough in the supply chain,” said Numis’s Wade. “So
girls were buying strappy dresses from French Connection,” and
not Superdry.  SuperGroup stock has fallen about 31 percent since January,
more than a 13 percent drop in the FTSE 350 General Retailers
Index. That cut its market capitalization to 721 million pounds
($1.2 billion) and the value of Dunkerton’s 33 percent stake to
234 million pounds. The shares were the best performing of any
retailer in the  FTSE 250 Index (MCX)  in 2010 from the time of its
March initial public offering, which raised 120 million pounds.  SuperGroup posted sales growth of 71 percent for the fiscal
year ended May 1, as consumers sought out its $50 vintage tees
and $350  Brad leather jackets , made popular by soccer star
Beckham. That sales growth rate is projected to slow to 47
percent in the current fiscal year and to 28 percent next as the
company faces stronger comparisons and store openings steady,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese Logos  To secure the growth and quell the critics, Dunkerton is
turning his eye toward “moving aggressively” into footwear and
adding more sophisticated womenswear to widen the range and get
fashion in stores more quickly. Shoppers this fall will see more
denim and women’s colored jeans at Superdry’s wooden floorboard,
soft-lit outlets. A fragrance is planned for this year.  “Superdry is a lifestyle brand and our goal is to be the
best in every product category and that’s why it has
longevity,” said Dunkerton, who came up with the company’s
signature Japanese logos with his designer James Holder after
becoming fixated with snack and drink packets on a trip to
Japan. In denim, “we’re not best in class, I intend to be, and
in womenswear. We need to be best in class in other areas.”  Women’s dresses or a printed tank top, which previously
took as long as a year to move from design board to shop floor,
are now in stores in as little as eight weeks after the company
changed suppliers and manufacturers. That speed will help it
become more competitive against its fast-fashion rivals, such as
 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and Diesel SpA, whose products responded
to the season’s trends more quickly in the past, Dunkerton said.  ‘Flown Off Shelves’  Superdry’s famous, oversized Japanese logos are also
changing, he said. The latest t-shirt has the logo “Superdry
JPN,” rather than the Japanese letters it grew up on, while
two-thirds of their products have much smaller branding. That
shirt has “flown off the shelves,” the executive said.  The CEO and his three most senior executives have all had
their base pay frozen this year, according to the annual report,
though life insurance cover has been added to their benefits
package. Dunkerton will receive 400,000 pounds in fiscal 2012,
while Holder will earn 300,000 pounds, the report shows.  While SuperGroup’s target audience is 15- to 25-year olds,
Dunkerton says the potential is much broader. The executive is
aiming to mold products to even more customer types, much like
 Polo Ralph Lauren Corp ., whose products extend to men’s, women’s
and children’s clothing, home products and accessories.  “We’re gently understanding how to model to every single
demographic to ensure longevity,” the CEO said.  Dunkerton can take comfort in some shoppers happy to stick
around. Derek Yeo, a 28-year-old Superdry fan, has four of the
company’s t-shirts and was thumbing through its latest
collection on a recent break in  London ’s City district. While he
concedes the t-shirts are a bit “overdone” among his friends,
“the vintage retro look is popular and they do casual clothes
better than anyone,” Yeo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  