-- 
Denmark’s Stimulus Package May Fail to Prevent ‘Long, Painful’ Adjustment

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-08-24T08:30:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/denmark-unveils-2-1-billion-plan-to-end-recession-rescue-housing-market.html
The Danish government’s efforts to
end the country’s recession may fail to bring about the
recovery needed to create jobs as global market turmoil
renders domestic measures futile, economists said.  The government’s proposals, presented yesterday, are
“quite uncertain and may prove to be a waste of money in light
of the global economic crisis,” Jes Asmussen, chief economist
at  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBB)  in Copenhagen, said in a note. “We
need to accept that we’re headed for a long and perhaps painful
adjustment in the Danish economy and it will be hard to find any
potential for any economic growth worth noting.”  Denmark  is the only Nordic country in a recession after a
regional banking crisis and stagnant  property market  sapped
consumer demand. The number of houses for sale jumped in July to
the highest in at least six years, sending property prices
lower. Average prices dropped 0.6 percent in the first quarter,
a “significant worsening” that suggests the housing market has
frozen, the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said yesterday.  The ruling coalition of Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen yesterday cut its economic growth forecast for this
year and said it wants to spend 10.8 billion kroner ($2.1
billion) through 2013 on initiatives to jumpstart the economy,
including a temporary suspension of some housing taxes and fees
for registering property deeds.  House prices  will fall 1 percent this year and grow only
0.3 percent in 2012, the  Finance Ministry  said today.  Stocks Underperform  Rasmussen’s government, which must hold a general election
by Nov. 12, said the economy will grow 1.3 percent this year,
down from 1.9 percent forecast in May. The economy will expand
1.8 percent in 2012, compared with a previous forecast of 1.7
percent, the finance ministry estimates.  The Nasdaq OMX benchmark index of Denmark’s 20 most-traded
stocks slumped 1.8 percent yesterday, underperforming a 0.8
percent gain in the Euro Stoxx 50 and a 2 percent jump in
 Sweden ’s benchmark. Danish stocks continued to slide today,
losing 0.5 percent at 10:25 a.m. local time, compared with a 0.8
percent gain in the Euro Stoxx 50.  The proposed measures include moving forward public
investments and returning 17 billion kroner in early-retirement
payments to workers. The proposal, which Rasmussen dubbed the
“sustainable growth” package, will boost economic growth by
0.3 percentage points in 2012 and 2013, his government
estimates.  Cost of Growth  “There’s no doubt that the measures proposed will
stimulate growth a little in the short term,”  Steen Bocian ,
chief economist at Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest
lender, said in a note. “But it will be at the cost of lower
growth in future.”  None of the proposals will stretch the  budget deficit ,
Rasmussen said. The government, which said its plan is fully
financed, will borrow more than originally estimated. The gross
domestic financing need for this year is now 122 billion kroner,
compared with a May forecast of 112 billion kroner, it said
yesterday.  Denmark will post a budget deficit equivalent to 3.8
percent of gross domestic product this year and 4.6 percent in
2012, the Finance Ministry said today. Debt will widen to 44.4
percent of the economy next year from 43.6 percent in 2011, it
said.  The Social Democrat-led opposition said the government’s
measures won’t extract Denmark from of its recession and housing
crisis. “It’s not enough, what they are proposing,” Helle Thorning-Schmidt, leader of the  Social Democrats , said
yesterday.  Bank Insolvencies  The country’s banking crisis has claimed two regional
lenders this year, triggering a liquidity squeeze that  Standard
& Poor’s  warns could push 15 more lenders into default over the
next three years.  Rasmussen’s coalition, which is trailing the Social
Democrat-led opposition in most polls, isn’t preparing to call
an early vote, he said yesterday. The opposition, in contrast,
wants elections soon.  “I can’t see a single reason for waiting,” Thorning-
Schmidt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  