-- 
Dollar Declines as U.S. Durable Goods Orders Increase More Than Forecast

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-24T13:16:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/dollar-near-one-week-low-versus-euro-on-fed-easing-speculation-yen-slips.html
The Swiss franc gained versus all of
its most-traded counterparts as concern the euro-area debt
crisis is getting worse and the  U.S. economy  may falter boosted
demand for a refuge.  The dollar slipped versus a basket of major U.S. trading
partners as U.S. durable-goods orders rose more than forecast,
briefly spurring risk appetite. The euro fell against the franc
as German business confidence dropped to the lowest in more than
a year. The yen rose toward a postwar high versus the dollar as
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  announced a $100 billion effort
to help businesses cope with strength in the currency, reducing
speculation Japan will intervene to curb gains.  “If you look at where to put your safe-haven flows, there
really isn’t any place better than the Swiss franc,” said
Elizabeth Gregory, market strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in
Geneva.  The Swiss franc appreciated 0.4 percent to 78.93 centimes
versus the greenback at 9:14 a.m. in  New York , from 79.23
yesterday. The currency advanced for the first time in three
days against the euro, gaining 0.4 percent to 1.1399. The yen
appreciated 0.2 percent to 76.52 per dollar.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against six counterparts, slipped 0.1
percent.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures fell 0.2 percent after
stocks rallied yesterday. Gold traded at almost a record high
before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks at an
economic conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, on Aug. 26 amid
speculation the central bank will undertake additional stimulus
that may debase the currency.  “The markets are focused on Bernanke’s speech,” said
Junichi Ishikawa, a market analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd.
in  Tokyo . “Monetary easing by the Fed will lower U.S. yields,
and that will put the dollar under downward pressure broadly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  