-- 
U.S. Nuclear Industry Tested by Twin Threats From Nature

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-24T10:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/dominion-virginia-nuclear-plant-loses-power-in-quake-is-running-on-diesel.html
U.S. nuclear plants face the first
post-Fukushima test of their ability to withstand multiple
natural disasters as Hurricane Irene bears down on an area
shaken by a 5.8-magnitude earthquake.  The temblor yesterday knocked out power to Dominion
Resources Inc.’s North Anna nuclear plant in Virginia and
prompted 12 stations from North Carolina to  Michigan  to declare
“unusual events,” the lowest-level emergency designated by the
U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission .  Off-site power was later restored to North Anna,
eliminating the need for back-up generators for cooling, the
company said late yesterday. The plant’s twin reactors halted
automatically during the quake, whose epicenter was less than 15
miles (24 kilometers) from the plant, about 85 miles southwest
of  Washington , according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  One of the plant’s four diesel generators, which powered
the reactors’ cooling systems during the blackout, stopped
working as a result of a coolant leak, Roger Hannah, a spokesman
for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said in an interview.
Dominion Resources called a fifth standby generator into service
to replace the broken unit, Ryan Frazier, a spokesman for the
Richmond, Virginia-based company, said in an e-mail.  Hurricane Irene Expected  As East Coast nuclear operators recover from the
earthquake, they’re reviewing emergency plans in advance of
Hurricane Irene’s expected arrival later this week. The storm’s
current track set by the National Hurricane Center estimates
Irene will go ashore in  North Carolina  on Aug. 27 before moving
up the East Coast, possibly threatening New York and  New
England .  The double threat from the earthquake and hurricane is
providing a test of the U.S. nuclear industry’s disaster
preparation at a time when regulators and industry operators are
studying the lessons of the disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant.  The Fukushima reactors lost power after a magnitude 9
earthquake struck in March. The tsunami that followed the quake
swamped the plant’s diesel generators, leading to a meltdown and
the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.  “Based on all information we have thus far, the systems at
every U.S. nuclear energy facility where the earthquake’s
effects were felt responded as designed,” Tony Pietrangelo,
senior vice president and chief nuclear officer at the  Nuclear
Energy Institute , a Washington-based industry group, said in a
statement yesterday.  Assessing Damage  Workers at North Anna were trying to determine whether the
generator was damaged during the earthquake or as the result of
a mechanical failure, Hannah said.  North Anna, which generates 1,806 megawatts of power,
enough to supply 450,000 homes, is designed to withstand a 6.2
magnitude earthquake, William Hall, another Dominion spokesman,
said in an interview. Following yesterday’s temblor, the station
declared an “alert,” the second-lowest of four emergency
classifications set by the nuclear oversight agency.  Hall said a damage inspection was still under way at 6 p.m.
 New York  time yesterday. He said he didn’t know when the plant
would restart.  “We will be conservative,” he said.  12 ‘Unusual Events’  The earthquake was felt from Richmond to Toronto and as far
west as Columbus,  Ohio , and prompted power companies across the
region to inspect pumps, motors and valves for damage. Twelve
nuclear plants, including two as far west as Michigan, declared
“unusual events,” the lowest of the four emergency
designations set by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said Joey Ledford, a spokesman for the agency.  The quake shows why the industry shouldn’t wait to
implement safety measures to guard against such events, said Bob Alvarez, a senior scholar at the Institute for Policy Studies, a
group that pushes for tighter regulation on nuclear power.  “We don’t need to wait for earthquakes to fix safety
weaknesses that have been lingering for several years,”
Alvarez, 64, said.  After four  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  nuclear plants in  Pennsylvania  and
 New Jersey  declared unusual events, operators were performing
“walk-downs” to scout for damage from the seismic activity,
Chicago-based Exelon said in a statement.  Local Outages  PJM Interconnection LLC, which manages the electric grid
for all or parts of 13 states and the  District of Columbia , said
about 2,700 megawatts of power generation was lost in Virginia
and another 500 megawatts were lost in Pennsylvania and Ohio.  “There were outages, but they are local outages,” said
Ray Dotter, spokesman for PJM, based in  Valley Forge ,
Pennsylvania, in a telephone interview. “It wasn’t because the
grid was unstable.”  U.S. nuclear plants are required to have batteries capable
of powering a plant for four hours and diesel generators
protected by a hardened structure. The power is necessary to
keep nuclear fuel cool at the site, preventing a meltdown and a
release of radiation.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission inspected North Anna
earlier this year to evaluate whether it’s prepared to withstand
disasters and blackouts as part of a survey conducted in
Fukushima’s aftermath at all 104 nuclear plants in the U.S.  Vulnerable Areas  In a May 13 letter to David Heacock, president and chief
nuclear officer of Dominion subsidiary  Virginia  Electric & Power
Co., the nuclear agency said its inspector hadn’t identified
“any significant issues” with the station blackout diesel
generator room and related equipment.  However, the agency noted that a study by North Anna of the
plant’s fire and flood protection structures had identified
vulnerable areas that were “not seismically designed.”  “The licensee will evaluate the issues above in order to
determine if additional mitigation strategies are required,”
the letter stated.  North Anna’s two reactors were licensed for commercial
operation in 1978 and 1980. At that time, some of the systems
weren’t required to be designed to seismic standards, Hall said.  “We will do everything that needs to be done,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  