-- 
S&P’s Sharma to Leave, Replaced by Citi’s Peterson

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-23T13:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/douglas-peterson-to-become-president-of-s-p.html
(Corrects value of drop in stocks in seventh paragraph.)  Standard & Poor’s , the ratings
company that downgraded the U.S. AAA credit ranking for the
first time, will replace President Deven Sharma with Citibank NA
Chief Operating Officer Douglas Peterson.  Sharma, 55, will leave at the end of the year to “pursue
other opportunities,” S&P’s parent McGraw-Hill Cos. said in an
e-mailed statement. Peterson, 53, will take over Sept. 12 and
Sharma will work on the company’s strategic review in the
meantime.  S&P’s Aug. 5 decision to reduce the U.S. credit rating to
AA+ roiled global markets and boosted demand for Treasuries,
sending the yield on the 10-year note, the benchmark for home
mortgages and  car loans , to a record low 2.03 percent. The New
York-based company, which was blamed in an April Senate report
for helping fuel the credit crisis, was criticized by the
world’s most successful investor,  Warren Buffett , who said the
U.S. should be “quadruple-A.” The cut conflicted with Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which kept their AAA grades.  “It looks like he’s being helped out the door,” Noel Hebert, a credit strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc.
in New York, said in a phone interview. “If it was a planned
retirement, it should have been handled in a different way.”  $2 Trillion Error  S&P downgraded the U.S. even after Treasury Department
officials told the firm it had overestimated future national
debt by $2 trillion. The company said the error didn’t affect
its decision, and based its conclusion on the U.S. government
becoming “less stable, less effective and less predictable.”  S&P said the U.S. failed to meet targets for reducing the
 budget deficit . “The fiscal consolidation plan that Congress
and the Administration recently agreed to falls short of what,
in our view, would be necessary to stabilize the government’s
medium-term debt dynamics,” the company said in a statement
after markets closed on Aug. 5.  The market value of global stocks tumbled by $761 billion
between Aug. 5 and Aug. 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The S&P 500 Index swung by at least 4.6 percent in
the four trading days following the change. Gold rose 5 percent.
While S&P said the U.S. was less creditworthy, investors snapped
up Treasuries, driving up prices and sending yields to record
lows. Yields on the bonds fell 21 basis points to 1.174 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury
Master index.  Belgium ,  New Zealand   Buffett, the billionaire chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. said the decision doesn’t reflect any
inability of the U.S. to pay its debts.  Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman said there was no reason to
take the downgrade seriously. “In those rare cases where rating
agencies have downgraded countries that still had the confidence
of investors, they have consistently been wrong,” he wrote in
an Aug. 7 New York Times column.  S&P kept an A- rating on  Iceland  until Oct. 6, 2008, when
the country’s government was forced to guarantee all domestic
 bank deposits  after its currency plunged. The company reaffirmed
its AAA rating for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s financial
products unit on Sept. 12, 2008, three days before the bank
failed. It downgraded Bear Stearns Cos. to BBB on March 14, 2008,
two days before JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to buy the failing
securities firm.  Peterson, Sharma  The new rating puts the U.S. on the same level as Belgium,
which hasn’t had a government since June 2010, and New Zealand,
and above Japan and  China . Under S&P’s definitions, debt rated
AA+ is barely different from AAA securities and shows that a
borrower’s ability to “meet its financial commitment on the
obligation is very strong.”  U.S. Vice President Joe Biden told Bloomberg News in an
interview on Air Force Two on Aug. 22 that he was disappointed
by the downgrade “and pleased that they were the only outfit
that did it.”  The Wall Street Journal and Financial Times already
reported Sharma’s replacement.  Peterson was approached by McGraw-Hill in March, a person
with direct knowledge of the talks said. He was chief executive
officer of Citigroup Japan from 2004 to 2010 and was hired by
the New York-based investment bank out of business school 26
years ago, according to an internal memo outlining his departure,
whose contents were confirmed by  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup
spokeswoman in  New York .  Company Split  Peterson, who has an undergraduate degree in mathematics
and history from California-based Claremont McKenna College and
a MBA from the Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania 
in Philadelphia, began his career in  Argentina  as a corporate
banker and became Citigroup’s country manager in Costa Rica and
then Uruguay, according to the memo.  Sharma, who joined S&P in 2007 as the global credit crisis
was unfolding, will exit as McGraw-Hill faces mounting pressure
from some of its shareholders to separate into four units. Jana
Partners LLC and  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , which together
own a 5.2 percent stake, presented a plan Aug. 22 to split the
group, saying it has “consistently underperformed its
potential” and is trading at “a sizable discount.”  S&P said it started the process for replacing Sharma before
its downgrade of the U.S., after overseeing a split of the
company into a credit rater and McGraw-Hill Financial.  ‘New Challenges’  “Deven assisted us with the creation of these two high-
growth segments and was then ready for new challenges,” Harold McGraw III said in a statement. “Accordingly, we began a
process to identify a new leader for S&P.”  Since Aug. 5, the day of the downgrade, McGraw-Hill’s
shares have lost 11 percent compared with a decrease of 6.3
percent for the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. McGraw-Hill’s stock rose 0.1 percent to $37.04
yesterday.  “Today, S&P is a stronger company, whose 1,300 global
analysts are sharply focused on the quality, independence and
transparency of S&P’s research and analytics,” McGraw-Hill said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing the
method S&P used to cut the U.S.’s credit rating and whether the
firm properly protected the confidential decision, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said Aug. 16.  Strategic Review  Chief Executive Officer Terry McGraw said last month the
company is conducting a strategic portfolio review after
announcing in June plans to sell its broadcasting group. Sharma
will work on the review until December.  In November, S&P was divided between McGraw-Hill Financial
and the credit rating service. After the split, Sharma is
“ready for new challenges,” according to the statement.  Sharma holds a bachelor’s degree from the Birla Institute
of Technology in  India , a master’s degree from the University of
Wisconsin and a doctoral degree in business management from  Ohio
State University . He joined McGraw-Hill in January 2002 from
consultants Booz Allen Hamilton, where he was a partner.  He was appointed president in August 2007, one month after
S&P started lowering its ratings for hundreds of mortgage-backed
securities, acknowledging that notes it originally deemed safe
were now worth little.  S&P’s revenue grew 10.4 percent to $1.7 billion in 2010,
from $1.54 billion a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  “Since Sharma came in, he has done little to enhance the
credibility or reputation of the ratings agency,”  Joshua Rosner ,
an analyst at the New York-based research firm Graham Fisher &
Co., said by phone. “Given the recent downgrades, it appears
their operational management and ratings modeling have not been
meaningfully strengthened.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  on 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith in  Hong Kong  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  