-- 
Drugmaker Payments to Scientists Face New Disclosure Controls

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-08-23T16:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/drugmaker-payments-to-scientists-face-new-disclosure-controls.html
New  rules  requiring research
institutions such as  Harvard University  to identify potential
conflicts between scientists and drugmakers don’t require the
connections to be immediately made public.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, last year
tried to force institutions to detail industry ties and post
them to the Internet. Instead, the rules give the schools an
option to disclose ties on a request-only basis.  “They’re going to have to disclose the money now but
they’re not going to have to make it publicly available on a
website,” said Paul Thacker, an investigator for the Project on
Government Oversight in Washington and former aide to Grassley.  The rules require research institutions to identify the
potential conflicts and give them the choice of setting up a
website detailing the information. The schools now only are 
required to identify conflicts and address them, not disclose 
them, according to the  regulation .  The rules are a step in the right direction, said National
Institutes of Health Director  Francis Collins .  “This is a significant change and one that will further
strengthen the integrity of the really remarkable scientific
community that has been conducting research with, for the most
part, the highest ethical standards,” Collins said on a
conference call with reporters.  Offering Flexibility  The government decided to give research institutions a
choice about disclosure, said Sally Rockey, director of
extramural research for the institutes, said. The option of
posting to a website or responding to a request “allows the
institution maximum flexibility to decide which is the least
burdensome way to achieve this,” she said.  “Some organizations may not have a website,” Rockey said.  The NIH, in Bethesda,  Maryland , has a $31 billion budget
this year, 80 percent of which goes to outside researchers.  The public disclosures are designed to cover any payments
from drug, biotechnology or device companies and require the
research body to list the amounts the researchers have been
paid, in categories from $0 to $4,999; $5,000 to $9,999; and
broader amounts above $10,000.  The government said in the regulation that the new rules
were necessary as the pace of research has sped up since the
1995 guidelines, as had the financial ties between researchers
and companies funding their work.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in  New York , and Merck Inc., in
Whitehouse Station,  New Jersey , already  disclose  payments to
physicians involved in marketing and education efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  Washington  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 