-- 
Tea Party Gas-Tax Fix Is Bad Economics, Worse History: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-08-23T00:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/tea-party-gas-tax-fix-is-bad-economics-worse-history-ron-klain.html
If the debt-ceiling showdown made
your blood boil, if the shutdown of air-traffic-control work
related to the airline-ticket tax drove you crazy, then you
should unplug your TV and power down your computer in late
September, as the deadline for extension of the federal gasoline
tax draws near.  Because while President Barack Obama and most experts are
pushing for a greater federal investment in roads and
infrastructure to create jobs and strengthen our economy, a
growing minority in Washington wants to end the federal gas tax
and phase out funding for new construction under the federal
roads program. That’s right: A sizable chunk of Republicans, led
by Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  and Representative Jeff Flake
of  Arizona , want to abolish the tax that pays for the federal
highway program and replace the whole system with one overseen
by individual states.  This insurgency, inspired by the  Tea Party , reflects flawed
thinking on economics, transportation policy and even American
history.  Like many other excise taxes, the federal highway tax comes
up for periodic renewal, which is usually noncontroversial. But
not this time. If Congress doesn’t act to renew the tax by Sept.
30, gas stations all over the country have to stop collecting
it; the highway trust fund will never get the money; and new
work on federal highway projects will come screeching to a halt.  Costs and Layoffs  A delay of just 10 days in renewing the tax would mean the
permanent loss of $1 billion in highway funding (and layoffs for
thousands of workers). Longer delays would measurably increase
the national  unemployment rate .  Although the gravest threat to renewal of the tax was
removed last week, when anti-tax czar  Grover Norquist  ended
weeks of uncertainty and dropped his opposition to a short-term
extension, Tea Partiers and their allies on this issue  haven’t
given up  the fight over ending the tax; if they can’t abolish it
outright just yet, they’ll push to allow states to opt out.  Incredibly, the system of highway financing championed by
Republican President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  six decades ago is a
target for today’s Tea Party-influenced Republicans.  The economic impact of this radical position would be
disastrous. Although it’s true, as I’ve written, that federal
road programs create fewer jobs-per-dollar than they did
generations ago (due to better equipment and technology),
hundreds of thousands of Americans still draw paychecks working
on such projects -- and their paychecks help keep countless
sandwich shops, dry cleaners, barbers and grocers in business.
Cutting off this vital source of employment now, or at any time
when unemployment is elevated, would be a grave self-inflicted
wound.  Misguided Policy  As transportation policy, the notion of the states taking
over federal highway work is even more misguided. We have a
national road system because we have national transportation
needs -- to move people and goods from state to state, region to
region.  States with many miles of highways and few people are
likely to have less revenue to keep up these national roads and
less interest in doing so, because many of the goods and
visitors are just passing through on their way to someplace
else. Trucks carrying goods from  Chicago  to  Seattle , Atlanta to
 San Francisco  and Philadelphia to Los Angeles travel through
large, lightly populated Mountain West states that may be unable
to finance a world-class highway system for such long-distance
needs.  Just “letting the states do it” puts our national
transportation system at risk. The idea is so misguided that
calling it a Third World transportation system is unfair to the
Third World:  Developing countries  are virtually all striving to
build the sort of national infrastructure that the Tea Party
wants to unwind in the U.S.  Misreading History  Which brings us to the historical misunderstanding behind
this anti-national crusade. Highway funding is one issue among
many where the Tea Party movement has its historical perspective
upside down. Our Founders were not opponents of a national road
system; they were its very creators.  The survey work for the first proposed national road was
done by none other than George  Washington . The early Congress
funded a national road that traced a path similar to today’s
Interstate 70, from  Maryland  to  Indiana . Many veterans of the
Revolutionary War, then serving in Congress, voted in favor of
it. Even the anti-Federalist administration of  Thomas Jefferson 
pushed the project; Albert Gallatin, Jefferson’s Treasury
secretary, told the Senate: “No other single operation within
the power of the government can more effectually tend to
strengthen and perpetuate the Union.”  The highway-tax fight is a good moment for progressives to
challenge the Tea Party -- not just over economics and
transportation policy, but also over what vision of America
truly reflects the legacy of our Founders. Let’s not forget that
the idea that brought those amazing men to Philadelphia in 1787
was to create a system of robust federal government and form a
“more perfect union” -- not just to leave the states to handle
their needs on their own.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: Ron Klain at
 rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 