-- 
Medtronic’s Net Falls as Defibrillator Cost Rises

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-08-23T11:34:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/medtronic-s-net-falls-as-defibrillator-cost-rises.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s biggest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, said first-quarter profit fell
1.1 percent as demand for its defibrillators and spinal products
declined and costs to produce them rose.  Net income in the three months ended July 31 dropped to
$821 million, or 77 cents a share, from $830 million, or 76
cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based company said today
in a statement. Profit excluding one-time items was 79 cents a
share, matching the 79-cent average estimate of 26 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue increased 7.3 percent to $4.05
billion.  The earnings report is the first for Chief Executive
Officer Omar Ishrak, who took the helm on June 13 and is seeking
ways to revive sales of the company’s devices to regulate the
heart and strengthen the spine amid questions about their safety
and overuse. While demand for defibrillators remains weak,
Medtronic’s newly introduced devices should help stem the losses,
said Derrick Sung, an analyst with Bernstein Research in  New
York , in an Aug. 17 note to investors.  “Medtronic’s problems are well advertised and, in many
ways, it depends on what management plans on doing to address
them that will likely make the difference,” said Joanne Wuensch,
an analyst with BMO Capital Markets in New York, in an Aug. 17
note to investors.  The company reaffirmed its full-year earnings forecast of
$3.43 to $3.50 a share.  A series of reports released in The Spine Journal in June
criticized Medtronic for failing to publicly disclose serious
side effects from its bone-growth product Infuse. The company
announced Aug. 4 it will make all data on the product available
and pay for an independent review.  Medtronic fell 11 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $31.18
in New York Stock Market composite trading yesterday. The shares
have fallen 11 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  