-- 
Electric-Blanket Sex Mixes With Car-Crash Horror: Book Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/electric-blanket-sex-mixes-with-car-crash-horror-in-german-no-1-bestseller.html
Charlotte Roche likes to shock. Her
first book, whose teenage heroine is hospitalized with an anal
lesion after an intimate shaving accident, sold more than 2
million copies in German.  Roche, a sparky 33-year-old brunette who combines tattoos
and floral dresses, used to be a music and entertainment
television presenter.  Her second novel, which entered  Der Spiegel ’s fiction
 bestseller list  at slot No. 1 this week, is also not for the
fainthearted. It’s titled “Schossgebete,” a made-up word that
is a play on Stossgebet -- a desperate prayer -- and Schoss,
which can refer to the female reproductive organs though more
generally means the lap area.  “Schossgebete” opens with 15 pages of pornography,
describing a married couple having sex with the electric
blankets on and the windows closed, as the heroine prefers.  Yet like its predecessor “Wetlands,” whose yuckiness
cloaks the story of a lost girl trying to reunite her divorced
parents, “Schossgebete” presents an exhaustively intimate
psychological portrait of a very disturbed young woman.  The reader is forced into voyeurism -- and not just of the
sexual variety -- as Roche bares all in this relentlessly frank,
often funny novel about a troubled 33-year-old traumatized by a
tragedy in her past. The author admitted in an interview with
Spiegel that it is dangerously close to autobiography.  Brothel Visits  Elizabeth Kiehl is determined to hold on to her family --
her older husband and seven-year-old daughter -- yet she yearns
for Georg’s approval to have an adulterous affair. They visit
brothels and watch porn films together to meet his sexual urges,
even though Elizabeth is tormented by jealousy.  She has a phobia about big breasts (hers are small), a
father complex, depression, has struggled with anorexia and
carries a huge burden of guilt because her three brothers were
killed in a car crash on the way to her wedding. She says she
would die without her psychotherapist, whose job it is to heal
her so she can be a good mother and wife.  Struggling to be everything to everyone, she’s a victim of
her own ferociously high standards and atrociously low self-
esteem. Those standards come from the images of advertising,
pornography and the media.  Excruciating  The key event in the novel -- a terrible Belgian highway
crash before her wedding -- is based on Roche’s own life. The
details are excruciating. Why didn’t her mother, who was driving
and survived with horrific burns, turn around to look at the
brothers before she was dragged away from the car? Were they
dead before the gas tank exploded?  Why did Elizabeth have to try on her wedding dress one more
time before they left? Why did she have to choose such a big
dress that they had to bring it by car instead of flying?  This emotional exhibitionism is as hard to take as the
graphic descriptions of anal sex. Writing is a form of therapy
for Roche, but why must we participate in the sessions?  Her first book “Feuchtgebiete,” titled “Wetlands” in
English, sat at the top of the Spiegel bestseller list for more
than six months. Full of pus, scabs and bodily secretions as
well as raw sex, it’s the kind of book 14-year-olds boast about
having read, though no responsible adult would let them anywhere
near it.  Roche said in the Spiegel interview that even her husband,
who took “Wetlands” in his stride, was shocked at the new
novel. He won’t be the only one.  Yet there are lines that made me laugh out loud. And I
won’t forget her definition of kitsch as a denial of death and
defecation. No one can accuse Roche of peddling kitsch.  “Schossgebete” is published by  Piper Verlag  (288 pages,
16.99 euros in  Germany .) The English-language translation rights
are still in negotiation.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 