-- 
Emerging Stocks Rally From 1-Year Low on China, Fed Speculation

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-23T21:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/emerging-stocks-advance-from-one-year-low-amid-fed-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in six days, lifting the benchmark index from a one-year low, as
a report showed  China ’s manufacturing may contract at a slower
pace and investors speculated the  Federal Reserve  will take
further steps to bolster the  U.S. economy .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 2 percent to 985.80
at 4:31 p.m. in  New York , the biggest increase since Aug. 15.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa Index snapped a three-day losing streak.
 Mexico ’s benchmark rose to a three-week high. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index advanced 1.5 percent, Taiwan’s Taiex climbed 3.3
percent and South Korea’s Kospi jumped 3.9 percent. Turkey’s  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  slid 1.6 percent as the central bank left
reserve requirements unchanged.  Industrial and raw-materials companies rallied after the
preliminary reading for a Chinese manufacturing index released
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 49.8 in August
from a final reading of 49.3 for July. Shares are rebounding
before central bankers meet this week in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming,
where Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s hint of a second round of
asset purchases a year ago helped spur a 25 percent rally in the
MSCI emerging-market index.  “Some investors appear to be using hopes of more measures
in the U.S. as an excuse to grab oversold stocks,” said Lim Chang Gue, a  fund manager  in Seoul at Samsung Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $30 billion. “Still, I’m not too
optimistic about whether another round of asset purchases could
translate into an economic recovery.”  Monthly Decline  The MSCI emerging-market index has tumbled 13 percent in
August, set for its worst month since October 2008. The measure
is down 14 percent this year, dragging valuations to 9.8 times
estimated profits for the next 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI World Index of developed markets
has lost 9.6 percent this year and is valued at 11.1 times
forecast earnings, the data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined two basis points to 369,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The Bovespa rose after Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega  said creating conditions to cut  interest rates  is a
“priority” in a senate hearing. Lower interest rates would be
“very healthy” because they would cut the cost of servicing
the nation’s debt, he said.  Fifty-eight stocks in the benchmark index rose while eight
fell. Gerdau SA, Latin America’s largest steelmaker, jumped 6
percent, and Braskem SA, Latin America’s largest petrochemicals
producer, gained 3.8 percent, following commodity prices higher.  Zloty, Real  Poland’s zloty appreciated 1.2 percent versus the dollar
while the Hungarian forint climbed 1.1 percent, the first and
second-best performers among emerging-market currencies.
Brazil’s real strengthened 0.7 percent against the greenback
while  Russia ’s ruble gained 0.5 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose the most since July 4 as
the PMI report eased concerns China’s economic slowdown is
deepening.  Yunnan Copper Industry Co. (000878)  gained 1.7 percent, while
Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. advanced 2.6 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa rose six basis
points to 264, according to CMA in  London . A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  