-- 
Eni Lobbies to Keep Oil Dominance in Libya After Qaddafi

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-24T16:11:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/eni-lobbies-rebel-leaders-to-maintain-oil-dominance-in-libya-after-qaddafi.html
Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s biggest oil
company, is lobbying rebel leaders to hold its position as
Libya’s top energy producer after the end of Muammar Qaddafi’s
42-year regime.  Eni has been in contact with rebel groups throughout the
conflict to ensure it doesn’t lose ground to French, U.K. and
U.S. companies trying to take advantage of their countries’ air
strikes against Qaddafi’s forces, said a person with knowledge
of the company’s strategy, declining to be named because the
information is confidential.  France’s  Total SA (FP) , which gets 2.5 percent of its global
production from Libya, is seen as a particular threat due to
France’s leading role in rallying the international community to
the rebel cause, the person said. Eni has been in the country
since 1959 and got 13 percent of its revenue there before the
conflict.  “If and when  Libya  opens up for business again, Eni needs
to be well positioned and the market will look at that
closely,” said Patrizio Pazzaglia, head of financial
investments at Bank Insinger de Beaufort NV in Rome, who holds
Eni shares. “Libya’s high quality crude was an important asset
for the company and I’m sure they will work hard to guard it.”  Eni rose 0.5 percent to close at 13.46 euros today in
Milan. The shares have gained 7.9 percent this week after rebel
fighters reached the capital, signaling a possible end to the
six-month conflict.  France First  Libyan National Transitional Council leader Mahmoud Jebril
will fly to Paris to meet French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  today
and will meet with Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
tomorrow.  France, which was the first country to recognize Libyan
opposition leaders and led efforts to launch air strikes against
Qaddafi, has also been lobbying rebel forces to ensure its
companies are not forgotten once new contracts start getting
assigned, according to a person familiar with the negotiations,
who asked not to be named because the talks aren’t public.  “Sarkozy invested a lot in this venture and now he needs
to show his voters France will get something out of it, so
that’s where Eni’s concerns come in,” said Nicolo Sartori, an
energy and defense analyst at Rome’s Institute for International
Affairs. “I don’t think anyone will touch old contracts because
international law protects them, but new ones are up for
grabs.”  France  has held a leadership role from the start and wants
to “remain at the forefront” of initiatives to rebuild Libya,
government spokeswoman Valerie Pecresse told reporters in Paris
today.  ‘Positive Future’  Eni Chairman Giuseppe Recchi said yesterday in an interview
he was confident any new government would honor pre-existing
agreements. While he was unable to say when production will
resume, Recchi said an end to the conflict with Qaddafi would be
“very positive.”  Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  sees a “positive
future for Eni in Libya,” according to an interview with
 Corriere della Sera  published today. Eni has a “special”
relationship with the rebels as it was the first foreign company
that met their representatives in Benghazi on April 3, he said.  The company has said it may take about a year to restore
Libyan oil output fully and two or three months to bring back
full gas flows. Eni’s oil and gas volumes in Libya have fallen
to about 50,000 barrels a day of oil equivalent from 280,000 a
day before the conflict.  ‘Post-Qaddafi Scenario’  “We aren’t yet in a post-Qaddafi scenario. That will come
when military operations have ended,”  Franck Louvrier , a
spokesman for Sarkozy, said by telephone.  Total, which produced 55,000 barrel a day of crude in
Libya, said it is monitoring events to determine when a restart
may be possible. A spokeswoman declined to comment further on
its plans in Libya.  Other companies that have operations in Libya and may be
interested in gaining more access to  Africa ’s largest known oil
reserves include London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , Houston-based
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , BASF SE’s Wintershall unit, Madrid-based Repsol
SA, and  Austria ’s  OMV AG. (OMV)   Repsol Finance Director Miguel Martinez said on a July 28
conference call that the company’s Libyan assets are intact and
its staff are ready to return to the country once the conflict
has ended. It will take the company up to four weeks to restart
production, he added.  Oil-Revenue Dependent  The new Libyan government’s “top priority” will be to
ensure enough stability to allow the resumption of production
“in order for Libya to start earning the oil export revenue on
which it almost totally depends,” IHS Senior Middle East energy
analyst  Samuel Ciszuk  wrote in a note.  Eni’s most important field in Libya is the Bahr Essalam
deposit off the coast near Tripoli. Started six years ago, it
produced about 122,000 barrels a day of gas and associated
liquids for Eni in 2009, according to a report on the company’s
website.  The company’s other major fields in the west of the country
include Wafa, south of Tripoli, which pumped 88,000 barrels a
day in 2009. Libya produced more than 1.5 million barrels a day
before the start of the civil war in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  