-- 
Merkel Rejects Seeking Collateral in European Bailouts as Splits Emerge

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-24T10:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/merkel-ally-von-der-leyen-calls-for-gold-as-bailout-collateral.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rejected demands that Greece provide collateral for emergency
loans as splits emerged in her Cabinet, reflecting euro-area
divisions on the issue.  Merkel told lawmakers from her Christian Democratic bloc
that a call by Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen for countries
to put up gold as security for bailouts is “not the right
way,” Ulrich Scharlack, a spokesman for the parliamentary
group, said yesterday in Berlin after they were briefed by
Merkel on the region’s debt crisis.  The disagreement at the top of  Europe ’s biggest economy
underscores risks over a second Greek aid package after the
Finnish government said Aug. 16 that it secured a collateral
arrangement to ensure its contribution would be repaid.  Austria 
and the Netherlands, which both share  Finland ’s AAA rating,
called for similar deals, as did Slovakia and Slovenia.  “We expect other euro-area members to ultimately reject
the Finland-Greece deal,” Moody’s Investors Service said. “But
the message sent by the calls for such agreements confirms that
Europe is conflicted over the very decision to provide financial
support to its members, not just the amount of support.”  German Confidence Falls  German business confidence fell in August to the lowest in
more than a year, the Ifo institute in Munich said today, a sign
that economic growth may lose pace in coming months and dampen
the tax-revenue growth that’s helping  Germany  to trim its own
deficit.  Merkel’s coalition aims to get bills through parliament by
October that strengthen the euro-region’s rescue fund and
facilitate more aid for  Greece ,  Norbert Barthle , her  Christian
Democrats ’ budget spokesman, said in an interview today.  “Industry’s telling me we may be experiencing just a dip
in economic growth,” Barthle said. “But, sure, it’s a blessing
if we can get these bills passed fast.”  At the Berlin meeting late yesterday, Merkel was told that
lawmakers from her bloc will provide a majority to approve the
July 21 overhaul of the euro bailout fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility, the caucus leader,  Volker Kauder ,
told reporters.  Collateral Call  Money from the rescue fund should only be made available if
the recipient provides collateral, Von der Leyen, deputy
chairwoman of the Christian Democrats, said earlier in the day
on ARD television.  “Several countries are making huge efforts to service
their debt,” Von der Leyen said, according to a transcript of
her comments. “This should be acknowledged. But in order for
these efforts to be pursued over the long term, collateral is
needed.” Her ministry confirmed the comments.  Kauder also dismissed the suggestion. “The discussion
started by the Finns is not one we should continue,” Kauder
told reporters when asked about Von der Leyen’s comments.  Finland is open to adjusting its collateral arrangement
with Greece after several euro members criticized the Nordic
country for securing the bilateral deal to protect its
commitment, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said Aug. 22.  “It’s a well-functioning technical solution, but if this
particular model isn’t possible, then we have to try to find
another model,” Katainen said in an interview in Helsinki.  Merkel emphasized the need to impose strict conditions on
bailout recipients. She suggested the  Court of Justice of the
European Union  could be given jurisdiction over violations of
the treaty that sets limits on debt and deficits, according to
Scharlack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  