-- 
MetLife Sets 25-Year Naming Rights Deal for Jets-Giants New Jersey Stadium

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-23T20:19:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/metlife-sets-25-year-naming-rights-deal-for-jets-giants-new-jersey-stadium.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  agreed to place its
name on the National Football League home of the  New York  Giants
and Jets in a 25-year agreement that may be among the biggest
stadium-rights deals in U.S. sports.  MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer and known for its
“Snoopy” cartoon-dog logo, became the primary naming-rights
partner of the only stadium in the U.S.’s most-popular sport
shared by two teams and the home of the 2014 Super Bowl in East
Rutherford, New Jersey.  The venue will be known as MetLife Stadium. The agreement
also makes the company the official insurer of the Giants, Jets
and the building, and provides the company with 120,000 square
feet of promotional space. Its name will be displayed on four
signs outside the stadium.  “MetLife secures the naming rights to a world-class venue
that will extend the reach of our brand to a level unmatched in
the industry,” Steven Kandarian, chief executive officer of
MetLife, said in a press conference at the stadium. “And the
Jets and Giants gain a sponsor with a history of financial
strength and brand that is strong.”  Kandarian said that the lure of a  Super Bowl  was an added
benefit. Without the championship game, he said, MetLife still
would have done the deal “but perhaps for a different price.”  Near Record  Financial details of the agreement weren’t disclosed in the
release. The rights package would be around $400 million, less
than the record $23.3 million a year Farmers Insurance Group
said it would pay Anschutz Entertainment Group to name a
proposed NFL stadium in  Los Angeles , according to a person
familiar with the New Jersey contract who was granted anonymity
because details of the deal aren’t being released.  It also would be less than  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s deal to name
the  New York Mets ’ Citi Field baseball stadium in Queens, New
York, and  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s agreement for Barclays Center in
 Brooklyn , New York, the home court of the  National Basketball
Association ’s Nets starting in September 2012.  “That NFL platform is very desirable,” Chuck Costigan,
founder of Denver-based Costigan & Associates sponsorship and
naming-rights analysts, said in a telephone interview. “Even
more so when you double it with two teams. That market cannot be
overstated.”  The  insurance industry  has begun to spend heavily on
advertising, said John Brody, a principal at Wasserman Media
Group, which brokered the agreement for the football teams.  “This is an opportunity to break apart from the clutter
out there,” he said in a telephone interview.  International Scope  MetLife serves 90 million customers in more than 60
countries, according to the release. The company has leading
market positions in the U.S.,  Japan ,  Latin America , Asia
Pacific,  Europe  and the  Middle East , and its international
operations may benefit from any overseas expansion of the NFL,
Costigan said.  “In time, I would expect the NFL to grow
internationally,” he said. “The NFL has made its intention
clear to move into more of an international product.”  MetLife already is one of four so-called cornerstone
partners in the $1.6 billion stadium that opened last year,
paying about $7 million for in-stadium branding. MetLife assets
will stay in the corner until it is sold.  The deal means the company’s brand will figure prominently
in the broadcast of the 2014 Super Bowl, which has set
viewership records the past four years. The championship game in
February drew an average of 111 million viewers, making it the
most-watched program in U.S. history.  The stadium is about nine miles west of MetLife’s
headquarters on Park Avenue in  Manhattan  and 10 miles north of
the main offices of Prudential Financial Inc., the insurer’s
biggest rival, in Newark,  New Jersey .  Package Services  MetLife promotes its brand in the U.S. to attract consumers
of products ranging from life insurance and savings products to
home equity-backed loans.  “The company’s huge presence and influence in our area is
a natural fit for this stadium, and the strength, stability and
quality of MetLife matches perfectly with the characteristics
that the Giants try to achieve in all aspects of our
operations,” Giants co-owner John Mara said at the news
conference.  The 83,000-seat venue has been known as New Meadowlands
Stadium since opening in 2010. Besides NFL games, it has staged
soccer, college and high school football games, concerts,
lacrosse and other events.  Allianz Talks  Officials of New Meadowlands Stadium said in September 2008
that they would end talks with Europe’s biggest insurer,  Allianz
SE , after protests by Jewish groups including the Anti-
Defamation League that the company once insured Auschwitz.  “Holocaust survivors are relieved that naming rights to
the stadium in the Meadowlands will now not cause offense to
those who suffered and were plundered in the Nazi era,” Elan Steinberg, vice president of the American Gathering of Holocaust
Survivors and their Descendents, said in an e-mailed statement
Aug. 19.  MetLife Chairman Robert Henrikson, whose tenure as chief
executive officer ended in May, told investors in December that
five years ago he turned down an opportunity to put MetLife’s
name on “a big sports enterprise.” Since then, the company has
increased spending on advertising and promotion of its Snoopy
logo. The white and black dog, from Charles Schulz’s “Peanuts”
comic strip, appears on MetLife’s home page and its blimp.  The company is a sponsor of the U.S. PGA tour and its
 branded blimps  appear at golf tournaments and other sports
events.  “People love Snoopy places we thought they might not like
Snoopy at all,” Henrikson said in a May conference call with
analysts. “Do the Japanese love the MetLife blimp doing the
golf tournaments in Japan? You betcha.”  MetLife rose $1.07 to $31.63 in New York Stock Exchange
trading at 4 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in  East Rutherford , New Jersey, at 
   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  