-- 
Euro-Region Slowdown Caused Overreaction, Estonia’s Kaasik Says

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-08-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/euro-region-slowdown-caused-overreaction-estonia-s-kaasik-says.html
Investors “overreacted” to signs
the euro region’s economic recovery is losing momentum as data
have yet to confirm the situation is worsening, Estonian central
bank Deputy Governor Ulo Kaasik said.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2
percent in the second quarter, the least since the region
emerged from recession in 2009. It’s too early to say whether
the developments of the financial markets in recent weeks will
affect the economy, Kaasik said in an interview in the Estonian
capital, Tallinn, yesterday.  “The euro region’s recovery has been fast and faster than
what was expected a year ago,” Kaasik said. “Now, when growth
has slowed in the second quarter, it has somehow surprised the
markets which have overreacted in a negative way. In fact, we
don’t have clear data showing that the situation is worsening.”  The second-quarter growth figure compared with 0.8 percent
expansion in the first quarter and a 0.3 percent median estimate
of 34 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Economic growth is slowing around the globe. The  Federal
Reserve  this month pledged to keep  interest rates  near zero for
another two years to bolster a recovery that’s moving
“considerably slower” than expected. European policy makers
are struggling to contain a debt crisis, while  Japan  has cut its
annual growth forecast on weaker export prospects.  ‘Significant’ Risks  Given recent developments, a worse-than-expected
development of the euro area’s economy can’t be ruled out as
“risks are significant and there is a lot of uncertainty,”
said Kaasik, 36.  Kaasik and Madis Muller, a former  fund manager  with the
 World Bank , were appointed in May as deputy central bank
governors for five-year terms, replacing Marten Ross and Rein
Minka. Estonia adopted the euro in January, with Governor  Andres Lipstok  becoming a voting member of the European Central Bank
council.  European stocks rebounded from a two-year low yesterday
amid speculation the Federal Reserve may this week signal
additional stimulus measures. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index rose 0.8 percent to 224.9 at the 4:30 p.m. close in
 London . The gauge retreated 6.1 percent last week, extending its
decline from this year’s high to 23 percent.  The four-week rout in equities has wiped out more than $8
trillion in global stock values before central bankers from
around the world prepare to meet in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Estonia’s euro adoption has had a “certain” role in
boosting growth to 8.4 percent in the first half from a year
earlier, the European Union’s fastest, and increasing investor
confidence, Kaasik said.  CDS Spreads  The $19 billion economy started expanding in the second
quarter of 2010 following its deepest recession in two decades,
on demand for its products from Sweden and  Finland . Exports grew
43 percent from a year earlier in June, the slowest pace in four
months, the statistics office said earlier this month.  Five-year Estonian credit-default swaps traded at 125
points on Aug. 19, while the spread to Latvia’s CDS has
increased to 133 points from 112 points before the turmoil on
global markets, according to data from CMA. The spread to
Lithuania’s CDS has increased to 132 points from 110.  “Markets view  Estonia  more positively as the CDS spreads
with our neighbors Latvia and Lithuania are increasing,” Kaasik
said. “Our CDS prices have increased by similar magnitude as
those of Sweden and Finland, while Latvia’s and Lithuania’s have
clearly risen more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  