-- 
European Bank Job ‘Bloodbath’ Surpasses 40,000 as UBS Cuts

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-08-24T09:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/european-bank-job-bloodbath-surpasses-40-000-as-ubs-cuts-workforce-by-5-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s decision to cut 5 percent
of its workforce brings to more than 40,000 the number of jobs
cut by European banks in the past month as the region’s
worsening sovereign debt crisis crimps trading revenue.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said yesterday it will
eliminate 3,500 jobs, mainly from its investment bank. It
follows  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which announced 30,000 cuts on Aug.
1,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which is cutting headcount by 3,000, and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , which is eliminating 2,000 posts.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  announced 2,000 reductions on July 28.  European banks are slashing jobs this year six times faster
than their U.S. peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
as concerns about the creditworthiness of  Italy ,  Spain  and
 France  roil financial markets and reduce income from fixed-
income trading, stock and bond underwriting as well as mergers
and acquisitions. Financial firms are also cutting costs as
regulators force banks to hold more and better quality capital
to withstand future shocks.  “It’s a bloodbath, and I expect things to get worse before
they get better,” said Jonathan Evans, chairman of executive-
search firm Sammons Associates in London. “I cannot see a lot
of those who have lost their jobs getting re-employed.
Regardless of how good someone is, no one wants to talk about
hiring. Life will be very difficult for two or three years.”  The 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index has fallen 31 percent this year. RBS tumbled 47 percent,
Barclays 45 percent and France’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA 48 percent.  RBS, Barclays  Credit Suisse and UBS both reported a 71 percent drop in
investment-banking earnings in the second quarter. Revenue at
Edinburgh-based RBS’s securities unit dropped 35 percent in the
period, while London-based  Barclays Capital  posted a 27 percent
decline in pretax profit.  “Some job cuts will be done by all banks” with investment
banking units, said Stefano Girola, a  fund manager  at Albertini
Syz & Co. in Milan, who helps manage about 3 billion euros ($4.3
billion). “Business volumes are poor, especially in equity and
corporate bonds divisions.”  European banks are cutting jobs at the fastest rate since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008,
eliminating about 67,000 roles so far this year, according to
Bloomberg data. U.K. banks account for about 50,000 of those
reductions. U.S. lenders announced about 10,500 cuts in the same
period, the data show.  ‘Far Fewer Bankers’  A lot of the cuts are likely to be permanent, according to
Stephane Rambosson, managing partner at executive search firm
Veni Partners in  London .  “Returns will continue to fall and costs on revenue have
just exploded,” Rambosson said. “Somehow banks have to make
the equation work. In the long term, there will be far fewer
bankers than there were.”  Banks will be forced to continue to cut costs as they
struggle to increase revenue amid tougher regulation, according
to an Aug. 17 report by  KPMG  LLP.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will require
lenders to more than triple the core reserves they must hold to
protect themselves from insolvency by 2019. Under Basel III,
banks will be obliged to hold core Tier 1 capital equivalent to
7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, compared with 2 percent
under the previous international rules.  ‘Fundamental Restructuring’  “We’re looking at a fundamental restructuring of
banking,” said David Sayer, global head of retail banking at
KPMG in London. “Banks have to hold far more capital and more
of it in liquidity, which doesn’t generate a return. This means
the cost of doing business is higher, leading banks to think
about where they’ll make money and pulling out of countries and
areas where they won’t.”  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  this week lowered its growth forecasts for
the 17-nation euro region for this year and next. The euro area
will expand 1.7 percent this year and 1 percent in 2012,
Unicredit chief euro zone economist  Marco Valli  said in a note
yesterday. That compares with a previous prediction of 2.1
percent growth in 2011 and 1.7 percent in 2012.  “The banking industry overall is clearly re-shaping its
cost base,” said  Andrew Gray , banking leader at accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in London. “We may well see some
further losses of jobs over the course of the second half of
2011. Exactly where is impossible to say, but we will see some
further cuts from other institutions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  