-- 
European Banks Erase Gains as Sovereign Debt Concerns Persist

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-08-23T15:56:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/european-bank-shares-gain-on-speculation-u-s-to-boost-stimulus.html
European banking shares reversed
earlier gains on concern the region’s sovereign debt crisis will
damage the economy.  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index slipped 0.04 percent to close at
134.36, its fifth straight decline, after gaining as much as 2.2
percent today. Italian banks were among the biggest decliners,
with Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl sliding 4.9 percent and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  slumping 2.6 percent.  The cost of insuring European bank debt against default
rose to a record after German investor confidence fell to the
lowest in more than 2 1/2 years. Former U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Alan Greenspan , speaking in  Washington  today, said the
“breaking down” of the euro is creating “very considerable”
difficulties in the European banking system.  “The issue of sovereign debt concern is still with us,”
said Michael Rohr, a banking analyst with Sylvia Quandt Research
GmbH. “Is this life-threatening? It would most certainly be in
a global recession coupled with the debt crisis and related
write-downs spreading to other euro area members from  Greece .”  European banks earlier gained as investors speculated Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal more stimulus measures to
revive a slowing U.S. economy at a meeting with fellow central
bankers this week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “The banks’ share price declines are merely down to
speculation,” said Rohr. “Growth will probably slow this year,
that’s clear, but we can’t reliably tell by how much yet because
the indicators we have at the moment are based on sentiment
rather than ones that actually monitor developments.”  Banca Akros cut earnings-per-share estimates on Italian
banks because of “the increase in the Italian sovereign risk,
the impact this is going to have on Italian banks’ revenues and
the slowdown in economic growth in  Europe ,” analyst Luigi Tramontana wrote in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  