-- 
Euro-Area Services, Manufacturing Grow at Slowest Pace in Almost Two Years

-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-08-23T09:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/euro-area-services-manufacturing-grow-at-slowest-pace-in-almost-two-years.html
European services and manufacturing
growth held steady in August at the slowest pace in almost two
years, adding to signs the euro-region recovery is losing
momentum as the sovereign debt crisis persists.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries held at 51.1, the same as July’s
reading and the lowest since September 2009, London-based Markit
Economics said today. Economists forecast a drop to 50, the
median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. A
reading above 50 indicates growth.  “It’s some light amidst all the gloom, but we are not out
of the woods yet,” said Martin van Vliet, senior economist at
ING Bank Group in Amsterdam. “It reduces the fear of an
imminent recession, but growth will flat-line for the rest of
the year.”  Europe ’s economy is struggling to gather strength as
governments from  Italy  to  Spain  step up budget cuts to fight the
debt crisis. Pledges of 365 billion euros ($525 billion) in
official loans to Greece, Portugal and Ireland, and 110.5
billion euros of bond purchases by the  European Central Bank 
failed to fix the finances of those countries or prevent
speculative attacks on Spain and Italy.  German Growth  Euro-area gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in
the second quarter after a 0.8 percent gain in the previous
period. That’s the worst performance since the euro region
emerged from a recession in late 2009. In  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, growth almost stalled in the period.  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
gaining as much as 0.9 percent against the dollar. The single
currency traded at $1.4477 at 11:17 a.m. in Brussels.  “The euro zone economy grew only marginally again in
August, suggesting that recent months have seen the weakest
expansion for two years,”  Chris Williamson , Markit’s chief
economist, said in today’s report.  “A number of factors have hit growth, including a downturn
in global demand, which caused exports of goods to fall at the
fastest rate for over two years, and growing concerns about the
economic outlook and the euro area’s financial crisis, which
caused business confidence to plunge,” Williamson said. “Most
notable was a record fall in business confidence in the German
service sector.”  Domestic Demand  The euro-area services indicator slipped to 51.5 this month
from 51.6 in July, Markit said in the initial estimate. The
manufacturing gauge dropped to 49.7, indicating a contraction.
In Germany, the manufacturing index held steady at 52 in August,
while services dipped to 50.4, a 25-month low, Markit said in a
separate report.  The euro-area services gauge is “not as bad as expected,
showing that in the core economies, at least, domestic demand is
holding up somewhat,” van Vliet said. “But at the same time,
it may merely mean that all the bad news simply hasn’t fed
through yet and we’ll see a decline in the next few months.”  New business in the euro area fell for the first time in
two years, Markit said. Services reported the weakest growth of
new orders since September 2009, while manufacturers said new
orders had fallen for a third month.  “With forward-looking indicators such as business
confidence and new orders falling further, it is likely that the
survey data will continue to turn down in September,” Markit’s
Williamson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  