-- 
Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler Is Resentenced to Five Years

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-08-23T21:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/ex-credit-suisse-broker-resentenced-to-five-years-for-securities-fraud.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
 Eric Butler , convicted by a jury of  securities fraud  in 2009,
won’t have his prison sentence extended after pleading guilty to
seven  wire-fraud  counts stemming from the same actions.  Butler, 39, was resentenced to five years in prison today
by U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  in Brooklyn, New York,
and ordered to surrender Sept. 9 at the federal prison in Fort
Dix,  New Jersey . In January 2010, the judge imposed the same
penalty for Butler’s jury convictions for securities fraud,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit
wire fraud.  “I regret my actions,” Butler told Weinstein before he
was sentenced.  Butler and his partner,  Julian Tzolov , were convicted in
2009 of intentionally misleading clients about securities
purchased on their behalf.  The federal appeals court in  Manhattan  in June overturned
Butler’s securities-fraud conviction, saying it should have been
tried in federal court in Manhattan rather than in Brooklyn. It
upheld his two conspiracy convictions. Butler then got the wire-
fraud counts moved from Manhattan to Brooklyn and consented to
having the securities-fraud count there as well. He also pleaded
guilty to the securities-fraud charge today.  Community Service  “This puts the matter behind Mr. Butler and he’s eager to
get on with his life,” one of his lawyers, Steven F. Molo, said
after the sentencing.  Molo, of Molo Lamken LLP in Manhattan, had asked Weinstein
to give his client less than five years because he has been
seeing a therapist and organizing activities for neighborhood
children.  “Then, as now, the defendant stands before you convicted
of a $1 billion fraud,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel A. Spector said to Weinstein. “The defendant clearly already got a
break,” he said, referring to the fact that the five-year term
is below the nonbinding guideline.  Butler and Tzolov falsely claimed the securities they put
their clients in were backed by federally guaranteed student
loans, according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch.  The men told clients the investments, actually backed by
riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe
alternative to  bank deposits  or money-market funds, according to
Lynch’s office. Victims’ losses were more than $1.1 billion,
according to the government.  Credit Suisse Offices  Last year, Weinstein sentenced Butler to five years in
prison on each of the three counts he was found guilty of, to be
served concurrently. He also imposed a $5 million fine on the
securities-fraud conviction. He reinstated that fine today.  The appeals court had said the securities fraud count
should have been tried in Manhattan because that’s where Credit
Suisse has its office.  Butler and Tzolov were indicted in 2008. Tzolov, a native
of Bulgaria, fled the U.S. before being returned from Spain in
July 2009 and pleading guilty. On June 7, Tzolov was sentenced
to four years in prison, with 1 1/2 years of that for bail
jumping. He testified against Butler.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 