-- 
Maehara Plans Leadership Bid as Japan Premier Kan Says He May Quit Aug. 26

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-24T00:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/ex-foreign-minister-maehara-likely-to-run-to-succeed-kan-as-japan-premier.html
Former Japanese Foreign Minister
 Seiji Maehara , the most popular contender for prime minister in
public polls, will compete to succeed Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ,
who said he may resign by the end of the week.  “I want to take the lead in overcoming our national
crisis,” Maehara said yesterday in Tokyo, declaring his
intention to run in the Aug. 29 contest to head the ruling
 Democratic Party of Japan . Kan said he will step down on Aug. 26
if parliament passes the last two pieces of his legislative
agenda, fulfilling a June pledge to quit.  Maehara will be challenged by Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  and Agriculture Minister
Michihiko Kano to become the DPJ’s third leader since taking
power in 2009. The winner will face the country’s biggest
rebuilding project since World War II, after Kan’s popularity
plummeted over his handling of the March earthquake and tsunami
that caused the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  “Maehara’s candidacy changes the whole race,” said Steven R. Reed, a professor of political science at Chuo University in
Tokyo. “He’s the front runner in the public opinion polls, but
we don’t know yet how the party will react.”  The winner will become prime minister because of the DPJ’s
majority in the Diet’s lower house, and will be charged with
resuscitating a country burdened by deflation, an aging
population and the world’s largest debt. The next premier will
be  Japan ’s sixth in five years.  Moody’s Investors Service today downgraded Japan’s credit
rating, citing “weak” growth prospects and “frequent changes in
administrations” that “have prevented the government from
implementing long-term and economic and fiscal policies.”  Raising Taxes  Maehara, 49, was the most popular choice to become the next
prime minister according to a Yomiuri poll published Aug. 8,
with 21 percent support, while Noda had 5 percent. One voter in
five had no preference. Kan’s approval rating fell to 18 percent
from 24 percent in July, the survey showed. The paper surveyed
1,059 eligible voters and gave no margin of error.  One focus of the race will be whether to raise taxes for
reconstruction after the earthquake and tsunami, which left more
than 20,000 people dead or missing. Japan plans to spend 19
trillion yen ($248 billion) over five years to rebuild,
including 6 trillion yen Kan compiled in two stimulus packages.  Noda supports raising taxes to pay for reconstruction as
well as doubling the  sales tax  to 10 percent by the middle of
the decade to help contain the debt burden. Kaieda and Kano have
yet to outline their tax positions.  Neither has Maehara, who said in a June interview that the
next reconstruction package should be “at least” 10 trillion
yen and that the nation’s central bank ought to step up stimulus.  ‘Big Scale’ Stimulus  The next spending package will be on “a considerably big
scale” because Japan needs to end deflation as well as rebuild
from the record earthquake and tsunami, he said.  The Diet this week votes on legislation to subsidize
renewable energy and another authorizing the sale of deficit
bonds to finance about 40 percent of this year’s 94.7 trillion
yen budget. The energy bill cleared the lower house yesterday
and along with the bond bill now goes to the upper chamber.  DPJ Secretary-General Katsuya Okada said Aug. 22 the
leadership election will take place on Aug. 29 should Kan resign
on Aug. 26.  Maehara stepped down as foreign minister five days before
the March 11 quake and tsunami over allegations he had violated
campaign financing laws. He admitted to receiving 250,000 yen
from a South Korean woman living in Japan in violation of laws
barring political contributions by foreign nationals. Thousands
of ethnic Koreans who have lived in Japan their entire lives do
not hold Japanese citizenship.  Maehara also served as transportation minister, overseeing
a turnaround plan for Japan Airlines Corp. and leading the push
to sell high-speed rail technology to the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  