-- 
Texas Sells Record $10 Billion Notes for Schools After Cuts: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/texas-sells-record-10-billion-notes-for-schools-after-cuts-muni-credit.html
Texas  will issue $9.8 billion of
tax-exempt general-obligation notes today, the state’s largest
short-term debt offering, to fund public schools.  Texas increased its annual top-rated tax and revenue
anticipation note sale from last year by $2 billion to cover
payments to school districts until the bulk of tax revenue
receipts next year. The additional borrowing will compensate for
the end of federal stimulus funding and property-tax collections
that are below what was budgeted, said R.J. DeSilva, a spokesman
for Comptroller Susan Combs. The state will direct more money to
districts where property-tax revenue has fallen short.  State officials set the deal’s coupon rate at  2.5 percent ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The note may price at
yields of 0.30-0.35 percentage point, depending on the market,
and whether investors of taxable funds also buy, said William Henderson, who oversees $16 billion of short-term municipal
assets at BlackRock Inc. in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Texas’s note deal “is the standard, cleanest, best-trading
name in the industry,” Henderson said.  Last year, the state priced $7.8 billion of tax-exempt
notes on Aug. 24 with a 2 percent coupon yielding an average
interest cost of 34 basis points, or 10 basis points above an
index of top-rated, one-year debt. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Yields on top-rated, one-year debt were at 17 basis points
yesterday. Tax-exempt rates for short-term and long-term debt
have fallen in August as investors look to Treasuries and
municipal debt as an alternative to equities.  Highly Rated  The one-year notes offer buyers an easy-to-trade and highly
rated investment, Henderson said. Any interest from taxpaying
investors and separately managed accounts would help the $9.8
billion deal find sufficient buyers, he said.  “The deal is larger than last year’s at a time when money-
market fund assets are significantly smaller than last year,”
Henderson said. “So you will to need to bring in different
buyers than just the money-market world.”  U.S. municipal-bond mutual funds last week experienced net
withdrawals for the fourth consecutive week, according to Lipper
US Fund Flows. Disposals totaled $323 million, down from $682
million of withdrawals the week before.  Potential crossover buyers from taxable funds, ineligible
for tax exemptions on muni debt, may push up rates on the notes
to as much as 40-41 basis points, Christopher Nicholl, a senior
portfolio manager at Bank of New York Mellon who oversees $2
billion in short-term assets, said in a telephone interview from
 Boston .  ‘Wild Card’  “The big wild card is more taxable funds have discovered
the muni market over the last couple of years and have found
that even if they don’t need the tax exemption, there is a
certain amount of yield enhancement they can get through the
municipal market,” Nicholl said.  “So the question will be where do some of those very large
taxable funds start to have an interest and come into the deal
in significant numbers?”  The sale follows legislative action to tackle a deficit by
targeting education expenditure. With public schools projected
to serve 80,000 more students this year than last and a tax
system that wasn’t expected to support that demand, Governor
 Rick Perry  cut $15 billion from spending and shortchanged them
by about $4 billion from previously mandated levels rather than
raise taxes.  Yields on Treasuries have fallen faster than those on
comparable one-year tax-exempt bonds. Municipal-debt yields
represented about 231 percent of Treasuries yesterday, compared
with an average of 153 percent in 2011, Bloomberg data show.
Municipals and Treasuries became more expensive as investors
sold equities after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. to AA+
and reports of a slower economic recovery.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT COMMISSION, which issues debt for the
San Francisco International Airport, is set to issue today $452
million of tax-exempt and taxable debt to refinance existing
fixed-rate and variable-rate bonds. The securities are rated A1,
Moody’s Investors Service’s fifth-highest grade. E.J. De La Rosa
& Co. will lead a syndicate of banks on the transaction.
(Updated Aug. 23)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  