-- 
Facebook Seeks Acquisitions to Fend Off Google Competition

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/facebook-steps-up-acquisitions-to-add-users-as-google-rivalry-grows-tech.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social network, is planning acquisitions that will improve site
design, keep its service reliable and advance mobile features to
stave off competition from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc.  The company aims to make about 20 purchases in 2011, up
from 10 last year and one in 2009, Vaughan Smith, Facebook’s
director of corporate development, said in an interview.  Facebook is betting that a focus on design will entice
people to spend more time on the site, while adding mobile
services can cater to the growing number of members using
handheld devices. As it grapples with competition from Google
and Twitter, Facebook also must bolster its system so the site
runs smoothly amid rapid growth. The company has made 13
acquisitions so far this year, including adding a mobile group-
messaging service it rolled out to users this month.  “Two years ago we didn’t have a track record in
acquisitions,” Smith said. “While we expected them to work
well, it was still a crapshoot how they’d turn out. We’ve built
a culture that supports entrepreneurs, and it’s working
incredibly well.”  Facebook makes money from advertising and by taking a
commission when software developers sell virtual goods on the
site. As a closely held company, Facebook doesn’t disclose
financials. A person with knowledge of the matter said in May
that the company is likely to generate more than $2 billion in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
this year.  In addition, Facebook has raised more than $2 billion from
investors, including $1.5 billion from an investment led by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , announced in January.  Google’s Cash  By contrast, Google has $39.1 billion in cash. Google, the
biggest Internet search engine, unveiled a new social-networking
service, called Google+, in June. It already had attracted 29
million people by the end of July, according to ComScore Inc.  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , has made mostly
small acquisitions, with target companies sometimes having one
or two employees. The company has a market value of $72.5
billion, according to  SharesPost Inc. , an exchange for private
shares. That’s more than the valuations of publicly traded
Internet companies such as EBay Inc. and Yahoo! Inc.  The company can use cash and stock for acquisitions,
according to Lou Kerner, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.
in  New York . Facebook also can sell shares in the secondary
markets for additional cash.  No Hindrances?  “I don’t think a lack of cash, even on their balance
sheet, is a significant deterrent for the acquisitions that
they’re looking at,” said Kerner, who declined to estimate how
much cash the company has for purchases.  Many of Facebook’s deals have been targeted at adding
talent as the company vies with larger rivals for skilled
technology workers. Google has announced plans to hire about
6,000 people this year globally.  “Facebook is just trying to get the smartest people
possible in any way it can,” said Debra Aho Williamson, an
EMarketer Inc. analyst. “The idea of bringing in new talent,
smart talent, people who have created interesting products that
Facebook can capitalize on, is going to be important to them.”  Facebook has been sharpening its focus on mobile, which is
how more than a third of users access the site. In February, the
company acquired Beluga, a startup that helped users send
messages to groups of people through their mobile phones.
Facebook earlier this month introduced its own application --
based on Beluga’s technology -- that handles messaging on  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and phones based on Google’s Android software.  ‘Top Priority’  “The future of all computing is mobile,” Wedbush’s Kerner
said. “Mobile, I think, is the top priority at the company.”  Snaptu, a mobile startup Facebook acquired earlier this
year, was bought for about $60 million, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Smith said he is open to larger
acquisitions, but declined to be more specific.  On top of its mobile-computing push, the company has added
services that let users manage their friends by groups or ask
others questions on the site. As new features pile up, Facebook
needs to manage its user-interface design, said Josh Bernoff, an
analyst with Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  “The challenge is that Facebook does a lot more things
than it used to,” Bernoff said. “To get that all to be easily
navigable is not simple.”  Sofa, Push Pop  Purchases in design this year have included Sofa, a
software and user-interface company, and Push Pop Press, which
offered publishing software for touch-enabled devices.  The average U.S.  Facebook user  spends more than seven hours
a month on the service, according to ComScore. With the jump in
users -- to more than 750 million from 500 million in July 2010
-- as well as exponential growth in applications and products,
the company is working to manage rising complexity in its vast
computer systems. To help, the company opened a new  data center 
in Prineville,  Oregon , earlier this year.  Still, Facebook has yet to make an acquisition in
computing, and may seek to buy companies with technology and
workers that will help it strengthen its system.  “They have to over-plan for massive growth,” said
Jeremiah Owyang, an analyst at Altimeter Group in  San Mateo ,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 