-- 
Facebook Revamps Privacy Control Settings to Allow More User Discretion

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-23T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/facebook-revamps-privacy-controls-to-allow-more-user-discretion.html
Facebook Inc., under pressure to
improve its privacy protections, will introduce new features to
make it easier for users to control who views messages, photos
and other shared items.  The  Palo Alto , California-based website will place many
privacy controls next to content that can be shared, instead of
in a separate section that is harder to find, said Chris Cox, a
vice president in charge of products at Facebook.  “We want to make it easy for people to understand exactly
who can see everything and make it easier for them to share with
exactly who they want,” Cox said. “We just think this will be
a much more tactile and visual design and interface for helping
them understand exactly who sees everything.”  Facebook, the world’s largest social network, is retooling
privacy settings after user complaints that the website didn’t
offer enough control over personal information. New features
follow the company’s effort last year to simplify sharing
options, which U.S. lawmakers and the  American Civil Liberties
Union  had criticized for their lack of privacy protections.  “We’re trying to take a step in the right direction here,
but obviously we’re going to be really responsive to any
feedback we get that says these controls could be clearer,” Cox
said.  The changes, expected to be rolled out over the next few
days, will let users customize privacy options for each piece of
personal information on their profile, such as occupation,
religion and education. There will be a drop-down menu next to
each item for users to specify who should be allowed to access.  Photo Tags  Facebook will also deploy new privacy features when someone
“tags,” or identifies and connects a user to a photo or post
on the site. Users will get the ability to approve or reject a
tag before it’s visible on their profile.  For each update posted on the site, new tools attached to
that feature will let users customize which friends or other
members on the site can view it. Access can also be changed
after shared messages are posted.  Location tools, previously available only on mobile
applications, will be added to desktop versions of Facebook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  