-- 
Fearing Inflation ‘Bogeyman’ Is Bad Policy, Brownstein Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-23T16:08:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/fearing-inflation-bogeyman-is-stupid-policy-brownstein-says.html
Policy makers seeking to rescue the
 U.S. economy  are wrong to worry about the threat of inflation
and should heed  Warren Buffett ’s call for higher taxes on the
wealthy, according to Don Brownstein, manager of last year’s
top-performing hedge fund.  Some Federal Reserve members and lawmakers, acting the part
of “modern day ‘Know-Nothings,’” have been “raving about
imaginary uncontrolled inflation and wringing their hands over
government deficits,” Brownstein, whose Structured Portfolio
Management LLC manages about $2 billion of assets, wrote last
week in a letter to investors.  “My viewpoint is, that’s stupid: It has nothing to do with
what we know from economic theory or economic fact,” Brownstein
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Right now, we really
don’t have any inflation,” he added. “So worrying about it is
like worrying about something like the bogeyman.”  The Fed has room to use additional asset purchases to
stimulate the economy and create moderate inflation to aid
indebted consumers, as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signals he’s
ready to spurn “inflation-obsessed fanatics,” Brownstein wrote
in the Aug. 16 letter. Lawmakers shouldn’t “freak out” about
deficits with the economy weak, he wrote after gross domestic
product grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate last quarter to cap
the worst six months since a recession ended in June 2009.  Jackson Hole   U.S. stocks rose today, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index jumping 1.2 percent at 11:27 a.m. in New York, as
investors speculated that Bernanke may signal the Fed will act
to spur the economy as central bankers meet this week in Jackson
Hole,  Wyoming . Gold futures topped $1,900 an ounce for the first
time yesterday, as investors seek protection from inflation and
following Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5 downgrade of the U.S. to AA+.  The letter also disclosed his Stamford, Connecticut-based
firm’s first-half returns and plan to start a fund focused on
investments tied to rental units.  Brownstein’s main SPM Core fund, composed of three separate
funds, returned 14.7 percent through June, according to the
letter. He joined managers including Metacapital Management LP
and Providence Investment Management LLC with focuses in
investments linked to mortgage repayment speeds that bested
hedge funds’ average gain of 4.4 percent, Bloomberg data show.  His SPM Macro: MVPQ fund gained 8.2 percent after opening
in March, the letter showed. That fund, whose name references a
mathematical equation about the relationship between the supply
of money and economic growth, is “designed to produce positive
carry while waiting for the results of ‘accommodative’ monetary
policy to take effect,” according to the letter.  Best Performer  Brownstein’s Structured Servicing Holdings LP, the part of
his Core fund group that focuses on mortgage debt lacking
government backing, returned 8 percent in the first half, his
letter showed. The strategy’s gain of 50 percent in the first 10
months of 2010 put it at the top of Bloomberg Markets’ list of
the 100 best-performing funds managing $1 billion or more.  The Fed’s Aug. 9 pledge to hold its benchmark for short-
term interest rates as low as zero through at least mid-2013
provoked the most opposition among voting policy makers in 18
years. Brownstein cited the split in his letter as evidence that
“the Know-Somethings” including Bernanke will act even amid
criticism. The Know Nothings was the name given to a 19th-century
political movement opposed to immigration.  Dissenters  Charles Plosser , president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  and one of three dissenters to the Aug. 9 rate
decision, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview on Aug. 17 that
the central bank should have waited to see how the economy
performs and he’s concerned that inflation will accelerate in
2012 and 2013.  The U.S. consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent from
June, more than twice the median forecast of economists, Labor
Department figures showed Aug. 18. The so-called core gauge,
which excludes volatile food and fuel costs, rose 0.2 percent.
The overall cost-of-living increased 3.6 percent in the 12
months ended July as the core CPI rose 1.8 percent. The Fed’s
informal target range for longer-term  core inflation  is 1.7
percent to 2 percent as measured by a Commerce Department gauge.  Inflation Expectations  A measure of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed
uses to help determine monetary policy rose as high as 3.23
percent this month from 2.18 percent in August 2010. The five-
year forward breakeven rate, which projects what the pace of
price increases may be starting in 2016, reached the highest
since December before falling to 2.76 percent Aug. 18.  Brownstein, 67, a former philosophy professor, said in the
interview that measures of inflation can be misleading, saying
“in World War II, there was a period where we were not quote-
unquote ‘printing money,’ but prices went up” because of
rationing.  The government’s ability to borrow at some of the lowest
rates on record show budget deficits aren’t now a problem,
Brownstein said. He said he agreed with Buffett, the billionaire
chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
who urged Congress in a  New York  Times opinion article this
month to raise taxes on the wealthiest individuals to help
tackle the shortfalls.  “I know we’re talking on the telephone so you can’t see
this but, ‘Read my lips, raise my taxes,’” Brownstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  