-- 
Fed Made State Street Profitable as Money-Fund Middleman in ’08

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-08-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/fed-made-state-street-profitable-as-money-fund-middleman-in-08.html
State Street Corp. (STT)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  profited during the financial crisis by borrowing
$200 billion almost risk-free from the Federal Reserve under a
program intended to rescue money-market mutual funds.  The Fed lent State Street a total of $89 billion to buy
securities from the funds in 2008 and 2009 after the credit
crisis triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., according to  Fed data  compiled by Bloomberg News from
information released in response to Freedom of Information Act
requests, related court orders and an act of Congress. The
central bank also guaranteed against losses on the short-term
notes as long as they met eligibility guidelines.  State Street, based in Boston, held the securities to
maturity and collected a return of $75.6 million, according to
regulatory filings. JPMorgan borrowed and bought $111 billion in
securities under the same program, records show. While New York-
based JPMorgan hasn’t disclosed its profit from the
transactions, it would have been about $93 million at the same
rate of return State Street reported.  “The program was enacted without any bidding process and
awarded on the basis of whoever was there at the moment,” said
Joseph R. Mason, a finance professor at  Louisiana State
University  in  Baton Rouge . While the banks’ return may have been
appropriate, the lack of competitive bids is troubling, Mason
said. He noted that for State Street, JPMorgan and other
participants, “there was virtually no risk.”  Simple Concept  The gains came from a Fed program with a complicated name
and a simple concept: the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money
Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, or AMLF. It was designed
to inject cash into money funds that faced increasing redemption
pressures as global credit markets seized up after Lehman’s
Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy. State Street, JPMorgan Chase and
others acted as middlemen, collecting profit as they funneled
the central bank’s cash to the funds.  (View the Bloomberg  interactive graphic  to chart the Fed’s
financial bailout.)  AMLF was unique among Fed emergency programs that provided
a peak of $1.2 trillion in crisis-era aid in that it offered
private-sector intermediaries a chance for gains. The program
opened six days after the Sept. 16, 2008, collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund, which set off a stampede by
investors from money funds. By helping other funds meet their
redemptions, AMLF prevented additional failures that would have
deepened the crisis, Fed officials say.  The Fed used banks as middlemen under the $217 billion
program because the central bank is prohibited from directly
purchasing the securities the funds had to sell.  ‘National Emergency’  It got around that rule without using intermediaries when
it opened the Commercial Paper Funding Facility on Oct. 27,
2008. In that program, the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York 
formed and funded a special-purpose vehicle to purchase short-
term debt directly from issuers. The vehicle earned the central
bank $6.1 billion in interest income over the life of the
program, according to the Fed’s  Office of Inspector General .  With AMLF, there was no time for creating a similar entity,
and the central bank wanted to ensure that banks didn’t hesitate
to participate, said William Nelson, deputy director in the Fed
Board’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  “We were responding to a national emergency at that
point,” Nelson said. “Had we implemented the program with less
attractive terms, we would have risked falling short in our
effort to stop the run on money-market mutual funds and seeing a
far worse financial crisis.”  ‘Appropriate Return’  Nelson said the central bank earned “an appropriate return
on all the loans.” The AMLF program, which charged the central
bank’s discount rate on loans, produced $543 million in interest
income, according to the Fed’s inspector general. The rate
varied from 2.25 percent when the program began to as low as 0.5
percent by January 2009. The last AMLF loan, given in May 2009,
matured in August 2009.  State Street worked closely with the Fed in setting up the
program, Carolyn Cichon, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. The bank was among AMLF’s first participants “for our
clients wishing to utilize the facility,” she said.  State Street is the third-largest U.S. custody bank. It
keeps records, tracks performance and provides other support
services for institutional investors that include money-market
funds. Its participation in AMLF explains why it ranked fifth on
Bloomberg’s list of biggest borrowers from multiple Fed
programs, with a peak of $77.8 billion on Oct. 1, 2008. First
was New York-based Morgan Stanley with peak borrowings of $107.3
billion. It was followed by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at $99.5 billion and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  at $91.4 billion.  Tapped Other Programs  While AMLF funds accounted for most of State Street’s Fed
borrowings during the financial crisis, the bank also tapped
other emergency programs for liquidity. Its loans from the Term
Auction Facility and the Commercial Paper Funding Facility
peaked at a combined $18.5 billion on March 31, 2009, after the
firm’s excess liquidity plunged by 44 percent in the first three
months of that year.  State Street was hurt during the crisis both by losses on
its own investments and on investments made for clients. The
firm wrote down the value of its bond portfolio by $3.7 billion
in May 2009. It also paid out at least $830 million in penalties
to regulators and compensation to clients who lost money in
funds that invested in mortgage-backed securities.  Reduced Dividend  State Street slashed its quarterly dividend in February
2008 to 1 cent a share from 24 cents. It remained at 1 cent
until rising to 18 cents in March 2011.  JPMorgan is the second-largest custody bank behind  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. (BK)   Howard Opinsky , a spokesman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment. Its borrowings from AMLF peaked at $61.9
billion on Oct. 2, 2008, according to Fed data. The bank’s
overall borrowings from seven Fed programs peaked at $68.6
billion, ranking it eighth on Bloomberg’s list of top borrowers.  While BNY Mellon, Bank of America, Citigroup,  SunTrust
Banks Inc. (STI)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  also participated in the
AMLF program, JPMorgan and State Street handled 92 percent of
the debt purchases the program financed.  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman, said no banks that wished
to participate in AMLF as intermediaries were turned away.  JPMorgan used $17.6 billion, or 16 percent of the total it
handled, to purchase debt from money funds run by its own money-
management unit, JPMorgan Funds, according to Fed data. BNY
Mellon used 89 percent of its $12.9 billion in loans to buy debt
from money funds in its Dreyfus unit, the data show. Ron Gruendl, a spokesman for BNY Mellon in New York, declined to
comment.  ‘Breaking the Buck’  AMLF opened for business after investors withdrew $230
billion from money funds in the four days after Lehman’s
failure. Their withdrawals were accelerated when losses on
Lehman debt caused Reserve Primary to drop below $1 a share, an
event known as “breaking the buck” that has proved fatal the
two times it occurred.  Other funds faced the prospect of having to sell assets at
a loss to meet redemptions. Because such funds are the largest
collective buyer in the commercial-paper market, their sudden
liquidity squeeze also threatened the ability of U.S. companies
to sell short-term debt. AMLF helped ease the crisis by lending
banks the money to purchase the commercial paper at amortized
cost -- the level at which the funds valued the notes -- from
the funds that most needed cash.  ‘Restoring Liquidity’  “AMLF was critical in restoring liquidity and confidence
to the commercial-paper market,” Brian Reid, chief economist of
the  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group
for the funds industry, said in an e-mail. “Money-market funds
turned from net sellers of commercial paper into net buyers
after the Fed launched the program.”  Only asset-backed debt issued by a U.S.-based borrower with
maturities shorter than 120 days for bank holding companies and
270 days for  depository institutions  was eligible for the
program. The securities were also required to carry a rating of
at least A1, P1 or F1, the highest ratings for short-term debt,
without a “negative watch” designation. The debt could be
purchased only from funds experiencing net redemptions exceeding
5 percent of assets in a single day, or 10 percent over 5
consecutive business days.  James Nolan, head of supervision, regulation and credit at
the Federal Reserve Bank of  Boston , which administered AMLF,
said the requirements created at least some risk for banks.
Those that chose to participate operated under tight deadlines
to ensure the paper they bought complied. They’d have borne any
losses on non-qualifying debt, Nolan said.  Outside Normal Business  “We were asking them to do something their normal business
doesn’t require them to do, and to assume the risk of loss if
they failed to comply with the program requirements,” he said.  Nathan Flanders, managing director of the fund and asset
management ratings group at  Fitch Ratings  in New York, called
the task of meeting the Fed’s restrictions “straightforward.”  “It wasn’t without cost, but it had more to do with
operational instead of economic risk,” he said.  None of the debt purchased under the program suffered any
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 