-- 
Ford Said to Face Hearing on UAW Complaint Tied to Negotiations

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-08-24T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/ford-said-to-face-hearing-on-union-s-equal-sacrifice-complaint.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  faces a Sept. 15
hearing on a complaint by the  United Auto Workers  that salaried
employees didn’t sacrifice as much as hourly workers, said two
people familiar with the matter.  The hearing before an independent arbitrator is scheduled
for the day after Ford’s contract expires with its 41,000 U.S.
hourly workers, said the people, who asked not to be identified
revealing details of the grievance process. More than 35,000
Ford workers, who gave up pay increases and bonuses, signed the
grievance last year after the company reinstated raises, tuition
assistance and 401(k) matches for white-collar employees.  The union’s “equality of sacrifice” grievance has become
a topic at the bargaining table with Ford, said one of the
people. Ford is seeking to reduce labor costs while the UAW
tries to recover what workers gave up to help U.S. automakers
survive. UAW President  Bob King  has said members must be
rewarded for concessions of $7,000 to $30,000 each since 2005.  “It’s going to be difficult to get anything else done with
this hanging over the Ford talks,” Kristin Dziczek, labor
analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan, said yesterday in an interview. “It will be tough to
get a contract ratified if this is not resolved first.”  Union leaders discussed the equality of sacrifice grievance
and its connection to contract talks at a meeting in  Chicago 
last week, said Gary Walkowicz, a bargaining committeeman with
UAW Local 600 in Dearborn, Michigan, who attended the session.  ‘Big Issue’  “A lot of workers have been talking about this, it really
has become a big issue,” Walkowicz said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s
“exorbitant and excessive pay has people upset and feeling they
are owed something by the company.”  Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy,
rewarded Mulally in March with $56.6 million in stock for
leading the company’s turnaround. In addition, his 2010
compensation rose 48 percent to $26.5 million. King has called
Mulally’s stock award “morally wrong” and “outrageous.”  John Stoll , a spokesman for Dearborn-based Ford, declined
to comment on the matter.  Michele Martin , a spokeswoman for the
Detroit-based union, didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  Lawyers for both sides are trying to settle the grievance
before it goes to an independent arbitrator, said one of the
people. Workers want to receive a payment from the company to
settle the dispute, the person said.  Worker ‘Discontent’  “This is part and parcel of what the Ford workers are
looking for in these negotiations,” Dziczek said. “On the back
of this grievance, there’s a whole lot of discontent with
executive pay.”  To help Ford,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC
survive, UAW workers at the three companies surrendered raises,
bonuses and cost-of-living adjustments. The union also agreed to
a two-tier wage system, in which new hires earn about $14 an
hour, half the amount paid to senior production workers.  Ford gave hourly workers profit-sharing checks averaging
$5,000 this year after it earned $6.56 billion in 2010, the most
in 11 years. Ford reported net income of $4.95 billion in this
year’s first half. The company lost $30.1 billion from 2006
through 2008, as the economy crashed and fuel prices soared.  The arbitration hearing is scheduled to last two days, Sept.
15 and Sept. 16, the people said.  Negotiators for both sides will seek to avoid having that
hearing and try to find a way to resolve the grievance at the
bargaining table,  Harley Shaiken , a professor of labor relations
at the  University of California  at Berkeley, said yesterday.  “The issue of equality of sacrifice underscores some of
the important economic issues at the table,” Shaiken said.
“Both sides differ over what equality of sacrifice means. But
the company is very aware that it is pivotal not just in dollars
and cents, but as a morale issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 