-- 
Swiss Franc Weakens Against Euro as Stock Gains and Data Damp Haven Demand

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-23T11:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/franc-falls-against-euro-as-stock-gains-data-damp-haven-bids.html
Switzerland ’s franc weakened against
the euro and the Australian dollar as stocks from  Asia  to  Europe 
advanced and data showed French service-industry growth
improved, damping demand for safer assets.  The franc fell the most against the Swedish krona as
European stocks extended yesterday’s gains and Asian shares
snapped three days of losses on speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will take steps to bolster the U.S. recovery. It strengthened
against the dollar and the yen. A measure of service-sector
business in  France  rose to 56.1 from 54.2 in July, according to
Markit Economics. China’s manufacturing contracted at a slower
pace in August, a separate survey shows.  “There is some clawback in pessimism and that helps to
contain demand for the franc,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a currency
strategist at UBS AG in London.  Switzerland’s currency weakened 0.5 percent to 1.1405 per
euro at 12:44 p.m. in London and depreciated 1.1 percent to
7.9694 kronor. It strengthened 0.3 percent to 78.80 centimes per
dollar.  The franc stayed lower against the euro after a report
showed investor confidence in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
fell to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in August on concern
the region’s debt crisis will curb growth.  It also fell before U.S. central bankers meet this week in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming. At last year’s gathering, Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke’s hint of a second round of asset purchases
triggered a 28 percent rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  A preliminary reading of 49.8 for a manufacturing index in
 China  released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today
compares with a final reading of 49.3 for July. The final August
number is due Sept. 1. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Swiss Bonds  The franc has strengthened 13 percent this year, the best
performer among a basket of the currencies of 10 developed
markets, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes.  The currency’s strength, which is making Swiss products
more expensive abroad, prompted the central bank to assess a
“whole range of options,” including a peg to the euro, to
prevent the franc’s gain after rising to a record against its
shared European peer this month.  Swiss bonds declined for a third day, extending the longest
losing streak since July 21. The 10-year yield was little
changed at 0.98 percent after falling to 0.85 percent last week,
the lowest since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1994.
The two-year yield was also little changed, at 0.04 percent.  The spread between yields on two- and 10-year notes widened
six basis points to 98 basis points, as investors pared bets the
strong franc will damp growth.  Swiss  government bonds  have handed investors a 3 percent so
far this month, beating a 2.9 percent gain from German bonds,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  