-- 
Franc Weakens Versus Most Counterparts as Stocks, Reports Damp Safety Bid

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-23T15:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/franc-weakens-versus-most-counterparts-as-stocks-reports-damp-safety-bid.html
Switzerland’s franc weakened against
most of its major counterparts as stocks from  Asia  to the U.S.
advanced and a French report showed service industries grew at a
faster pace, damping demand for safer assets.  The franc fell the most against the New Zealand and
Australian dollars amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
announce additional measures this week to bolster growth in the
world’s biggest economy. The Swiss currency pared losses versus
the euro after former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said the 17-
nation currency “is breaking down.”.  “There is some claw back in pessimism and that helps to
contain demand for the franc,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a currency
strategist in London at UBS AG, the world’s third-largest
foreign-exchange trader.  Switzerland’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 1.1369 per euro
at 3:47 p.m. in London, after dropping as much as 0.7 percent.
It depreciated 1 percent against the  New Zealand dollar  and 0.6
percent versus Australia’s. The franc gained 0.2 percent to
78.87 centimes versus the greenback.  A measure of service-sector business in  France  rose to 56.1
in August from 54.2 in July, Markit Economics said today.
 China ’s manufacturing contracted at a slower pace in August, a
separate report showed. A preliminary reading of 49.8 for a
manufacturing index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today compared with a final reading of 49.3 for July.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Jackson Hole   Higher-yielding assets gained amid optimism before U.S.
central bankers meet this week in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. At last
year’s gathering, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s hint of a
second round of asset purchases triggered a 28 percent rally in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The franc has risen 13 percent this year, the best
performer among a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The currency’s strength, which is making Swiss products
more expensive abroad, prompted the central bank to say it was
considering a “whole range of options” to prevent further
gains after it rose to a record against the euro this month.  Swiss 10-year bonds yields were little changed at 0.96
percent after falling to 0.85 percent last week, the lowest
since Bloomberg began collecting data on the securities in 1994.
Two-year yields dropped four basis points to minus 0.02 percent.  The spread between yields on two- and 10-year notes widened
five basis points to 97 basis points, after shrinking to 92
basis points last week.  Swiss  government bonds  have handed investors a 3 percent
return this month, beating a 2.9 percent gain from German bunds,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  