-- 
Free-Ranging Market Would Save Wolves, Ranchers: Brendan Borrell

-- B y   B r e n d a n   B o r r e l l
-- 
2011-08-23T00:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/free-market-would-save-wolves-and-ranchers-commentary-by-brendan-borrell.html
Get your rifles ready: Wolf season
opens at the end of August, and for as little as  $11.50  you’ve
got a better chance than ever of bagging this toothy predator.  In July,  Montana  doubled its kill quota to 220, and  Idaho ,
well, it has declined to set a quota.  Wyoming  plans to treat
wolves as predators in most of the state, allowing them to be
killed on sight. If all goes according to plan, the Rocky
Mountain wolf population will be knocked down 60 percent from
its peak of 1,733 in 2009.  This is obviously a perfectly sound strategy for preserving
an iconic American species, which taxpayers have spent hundreds
of millions of dollars breeding and feeding. No, not wolves, but
public-lands ranchers, whose livestock graze on federal property
and who are increasingly concerned about attacks by free-ranging
wolf packs.  During this 15-year saga over wolves in the West, which
pits conservationists against cowboys, it was easy to miss that
the most outspoken cattlemen were not simply asking to guard
their private property from deadly intruders. They were
defending their right to pay rock-bottom prices to let their
cattle graze unchaperoned on 162 million acres of federal land.
Conservationists, trying to protect the wolf, were forced to
claim these open spaces, vilifying ranchers and hunters and
tying up federal regulators in a two-year lawsuit that was
ultimately circumvented by Congress.  Fostering Conflict  Living with predators is never easy, but federal grazing
policies seem designed to foster conflict rather than
cooperation. The future of both wolves and ranchers depends, in
part, on reforming our archaic and noncompetitive system through
a shift to transferrable federal grazing permits sold on a
regulated market.  Increased fees could offset government land management
costs, improve environmental monitoring and enforcement, and
compensate ranchers when wolves and other predators kill
livestock. Environmental groups should be allowed to purchase
and retire federal grazing permits in choice wolf habitat. The
hunts should also continue, but with limits.  Wolves once roamed throughout the  United States , but their
presence was never welcome among men and women trying to make a
living off the land. In the late 19th century, settlers and
government workers devastated Western wolf populations using
poison-laced animal carcasses inside and outside their
stronghold in Yellowstone National Park. Animals that survived
still faced shrinking forest habitat and a decline in their prey
species, such as bison and caribou. In 1973, the northern Rocky
Mountain wolf became one of the first animals listed under the
new Endangered Species Act, but the move only provided the bare
minimum of protection and little hope for recovery.  That’s due to the complicated history of public grazing,
which also dates back to the late 19th century, when the federal
government encouraged western expansion into fertile valleys
suited to agriculture. Unclaimed tracts in the uplands became a
tragedy of the commons as shepherds and cattlemen competed for
space, their livestock trampling healthy stream beds and turning
grassy meadows into dustbowls. Range rights were enforced
through coercion and violence.  The  Taylor Grazing Act  of 1934 reduced overgrazing by
granting ranchers renewable leases to specific allotments, which
allowed them to build fences and encouraged them to take care of
the public land.  Today, ranchers have 26,000 permits to graze millions of
livestock on pasture managed by the Bureau of Land Management
and the Forest Service. They pay $1.35 per head of cattle per
month -- a price set by cattle prices, livestock production
costs and, ostensibly, private grazing lease rates. But since
1980 that amount has decreased 40 percent to its statutory
minimum, and it is typically one-10th of grazing fees on private
property and state lands.  Taxpayers Foot Bill  The U.S. spends about $135 million per year managing
public-lands grazing, according to the Government Accountability
Office, but collects only $21 million in fees. Taxpayers also
foot the bill for the Agriculture Department’s predator control
program, whose hunters killed 81,684 coyotes and 478 wolves in
2009.  These subsidies might be acceptable if the federal
government adequately managed public lands for both  food
security  and environmental sustainability. But many allotments
have more cattle than they can support, and land managers rarely
hold ranchers accountable when they violate their contracts or
damage public lands. Permits have been revoked in just a handful
of extreme cases after bankruptcies and charges of animal abuse.
It’s a plum deal for these lucky ranchers, who drop their calves
and cows off at the beginning of summer and pick them up a
hundred pounds fatter in the fall.  In 1995, the range wars began anew. That’s when Canadian
wolves were reintroduced to Yellowstone to bring the elk-heavy
ecosystem back into balance. Other wolves started moving into
northern Montana and Idaho on their own. As their numbers
swelled, they were killing a few hundred sheep and cattle every
year.  Ranchers have always had the right to shoot wolves caught
in the act of attacking livestock, but they wanted to be able to
shoot any wolf on sight and to enlist sport hunters for their
cause. In 2011, they got their wish. Congress -- at the urging
of the Public Lands Council and the  National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association  -- took the unprecedented step of booting Rocky
Mountain wolves from the endangered species list.  Idaho and Montana plan to use hunting to keep wolf
populations hovering at just above the threshold that would
invite federal scrutiny: a couple of hundred animals each.
 Wyoming  has agreed to treat its 340 or so wolves as predators in
all but the northwest corner of the state.  Remarkably, legislators from these states are also seeking,
through the 2012 Interior Department appropriations bill, to
weaken environmental oversight of grazing permits, ban judicial
review of wolf protection in Wyoming and the Midwest, and
restrict legal challenges to grazing management. These moves
would only lead to more acrimony in the West and, inevitably,
more money wasted in the courtroom.  A Market Approach  Reducing wildlife conflicts through a market approach is
not a new idea. In a few cases, environmental groups have paid
ranchers to voluntarily retire federal permits, and the
conservation group Defenders of Wildlife began a program -- now
run by the federal government -- to compensate ranchers for
confirmed livestock kills. For state land trusts, open permit
auctions are obligatory because the law requires them to reap
the highest profits to support schools.  Congress should make this happen on a wider scale,
empowering land managers to fully appraise permits using the
latest environmental and livestock science and by allowing
ranchers to sell them at market rates. The Endangered Species
Act may be our best tool for keeping wolves from going extinct,
but a fair market for grazing could help find the right balance
when wolves roam free.  (Brendan Borrell visited Bozeman,  Montana , as a media
fellow at the Property and Environment Research Center. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Brendan Borrell at  bborrell@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Stacey Shick at   sshick@bloomberg.net . 