-- 
German Satirist Loriot, Famous for Skits and Sofa, Dies at 87

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-23T14:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/german-satirist-loriot-famous-for-skits-comic-strip-and-sofa-dies-at-87.html
Loriot, the much-loved German
comedian who wrote poems, made films and television sketches and
drew cartoons, died yesterday evening in southern Germany.  The cause of death, at 87, was age-related weakness, his
publisher  Diogenes Verlag  said in a statement. Loriot, whose
real name was Vicco von Buelow, was a master of many genres and
received dozens of prizes.  “As a fine observer of daily life and an inscrutable
comedian, Loriot achieved classic status long ago,”  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said in an e-mailed condolence statement. “His
oeuvre will continue to raise laughs among young and old alike
for many years. We will miss Loriot’s unique ability to hold up
a loving mirror to our society.”  Born in Brandenburg in 1923, he studied art in Hamburg and
found work as a graphic designer in advertising. He became
famous as a cartoonist for Stern and Quick magazines in the
1950s, satirizing the social aspirations of the middle classes
in postwar  Germany .  Loriot turned to television, writing and performing his
sketches and inventing animated characters for shows. On his own
TV program “Cartoon,” which started in 1967, he presented
sketches and animation from a Biedermeier sofa that became a
trademark. He also made two of the most popular German comedy
feature films ever -- “Oedipussi” and “Pappa ante portas” --
and wrote poetry.  Diogenes  said it published more than 114
volumes by Loriot.  “Every comic element has its own medium,” Loriot said in
a 1993 interview. “There are things you have to do in a
drawing, and others in a comic strip. Some ideas only work in an
animated film, others only in real films.”  Familiar Scenes  His was the humor of recognition -- his fans saw familiar
characters, relationships and situations in his parodies.  “He contradicted a widespread prejudice against the
Germans -- that they lack irony and humor -- with his drawings
and his stories,” said the jury of the  Jacob Grimm prize  for
the German language when it awarded him the prize in 2004.  His most recent book, “Bitte sagen Sie jetzt nichts”
(“Please Don’t Say Anything Now”), based on conversations over
four decades, will be published mid-September, the company said.
Loriot divided his time between Berlin and the shores of Lake
Starnberg in Bavaria.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 