-- 
German Confidence Falls More Than Forecast as Debt Crisis Threatens Growth

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-08-23T10:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/german-confidence-falls-more-than-forecast-as-debt-crisis-threatens-growth.html
German investor confidence fell more
than economists forecast to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years
in August on concern  Europe ’s debt crises will curb growth.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, plunged to minus
37.6 from minus 15.1 in July. That’s the lowest since December
2008 and the biggest drop since July 2006. Economists expected a
decline to minus 26, according to the median of 36 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  A four-week rout in equities has wiped more than $8
trillion off global stock values, with Germany’s benchmark  DAX
index (DAX)  plunging almost 25 percent, as investors fret that Europe
won’t be able to contain the debt crisis and prevent it from
infecting the banking sector. In addition, concerns about a
renewed global slump have resurfaced as growth slows in Europe,
the U.S. and  Asia , damping export demand. Germany’s economy
almost stalled in the second quarter, data showed last week.  “It’s been a bad month for the financial markets,” said
 Andreas Moeller , an economist at WGZ Bank in Dusseldorf. “The
German economy may not fall off a cliff but it’s still very
dependent on exports and with Europe tightening its belt and the
global economy cooling, it’s hard to see where the growth is
going to come from.”  Current Conditions  ZEW’s gauge of current conditions slumped to 53.5, the
lowest in a year, from 90.6. The euro fell after the report
before resuming its climb. It traded at $1.4491 at 11:55 a.m. in
 Frankfurt .  “Let’s not forget that it’s financial analysts who take
part in ZEW, not German executives, so it doesn’t accurately
reflect the real economy,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover. “Yes, Germany’s economy is slowing down, but
we’re certainly not heading for a recession. The ZEW says more
about the fragility of financial markets than the fragility of
the German economy.”  German gross domestic product rose just 0.1 percent in the
second quarter after jumping 1.3 percent in the first three
months of the year. Growth in the 17-member euro area, Germany’s
main export market, slowed to 0.2 percent from 0.8 percent as
governments from Greece to Spain cut spending to rein in budget
deficits.  Celesio AG (CLS1) , Europe’s biggest drug wholesaler, on Aug. 11
reported a second-quarter loss of 86.9 million euros ($126
million) partly due to government price cuts.  European service and manufacturing industries grew at the
slowest pace in two years in August, a report showed today.  Global Economy  Europe’s malaise is further confirmation of a cooling
global economy. Japan has cut its annual growth forecast due to
weaker export prospects, Hong Kong’s economy unexpectedly shrank
in the second quarter and  China ’s expansion slowed. In the U.S.,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has signaled he may
expand record monetary stimulus to revive a faltering recovery
and reduce unemployment stuck around 9 percent.  In  Germany , unemployment at a two-decade low of 7 percent
may boost household spending and help to offset slowing exports,
said  Aline Schuiling , a senior economist at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam.  “Germany’s domestic economy is still stronger than the
euro-area average so that should shield it somewhat from the
global rout,” she said. “However, the question is how long
that buffer is going to last.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  