-- 
German Business Confidence Likely Fell in July

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-23T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/german-ifo-business-confidence-probably-fell-the-most-since-2008.html
German business confidence probably
fell the most since December 2008 this month as a global
slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis damped the outlook for
economic growth.  The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to a 13-month low of 111
from 112.9 in July, according to the median forecast of 37
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The institute releases
the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  has plunged almost 25 percent
since late July on fears that another global slump will sap
demand for the country’s exports, the main driver of its
economic expansion. The debt crisis is also curbing demand
within the euro area as governments from  Greece  to Spain cut
spending. German growth slowed to just 0.1 percent in the second
quarter from 1.3 percent in the first, the Federal Statistics
Office reported on Aug. 16.  “In the next couple of months we will see a comparatively
strong decline in economic momentum, but we don’t believe in a
recession in Germany,” said  Andreas Rees , chief Germany
economist at UniCredit Markets and  Investment Banking  in Munich.
“Germany is experiencing a cyclical slowdown with some special
negative effects caused by financial market turbulence.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may decrease to 119.8
from 121.4, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
probably fell to 102.8 from 105, the survey of economists shows.  Investor Confidence  Investor confidence plunged the most in five years this
month, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said yesterday. It cited fears of a U.S. recession and Europe’s
debt crisis.  The  Bundesbank  said this week it still expects the German
economy to expand about 3 percent this year as unemployment at a
two-decade low of 7 percent bolsters household spending. Growth
in the country’s manufacturing industry unexpectedly held steady
this month, a survey of purchasing managers showed yesterday.  Luxury carmaker  Audi AG (NSU)  is hiring staff to increase
production, including a 57 percent capacity boost for the
69,600-euro ($101,400) A8 flagship sedan, on expectations that
the luxury-auto industry will weather the stock-market slump.  “The chances are bigger that Germany surprises on the
upside,” said  Ralph Solveen , head of economic research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “We think it’s unlikely that the
German economy will stagnate in the second half of the year.”  Still, growth in the 17-member euro area, Germany’s main
export market, slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter from
0.8 percent in the first.  UniCredit Global Research yesterday cut its growth
forecasts for the 17-nation euro region. The economy will expand
1.7 percent this year and 1 percent in 2012, UniCredit’s chief
euro-zone economist  Marco Valli  said, paring his estimates from
2.1 percent and 1.7 percent respectively.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, on Aug. 12
posted fiscal third-quarter earnings that missed analyst
estimates as European demand weakened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  