-- 
Credit Swaps Fall From 14-Month High in U.S., Bank Risk Reverses

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-23T21:33:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/goldman-credit-swaps-reach-highest-since-april-2009-as-default-risk-rises.html
The cost to protect bonds of U.S.
companies fell from the highest level in 14 months as investor
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will act to spur the economy
overshadowed concern that banks will be forced to raise capital.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 125.5 basis points as of 5:27 p.m. in New York,
Markit Group Ltd. data show. The index earlier jumped as much as
4.9 basis points.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  credit swaps declined
after earlier soaring to a record.  Corporate and financial company debt is being whipsawed
before central bankers meet this week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .
The credit risk benchmark, which rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, dropped even after a
magnitude 5.9 earthquake struck  Virginia  and shook buildings in
 Washington  and New York.  Investor confidence in corporate credit decreased earlier
on “concerns about the sovereign situation, concerns about our
own domestic macro situation,” John Guarnera, a financial
analyst at Societe Generale SA in New York, said in a telephone
interview. The rise signaled investors were “ignoring the fact
that the financials are fundamentally better-positioned than
where we were coming out of the credit crisis.”  Credit-default swaps tied to Bank of America fell 2 basis
points to 378.5 as of 5 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA. That pared an earlier surge to at least 445 basis
points, which exceeded the peak during the financial crisis in
March 2009, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts wrote in a report.  ‘Irrational’ Valuations  Valuations are becoming “irrational,” JPMorgan analysts
Kabir Caprihan and Matthew Hughart based in  New York  wrote in
the report. They changed their view on the debt to “neutral”
from “underweight.”  Bank of America credit swaps have more than doubled from
178 basis points at the end of July as concern mounts that the
lender may face larger losses tied to mortgages and will need to
raise additional capital.  Henry Blodget , the former Internet stock analyst turned
blogger, wrote on Business Insider that charges and loan costs
may force the bank to raise as much as $200 billion.  The bank has “no reason” to raise capital, Rochdale
Securities analyst Richard Bove said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  “Bank of America has so much cash on its balance sheet
that it could pay back all of its short-term debt and a big
chunk of its long-term debt,” Bove said.  Goldman Swaps  Contracts on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, fell 10 basis points to 245, according to
data provider CMA. The swaps earlier rose to 283, the highest
level since April 2009. The contracts rose 40 basis points
yesterday, after Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and
others hired attorneys in relation to a U.S. probe of matters
raised by the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.  U.S. bank bonds are “very attractive” investments after
declining this month, according to Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Mark Kiesel .  “This is a sector that makes money, has improved
capital,” Kiesel, Pimco’s global head of corporate bond
portfolios, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Pimco, the  Newport Beach , California-based manager of the
world’s largest bond fund, has been wagering on  U.S. bank  debt
since at least April 2008, when Kiesel said that big banks would
“slim down” by raising capital and cutting leverage. Lenders
have improved their balance sheets, making them a safe bet,
Kiesel told Scarlet Fu on the network’s “In the Loop” program.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  