-- 
Google-Like Word Searches of Medical Records May Boost Patient Safety

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-08-23T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/google-like-word-searches-of-medical-records-may-boost-patient-safety.html
Google-like searches of hospital
medical records using English words and phrases found more
patient injuries than the numerical billing codes used to rate
quality of care, pointing toward a better way to highlight
safety issues, a study found.  Researchers from the U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs 
reviewing patient records at six VA medical centers turned up 12
times as many cases of pneumonia and twice as many incidents of
 kidney failure  and sepsis, a blood infection, when they used
text searches instead of numeric codes linked to reimbursements.  Configuring commercial electronic medical record systems
made by companies such as  Cerner Corp. (CERN)  for language searching
would advance safer medical care, said Harvey Murff, the lead
author of the study published today in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association .  “If you were going to try to develop systems to try to
reduce these complications, you really probably would want to
know as many as you have,” Murff, a physician at the VA Medical
Center in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in a telephone interview.  Administrative and billing codes weren’t designed to
measure quality of care, said Nancy Foster, the vice president
of quality and patient safety policy at the Chicago-based
 American Hospital Association , a trade group. The most accurate
information should be used to hold hospitals accountable, with
English text searches being preferable, she said.  Measuring Quality  The  U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services  in
Baltimore uses billing codes as a way to evaluate the quality of
care at hospitals and publishes rankings online. Payments from
Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and disabled,
are linked to quality measures under the 2010 health-care law.  Natural language searching isn’t widely available, said
David McCallie, vice president of informatics for  Kansas City ,
Missouri-based Cerner. Rewriting programs can destabilize
software systems and requires more physician training, he said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  Cerner has introduced “semantic search” to systems used
by more than 30 of its customers, he said. The feature allows
physicians to search patient records by medical keywords, and
the company is developing a program that would enable hospital
administrators to search across all records, he said.  Natural language searches using medical terms may turn up a
higher rate of “false positives,” cases where harm didn’t
occur, yet are preferable to billing codes that don’t record
actual injuries, Murff said.  Scope of Study  Murff and his colleagues reviewed specially configured
records allowing for text searching of 2,974 surgery patients
from 1999 to 2006 at six  VA  centers for six complications
including acute renal failure and pneumonia.  The searches turned up patients’ charts, physicians’ notes
along with laboratory and imaging notes that weren’t accessible
through billing codes, according to the study.  Electronic medical records “may let us get closer to the
truth,” said David Classen, a professor at the  University of
Utah School of Medicine  in  Salt Lake City , in a telephone
interview. Hospitals miss 90 percent of preventable patient
injuries and infections when they rely on billing codes and
administrative records, Classen reported in the journal Health
Affairs in April.  The  Global Trigger Tool , developed by the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Institute for Healthcare Improvement ,
produces superior results and is being testing in a commercial
electronic medical record at a health system for a future study,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 