-- 
Greece Deepens Israeli Ties Seeking Economic Gains Amid Crisis

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-08-23T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/greece-deepens-israeli-ties-seeking-economic-gains-amid-crisis.html
In June, Greek Socialist Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  undid his father’s legacy of welfare
policies to avoid default.  The day after the final vote on June 30, the son moved to
unravel the father’s signature regional strategy of supporting
the Palestinians in their struggle against Israel. Papandreou
prevented activists on 10 boats at Greek ports from setting off
to break Israel’s blockade of the  Gaza Strip .  The current Greek premier, whose father held the post for
11 years between 1981 and 1996, is remaking  Greek diplomacy  as
Israel’s relationship deteriorates with Turkey, a NATO member
and once Israel’s key ally in the area. Battling an economic
crisis, Greece wants the new ties to boost tourism and
investment, particularly in the gas industry, while deepening
its military partnership with another country in the region.  “Both  Greece  and Israel stand to gain immensely,” said
John Sitilides, who manages the State Department’s professional
development program for U.S. diplomats in Greece and Cyprus.
“Israel has sought in Greece not a replacement for Turkey, but
a strategic hedge in a period of great regional uncertainty
across northern  Africa  and the Levant.”  Papandreou’s move to ban the flotilla of boats cemented the
budding friendship. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu,
the nation’s first prime minister to visit Greece, singled out
“my friend” Papandreou in a July 1 speech praising U.S. and
European leaders for opposing the flotilla.  Ban on Boats  From July 1, Greek officials banned boats trying to sail
from its ports, citing concerns about the seaworthiness of the
vessels, aiming to avert a repeat of last year’s confrontation
at sea when Israeli commandos boarded one ship in a six-vessel
convoy, leading to the death of nine Turks aboard.  The ban drew praise from the U.S. Twenty-eight members of
Congress signed a letter to the Greek ambassador expressing
their gratitude for the government’s “great wisdom in the face
of extraordinary pressure” to stop the flotilla.  Not everyone is so bullish on the dynamic. “Everyone is
retreating back to the old perception of maximal national
interest, which means less progress for the region,” Hugh Pope,
a project director based in Ankara for the  International Crisis
Group , said in a telephone interview. “It’s unfortunate, I
don’t think it will serve any of the parties’ best interest.”  The Greek rapprochement with Israel picked up after the
unprecedented 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) international
bailout in May 2010. Papandreou bid for Israeli cooperation in
renewable energy, tourism and the technology industries.  Netanyahu Visit  In August 2010, Netanyahu made his visit to  Athens ,
reciprocating Papandreou’s July trip to Israel, the first Greek
premier since 1992 to visit  Jerusalem .  The links have continued: Greece was the first country to
send Israel help to fight a fire that swept through the north of
the country, killing 42 and forcing 17,000 to flee their homes.
Papandreou said on Dec. 8 his country would join Netanyahu’s
initiative for a joint regional emergency fire brigade.  Israeli tourists to Greece, which is banking on foreign
visitors to soften the impact of austerity measures, increased
139 percent in 2010 to 197,159, according to the Hellenic
Statistical Authority, and 11 percent in the first quarter of
the year. In contrast, Israeli visits to  Turkey  fell 64 percent
in the same period, according to the  Turkish Tourism Ministry .  Multiple entry visas issued to Russians rose to 31,000 in
the first half of this year from 4,000 in the same period in
2010, the newspaper Kathimerini reported, citing Culture and
Tourism Minister Pavlos Yeroulanos.  Israeli  Natural Gas   The biggest potential for economic cooperation lies with
Israel’s natural gas discoveries, especially the Leviathan field
with an estimated 16 trillion cubic feet. Israel and Greece have
discussed exporting the gas either through an undersea pipeline
to the Greek mainland or via a liquefied natural gas conversion
plant to be built in Cyprus.  Greece only established full diplomatic relations with
Israel  in 1990 , one of the last European states to do so. That
came after a decade of rule in the 1980s by the Panhellenic
Socialist Movement, or Pasok, led by then-Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou, George’s father, who defined Greece’s  foreign policy 
by his strong support of the Palestinian Liberation Organization
and vocal criticism of Israeli and U.S. policies.  The elder Papandreou granted the PLO diplomatic status in
1981, the year he came to power. In 1983, he sent a fleet of
Greek boats to evacuate 4,000 trapped Palestinian fighters from
Lebanon, including Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat .  Debt Crisis  With unrest roiling Libya and  Syria  and the debt crisis
hammering Portugal, Spain and  Italy , Papandreou says stability
on the financial and political front is imperative for the
region.  “You see some of the peripheral countries having problems,
they are now basically southern,” the U.S.-educated leader said
in an interview in Athens on July 19. “A stable southern  Europe 
is I think essential for the Arab spring, what is going to
happen, the integration. I think this is a strategic issue for
Europe, for the Arab world and the  United States .”  Both countries are also counting on military benefits.
Greece will provide  Israel  with the airspace, land and sea area
to conduct large-scale military exercises, replacing what had
formerly been Turkey’s role, while Greeks will benefit from
training and Israeli know-how, Thanos Dokos, the director
general of the Athens-based Hellenic Foundation for European and
Foreign Policy, says.  Greece and Israel have conducted at least two joint
military exercises in the past year.  Big Military Spenders  Both are among the biggest military spenders in the world
as a share of their economy. Greece spent 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product and Israel 6.3 percent in 2009, according to
figures compiled by the  Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute . Turkey spends 2.7 percent.  Israel’s new ties to Greece can’t replace the clout the
Mediterranean country of 7 million had while it was Turkey’s
closest ally, analysts including Yossi Mekelberg say.  “Israel isn’t being clever if it thinks it is playing the
Greek card to upset Turkey,” said Mekelberg, a lecturer at
London-based Regent’s College and associate fellow of  Chatham
House . “The Turkish-Israel axis -- it’s bordering  Iran , Syria,
there’s Turkey’s different version of Islam -- all this makes
that alliance, or axis, very, very significant. Patching up the
relations with Turkey is immensely important.”  Not Against Turkey  Greek officials have been at pains to point out the growing
rapprochement with Israel isn’t directed against Turkey or
Palestinians. Government spokesman Grigoris Delavekouras said
Greece believed Israel needed to lift its embargo on Gaza and
relations with Palestinians remained “warm, friendly, close and
productive.”  The financial benefits of the closer ties may take a while
to bear fruit. Greek austerity measures, required to qualify for
the rescue, means the country will have little in the way to
spend on military hardware that Israel and other countries could
sell.  “Israel has general expectations to sell Greece various
types of military equipment,” said Dokos. “But I think they
are about five years late or five years early. I can’t imagine
that for the next three to five years Greece will buy anything
but the absolutely necessary.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis  at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  