-- 
Greenspan Says Euro ‘Breaking Down’

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-08-23T14:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/greenspan-says-the-euro-is-breaking-down-may-harm-stock-prices.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said fissures in  Europe ’s common currency may lead to
slowing in the  U.S. economy .  “The euro is breaking down and the process of its breaking
down is creating very considerable difficulties in the European
banking system,” Greenspan said today in Washington.  Emergency steps such as unlimited loans from the  European
Central Bank  are keeping many banks in  Greece ,  Portugal , Italy
and  Spain  solvent and easing lending by other Europe
institutions. Greenspan said a contraction in Europe would hurt
profitability and stock values of American companies since
Europe is the target market for about 20 percent of U.S. exports
and about 20 percent of foreign-affiliate earnings.  A lack of confidence in euro-denominated debt is straining
the region’s banks, Greenspan said. “That stuff has always been
thought of as the ideal collateral and now it’s getting highly
questionable,” he said in a question-and-answer session at the
Innovation Nation Forum in Washington.  “The problem is that there is a growing cleavage in the
economic and analytical and banking circles as to whether the
Euro, which is the crucial issue here, should be 17 countries
with very significantly different cultures” regarding the role
of government,  consumer spending  and inflation, Greenspan said.  Asked if the breakup of the euro was one possibility, he
replied, “obviously.”  ‘Less Worried’  Greenspan also said he is “less worried about a double-dip
than most people are but I’ll certainly grant that the odds are
rising,” referring to the chance that the U.S. economy will
return to recession. “The reason we are so sluggish is the
level of uncertainty.”  The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the second
quarter of 2011, according to the Commerce Department. That
followed growth of 0.4 percent in the first quarter, the slowest
since the second quarter of 2009, when the economy was still
mired in recession.  One gauge of the economy’s momentum, the Chicago Fed
National Activity Index, improved to minus 0.06 in July from
minus 0.38 a month earlier, the regional bank said yesterday.
The index is a weighted average of 85 economic indicators, with
readings less than zero indicating “below-trend” growth and
average readings below minus 0.7 percent over three months
signaling an increasing risk that a recession has begun,
according to the Chicago Fed.  Greenspan said Aug. 7 on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that the
chance of a return to recession “depends on Europe, not the
 United States . The United States was actually doing relatively
well, sluggish, but going forward until  Italy  ran into trouble.
That destabilized the European system and the crisis
reemerged.”  Asset Purchases  Concern about the government debt of Italy and Spain
prompted the European Central Bank on Aug. 8 to begin buying
Italian and Spanish assets to lower their borrowing costs, as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis nears its third year.  A four-week global equity rout has wiped about $8 trillion
from companies’ market value as Europe’s sovereign debt-crisis
and worsening economic reports in the U.S. raised concern the
global economic recovery is faltering. The  S&P 500  fell 16
percent from July 22 through the end of last week and its
members trade at an average 11.3 times estimated earnings, near
the lowest level since March 2009.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.9 percent to
1,134.34 at 10:23 a.m. in  New York  today.  “What has been the greatest thrust coming out of the
recession has been the extraordinary rise of stock prices in the
U.S.,” Greenspan, 85, who was chairman of the central bank from
1987 to 2006, said today.  No Gold Bubble  Greenspan also said that he did not think gold, which
reached a record above $1,900 an ounce this week, was in a
bubble.  “Gold, unlike all other commodities, is a currency,” he
said. “And the major thrust in the demand for gold is not for
jewelry. It’s not for anything other than an escape from what is
perceived to be a fiat money system,  paper money , that seems to
be deteriorating.”  After leaving the Fed, Greenspan founded the consulting
firm Greenspan Associates and has been a consultant or adviser
to Deutsche Bank AG, Pacific Investment Management Co. and hedge
fund Paulson & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  