-- 
Groupon’s Venture in China Is Said to Fire Employees for Poor Performance

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-24T02:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/groupon-china-joint-venture-said-to-fire-workers-for-poor-performance.html
Groupon Inc.’s China joint venture
has fired a large number of workers for poor performance as the
company competes for customers in the world’s largest Internet
market, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The Gaopeng.com site is financially viable and still hiring,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the moves
weren’t announced publicly. The firings weren’t made out of
necessity, the person said.  Groupon, which plans an initial public offering, is making
“progress” in China after opening Gaopeng.com earlier this
year with investment by  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , Groupon Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  said in June. Gaopeng, also
backed by Yunfeng Capital, a private equity fund begun by
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma, offered daily deals
for goods and services in 30 cities as of June.  “Groupon’s approach to international expansion is to
aggressively create a large presence upfront and refine our
strategy as we gain deeper insight into the local market,”
Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We view any adjustments to the business
as very typical in order to build a long-term foundation for
success.”  Former and current employees of Gaopeng.com say more than
10 offices were closed, and a lawyer representing former Gaopeng
employees estimated that about 400 people have been fired, the
Wall Street Journal reported earlier. The moves may mark a
reversal of Groupon’s  China  expansion plans, the newspaper said.  Sarah Burton, the national sales director for Gaopeng,
declined to comment today on whether any offices were closed or
any workers fired.  Gaopeng had hired 3,000 workers in China as of June 10,
Chief Operating Officer Ouyang Yun said at the time. The site
faces competition from more than 3,000 group-buying websites in
a China market that generated an estimated 1.5 billion yuan
($235 million) of revenue last year, according to estimates from
iResearch in Beijing.  Groupon plans to raise $750 million in an IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  