-- 
India’s Next Outsource Market Converges With IPhone Apps

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-08-23T21:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/india-s-next-outsource-market-converges-with-iphone-apps-tech.html
Between piles of trash and stray
dogs near a Mumbai slum is the entrance to  MoFirst Solutions
Pvt. , where two dozen workers sit shoulder-to-shoulder with no
air conditioning and write code for iPhone apps on laptops.  “The rates Indian developers charge are very low,” said
Akash Dongre, chief operating officer at MoFirst Solutions,
where clients pay as little as $15 an hour for a programmer.  MoFirst is tapping India’s next wave in outsourcing, with
thousands of programmers that charge a fraction of Silicon
Valley prices to capitalize on demand for programs for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software. Developers-for-hire for mobile applications may
generate $5.6 billion in revenue by 2015, a 14-fold jump from
this year,  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  estimates.  “India is a logical place to do it for the same reason the
software and services model has worked here: lower cost,” said
Anshul Gupta, an analyst at research firm Gartner Inc. in
Mumbai.  Applications on Apple’s online store have been downloaded
more than  15 billion  times since its opening in 2008 -- with the
Cupertino, California-based company getting a 30 percent cut on
each sale -- as the surge of iPhone sales spawned demand for
games and applications.  “It’s not about the device -- that’s not what makes sales
happen -- it’s about the ecosystem,” said Gupta. “You need to
have applications.”  Largest App Outsourcer  Companies or individuals seeking to hire can turn to sites
such as  Elance Inc. ’s service, where companies such as MoFirst
will bid to win app-development projects lasting from a couple
of weeks to several months.  India  is the world’s largest recipient of outsourcing
orders, according to Elance, whose website showed more than
450,000 professionals offering their services as of yesterday.  Requests for programmers who write code for Apple’s iOS
platform  rose 20 percent  in the second quarter, according to
 Mountain View , California-based Elance. Demand for programmers
with Android skills rose by 15 percent, while developer requests
for  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s Blackberry devices increased by 3
percent, according to the company.  “The iPhone stuff is very, very hot,” said Ajai Shankar,
who spent 12 years in the U.S. as a software writer and moved
back to India this year to embrace the app-outsourcing boom.
“The struggle people have nowadays, is that once you’ve
developed an application for iPhone, the next thing you know is
you have to do the same for Android.”  Pricing Edge  Indian developers may have the edge in pricing. MoFirst
bills clients in the U.S., the U.K. and the  Middle East  $15 to
$20 an hour, compared with the $50 to $100 charged by developers
in the U.S., said Dongre, who has a mechanical engineering
degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.  Applications MoFirst recently developed include  Friends
Aloud , an audio Facebook feed it created for a Texas-based
entrepreneur, and  Producteev , a task-management tool, for a New
York-based client, he said.  MoFirst’s competition includes Qburst Technologies, which
started in 2004 as a Web developer in the southern Indian town
of Trivandrum. The company, which employs 400 people, may
increase hiring after revenue from websites and iPhone apps
jumped 76 percent to $3.18 million last year, said Manjith
Kamalasanan, a business development manager at the company.  Evolving Industry  Qburst  has helped develop 150 mobile apps for customers in 
the U.K. and U.S. That includes an iPhone app for  St. Albans , 
U.K.-based  PrivateFly , which allows users to search for and book
private jets; an e-commerce iPad application for Simba Toys, and
an iPhone shopping search application for thefind.com.  Offering cheaper software than in the U.S. and  Europe  has
worked in India before.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and
Infosys Ltd. have grown from being back office service providers
to  Asia ’s two biggest companies by market value among providers
of information-technology services, an industry Gartner
estimates will grow 6.6 percent this year to $846 billion.  While IT services still dominate the nation’s technology
industry, the rise of mobile-app developers signals Indian
technology companies may be evolving, Gartner’s Gupta said.
That’s what developers such as Dongre may be counting on.  “Change is happening very fast in India,” said MoFirst’s
Dongre. “People are starting to think more about developing
products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  