-- 
India’s RBI Watching for Signs of Slowing Demand, Gokarn Says

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-08-23T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/india-s-rbi-watching-for-signs-of-slowing-demand-gokarn-says.html
The Reserve Bank of  India  is
watching for signs of any slowdown in domestic demand as it
seeks to tame “inflation drivers” that are “very much in
play,” Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said yesterday.  The moderation, “we anticipate, will happen at some
point,” Gokarn told reporters at a banking conference in
Mumbai. “The question is whether what’s happening globally is
going to impact commodity prices significantly or not.
Ultimately, that is going to determine how domestic inflation
plays out.”  Inflation in India has stayed above 9 percent since the
start of December, eroding spending power. While the risk of a
global slowdown prompted nations from South Korea to Indonesia
to keep  interest rates  unchanged this month,  Reserve Bank 
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Aug. 12 it’s “too early to say”
whether India’s policy stance to raise borrowing costs will be
changed.  India’s economy has expanded at an average pace of 8.6
percent since 2006, compared with  China ’s 9.8 percent during the
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Central bank policy
makers in India expect India’s growth to slow to 8 percent in
the year ending March 31, from an estimated 8.5 percent in the
previous 12 months.  Reaching Peak  The  Reserve Bank  says growth quicker than 8 percent can fan
inflation unless capacities are boosted in agriculture to
manufacturing to keep up with demand.  India’s inflation rate may “peak” in August and will be
about 10 percent,  Kaushik Basu , the chief economic adviser in
the finance ministry, said Aug. 16. The nation’s benchmark
wholesale-price index rose 9.22 percent in July from a year
earlier. The price gauge will “stay around the same level”
until December, Basu said.  “The Reserve Bank’s prime focus will be to tackle
inflation, even though global developments will be of a huge
concern,” Rupa Rege Nitsure, a Mumbai-based economist at the
state-owned Bank of Baroda, said before Gokarn’s comments. “The
RBI will remain in a tightening mode until inflation eases.”  Global economic uncertainties have increased and world
economic expansion may be slower than anticipated earlier,
Gokarn said. Crude  oil prices , crucial for India as the nation
imports almost 80 percent of the commodity to meet its energy
needs, have dropped 27 percent in  New York  from a 31-month high
reached on May 2.  Policy Review  Nitsure expects the central bank to raise its repurchase
rate by half a percentage point to 8.5 percent in the next
policy review on Sept. 16. The Reserve Bank has raised the
benchmark 11 times since mid-March 2010.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index climbed 1 percent
yesterday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year  government bonds 
was little changed at 8.26 percent, and the rupee strengthened
0.1 percent to 45.62 against the dollar.  Price pressures are also strengthening elsewhere in  Asia .  Singapore’s inflation accelerated to 5.4 percent in July
from a year earlier, the fastest pace since January, as
transportation and housing costs increased, maintaining pressure
on the central bank to allow the currency to strengthen even as
growth falters.  In  Hong Kong , inflation surged to the quickest pace since
1995, the government reported on its website Aug. 22. The
consumer price index rose 7.9 percent from a year earlier after
a 5.6 percent increase in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  