-- 
India Stocks to Extend Losses on Economic Outlook, Kohli Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-08-23T08:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/india-stocks-to-extend-losses-on-economic-outlook-kohli-says.html
Daljit Kohli, head of research at
India Nivesh Securities Pvt., comments on his outlook for the
Indian stock market and economy. Kohli spoke by phone from
Mumbai.  On markets:  “Markets are low. Yesterday we had expected there would be
some pullback, but there is no strength in this pullback. This
is just a dead-cat bounce, which is expected. Once you have
moved down for four to five days, then you should expect that
kind of bounce. But the reasons the markets have gone down have
not changed and therefore there is no strength in the rebound.
So you should be using this rebound as an exit opportunity. If
you were stuck and weren’t able to sell, you should sell now.  ‘‘There are no positives as of now. We need to wait till
Friday till we get some announcement from the Fed. On the
domestic front, there’s no change. The  Reserve Bank  of India’s
policy will be the next thing in mid-September. Till then we are
affected more by global factors.”  On macro-economic factors:  “There is no change in macro-economic factors, but things
are worsening because of what is happening in Delhi. It is not
allowing them any time to talk about the economy.”  More than 50,000 people yesterday gathered in  New
Delhi  to support anti-corruption campaigner Anna Hazare on the
seventh day of his hunger strike, after protests swelled and
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said he’s ready for talks. Singh’s
administration has been beset by graft charges since
October, bringing his legislative agenda to a halt.  On interest rates:  “The  interest rate  is a very important thing to watch out
for. Probably there will be another increase of 25 basis points
in mid-September. Whether it happens in mid-September or not, we
are not sure. But we surely expect there will be some more
tightening happening. Interest rates will continue to tighten.”  On stocks:  “We are advising investors not to buy, but to wait and let
the tide stabilize. We expect markets to go further down. If
anything negative comes from Delhi, then you could see some very
sharp falls and that will probably mark the time to buy. As of
now, investors should stay away.”  On valuations:  “Valuations are okay; neither very cheap nor very high.
They may appear to be cheap because current estimates are very
high, but what we expect are downgrades will happen sharply for
fiscal year 2013 now. People have started downgrading fiscal
year 2012. Reality will kick in from December onwards.  On the anti-corruption movement:  ‘‘As of now there’s no impact, but if it turns ugly, then
there will be an impact. In the longer-term, if you see it has
an indirect impact, it’s because politicians are not thinking
about the economy and are too busy saving their own feet.
Economic decisions get delayed. There were quite a few bills
which were supposed to be passed this session, but haven’t been
passed.”  On RBI announcements:  “If another 25 bps increase is announced then markets will
take it negatively. Increasing rates will be difficult and have
an impact on growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  