-- 
Banker Suicides Offer Clue in World Bellwether: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-08-23T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/investor-suicides-offer-clue-in-world-bellwether-william-pesek.html
If our world has any place that acts
like a financial early warning system, it’s  South Korea .  With high short-term debt levels and little to cushion it
from destabilizing global events, Korea is often the first of
the top 15 economies to zig, zag or hit an economic wall. At the
moment, events on the ground suggest that Asia is fast running
into trouble.  Korea was probably hit harder by  Standard & Poor’s  cut of
the U.S.’s AAA credit rating than the U.S. Markets in Korea
plunged, capital fled and credit-default swaps protecting public
debt soared as  U.S. Treasuries  rallied.  Yet for many observers of Asia’s fourth-biggest economy,
it’s not just financial turmoil they fear. Nor is it the threat
a worldwide slowdown poses to Korea’s economic fundamentals,
which are comparatively sound for now. What adds an
unpredictable ingredient to the mix are Korea’s hyperactive
regulators.  A case in point was Korea’s decision to join  Greece  in
clamping down on short-selling of stocks. Every nation wants to
reduce market volatility that might disrupt the broader economy.
In Korea’s case, regulatory meddling unnerves investors as much
as a shaky dollar, excessive debt in  Europe  or signs that  China 
is overheating.  Nothing tells the story like the saga of Woori Finance
Holdings Co., the country’s largest financial firm. Last week,
Korea again was unable to sell its share of the company, parts
of which have been under government ownership since 1999.
Regulators dulled the company’s appeal by inflicting it with
revolving-door chief executive officer syndrome. Until recently,
it had a new one every couple of years.  Dire Markets  The dire state of markets surely scared away some bidders.
It complicates President  Lee Myung Bak ’s pledge to accelerate
privatization efforts. Normally, a $4.8 billion offering like
the one planned for Woori would entice investors seeking a
capital base in an economy whose potential outshines that of
most developing nations.  Yet foreign bidders are also well aware of the terms that
come with any deal on Korean soil.  Critics look no further than  Lone Star Funds , a U.S.
private-equity fund. For more than five years, regulators have
stymied  Lone Star ’s efforts to sell a stake it grabbed in Korea
Exchange Bank in 2003 amid the fallout from the Asian crisis
several years earlier.  A brouhaha over at Standard Chartered Plc also worries
investors. Its staff has been striking for more than 50 days in
the longest work stoppage in Korean banking history. The reason?
Opposition to a proposed incentive-based pay system that would
reward talent rather than seniority. This is something  Korea 
needs.  Absence of Clarity  Investors want clarity in the Woori and Lone Star cases.
They’re looking for definitive answers that suggest where
Korea’s financial sector is heading in the next few years.
Regulatory ambiguity helps explain why no foreign suitors
stepped up to bid on Woori.  This is a big loss for Korea. The recent plunge in Korean
markets may be a passing phenomenon, one that mainly reflects
worries about U.S. and European growth. The reason capital flees
from Korea so quickly is really a testament to its open markets.
Investors who need cash to meet margin calls overseas can sell
Korean assets easily. What’s sometimes forgotten is that Korea
is among the first to bounce back when things calm down.  Fear of capital flight has caused all kinds of machinations
in  Seoul  that confuse investors. Every few days, it seems,
brings new directives on  capital controls , taxation of bonds,
stock trades, mergers among savings banks, the role of domestic
brokerages, companies buying foreign-currency bonds, financial
holding companies bidding for rivals or how many currency
derivatives banks can hold.  Regulators, Relax  Talk about micromanaging. The ad hoc nature of these steps
probably makes matters worse for Korea. Why tempt investors who
want to stay in won assets to leave? Foreign bankers I meet in
Seoul all make a similar point: We are here and positive on
Korea, but regulators need to relax.  Korea has lots going for it. It’s growing 3.4 percent a
year, and with short-term  interest rates  at 3.25 percent, the
 Bank of Korea  has latitude to pump liquidity into panicky
markets. Yet as things go awry in global markets Korea is
missing an opportunity.  Policy makers are right to want to stabilize the economy.
And yet, with their actions they are doing the opposite.  As Asian markets seesaw, investors wonder if a repeat of
2008 is afoot. The difference between then and now, of course,
is that the euro wasn’t crashing, S&P wasn’t downgrading the
biggest economy and governments had more fiscal ammunition. The
next crisis would be one with fewer shock absorbers.  The modern-day gold rush -- the metal on Monday closed at a
record $1,891.90 an ounce -- speaks to the loss of confidence in
paper assets. In Korea, households are buzzing about an even
more basic metric of confidence: suicide.  Asia ’s crash 14 years
ago saw a shocking rise in the number of investors taking their
lives, shamed and depressed by the losses they suffered. Korean
media spent the past weekend detailing a fresh wave of investors
killing themselves amid huge market reverses.  Let’s hope that Korea is able to defy its legacy as a
global bellwether, if only for the sake of those who might
succumb to personal despair.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Seoul at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 