-- 
Hurricane Irene Strengthens to Category 2 Storm in Threat to U.S. Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-23T10:15:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/irene-grows-in-a-major-hurricane-threatening-the-bahamas-u-s-coast.html
Hurricane Irene grew into a Category
2 storm that is forecast to strengthen as it moves toward the
Bahamas and possibly the Carolinas and U.S. Northeast.  Irene’s maximum sustained winds were 100 miles (160
kilometers) per hour, up from 80 mph yesterday. It may become a
major hurricane later today or early tomorrow, according to a
National Hurricane Center  advisory  at 5 a.m.  New York  time.  “I don’t see any roadblocks to intensification over the
next four or five days,” said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
Weather Underground Inc. in Ann Arbor,  Michigan . “The ocean
temperatures are 1 to 1.5 degrees warmer than average this year.
Climatologically, conditions are conducive for strong hurricanes
tracking far to the north this year.”  Losses from Irene in  Florida ,  Georgia  and the Carolinas may
total $2.2 billion and cost insurers $1.2 billion, according to
an initial estimate by Kinetic Analysis Corp., a risk-modeling
firm in  Silver Spring , Maryland. The hurricane’s current
projected path brings it ashore near the North Carolina-South
Carolina border late on Aug. 27 or early Aug. 28.  The Miami-based NHC says predictions of where a hurricane
may strike land are often inaccurate. The five-year average of
errors for a four-day prediction is 200 miles, and for a five-
day forecast, it is 250 miles.  ‘Ingredients Conducive’  “All of the ingredients are conducive for Irene to
intensify over the next few days,” according to a hurricane
center forecast analysis prepared by Lixion Avila, a senior
hurricane specialist at the NHC. The computer models “insist on
making Irene a large and strong hurricane.”  There is a chance Irene may pass over  Long Island  next week
as a strong tropical storm, said Masters, who began his career
flying on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
hurricane reconnaissance planes. One such plane investigated
Irene late yesterday and that mission should improve the
computer model error rate by 20 percent.  New York City  has been tracking the storm since it first
appeared off  Africa  last week, said Chris Gilbride, a spokesman
for the Office of Emergency Management.  It probably would be a “heavy rain event,” not a
hurricane, if it reaches New York, he said.  “The storm is not likely to stop in the Carolinas,”
meteorologist Alex Sosnowski wrote on AccuWeather Inc.’s
website. “It is very possible strong-tropical-storm or even
hurricane conditions will continue to spread up the Atlantic
Seaboard.”  The storm, moving west-northwest at 12 mph and presently
about 50 miles northeast of Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic,
probably won’t enter the  Gulf of Mexico , home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas.  Gulf Reprieve?  “As far as energy purposes, it looks like the Gulf is
going to get away from this one,” said Travis Hartman, a
meteorologist with MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland .  The hurricane center expects Irene to pass north of the
Dominican Republic and  Haiti  today and be near or over the Turks
and Caicos Islands and the southeastern Bahamas by tonight, the
center said. Irene is likely to reach the central Bahamas early
tomorrow.  Hurricane warnings have been issued for the north coast of
the Dominican Republic, the southeastern and central Bahamas and
the Turks and Caicos Islands, while watches are in force for the
north coast of Haiti and the northwestern Bahamas. Warnings are
issued for areas where hurricane-force winds are expected within
36 hours and a watch is issued when there is a possibility of
hurricane-force winds within 48.  Turks, Caicos  Hurricane-force winds  extend outward for 50 miles from
Irene’s core, up from 15 miles yesterday, and tropical-storm-
force winds extend for 205 miles, the center said in its
advisory.  The storm may drop 5 to 10 inches (13 to 26 centimeters) of
rain across the southeastern and central Bahamas and the Turks
and Caicos islands, with lesser amounts elsewhere from Puerto
Rico to the  Dominican Republic , the center said.  A storm becomes a hurricane when winds reach 74 mph. The
last hurricane to strike the U.S. was Ike in 2008, which was a
Category 2 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson hurricane wind
scale when it went ashore near Galveston,  Texas . The last major
hurricane, with winds of at least 111 mph, to hit was Hurricane
Wilma in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  