-- 
Irene Forecast to Grow as It Moves Through Bahamas Toward U.S. East Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-23T18:50:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/irene-forecast-to-grow-as-it-moves-through-bahamas-toward-u-s-east-coast.html
Hurricane Irene is expected to grow
into a major storm in the next day as it rips through the
Bahamas before going ashore in  North Carolina  over the weekend
and moving up the East Coast, possibly threatening New York and
 New England .  Hurricane warnings are posted for most of the Bahamas and
the Turks and Caicos islands as Irene, with top winds of 100
miles (160 kilometers) per hour, threatens to gain strength and
power over the next three days. It was 55 miles south of Grand
Turk Island at about 2 p.m. New York time, according to a
National Hurricane Center  advisory .  The  current track  estimates Irene will go ashore in North
Carolina on Aug. 27. Visitors to Ocracoke Island and Hyde County
were being told to leave tomorrow and residents were being urged
to go, according to ABC-affiliate  WCTI-TV  in New Bern, North
Carolina.  “There is nothing between where Irene is now and the U.S.
in keeping it from not intensifying further into a major
hurricane,” said  Chris Hyde , meteorologist with  MDA EarthSat
Weather  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . “The water temperatures are
warm especially when you get to the Gulf Stream. The Gulf Stream
is going to explode this thing.”  Possible Costs  Total losses from Irene may reach $3.1 billion across the
Caribbean and along the U.S. coastline, according to estimates
by Kinetic Analysis Corp. The  National Hurricane Center 
estimates its top winds will peak at about 125 mph in two days,
making it a Category 3 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson
Hurricane Wind Scale.  Those winds are strong enough to blow windows out of high-
rise buildings, snap trees and crush older mobile homes,
according to the center.  “We have a lot of time for people to get ready but we
don’t have forever,” W.  Craig Fugate , administrator of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, said today in a conference
call. “There is a tendency for people to think of hurricanes to
be southern things, but the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast
states need to take the track of Hurricane Irene seriously.”  Predictions of where a hurricane may strike land are often
inaccurate, the hurricane center said. The five-year average of
error for predicting an event four days away is 200 miles, and
for a five-day forecast, it is 250 miles.  Landfall Scenarios  “It is probably making landfall in Wilmington, North
Carolina, Saturday evening,” said Paul Walker, an expert senior
meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . “By Sunday, it will be in western  Long Island . It
is possible it will be a hurricane at that point, it depends on
how much it moves over land.”  Among the scenarios that are possible are strikes near  New
York  and Boston, Hyde said.  Hyde said heavy rain and flooding are possible through
Maryland,  Delaware ,  New Jersey  and New York into New England. A
shift in the track to the east may mean the storm would pass out
at sea, while a jaunt to the west may mean more than just rain
for  New York City .  The Bermuda High steers hurricanes, and exactly where the
weather system is centered can mean the difference between a
storm striking the U.S. and passing harmlessly out to sea, Hyde
said. The models try to estimate how the circulation around the
high will pull Irene along, he said.  NYC Watches  New York has been tracking the storm since it first
appeared off  Africa  last week, said Chris Gilbride, a spokesman
for New York’s  Office of Emergency Management . It probably would
be a “heavy rain event,” not a hurricane, if it reaches the
area, he said yesterday.  In addition to the warnings in the Bahamas, a hurricane
watch is in effect for the northern coast of  Haiti  and a
tropical storm warning has been posted for the northern coast of
the Dominican Republic.  Hurricane-force winds  extend outward for 50 miles from
Irene’s core, up from 15 miles yesterday, and tropical-storm-
force winds extend for 205 miles, the center said in its
advisory.  Irene knocked out power to 900,000 of 1.5 million customers
of the  Puerto Rico  Electric Power Authority, said Orlando
Rosado, a spokesman for the agency. As of 11 a.m. 330,000 were
still without electricity, he said.  President Obama declared an emergency in Puerto Rico,
freeing up federal funds for assistance.  Irene is expected to raise seas to 9 to 13 feet above tide
levels throughout the Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos, the
hurricane center said. Five to 10 inches of rain may also fall
on the islands and 4 to 8 inches across Haiti and the Dominican
Republic, with some areas receiving as much as 15.  The last hurricane to strike the U.S. was Ike in 2008, a
Category 2 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale when it
went ashore near Galveston,  Texas . The last major hurricane, one
with winds of at least 111 mph, to make landfall in the U.S. was
Hurricane Wilma in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  