-- 
Treasuries Fluctuate Before $35 Billion Two-Year Note Sale, More Auctions

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-23T15:27:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/thirty-year-treasuries-extend-yesterday-s-loss-before-auctions-this-week.html
Treasuries fluctuated before an
auction of $35 billion of two-year securities, the first of
three note sales this week totaling $99 billion.  The two-year debt to be sold today was headed for a record
low auction yield. Treasuries fell earlier on speculation
 Federal Reserve  will signal steps to bolster economic growth.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may discuss the central bank’s
holdings of $1.6 trillion of Treasuries when he speaks Aug. 26
at a conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  “The market is beginning to focus on financial stocks and
the banking system overall,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of
Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New York. “There’s
just general nervousness. Trading is thin. People have moved to
the sidelines. There’s a general nervousness out there. You can
feel it in the prices.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes were little changed at
2.10 percent at 11:24 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent securities maturing in
August 2021 traded at 100 7/32. The yield reached as high as
2.16 percent.  Record Lows  The 10-year note yields dropped on Aug. 18 to the
historical low of 1.97 percent. Yields on five- and seven-year
notes fell that day to records of 0.79 percent and 1.31 percent.  Two-year note yields were little changed today at 0.21
percent, compared with the record low of 0.1568 percent set Aug.
9. The yield touched 0.22 percent, the most since Aug. 9.  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $35 billion of two-year
notes today, the same amount of five-year debt tomorrow and $29
billion of seven-year debt on Aug. 25.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.22 percent in
pre-auction trading, less than the record low auction yield of
0.395 percent on June 27. Investors bid for 3.14 times the
amount offered last month, compared with the average of 3.32 for
the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 27.7 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 31.1 percent. Direct bidders, non-primary
dealers buying for their own accounts, purchased 20 percent, the
most since June 2010.  Inflation Role  Inflation as measured by the  consumer price index  is
running at an annual rate of 3.6 percent, meaning the 10-year
note yields about negative 1.45 percent. The so-called real
yield for two-year notes is negative 3.4 percent.  Yields on 30-year U.S. bonds, which are most sensitive to
inflation, gained four basis points to 3.46 percent. The extra
yield investors demand to purchase the long bonds instead of
two-year notes has widened to 3.25 percentage points, rebounding
from the least since September on Aug. 19.  European and Asian stocks rose today on speculation
Bernanke will signal more measures to stimulate the economy in
his address at the annual Jackson Hole conference, sponsored by
the Kansas City Fed.  Last August in  Wyoming , Bernanke indicated the central bank
would “do all that it can” to ensure a continuation of the
economic recovery and that more securities purchases might be
warranted if growth slowed. Two months later, the Fed announced
a $600 billion second round of U.S. debt purchases that ended in
June.  ‘Additional Accommodation’  “The Fed speech may outline the options at providing
additional accommodation that they’ve already hinted at,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The market, to a large extent,
may come away disappointed from that. There’s a contingency in
the market anticipating something more tangible from the
chairman. People are talking about operation twist. While that
may be the next step, I don’t think that happens on Friday.”  In a Treasury buying program called operation twist, the
Fed may buy longer-duration bonds while shedding shorter-
maturity debt.  U.S. government debt  has returned 3.3 percent this month in
the best performance since the depths of the financial crisis in
December 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks has slid 12
percent during the same period.  Stocks Gain  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index gained 1.2 percent today.  Treasury returns have increased, as yields dropped to
record lows even after Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S. AAA
credit ranking for the first time on Aug. 5, roiling global
markets and pushing up volatility.  The New York-based company, which was blamed in an April
Senate report for helping fuel the credit crisis, was criticized
by the world’s most successful investor,  Warren Buffett , who
said the U.S. should be “quadruple-A.” The cut conflicted with
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which kept their
AAA grades.  S&P will replace President Deven Sharma, 55 with Citibank
NA Chief Operating Officer Douglas Peterson. Sharma will leave
at the end of the year to “pursue other opportunities,” S&P’s
parent McGraw-Hill Cos. said in an e-mailed statement. Peterson,
53, will take over Sept. 12 and Sharma will work on the
company’s strategic review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  