-- 
J.B. Holmes Needs Brain Surgery, Forcing Withdrawal From PGA Golf Playoffs

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/j-b-holmes-needs-brain-surgery-forcing-withdrawal-from-pga-golf-playoffs.html
J.B. Holmes needs brain surgery to
treat a condition that causes vertigo-like symptoms, forcing the
golfer to withdraw from the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s playoffs.  Holmes, 29, will undergo surgery Sept. 1 at the  Johns
Hopkins University Hospital , the tour said in a statement,
without giving the specific location of the facility. Holmes is
currently near his home in Louisville,  Kentucky , for blood work
and pre-operation tests, the release said.  Holmes has a condition called  Chiari malformations , which
affects the part of the brain that controls balance. Symptoms
include dizziness and problems with vision and co-ordination.
Holmes began experiencing vertigo-like symptoms at the  Players
Championship  in May, the PGA Tour said.  “This a relatively low-risk surgery and only takes about
an hour and a half,” Holmes said in the statement. “Best of
all, there’s a very high success rate in fixing the condition.”  The playoffs begin this week with the  Barclays , for which
the top 125 golfers in the season-long  FedEx Cup  standings were
eligible. The leading 100 players then advance to the Deutsche
Bank Championship, from which 70 make the BMW Championship. The
series wraps up with the 30-player Tour Championship, with the
winner of the FedEx Cup receiving a $10 million bonus.  Holmes, a two-time winner on the PGA Tour who featured in
the U.S. Ryder Cup team in 2008, was ranked No. 66 in the
standings heading into the Barclays.  “I was really looking forward to the playoffs this year
and improving on my 31st-place finish from 2010,” said Holmes.
“But with a three-month recovery before I can get back to form,
we decided that the sooner I can get this procedure done, the
better.”  The Barclays begins Aug. 25 at  Plainfield Country Club  in
Edison,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 