-- 
Japanese Stocks Advance First Day in Five on Fed Stimulus Speculation

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-08-23T07:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/japan-stocks-rise-first-day-in-five-as-u-s-economic-data-boosts-exporters.html
Japanese stocks rose for the first
time in five days as exporters climbed on speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve will announce additional measures to shore up
the recovery in the world’s biggest economy.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that gets about a quarter of its
sales in the Americas, gained 3 percent. Nintendo Co., a
gamemaker that has lost 45 percent this year, jumped on
speculation the shares have been oversold. Inpex Corp., Japan’s
No. 1 energy explorer, gained 2.9 percent after  oil prices  rose.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.2 percent to 8,733.01
at the 3 p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo . The gauge snapped its
longest losing streak since March amid optimism Fed Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke will announce a plan to stimulate the economy when
he speaks on Aug. 26 at a meeting of central bankers in Jackson
Hole,  Wyoming . At last year’s meeting, Bernanke sparked a rally
in equities by signaling the Fed would buy more bonds -- a
strategy known as QE2 -- to help prop up asset prices.  Bernanke “may signal some kind of measure that’s positive
for stocks, even if he doesn’t go as far as QE3,” said
Masatsugu Okeya, a fund manager at Chiba-Gin Asset Management
Co. “The market has already priced in most of the negative news
during the recent decline.”  The Topix index rose 1 percent to 750.39 after yesterday
falling to the lowest level since March 2009. The gauge has lost
about 12 percent this month amid concern U.S. growth is
sputtering and  Europe ’s debt crisis will damage the banking
system, damping demand in two of  Japan ’s biggest export markets.
The decline has cut the price of shares on the index to 0.89
times book value, the lowest since March 2009.  ‘Oversold’  “Stocks are likely to be bought as valuations and
technical patterns indicate they’ve been oversold,” said  Ryuta Otsuka , a strategist at Toyo Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Risk
aversion came to a halt in the U.S. and European markets
yesterday.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.2
percent today. The index closed little changed yesterday in  New
York , paring gains in the last 15 minutes of trading as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. plunged on a report that Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  hired a defense attorney.  Japanese exporters to the U.S. advanced. Canon, the world’s
biggest camera-maker, rose 3 percent to 3,600 yen.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , which counts  North America  as its biggest market, climbed
2.3 percent to 2,763 yen. The automaker also rose after saying
it would collaborate with Ford Motor Co. to develop a hybrid
system for pickup trucks.  ‘Nintendo’s Bounce’  Nintendo gained 8.4 percent to 13,100 yen. The world’s
biggest gamemaker rebounded after the share’s 50-day moving
average fell to the lowest level since January 2006.  “Nintendo’s bounce is representative of the technical
rebound in the market as a whole,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general
manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“There’s a sense that investors are done unloading shares after
one piece of bad news after another.”  Utilities rose after Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , a
candidate to replace Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan, said the
country may not be able to do without nuclear power. Kansai
Electric Power, the country’s second-largest utility, gained 2.8
percent to 1,409 yen. Chubu Electric Power Co., the third
biggest, advanced 1.9 percent to 1,487 yen.  Although Japan should reduce its dependence on nuclear
power, the country needs to “‘carefully examine’’ whether it’s
possible to meet its energy needs without it, Noda said today in
Tokyo. Kan, who said he will step down as early as Aug. 26 if
key legislation is passed, has said atomic power should be
phased out following the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.  Japan’s power companies increased spending on fuels by 1
trillion yen ($13 billion) in the three months ended June 30, as
they increased thermal generation to offset closures of nuclear
plants, national broadcaster NHK reported this month.  Energy companies advanced after crude prices gained for a
second day as investors bet on increased demand in the U.S., the
world’s biggest consumer of the fuel.  Inpex Corp (1605)  gained 2.9 to
469,500 yen. Smaller Japan Drilling Co. rose 2.1 percent to
2,602 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 