-- 
Kazakh Central Bank Gets ‘Priority Right’ to Buy Gold

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-08-24T10:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/kazakhstan-gives-central-bank-priority-right-to-buy-gold-1-.html
(Corrects Kazakh gold output in final paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  Kazakhstan ’s central bank plans to
lock up domestic supplies of refined gold by using a “priority
right” it received from the government to buy bullion
designated for exports amid record prices for the metal.  The National Bank of Kazakhstan plans to use the buying
privilege “in full” after changes go into effect Jan. 1, the
Almaty-based lender said in an e-mailed statement today.  Central banks are expanding their gold reserves for the
first time in a generation as bullion rises for an 11th
consecutive year, the longest winning streak since at least
1920, as investors seek to diversify their holdings away from
equities and some currencies. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
last week ordered the  central bank  to repatriate $11 billion of
 gold reserves  held in developed nations’ institutions.  Kazakhstan’s gold holdings were valued at $3.5 billion at
the end of last month and accounted for about 9.5 percent of the
nation’s gross international reserves, central bank  data  show.  The central bank may provide advance payments to Kazakh
gold producers, becoming their “secure partner” in the coming
years, according to the statement. The bank also asked the
government to eliminate value-added tax incentives that spurred
gold exports.  Existing Capacity  Kazakh authorities are seeking to induce producers to use
the existing capacity to refine gold and curtail exports of raw
materials, the bank said.  Glencore International AG’s TOO Kazzinc is the only Kazakh
company making gold ingots that meet international standards,
the bank said.  Government measures may allow  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , which produces
gold bars only to Kazakh standards, to make ingots that meet
international criteria, allowing the nation to refine all of its
precious-metals output, according to the central bank.  The Central Asian nation produced 21.4 metric tons of gold
in the first seven months, an increase of 48 percent from a year
earlier, according to the state statistics agency. Refined gold
accounted for about 45 percent of the total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  