-- 
Kokusai Assets Drop Amid Losing Bet Against Yen: Japan Credit

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-23T17:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/kokusai-assets-drop-amid-losing-bet-against-yen-japan-credit.html
Kokusai Global Sovereign Open is
sticking with bets against the yen that contributed to a 60
percent drop in assets and cost the Tokyo-based  money manager 
its spot as the world’s second-largest bond fund.  The amount of money invested by the unit of Kokusai Asset
Management Co. has fallen to 2.3 trillion yen ($30 billion) from
a peak of 5.77 trillion yen in 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yen rose to a record last week and Global
Sovereign has handed investors an average 2.2 percent loss over
five years, versus a 1.2 percent annual drop for its peers.  Global Sovereign Open made betting against the yen its
chief strategy in 2007, expecting investors to borrow at Japan’s
near-zero  interest rates  and then sell the currency in search of
higher returns abroad. The investment backfired as the worst
financial crisis since the 1930s spurred demand for the safety
of Japanese assets even as yields dropped around the world. The
yen, like the Swiss franc, have appreciated the most among 150
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Because of low yields, people cannot satisfy their income
needs” with Global Sovereign Open, Masataka Horii, 45, who
heads the fund’s four-man investment team, said in a telephone
interview from his office in  Tokyo . He said the fund’s most-
lucrative trade recently was to sell the U.S. and Australian
dollars and buy euros, profiting from the 17-nation currency’s
more-than 7 percent climb against the greenback this year.  Yen Assets  Global Sovereign Open held 10.2 percent of its assets in
yen as of July 29, versus 31.4 percent for the benchmark the
fund uses to gauge performance, according to Kokusai’s web site.  As Kokusai’s assets dwindled,  Newport Beach , California-
based Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Total Return Fund
gained 8.5 percent a year on average for the period, widening
its lead as the world’s biggest bond fund by surging to $245.5
billion in assets.  Japan ’s currency has risen 55 percent against the dollar
since the end of 2006, and it set a postwar high of 75.95 per
dollar on Aug. 19. The yen will weaken to 86 by the end of 2012,
a Bloomberg News survey of banks and securities companies shows.  Kokusai hasn’t won more of Japan’s $19 trillion in
household assets as tumbling interest rates around the world led
investors to sell funds with higher-rated bonds in favor of
those with lower-grade debt offering greater yields.  Rate Bets  Horii and his colleagues are betting that benchmark rates
in developed markets such as Europe and the U.S. may climb,
bringing currency gains and higher coupon payments that would
allow it to boost dividend payouts.  “If the global economy recovers and advanced economies
hike their policy rates, I think money will come back from
emerging-market countries to advanced countries,” Horii said.  It will take more time for the U.S. to act after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled on Aug. 9 that he’d
hold borrowing costs near zero until at least mid-2013, Horii
said in an e-mail.  Tokyo-based Kokusai Asset is the biggest owner of
Treasuries based outside the U.S. among companies that are
required to make regulatory filings, Bloomberg data show. The
holdings total about 0.1 percent of the $9.35 trillion market,
according to the figures.  Global Sovereign Open is the largest mutual fund in its
home country. It is more than double the size of the next-
largest Japanese rival, the Daiwa SB Short-term Australian
Dollar Bond fund, which has 1.09 trillion yen in assets,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Declining’ Stature  Kokusai’s fund has 1.5 million shareholders, mostly
individuals, Horii said, a figure equivalent to almost 12
percent of Tokyo’s population.  “It’s still the biggest fund in Japan, but its stature is
gradually declining,” Ryo Watanabe, an analyst at fund research
company Morningstar Inc., said in an e-mail. “It’s losing
investors seeking higher dividends. The decline in assets will
continue.”  Japanese households keep 55 percent of their money in cash
and bank deposits, while mutual funds accounted for 3.6 percent,
according to the central bank. Japan Post Bank Co., the world’s
biggest deposit holder, pays an interest rate of 0.03 percent.  Assets in Japan-based funds that invest in global bonds
have dropped to 3.65 trillion yen from 7.55 trillion yen in
2007, which was the most in the past decade, Morningstar figures
show. Funds that invest in emerging-market debt ballooned to
6.35 trillion yen in March, the most in 10 years.  Three Stars  Morningstar rates Kokusai Global Sovereign Open three stars
out of five, or about in the middle among similar funds based on
risk and performance. It gives five  stars  to the Total Return
Fund, according to the fund-analysis company’s web site.  Kokusai and Pimco use different benchmarks to guide their
investing, making it more difficult to compare their returns.  Global Sovereign Open tries to match or beat the Citigroup
World Government Bond Index, which allows the fund to bet on
currencies as well as bonds in Europe, the U.S., Japan and other
developed bond markets. The fund has lost 14 percent since the
end of 2006, versus a 7 percent decline for the index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco’s fund measures its performance against the Barclays
Capital U.S. Aggregate Index and the Lipper Intermediate
Investment Grade Debt Fund Average, according to the Pimco web
site. The Total Return Fund focuses mostly on investment-grade
debt securities and may invest as much as 30 percent of its
assets in currencies other than the dollar, the web site says.  Pimco’s Lament  Bill Gross , who runs the Pimco fund, has been negative on
Treasuries this year even as they returned 7.6 percent, beating
the 4.8 percent return for an index of bonds around the world,
based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch figures.  “I wish we’d gone in earlier,” Gross said June 8 at a
Morningstar Investment Conference in  Chicago .  Kokusai started Global Sovereign Open in 1997, with assets
under management increasing every year through 2006. The fund
more than doubled in 2001, 2002 and 2003. It promises investors
it will stick to the highest-rated markets, Horii said.  Global Sovereign Open makes money by betting on currencies
and then investing the funds in local bond markets.  The fund won Morningstar’s award as Japan’s  best bond fund 
in 2008, even as it fell 14 percent that year. The award
recognized the managers’ efforts to interact with central banks
and finance ministries, Morningstar’s Watanabe said.  Top Priority  The fund made betting against the yen its top priority in
2007, holding less of the currency than the percentage in its
benchmark. The yen surged 23 percent in 2008, the most in two
decades, as credit markets froze and the U.S. plunged into a
recession. A sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  and a debate over
the U.S. debt ceiling helped buoy Japan’s currency last month,
Kokusai said on its web site.  Currency strategists have underestimated the yen’s strength
since 2008. In each of the past three years the yen has ended in
December at least 7.5 percent higher than the median estimate at
the start of the year in Bloomberg surveys of analysts.  Global Sovereign Open’s assets declined 16 percent in 2008,
11 percent in 2009 and 32 percent in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  To increase returns, Global Sovereign Open in 2009 began
adding AAA rated supranational bonds sold by the World Bank
Group, the  European Investment Bank , the Nordic Investment Bank
and KfW Group. The bonds are mainly denominated in the
Australian, Swedish and Norwegian currencies. The securities
yield more than government debt, Horii said.  One of Global Sovereign’s winning bets was to hold a
greater percentage of Australian dollars than its benchmark
index. The currency rallied 30 percent against the dollar from
2007 through 2010 and offered a return of 7.8 percent against
the yen, including interest payments, the only Group-of-10
currency to have so-called carry-trade profits for the period,
Bloomberg data show.  Before 2008, the fund’s steady net-asset value along with
reliable dividends meant investors had little reason for
concern, said Hiromi Takamura, deputy manager in the sales-
promotion department at Shimonoseki City-based Yamaguchi Bank
Ltd., one of the banks that distributes shares in the fund to
investors.  “That was very different from now,” Takamura said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  