-- 
All Blacks Omit Sivivatu, Messam From Rugby’s World Cup Squad, Select Vito

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-23T07:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/new-zealand-names-30-man-squad-for-rugby-world-cup-gear-messam-miss-out.html
New Zealand  omitted wingers
Sitiveni Sivivatu and Hosea Gear as selectors picked the most
experienced All Blacks squad to try and win the Rugby World
Cup on home soil starting next month.  Zac Guildford,  Cory Jane  and Isaia Toeava were chosen as
the wingers, while second-rower Anthony Boric was picked even
though he hasn’t played for the All Blacks this year because of
a foot injury. Loose forward Victor Vito was selected ahead of
Liam Messam.  Flanker  Richie McCaw  will captain a squad featuring 16
forwards and 14 backs as top-ranked New Zealand seeks to end its
24-year drought at rugby’s four-yearly championship. With a
combined 1,133 Test appearances, it’s the most experienced All
Blacks roster ever assembled.  “There’s a good balance,” All Blacks coach  Graham Henry 
said in a statement. “A blend of experienced All Blacks, with
nine players who have played more than 50 Tests, while at the
other end of the scale we have seven players who have played
fewer than a dozen Tests who bring youthful enthusiasm to the
side.”  McCaw, fly-half Dan Carter, hooker Keven Mealamu, full-back
Mils Muliaina and lock Ali Williams were selected for their
third straight World Cup. Ma’a Nonu,  Corey Flynn  and Brad Thorn
return after missing the 2007 edition in France.  Other 2011 All Blacks to miss selection include wing Ben
Smith, prop Wyatt Crockett and lock Jarrad Hoeata. They’ll be
included in a pool of back-up players to cover for injuries at
the six-week tournament, Henry said.  ‘Form Thing’  Vito is the only player from outside the original extended
34-man squad to make the cut. He’s played just 11 minutes for
the All Blacks this year, coming off the bench in their 18-5
loss to South Africa three days ago.  “It was a form thing in the finish,” Henry said at a news
conference in Brisbane. “Victor has played very well and was
close to selection for the original Tri-Nations squad. He is a
lineout option and Liam did not quite tick all the boxes in the
last Test.”  New Zealand won its only  World Cup  title in 1987 when it
co-hosted the inaugural tournament with Australia. The All
Blacks open this year’s edition Sept. 9 against Tonga at
Auckland’s Eden Park.  “It’s an incredibly exciting time for the team and a
unique opportunity to represent New Zealand at home,” Henry
said. “We know the country is getting excited by what lies
ahead. There’s a real buzz around.”  The All Blacks squad is in Brisbane preparing for the Tri-
Nations decider against Australia in four days.  Forwards: John Afoa, Anthony Boric, Corey Flynn, Ben
Franks, Owen Franks, Andrew Hore, Jerome Kaino, Richie McCaw
(captain), Keven Mealamu, Kieran Read, Brad Thorn, Adam Thomson,
Samuel Whitelock, Ali Williams, Tony Woodcock, Victor Vito.  Backs: Daniel Carter, Jimmy Cowan, Israel Dagg,  Andy Ellis ,
Zac Guildford, Richard Kahui, Cory Jane,  Mils Muliaina , Ma’a
Nonu, Colin Slade,  Conrad Smith , Isaia Toeava,  Piri Weepu , Sonny
Bill Williams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  