-- 
New York Construction Starts Drop 40% in First Half as Building Weakens

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-08-23T16:08:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/new-york-construction-starts-drop-40-in-first-half-as-building-weakens.html
New York City construction starts
plunged almost 40 percent in the first half as building weakened
following a surge last year, according to an analysis by the New
York Building Congress.  About $6.4 billion of building projects began in the first
six months of 2011, down from $10.6 billion a year earlier, the
trade association said in a report today. The data encompass
residential and commercial buildings and public-sector projects,
such as bridges, highways, mass transit and water supply
systems. Renovations and alterations are also included.  All types of construction had “significant declines” from
last year, the group said. Projects that got under way in 2010
include the World Trade Center transit hub in lower  Manhattan ,
Barclays Center sports arena in  Brooklyn  and the renovation of
Madison Square Garden, the Building Congress said.  “The more than $20 billion in construction starts recorded
for the year in 2010, amid signs of a strengthening economy,
offered hope that the building industry was turning the
corner,” Building Congress President Richard T. Anderson said
in a statement. “The initial data for 2011, however, tells a
story of relative weakness in each sector.”  Residential building permits increased 12 percent in the
first half, a sign there may be a “modest” rebound in housing
construction, the group said.  Major Projects  More construction is scheduled to be started. The Whitney
Museum of American Art and  Fordham University  are moving ahead
with “major” projects, according to the Building Congress.
 Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , a Boston-based real estate investment
trust, plans to restart work on a $1 billion tower on Eighth
Avenue and West 55th Street.  “There is hope for the near future as a large number of
projects are ready to go,” Anderson said. “The question, of
course, is will the economy cooperate?”  Construction starts on non-residential projects dropped 40
percent to $4.6 billion in the first half, according to the
analysis of data from McGraw-Hill Construction Dodge. Spending
on new residential projects fell to $840 million, compared with
$1.3 billion in the first six months of 2010. Infrastructure
starts accounted for $1 billion, a 38 percent decline.  The $1.2 billion expansion of Terminal 4 at  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  was the largest project begun in the city
during the first half, according to Building Congress, which
represents real estate, construction, engineering and
architecture firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  