-- 
New York Removed From Leadership Role in Bank Foreclosure Settlement Talks

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-24T13:41:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/new-york-is-removed-from-state-foreclosure-group-after-voicing-concerns.html
New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  was removed from a leadership role in negotiating a
nationwide foreclosure settlement with U.S. banks because his
office “actively worked to undermine” the effort, a state
official said.  Schneiderman, who doesn’t want a settlement to bar further
investigations of mortgage practices by individual states, was
removed from the executive committee of state officials working
on the deal, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said yesterday in
a statement.  “New York has actively worked to undermine the very same
multistate group that it had spent the previous nine months
working very closely with,” said Miller, who is leading the
state group. For a member of the executive committee, that
“simply doesn’t make sense, is unprecedented and is
unacceptable,” Miller said.  Attorneys general  from all 50 states last year announced
their investigation into bank foreclosure practices after
reports that faulty documents were being used to seize homes.
Since then, a group of attorneys general and officials from
federal agencies, including the  Justice Department , have been
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers in the U.S.  Government officials are seeking an agreement that provides
funding for writedowns on  mortgage loans  for borrowers and sets
standards for how the banks service loans, interact with
borrowers and conduct foreclosures, according to terms proposed
in March.  Negotiation Leaders  An executive committee of 13 attorneys general, not
including Schneiderman, and two state banking regulators is
leading negotiations on behalf of all 50 states, said Geoff Greenwood, Miller’s spokesman. The executive committee has a
smaller committee that negotiates directly with the banks, he
said.  Several attorneys general, including Schneiderman, have
criticized any possible settlement that would protect banks from
state investigations by providing the lenders with broad
releases from liability. Those probes include the bundling of
mortgage loans into securities.  Other States  The attorneys general who want to continue their own probes
after an agreement include  Martha Coakley  in  Massachusetts ,
Delaware’s  Beau Biden  and Catherine Cortez Masto in Nevada.
Delaware is also a member of the executive committee.  The companies involved in the talks are  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and Ally Financial Inc.  Separately from the settlement talks, Schneiderman has
asked a New York judge to reject Bank of America’s proposed
$8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement with investors, a deal he
called unfair.  The attorney general accused  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
of violating state law in its role as trustee for the mortgage-
securitization trusts that are covered by the agreement, and he
said he has potential claims against Bank of America.  Bank of New York has called Schneiderman’s allegations
“baseless” and said it would fight the claims.  ‘Active Voice’  Schneiderman is committed to a settlement that provides
relief to homeowners and allows the housing market to recover,
and he will work with state and federal officials to achieve
those goals, his spokesman Danny Kanner said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Ongoing investigations by attorneys general cannot be
shut down by efforts to settle quickly and those responsible
must be held accountable,” Kanner said. “While it is Attorney
General Miller’s prerogative to remove us from the executive
committee, we will continue to be an active voice on these
issues as a part of the 50-state coalition and in other
forums.”  Schneiderman has raised “important and legitimate
concerns” about the scope of the liability releases demanded by
the banks, Delaware’s Biden said yesterday in a statement.  “I believe that the events leading up to the mortgage
crisis must be fully investigated, including origination and
securitization practices, before any broad immunity is granted
-- the American people deserve an investigation,” Biden said.  Greenwood declined to elaborate on how Miller thought
Schneiderman has undermined the state group.  “It has not been helpful to have a member of our executive
committee undermining our effort, and therefore Attorney General
Miller made his decision,” Greenwood said in a phone interview.
“We are moving forward with our committee, and our efforts
continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  