-- 
Australia Police Probe Lawmaker, Potentially Threatening Gillard Majority

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-08-23T09:51:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/new-south-wales-police-to-probe-thomson-credit-card-claims.html
Australian lawmaker Craig Thomson
resigned as chair of the House Economics Committee as police
indicated they will probe allegations he misused his union
credit card to pay prostitutes, an inquiry that could threaten
the government of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard .  Thomson advised the committee’s secretary today he would
step down and said he continues to reject claims of wrongdoing,
according to an e-mailed statement sent by his media officer,
David Gardiner. Thomson will continue to serve as a member of
the panel, it said.  “The current circumstances will clearly distract from the
important work of the committee,” Thomson said in the
statement.  Thomson’s future is critical because Gillard’s  Labor Party 
rules with a majority of one seat. If he is forced to resign,
there would need to be an election in his New South Wales
division and losing the seat could bring down her government.  Liberal party Senator George Brandis “has provided
information to police in relation to a number of matters
concerning a federal Labor MP,” New South Wales police said in
a statement. “This correspondence has now been referred for
internal assessment to determine whether a criminal offense has
occurred.”  Escort Service  Brandis sent police documents relating to transactions on a
 credit card  belonging to Thomson when he was head of the Health
Services Union before he entered parliament in 2007. The
documents, copies of which were obtained by Bloomberg News,
outline payments charged to the card for an escort service in
Sydney in 2005 and 2007.  Gillard’s Labor Party holds 72 of 150 seats in the  House of
Representatives  and relies on the support of three independents
and one Greens Party member to pass laws.  “I’ve certainly spoken to Craig Thomson,” Gillard told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. He “is doing his job
as the local member in this parliament.”  Support for the party has fallen to record lows in opinion
surveys as Gillard backed down on a promise before the election
not to introduce a carbon tax.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  