-- 
New York Giants Cornerback Thomas May Miss NFL Season With Torn Ligament

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-23T05:29:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/new-york-giants-cornerback-thomas-may-miss-nfl-season-with-torn-ligament.html
New York  Giants cornerback Terrell Thomas may miss the National Football League season after
tearing a knee ligament in last night’s 41-13 preseason win over
the  Chicago Bears .  Thomas, who led the Giants in tackles and interceptions the
past two seasons, injured his right anterior cruciate ligament
22 seconds from the end of the first half in East Rutherford,
 New Jersey . Thomas collided with teammate  Jason Pierre-Paul 
while the pair rushed Chicago quarterback  Jay Cutler .  “I’m very disappointed in the injuries that occurred;
that’s the part of the game that just makes you shake your
head,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  told reporters. “We’ll just
have to make some decisions, whether or not there’s anybody out
there that we can bring in or shuffle some guys around.”  Thomas is the fourth member of the Giants secondary to get
injured during the preseason. The Giants open the regular season
Sept. 11 at the  Washington Redskins .  Rookie cornerback Prince Amukamara, New York’s top pick in
this year’s draft, needs surgery to repair a fractured bone in
his left foot and may be sidelined for as long as 10 weeks.
Bruce Johnson ruptured his Achilles tendon Aug. 4 and fellow
cornerback Brian Witherspoon also left last night’s game during
the second half with a knee injury.  The 26-year-old Thomas started all 16 games last season and
had 101 tackles, 81 solo, and five interceptions. In four
seasons in the NFL, Thomas has 218 tackles, six forced fumbles
and 11 interceptions.  ‘Big Void’  “It’s devastating,” defensive end Justin Tuck told ESPN
in a televised interview. “He was primed to have another great
year for us. That’s a big void.”  Thomas, who walked to the locker room after being treated
on the field, will probably be replaced by Aaron Ross, who will
join Corey Webster as the starting cornerback, the  Associated
Press  reported. Ross, 28, has two starts over the past two
seasons, for 26 in total.  A near four-month shutdown of the league during a labor
dispute may have contributed to Thomas’s injury, Coughlin said,
because some players spent more time on the field last night
than they otherwise would have.  “To take full advantage of the fact that we literally had
no offseason and a very short preseason, we extended a little
bit of play time tonight and we did have some guys who got
nicked up,” Coughlin said.  New York quarterback David Carr, who is competing with Sage Rosenfels to be Eli Manning’s backup, threw for two touchdowns
and the Giants ran for three more.  The Giants host the New York Jets Aug. 27 before completing
the preseason at the  New England Patriots .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  