-- 
Quake Disruptions Delay Almost 400 Flights in Northeast U.S.

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-08-23T21:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/new-york-kennedy-airport-arrivals-halted-after-quake-in-region.html
Airline flight delays rippled across
the northeastern U.S. after today’s earthquake, with almost 400
planes running at least a half-hour late at  New York  and
 Washington  airports.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  said inspections for
damage were under way. Some flights were canceled, with  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  expecting to scrub 15 at New York’s John F.
Kennedy airport and about a dozen from Washington’s Ronald
Reagan National, a spokesman, Eric Torbenson, said in an e-mail.  Planes are taking off and landing at Kennedy, New York’s
LaGuardia and Washington’s Dulles, FAA spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen said in an e-mail. Flights to Kennedy, Dulles, Reagan
National and New Jersey’s Newark Liberty were held at times at
their origin airports, according to the FAA.  “You approach restarting with some caution and, as
operations proceed and things prove to be normal, schedules can
get back to normal relatively quickly,” George Hamlin,
president of Hamlin Transportation Consulting in Fairfax,
Virginia, said in an interview. “It’s better than a snowstorm
in terms of recovery.”  About 390 flights to or from Kennedy, Reagan National,
Dulles and Newark were delayed at least 30 minutes, five times
more than usual, said Daniel Baker, chief executive officer of
Houston-based data tracker FlightAware.com. More than 180 were
delayed more than an hour.  Diverted Flights  Thirty-two flights headed for Kennedy were diverted to
other airports, according to FlightStats.com, which tracks
aircraft movements.  Two were  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  flights arriving
 Los Angeles  and San Francisco, which were sent to Pittsburgh and
Hartford, Connecticut, said  Megan McCarthy , a spokeswoman for
the Chicago-based carrier.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines had
four flights rerouted, said Ed Martelle, a spokesman.  The quake occurred at 1:51 p.m. local time in Virginia and
was measured at  magnitude 5.8  by the U.S. Geological Survey,
making the temblor the biggest to hit the state in more than a
century.  Passenger terminals at Reagan National and Dulles remain
open, with “no major damage that I’m aware of,” Tara Hamilton,
a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Washington Airports
Authority, said in a telephone interview.  Equipment Checks  “Right now we don’t have any major equipment outages” in
the air traffic control system, said Lynn Lunsford, an FAA
spokesman. Airport runways and equipment inspections were under
way to check for damage, he said.  FAA employees were sent home for the day, according to an
e-mailed advisory from the agency.  Philadelphia’s airport experienced departure delays of at
least 45 minutes, according to an  FAA website .  “We felt it really good here,” Todd Lehmacher, a
spokesman for  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  in Philadelphia, said in an
interview. The Transportation Security Administration was
inspecting security checkpoints in Philadelphia, he said.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  flights experienced “minimal
delays” at Baltimore Washington International Airport, and
expects normal operations “in the next few hours,” said
Whitney Eichinger, a spokeswoman for the Dallas-based airline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  