-- 
New York Giants’ Witherspoon Tears ACL, Further Depleting Team’s Secondary

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-23T20:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/new-york-giants-witherspoon-tears-acl-further-depleting-team-s-secondary.html
New York Giants cornerback Brian Witherspoon was waived after being lost for the National
Football League season with a torn knee ligament, the second
member of the team’s secondary lost to the injury in last
night’s preseason game.  Witherspoon, 26, tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his
left knee in the team’s 41-13 preseason victory against the
 Chicago Bears , Giants spokesman Peter John-Baptiste said today
in an e-mailed release. Cornerback Terrell Thomas sustained the
same injury in the first half.  The injuries hit an already depleted Giants secondary, and
the team is expecting to begin looking into the availability of
defensive backs, John-Baptiste said. Rookie cornerback Prince
Amukamara, the team’s top pick in this year’s draft, needs
surgery to repair a fractured bone in his left foot and may be
sidelined for as long as 10 weeks, and cornerback Bruce Johnson
ruptured his Achilles tendon on Aug. 4.  A four-month shutdown of the league during a labor dispute
may be contributing to the team’s rising number of injuries,
Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said yesterday after Thomas’s injury.
He said some players are spending more time on the field during
preseason games than they otherwise would have.  “To take full advantage of the fact that we literally had
no offseason and a very short preseason, we extended a little
bit of play time tonight and we did have some guys who got
nicked up,” Coughlin said.  Thomas led the team with 101 tackles and five interceptions
last season. Witherspoon appeared in one game for the Giants
last season, according to the release.  The Giants gave up 209.5 yards passing per game last
season, the fourth lowest in the  National Football Conference 
and best in the East division. New York allowed 24 passing
touchdowns and recorded 16 interceptions.  The team now has five healthy cornerbacks -- Corey Webster,
Aaron Ross, Michael Coe, Joe Burnett and rookie Darnell Burks,
according to the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  