-- 
Nigeria Backs Libya Council as It Breaks Ranks With Other African Nations

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-23T13:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/nigeria-recognizes-libyan-rebel-transitional-council-as-legitimate.html
Nigeria ’s government broke ranks
with other African nations in recognizing the National
Transitional Council as the legitimate authority in Libya,
sparking criticism from South Africa’s ruling party.  The rebel-led council is “the legitimate representative of
the Libyan people,” Viola Onwuliri, Nigeria’s minister of state
for foreign affairs, told reporters in the capital, Abuja,
today. The new leaders should “establish an all-inclusive and
broad-based administration” to work towards elections and
 Muammar Qaddafi  must relinquish power immediately, she said.  The 53-member African Union is yet to decide whether it
recognizes the authority of the Libyan rebels following their
entrance into Tripoli on Aug. 21 to battle government forces.
South Africa, the continent’s biggest economy, didn’t declare
its backing for the insurgents yesterday, calling instead for an
inclusive “political dialogue” between them and the government
of Muammar Qaddafi.  “Nigeria is jumping the gun in recognizing the rebels as
representatives of Libya,”  Gwede Mantashe , secretary-general of
 South Africa ’s ruling African National Congress, told reporters
in Johannesburg today. “The AU position stays.”  High-Level Committee  The AU’s Peace and  Security Council  met yesterday in the
Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, without issuing a statement. The
AU’s High-Level Panel on Libya, which includes leaders from
South Africa, Mali, Uganda, Mauritania and Republic of Congo,
will meet on Aug. 25, followed by a Peace and Security Council
follow-up meeting on Aug. 26.  South African President Jacob Zuma today said airstrikes by
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization went further than a
United Nations resolution to protect civilians in Libya and
undermined Africa’s role in seeking a cease-fire.  “The situation in Libya has been of concern as it has been
accompanied by the undermining of the African continent’s role
in finding a solution,” Zuma told reporters in Cape Town after
meeting Ghanaian President John Atta Mills. The UN resolution
“has been abused.”  Mills said  Ghana  hasn’t decided whether to recognize
National Transitional Council as  Libya ’s authority.  “Ghana is studying the situation and will take an
appropriate decision,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  