-- 
Nissan in Talks With Batista on Brazil Venture

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-08-23T19:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/nissan-in-talks-with-batista-on-brazil-venture.html
Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-
largest automaker, is in talks with billionaire  Eike Batista  for
a possible partnership in  Brazil  as it seeks to quadruple its
car output capacity in the Latin American country.  The company, based in Yokohama, Japan, is considering
options for a new plant in Brazil including a deal with Batista,
Brazil’s richest man, Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga
told reporters today in Sao Paulo. Nissan is evaluating
alternatives for its new Brazilian plant, he said, declining to
provide details of possible partnerships.  “We’ve had some discussions with Batista, but we still
have several options for this project,” Shiga said at a press
conference.  Nissan plans to build a plant in Brazil with capacity to
produce 200,000 cars a year, and it has a target to boost market
share in the country to 5 percent from 1.2 percent, Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said June 27. The automaker’s
current annual capacity is 60,000 cars through a plant shared
with  Renault SA (RNO)  in Sao Jose dos Pinhais, in the Southern
Brazilian state of Parana, according to the company’s  website .  “We have a very strong commitment to the Brazilian market,
that’s why we’ve decided to invest in the new plant in Brazil,”
Shiga said, adding that the company is still deciding on a
location for the plant.  Financing Options  Nissan is in a good position to attract investors who may
provide cash to invest in the project, Christian Mounier, head
of the company’s Brazilian unit, said during the press
conference. Getting financing from Brazil’s National Development
Bank is also an option for Nissan, he said.  Batista, 54, was the world’s eighth-richest man on Forbes
Magazine’s list of billionaires this year after betting on a
surge in commodity demand and Brazil’s growing infrastructure
needs as the country increases its raw-material output. His
logistics unit  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  is building the Acu complex in
the Rio de Janeiro state that the billionaire says will be the
world’s third-biggest port after attracting $40 billion in
investments from oil-storage facilities to car plants.  Nissan is one of the automakers interested in Acu that had
approached EBX Group Co., the holding company for most of
Batista’s assets, EBX said today in an e-mailed statement.  LLX rose 16 centavos, or 4.7 percent, to 3.57 reais in Sao
Paulo trading as of 3:25 p.m. New York time. The stock dropped
about 24 percent so far this year compared with a 24 percent
decline by the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index.  Sales Champion  Sales in  Mexico  are expected to surpass 1 million units a
year, said Bill Krueger, vice chairman of Nissan Americas, in an
interview. The carmaker ships to more than 60 countries from
Mexico, including to the U.S.,  Latin America ,  Europe  and the
 Middle East , he said.  “Right now, within the Americas region, Mexico is really
our sales champion,” said Krueger. Nissan has been leading the
Mexican car market for the past 29 months, he said.  Nissan’s Brazilian unit could learn from the Mexican one in
order to improve sales and reach the market-share goal, he said.  The company doesn’t see a severe drop in business like the
one during 2008’s financial crisis even as  Wall Street  again
becomes volatile, said Krueger.  “I don’t predict or see any major economic crisis
coming,” said Krueger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  