-- 
Thaksin Asserts Global Role as Sister Unveils Thai Spending Plan

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-08-23T07:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/no-immediate-plan-to-return-to-thailand-thaksin.html
Thai fugitive ex-premier Thaksin Shinawatra said he plans to boost ties with countries around the
globe after his sister’s election win, signaling he will play a
central role in articulating her policies.  “Anything that I can do to continue our good relationships
with any other countries, I will do,” Thaksin, 62, told
reporters in  Tokyo  today. “I will avail myself for the good of
my country and my people.”  Thaksin, who was ousted as prime minister in a 2006 coup
and later fled the country, was granted an entry visa by Japan
in the wake of his sister Yingluck Shinawatra’s majority win in
a July 3 election. He spoke for about an hour at two separate
media briefings in Tokyo at the same time as Yingluck read a 44-
page policy brief in her first address to Parliament in Bangkok.  Moves to clear Thaksin’s name at home and abroad threaten
to galvanize Yingluck’s opponents as she seeks to meet campaign
pledges to boost  living standards  for poor Thais that underpin
her support. In her speech to Parliament, Yingluck reiterated
plans to raise the  minimum wage , boost civil servant salaries
and lift rice prices.  Thaksin’s appearance “opens up Yingluck’s administration
for critique by the opposition that it is indeed controlled from
abroad by Thaksin himself and that he’s the de facto leader,”
Johannes Lund, Southeast  Asia  analyst at  Control Risks Group ,
said by phone from  Singapore . “We are probably going to see a
lot more of these high-profile appearances in the future.”  ‘Politically Motivated’  Since the coup, courts have disbanded two parties and
disqualified two prime ministers allied to Thaksin, who has
lived in Dubai since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power
in 2008. Thaksin and about six Pheu Thai lawmakers face
terrorism charges in Thailand for their role in violent street
protests in Bangkok that led to 92 deaths last year.  Thaksin called for an investigation into the loss of life,
saying those found guilty of committing crimes would be held
accountable. He also said a new constitution was needed “to
allow freedom and justice” and ruled out going to jail, calling
the charges against him “politically motivated.”  Yingluck, 44, said in her parliamentary address she would
implement “a more balanced economic structure” in an effort to
safeguard  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy from external
shocks. Thaksin said the government’s policies will “strongly
stimulate” growth once they take effect about two quarters from
now.  “We recognize that increasing the minimum wage and the
price of rice will fuel a little more inflation, but it can be
managed,” Thaksin said. “If it were increasing, it would be
for only one year and next year it would be flat.”  Fueling Inflation  Economists expect Bank of Thailand policy makers to raise
borrowing costs at a meeting tomorrow even after Thailand’s
economic growth unexpectedly slowed last quarter. Commerce
Minister Kittiratt Na Ranong said yesterday he wants the central
bank to review its interest-rate policy to ensure that higher
borrowing costs don’t raise production costs.  “Everybody pays for higher prices and the ones who suffer
most are the poor,” opposition leader  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who
was replaced as prime minister this month, said in Parliament
after Yingluck’s address. “If we destroy the discipline and
independence in fiscal and monetary policies, inflation will
accelerate.”  Higher Borrowing Costs  The Bank of Thailand will raise borrowing costs by 0.25
percentage point tomorrow for the seventh straight meeting,
taking the key rate to 3.5 percent, 16 of 20 economists said in
a Bloomberg News survey. Four expect no change.  Pheu Thai promised tablet computers, high-speed trains,
dams and the construction of a new city before the election.
Yingluck offered no further details today on plans to reduce the
corporate tax to 23 percent from 30 percent and almost double
the minimum daily wage in some parts of the country.  Higher wage bills, borrowing costs and a stronger currency
may affect exports of manufacturers like  Hana Microelectronics
Pcl (HANA) , Thailand’s largest packager of semiconductors.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , General Motors Co. and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are among
automakers that have used Thailand as a global production hub
due to tax incentives and trade arrangements that grant access
to Southeast Asia’s 592 million consumers.  The baht, little changed today, has strengthened 3 percent
since Yingluck’s election win, the most among Asia’s 10-most
traded currencies outside of Japan. The SET Index, Asia’s
second-best performer after Mongolia since the election, fell
0.3 percent as of the midday break.  Loyalty to the Throne  Pheu Thai won 265 seats in the 500-seat parliament, the
fifth straight time a party linked to Thaksin has won the most
seats in an election since 2001. The military ousted him in 2006
on grounds he failed to respect  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 83.  Thaksin, who founded what became  Thailand ’s biggest mobile-
phone company, draws his support from poorer Thais in the north
and northeast who make up a majority of the population. His
opponents accused him of seeking to monopolize power during his
five years as prime minister, threatening the monarchy’s role.  Thaksin today pledged loyalty to the throne and said
Thailand’s constitutional monarchy “will continue forever.”
Laws protecting the royal family from criticism were invoked too
often to persecute political opponents, he said.  The former premier said he doesn’t plan to return home
immediately and would only do so once rifts within the country
had been healed.  “I would like to urge every Thai, reconciliation is the
key for the stability and prosperity of Thailand,” Thaksin
said. “We should come together and clear the differences.”  Thaksin was granted a visa by  Japan  at the request of the
Thai government, Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
told reporters on Aug. 15. He plans to meet with victims of the
March 11 tsunami in northern Japan during his stay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  