-- 
Obama Outlines Regulations Overhaul to Save Businesses About $10 Billion

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-08-23T16:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/obama-to-outline-regulatory-overhaul-details-to-save-10-billion.html
The Obama administration outlined
plans today to revamp government regulations that it said would
save businesses about $10 billion over five years.  The changes affect rules enforced by more than two dozen
federal departments or agencies from Agriculture to  Veterans
Affairs , according to the administration.  Drafts of the rule changes were released in May, and
today’s announcement is an update following comments from
industry groups and the public.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s biggest business
lobby, was among the business groups that welcomed the
administration effort while saying it didn’t go far enough.  “This lookback will not have a material impact on the real
regulatory burdens facing business,” Bill Kovacs, vice
president of environment, technology and regulatory affairs,
wrote on the Chamber’s website. Still, the plan is a “worthy
effort at making technical changes to the regulatory process.”  President  Barack Obama , facing criticism from Republicans
in Congress about his policies, is rolling out initiatives aimed
at boosting  job creation  amid public concern that the economy is
stalling. He ordered the regulatory review in January, and the
final plans are being released before the president delivers an
address on additional measures to spur growth, including tax
cuts and spending for infrastructure projects.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product will grow 1 percent in the fourth
quarter rather than the 2.5 percent previously forecast, and 0.5
percent in the first quarter of 2012 instead of 1.5 percent,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a note e-mailed to clients last
week. Citigroup Inc. cut its 2011 growth forecast to 1.6 percent
from 1.7 percent and lowered its projection for next year to 2.1
percent from 2.7 percent.  “The president’s executive order has built into it the
words job creation,” ” Cass Sunstein, administrator of the
White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said
on a conference call. “We do see this as helpful to job
creation.”  He said it’s not possible to estimate how many jobs it may
lead to. “To translate the elimination of regulatory costs into
number of jobs isn’t a simple exercise.”  Government regulation has been a focal point of Republican
critics, such as House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia ,
who called the results of the regulatory review
“underwhelming.”  ‘Burdensome Regulations’  “Every day, business people and job creators cope with
burdensome regulations that have a negative impact on both jobs
and our economy, and again the president seems reluctant to do
everything in his power to help them,” Cantor said in a
statement.  Rosario Palmieri, vice president of regulatory policy at
the  National Association of Manufacturers  in Washington, said
the administration continues to add costly rules for businesses
even as it modifies existing regulations.  “While removing some modest burdens with this hand, with
the other hand the administration is proposing new costly and
unnecessarily burdensome rules that will wipe away all the
savings that have been proposed today,” Palmieri said.  He cited the Environmental Protection Agency’s proposal to
tighten ozone standards, saying it may cost the economy an
additional $1 trillion annually between 2020 and 2030 and
jeopardize 7.3 million jobs. He called it “the most costly rule
that this administration has proposed.”  Voter Complaints  During Obama’s bus tour to rural parts of the Midwest last
week, he repeatedly heard from voters, small business owners and
farmers who said they were concerned that regulations were too
onerous and adding to the uncertainty preventing them investing
additional capital.  “One of the things we’re doing is we’re saying, show us
particular regulations that may be getting in the way of you
hiring,” Obama said in Atkinson,  Illinois . “If there’s a bunch
of bureaucratic red tape and it’s not actually improving the
situation, let’s figure out how to get rid of some existing
rules and let’s review every rule that comes in for its cost and
its benefits.”  He also said some complaints about regulations are
unfounded and driven by lobbyist and industry groups.  “Some of these regulatory concerns that people have,
frankly, are unfounded in the sense that if somebody even has an
idea or a thought about some regulation, then right away the
message is sent out, they’re coming and they’re going to make it
impossible for you to farm and this and that and the other,”
Obama said in Alpha, Illinois.  Department Changes  The changes include accelerating payments on  Department of
Defense  contracts to 60,000 small businesses and requiring the
 Small Business Administration  to adopt a single electronic
application for potential borrowers.  The  Department of Health  and Human Services will work to
remove some reporting requirements on hospitals and health-care
providers to save potentially $4 billion over five years,
according to Sunstein.  Revisions by the Energy Department may save makers of
commercial appliances and bathroom showerheads as much as $900
million, according to the plan posted on the White House
website.  The Interior Department aims to cut the time needed to
approve offshore wind projects on public lands to promote more
rapid development, the department’s plan says.  The Department of Transportation will work to eliminate
regulations on the railroad industry that could save about $340
million, and the EPA will propose a rule to make it easier for
hazardous-waste generators to report electronically, saving up
to $126 million per year.  -- With assistance from  Eric Martin , Katarzyna Klimasinska and
Bill McQuillen in  Washington  Editors: Joe Sobczyk, Mark McQuillan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Vineyard Have, Massachusetts at 
4304 or  Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  