-- 
Crude Declines From Four-Day High in New York on Outlooks for Japan, U.S.

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-08-24T07:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/oil-rises-a-third-day-as-industry-report-shows-decline-in-crude-stockpiles.html
Oil slipped from the highest close
in four days in  New York  as a downgrade of Japan’s credit rating
and forecasts of growing crude stockpiles in the U.S. fanned
concern slowing economic growth will reduce demand.  Futures declined after Moody’s Investors Service cut its
debt rating for Japan. Data today from the Energy Information
Administration may show U.S. inventories climbed, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  “If we see a draw in the EIA numbers, then that could
provide some support to the oil price,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
 Melbourne  who predicts U.S. futures will average $93 a barrel in
the third quarter. “Anytime there’s a tightening in the market,
people start to get excited.”  Crude for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell as much as 55 cents to $84.89 a barrel and was at
$84.96 a barrel at 8:43 a.m. London time. The contract yesterday
jumped $1.02, or 1.2 percent, to $85.44, the highest close since
Aug. 17.  Brent oil for October settlement lost 12 cents to $109.19 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $24.23 to U.S.
futures, compared with $23.87 at settlement yesterday and a
record close of $26.21 on Aug. 19.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude supplies fell 3.34 million barrels to 347
million last week, the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  said yesterday. The Energy Department report may show
stockpiles rose 1.75 million barrels from 354 million in the
seven days ended Aug. 19, according to the median of 14 analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg survey.  Gasoline inventories increased 6.37 million barrels to
213.9 million last week, according to API data yesterday. The
government report may show they decreased 1 million barrels from
210 million, the Bloomberg News survey shows.  The API collects stockpile data on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed for its weekly survey.
Oil-supply totals from the API and the department have moved in
the same direction 71 percent of the time in the past year and
75 percent in the past four years.  Libyan Output  London-traded Brent dropped as much as 3.2 percent on Aug.
22, narrowing its premium to U.S. futures by the most in five
weeks, amid speculation Libyan output may recover sooner than
expected after rebels entered Tripoli. They took control of
Muammar Qaddafi’s compound in the city yesterday after battling
loyalist forces for control of the capital for a third day.  Libyan production will resume “soon,” though it may take
a year to return to pre-conflict levels of 1.5 million barrels a
day, Ahmed Jehani, chairman of the rebels’ stabilization team,
said yesterday. The country’s production fell to 100,000 barrels
a day last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “It will take a while for Libyan crude to come out,” said
 Anthony Nunan , an assistant general manager for risk management
at Mitsubishi Corp. in  Tokyo . “People should be looking for a
$20 a barrel spread, at least, going into the next year.”  U.S. Economy  Oil also fluctuated amid speculation that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will announce further steps to bolster the U.S.
economy. Data today may show business-equipment demand fell, two
days before a report that may show the economy grew less in the
second quarter than previously estimated. Bernanke and other
central bankers will meet this week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “The macro-economic outlook is not good,” Nunan said.
“At the meeting this week, if the Fed announces a new program
of quantitative easing or similar, it would mean fund money
would probably come back into the market. So people are
expecting that.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Japan ’s credit rating by one
step, saying “weak” prospects for growth will make it
difficult for the government to rein in the world’s largest
public debt burden.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  