-- 
Oil Rig Industry Revisits Lehman Crisis as Credit Squeezed

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-08-24T08:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/oil-rigs-revisit-lehman-crisis-as-credit-squeezed-seadrill-says.html
The biggest market rout in two years
is squeezing credit for oil rig owners in a replay of the crunch
that followed  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.’s collapse, said the
operator of the second-largest fleet of deepwater platforms.  “It’s exactly the same as what happened during the
financial crisis after Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy,”  Seadrill
Ltd. (SDRL)  Chief Executive Officer Alf Thorkildsen said. “The
financial uncertainty has resulted in fewer new build orders.
The eye of the needle has narrowed” for acquisitions, he said.  A four-week slump in global equities wiped out more than $8
trillion in stock values amid renewed signs of weakness in the
world economy,  Europe ’s inability to stem its sovereign debt
crisis and a downgrade of  U.S. debt . Crude  oil prices  dropped
about 14 percent in the period, while banks have curbed lending,
adding to concern that producers may cut exploration budgets.  “Seadrill can look at the best opportunities in the
market,” Thorkildsen said in a phone interview from Stavanger
yesterday. “If there is a good deal to be made, it’s always
possible to get financing, but there is a tighter market for
financing overall and that affects us all.”  Seadrill purchased 33.75 percent of Asia Offshore Drilling
Ltd. last month after billionaire Chairman  John Fredriksen  said
in May he would buy rig companies. The acquisition followed the
takeover of Scorpion Offshore Ltd. in 2010, while Seadrill lost
a bid against  Ensco Plc (ESV)  for Pride International Inc. this year.  Deep and Harsh  “Consolidation will come especially with regards to
smaller companies that start experiencing financing pressures,”
Thorkildsen said. “The underlying market fundamentals for
drilling with regards to supply and demand look good.”  Exploration in deep water and harsh environments off
Brazil, West Africa and the Arctic has buoyed demand for rigs
able to handle such conditions. Stricter rules after the
Deepwater Horizon explosion in the  Gulf of Mexico  have also
spurred interest in newer platforms, boosting prices.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  last week agreed to buy Aker Drilling ASA
for $1.46 billion, almost twice its market value, to expand its
so-called ultra-deepwater rig fleet. Ensco’s bid in February for
Pride was valued at $8.47 billion including debt, a 24 percent
premium. Hamilton, Bermuda-based Seadrill sought to buy both.  “Share prices today are depressed globally, so that is a
factor in why we’re seeing higher prices than what’s reflected
in the market,” Thorkildsen said. “These were shares that
perhaps were somewhat undervalued by the market.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks fell 19 percent from May 2
to Aug. 10, the biggest such decline in more than two years.  Share Price  Seadrill climbed 1.1 percent to 161.4 kroner by 10:21 a.m.
in Oslo trading, paring this year’s drop to 18 percent and
valuing the company at 76 billion kroner ($14 billion). The
benchmark OBX index in Oslo advanced 1.5 percent.  Oil and gas discoveries off  Brazil , West Africa and Norway
are raising rig demand, supporting the day rates Seadrill gets
for leasing drilling platforms, Thorkildsen said. Ultra-
deepwater rates were “not too far” from $500,000 a day.  Fees for such operations are currently averaging $450,000 a
day and likely to stabilize around $450,000 to $550,000, Maersk
Drilling CEO Claus Hemmingsen said last week.  “We expect the ultra-deepwater market to remain tight,”
analysts including Knut Erik Lovstad at Handelsbanken Capital
Markets said in a report on Aug. 23.  The cost of building rigs has grown 10 to 12 percent in the
past six months, according to Maersk, which has halted orders
while it awaits delivery of six of the facilities. Rates are
firm for jack-up rigs, with extending legs, Hemmingsen said.  Jack-Up Market  “The  Norway  jack-up market has remained fairly high,
solidly above $300,000 a day for the big jack-ups,” he said.
“Expectations for the new rigs coming in are a lot higher.”  Seadrill will take delivery of 17 rigs, Thorkildsen said.  Second-quarter net income will rise to $329 million, from
$316 million a year earlier, when the company reports tomorrow,
according to the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales will climb to $1 billion, from $933 million.  The company announced in May it would seek to raise long-
term dividends to 70 cents a share and pay out an additional 5
cents for the following four quarters.  “Seadrill will look to avoid cutting dividends as the
drilling market outlook is solid and Seadrill likely is eager to
continue to grow their fleet through acquisitions,” Kjetil Garstad, an Arctic Securities ASA analyst, wrote in a note
yesterday in which he upgraded the shares to a “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  