-- 
Oil-Rich Libyans Won’t Need Foreign Financial Backing in Post-Qaddafi Era

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-24T15:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/oil-rich-libyans-won-t-need-financial-aid-in-post-qaddafi-era.html
Libyan rebels needed NATO’S military
might to bring Muammar Qaddafi’s rule to the brink of collapse.
About $50 billion in cash abroad means they can do without
foreign aid to rebuild the country after a six-month conflict.  Airstrikes and logistical support from  North Atlantic
Treaty Organization  forces helped reverse the tide in  Libya ,
stopping the advance of Qaddafi’s troops on rebel strongholds
and allowing the opposition to score military victories that
culminated in a sweep into Tripoli this week.  As the rebels hunt Qaddafi and his remaining followers in
the capital, world leaders such as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  are urging the release of frozen Libyan assets abroad to
help in the transition to democracy. Those assets and Africa’s
largest oil reserves set Libya apart from neighboring Tunisia
and Egypt, which sought outside financial aid after popular
revolts ousted their leaders this year.  “We don’t need loans,” former Libyan Central Bank
Governor Farhat Bengdara, who broke with Qaddafi’s regime in
February, said in an interview in Dubai. “Libya has huge
financial resources and oil reserves. What it needs is the
cooperation of the international community to lift the freeze on
Libya’s assets aboard.”  The Libyan economy suffered as much as $15 billion in
damage during the conflict, according to Bengdara’s estimates.
An economic recovery and the release of frozen assets will
depend on how fast the rebels can stabilize the country and
establish a government, say analysts including  Paul Sullivan , a
professor at the National Defense University in  Washington .  Bank Deposits  The central bank and the  Libyan Investment Authority , the
country’s sovereign-wealth fund, have about $168 billion in
assets abroad. About $50 billion of that is in bank deposits in
European countries including  Germany , the U.K.,  France ,  Italy ,
Portugal,  Spain , Sweden, Belgium and the Netherlands, Bengdara
said. The two institutions also hold about $40 billion in U.S.
and European government bonds, he added.  France is working on a United Nations Security Council
resolution to release funds to the rebels’ National Transitional
Council, a Foreign Ministry spokesman,  Bernard Valero , told
reporters in Paris today.  “For France, as for all our partners, the priority is to
help Libyans to take back their destiny in their hands,” he
said. “The Transitional Council must have access to the
necessary financial resources.”  Frozen Assets  The U.S. government is working to release between $1
billion and $1.5 billion in frozen assets to the rebels for
humanitarian purposes, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said yesterday. The rebels are in talks with the U.K. to
release Libyan banknotes frozen since the crisis began, Aref
Nayed, a spokesman for the NTC and envoy to the  United Arab
Emirates , told reporters in Dubai late yesterday.  The resources will offset the losses that the economy has
incurred, according to Suliman Al Shahomy, chairman of the
Libyan Stock Market, who broke with Qaddafi’s regime in
February.  “The infrastructure hasn’t been destroyed,” he said in a
telephone interview from Cairo.  Oil and equity investors rejoiced after the rebels entered
Tripoli. The prospects of Qaddafi’s four-decade rule ending
helped shares of Eni SpA, the biggest foreign investor in Libya,
Ansaldo STS SpA and Total SA gain. Brent oil fell, narrowing its
record premium to the main U.S. grade, on bets Libya’s output
will recover.  No Debt  Libya doesn’t have outstanding debt. The conflict prompted
 Fitch Ratings  to withdraw all of its credit ratings on Libya on
April 13, citing “extreme political instability” and the loss
of oil production.  Libya’s oil output, at about 1.58 million barrels a day
before the revolt according to Bloomberg data, slumped to a
trickle after fighting broke out, according to the  International
Energy Agency . Output may reach as much as 350,000 barrels a day
within three months “if we’re lucky,” said  Samuel Ciszuk , the
London-based senior Middle East and North  Africa  energy analyst
at IHS Global Insight.  “Until we see stability, it will be hard for the oil
industry to recover,” Ciszuk said by telephone. “It’s all
about bringing what is there back on stream as soon as possible.
Some will be a bit hard to bring back on stream. There’s been
some long-term damage to some of the older oil fields because
they were shut down in a rushed and disorganized manner.”  ‘Sudden Takeover’  Even so, oil production will recover more quickly than
forecast after the “sudden takeover” of fields and export
facilities by rebels, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report
this week. Libya will probably boost supply to 585,000 barrels a
day in the next 12 to 18 months, Goldman said.  Libyan rebels will restart the Zawiya refinery “in the
coming weeks” because its infrastructure was preserved during
fighting, Ahmed Jehani, chairman of the rebels’ stabilization
team, said in an interview. Next, work will resume at the Tubruk
refinery, followed by the facility at Ras Lanuf, Nayed said.  Qaddafi came to power in 1969 after he toppled Libya’s
monarchy in a military coup. His attempts to export his self-
styled revolution to other countries put Libya under U.S. and UN
sanctions in the 1980s and 1990s. Qaddafi’s government was also
accused of sponsoring terrorism, and a Libyan man, Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi, was convicted of the bombing of a Pan Am airliner
over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988.  After 2000, Qaddafi renounced terrorism and gave up a
nuclear-weapons program. That led to international sanctions
being lifted and boosted the economy, which expanded 4.2 percent
in 2010, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Tourism Opportunities  Oil aside, the economy offers investment opportunities in
industries including tourism, mining, agriculture financial
services, according to Bengdara, 45.  International and Arab banks including HSBC Holdings Plc,
Standard Chartered Plc, Unicredit SpA and Mashreqbank PSC had
applied to set up units in the North African country. Unicredit,
Italy’s biggest lender, said in August last year it had won a
license.  “Libya can become the star of the region,” Bengdara said.
“Libya’s economic output, which was about $80 billion before
the revolution, can easily double in no longer than 10 years.”  Even so, lingering protests, labor strikes and political
bickering in Tunisia and  Egypt  show that the transition toward
democracy in Libya may not be easy, Raza Agha, a London-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a report
on Aug. 22. In fact, Libya may have a harder time, according to
Sullivan of the National Defense University.  ‘Gutted the Government’  “Libya may have the toughest transition of all of them in
North Africa,” Sullivan said by e-mail. “Qaddafi gutted the
government and there really seems to be almost no understanding
amongst many there about how to transition to a vibrant economy
and democracy. Platitudes and hopes are not policies that can be
implemented.”  Uncertainty about the nature of the post-Qaddafi government
may also delay the release of frozen funds,  Stuart Levey , a
former U.S. Treasury undersecretary, told Bloomberg Television’s
“In Business with Margaret Brennan.”  Having the assets still frozen can be used “as a point of
leverage for the  United States  and its allies to ensure that
they have a legitimate government they can trust in Libya they
can give this money to,” Levey said.  Beltone Financial Holding (BTFH) , an Egyptian investment bank that
suspended its brokerage services in Libya after the fighting
broke out, still regards the North African country as a
lucrative business opportunity, Chief Executive Officer Aladdin Saba said today.  “The picture is not yet clear,” he said in a telephone
interview from Cairo. “But of course Libya is on our map and we
hope stability is achieved quickly so that we can contribute to
the rebuilding of the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 