-- 
Homeowners on East Coast May Have to Pay for Earthquake Damage

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-08-23T20:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/homeowners-on-east-coast-may-have-to-pay-for-earthquake-damage.html
Homeowners won’t be covered by
standard property insurance policies if there’s any damage
following today’s 5.8 magnitude earthquake centered near
Richmond,  Virginia .  Earthquake protection is generally excluded from standard
homeowners’ insurance policies, and consumers have to purchase
coverage either as a separate policy or an endorsement to an
existing policy, said Michael Barry, a spokesman at the
Insurance Information Institute in New York.  Most people who buy coverage live in quake-prone states,
such as California,  Washington  and Missouri, according to Janece
White, a vice president at Warren, New Jersey-based  Chubb Corp. (CB) ,
the insurer of commercial property and high-end homes.  “It’s very infrequent,” that residents who live on the
East Coast purchase earthquake coverage since during their
lifetimes there’s never been a temblor that warranted it, White
said.  A magnitude 5.8 earthquake struck at 1:51 p.m. local time
about 40 miles northwest of Richmond, Virginia, according to the
U.S. Geological Survey. Buildings in  New York City  and
Washington shook after the quake and it was also felt in areas
including  Boston ,  Connecticut ,  New Jersey  and Toronto.  Consumers who have so-called floaters to insure valuables
such as fine art or all risk contents policies generally will be
reimbursed for quake damage to such possessions, White said. If
homeowners want their houses protected, they must buy separate
policies, she said.  Policy Cost Varies  The cost of earthquake policies varies based on the
location and the value of the home. Deductibles for earthquake
policies vary by state and range from 5 percent to 25 percent of
the overall value of the property, White said.  A policy from Chubb for earthquake insurance in  New York  is
50 cents per $1,000 of homeowners coverage, or about $250 a year
on a home valued at $500,000.  “A lot of people do purchase event protection after an
event occurs because they realize, ‘Hey, that could happen to
me,’” said Dick Luedke, a spokesman for Bloomington, Illinois-
based State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.  Homeowners generally can’t purchase earthquake coverage for
as many as 60 days after an earthquake because of the potential
for aftershocks, Luedke said.  ‘Doesn’t Make Sense’  “For most of us, having earthquake insurance doesn’t make
sense,” said Sheryl Garrett, founder of Shawnee Mission,
Kansas-based Garrett Planning Network Inc., a network of fee-
only financial planners. That’s because residents of areas where
earthquakes rarely occur generally don’t need the coverage, and
policies in parts of the country with frequent earthquakes are
more expensive to compensate for the increased risk, she said.  Homeowners considering purchasing earthquake coverage
should check with the insurer about how it defines an earthquake
and whether their policy covers related losses, such as water or
fire damage triggered by an event, Garrett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 