-- 
Japan Unveils $100 Billion to Fight Surging Yen as Moody’s Lowers Rating

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-24T07:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/moody-s-lowers-japan-s-government-credit-rating-to-aa3-outlook-stable.html
Japan unveiled a $100 billion effort
to help companies cope with a surging yen, signaling that
officials may be resigned to the currency remaining high.  The government will release foreign-exchange reserves to
the state-run Japan Bank for International Cooperation for
funding to aid exporters and spur purchases overseas, Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo today. The
announcement came hours after Moody’s Investors Service lowered
the nation’s debt rating one step to Aa3, with a stable outlook.  The yen was trading today at a level stronger than before
officials last intervened to weaken the currency on Aug. 4. Its
rise since the March 11 earthquake to post-World War II highs is
undermining the nation’s recovery after three straight quarters
of economic contraction, complicating the government’s efforts
to tackle its debt burden.  “The government’s message may be that businesses need to
come up with their own ways to deal with the strengthening
currency, that they shouldn’t hold their breath for
intervention,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior currency analyst
in  Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow Ltd. “But the reality is that the
demerits of a strong yen far outweigh the merits.”  The ministry will bolster monitoring of the currency market,
requiring major financial institutions to disclose trading
positions through Sept. 30, Noda said. About 30 organizations
will be subject to the procedures, a ministry official told
reporters in Tokyo on condition of anonymity.  The yen’s appreciation is bad for the economy and may
exacerbate the nation’s fiscal woes,  Thomas Byrne , a vice
president at Moody’s, said at a press conference in Tokyo today.
He said it was unlikely his company would take negative action
on the  credit rating  over the next 18 months.  Amassed Reserves  Japan  has amassed $1.07 trillion in foreign-exchange
reserves, the world’s largest after China. The yen traded at
76.55 per dollar at 4:12 p.m. in Tokyo today. It touched a
postwar high of 75.95 on Aug. 19 in  New York  and has been the
second-best performer of ten major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg over the past month.  “It does seem as though they’re trying everything but
intervention now,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney, told Bloomberg Television. The
case for “big scale intervention in the near term” isn’t as
compelling as it was for Switzerland when that nation moved to
weaken the franc, because Japan’s currency is proving less
volatile, he said.  BOJ Praise  The  Bank of Japan  applauded the  Finance Ministry ’s
announcement, saying in a statement that the measures would
“contribute to the stability” of  currency markets . The one-
year funding program through JBIC is intended to encourage “the
private sector to exchange yen-denominated funds to foreign
currencies by supporting exports by small and mid-sized
companies, securing energy resources and helping Japanese
companies to purchase foreign businesses,” Noda said.  The downgrade in Japan’s credit grade was the first by
Moody’s since 2002 and reflects deteriorating credit quality
across developed nations from Italy to the U.S., which lost its
AAA status at Standard & Poor’s this month. While the move adds
to the challenges of the next Japanese prime minister, scheduled
to be picked next week, the impact on bond yields may be limited
by what Moody’s described as domestic investors’ preference for
government debt.  Bank Downgrade  Bank units of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  were
among lenders that had their ratings lowered one step by Moody’s
after the cut to the government’s grade.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in Japan
against default increased, according to traders of credit-
default swaps. The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 7 basis points
to 153 basis points as of 12:09 p.m. in Tokyo, on course for its
highest level since June 10, 2010, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Today’s rating move brings Japan to the same level as  China ,
showing the diverging paths of Asia’s two biggest economies.
China replaced Japan as the world’s No. 2 last year and Moody’s
has a positive outlook on its ranking.  Moody’s put Japan on review in May, calling on the
government to step up efforts to narrow the budget gap. S&P
lowered the nation’s grade to AA-, equivalent to the current
Moody’s grade, in January, and has the nation under review for a
further cut.  Fitch Ratings  has Japan at AA- with a negative
outlook.  Lowest Costs  Even with the deterioration in its ratings, Japan has
enjoyed what Moody’s today called the world’s lowest nominal
borrowing costs. Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose
for a third day, to 1.01 percent as of 4:11 p.m. in Tokyo at
Japan Bond Trading Co., still down from 1.11 percent at the end
of last year. Noda said investors continue to have faith in the
nation’s government debt market. Moody’s said there were no
signs of  Europe ’s debt woes spilling into Japan’s bond market.  Japan’s “funding cost advantage will be sustained by
considerable institutional and structural strengths, which will
prevail even with large budget deficits in 2011 and 2012,”
Moody’s said. Japan relies on foreigners to buy less than 10
percent of its debt.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.1 percent at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo. The lack of market ructions contrasts with the
S&P downgrade of the U.S., which was blasted by the Obama
administration for being influenced by faulty accounting.  S&P Cut  S&P’s Aug. 5 decision roiled global markets and boosted
demand for Treasuries, sending the yield on the 10-year note,
the benchmark for home mortgages and car loans, to a record low
1.97 percent. The New York-based company, which was blamed in an
April Senate report for helping fuel the credit crisis, was
criticized by the world’s most successful investor,  Warren Buffett , who said the U.S. should be “quadruple-A.”  Moody’s said today’s decision was “prompted by large
budget deficits and the build-up in Japanese government debt
since the 2009 global recession.”  Japan’s public debt is projected to reach 219 percent of
gross domestic product next year even before accounting for
borrowing to fund reconstruction after the March 11 earthquake,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Debt Swells  The government has amassed a debt of 943.8 trillion yen,
according to the Finance Ministry, after two decades of fiscal
spending to energize an economy hobbled by the collapse of an
asset bubble in 1990 and lingering deflation that’s sapped
private demand. The yen’s advance threatens exports, a main
driver of the nation’s economic growth.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s efforts to reduce Japan’s debt
have been stymied by opposition within his party to tax
increases. Kan has said he will step down on Aug. 26 if bills
for renewable energy and deficit-bond funding are passed.  The  International Monetary Fund  said on July 19 that Japan
needed to push forward with new tax measures and limit bond
issuance to pare its debt. It recommended raising the  sales tax 
to 7 percent or 8 percent in 2012 from 5 percent, then gradually
increasing it to 15 percent over several years.  The IMF also said that outstanding  government bonds  could
exceed total financial assets owned by households in five to 10
years barring policy changes, suggesting the government may need
to rely more on foreign investors to fund its deficits.  The government has pledged to raise the sales tax to 10
percent by the middle of the decade. The additional revenue is
intended to pay for social welfare for the aging population.  Japan’s government plans total spending of 19 trillion yen
($248 billion) over five years to rebuild after the magnitude-9
temblor and tsunami that devastated the northeast coast of Japan
and triggered the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  