-- 
More Regulation Is the Last Thing Economy Needs: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-08-23T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/more-regulation-is-the-last-thing-economy-needs-ramesh-ponnuru.html
At least one sector of the economy
is booming, and President  Barack Obama  can legitimately take
credit for it. Since he took office, employment has surged 13
percent at federal regulatory agencies. The regulators’ budgets
are up 16 percent. (These numbers are derived from a May  report  
published by  Washington University  and George Washington
University.) And that’s before some of the major regulatory
initiatives of the administration -- the financial-reform bill
and the health-care overhaul -- are fully implemented.  Obama understands that a reputation for regulatory
hyperactivity in the midst of a weak economy wouldn’t help his
re-election prospects. In January, he  promised  “a government-
wide review of the rules already on the books to remove outdated
regulations that stifle  job creation  and make our economy less
competitive.” That review led to some modest improvements: The
Environmental Protection Agency pulled back a rule that would
have treated dairy spills on farms as though they were oil
spills.  Overall, though, the regulatory burden on the economy is
still growing.  Calories, Ozone, Boilers  The new health-care law will force major fast-food chains
to re-do their signs to include calorie information -- a change
that one chief executive officer  said  would cost his company as
much as building 1 1/2 new (job-providing) restaurants.  The EPA is moving ahead with plans to tighten restrictions
on ozone. Hundreds of counties  don’t meet the standards  at the
moment; companies investing in them will face new obstacles. The
EPA  estimates  the annual cost of the new rules will be at least
$19 billion. The agency is also planning to put in place new
directives on boilers, which  manufacturers say  would impose $14
billion in  capital costs . The CEO of Southern Co.  warns  that the
boiler regulations will make electricity service more prone to
interruptions as well as more expensive.  Reviewing data from the Government Accountability Office,
two analysts for the conservative  Heritage Foundation   concluded ,
“No other president has burdened businesses and individuals with
a higher number and larger cost of regulations in a comparable
time period.” President  George W. Bush , they note, was in his
third year before new compliance costs hit $4 billion.
“President Obama achieved the same in 12 months.”  Going Too Far  Regulations already on the books provide some benefits,
such as improved health and a cleaner environment, and many
proposed rules would presumably also yield positives. But there
is good reason to think that federal government has a tendency
to go too far.  For one thing, most of the costs of regulation -- the Small
Business Administration  estimates  that compliance costs in 2008
were $1.75 trillion -- don’t appear in the budget. If
legislators are lax when it comes to on-budget spending, how
much freer are they likely to be with outlays that don’t show up
in the deficit figures? Nor can we assume that industry will
reliably check the growth of regulation, since large companies
sometimes welcome regulations that hobble their smaller
competitors.  Republicans on  Capitol Hill  are promoting two pieces of
legislation to turn back the regulatory tide. One is the “ REINS
Act ,” which would require Congress to approve any new rule with
major economic effects. The bill is motivated by the view that
regulation harms the economy, and that Congress has handed over
too much of its legislative power to regulatory agencies.  Senator  Ron Johnson , a Republican from  Wisconsin , has
introduced legislation to declare a moratorium on major new
regulations until the  unemployment rate  drops to 7.7 percent --
that is, until it goes lower than it was when Obama took office.
(The president would have the power to waive the rule to address
national emergencies.)  ‘Ball and Chain’  “I’m not anti-government,” Johnson told me. “We do need
some regulation. The purpose of my piece of legislation is to
call a halt to the issuance of new regulations until we get our
economy back on its feet.” The amount of regulation, he adds,
“is a ball and chain on the necks of job creators.”  Johnson is, of course, making a partisan point by choosing
an unemployment target tied to Obama’s inauguration. His 20 co-
sponsors are all Republicans. But the underlying concept is
attractive. A permanent ban on new regulation wouldn’t make
sense. Ultimately, we need a rational structure where some rules
go and others stay. Existing executive orders that require
agencies to undertake cost-benefit analyses before issuing
regulations should be codified in legislation, and strengthened
to require that the analysis be published before the regulation
takes effect.  But why not sidestep the debate over the merits of
particular rules and the shape of a new system for now, and just
agree that this isn’t the time to pile new burdens on the
economy? If we have gotten by this long without whatever safety
and health benefits these regulations may bring, surely we can
go a few more years without them. Congress would, of course,
retain the power to enact new laws should new needs arise that
don’t qualify as emergencies. But regulatory creep would halt.  Obama has challenged Congress to put country before
politics. Perhaps Congress and the president should try putting
recovery before regulation.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  