-- 
Toyota Blitzes U.S. With Models to Move Beyond Three Years of Crises: Cars

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-08-24T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/toyota-restyles-its-camry-sedan-to-overcome-quake-sales-losses-to-hyundai.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s new Camry will
start a blitz of U.S. model releases to regain sales lost to
rivals such as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  after three years that included
recession, recalls and an earthquake.  Toyota unveiled the 2012 Camry yesterday at Paramount
Studios in Hollywood on a New York City-themed backlot with 200
actors, dancers and musicians. It’s the first of 20 new and
refreshed Toyota, Lexus and Scion models arriving by early 2013,
said  Bob Carter , group vice president of U.S. sales. The new
version of the top-selling U.S. car goes on sale in October.  “They have been given a black eye over the past three
years for different things, some beyond their control and some
that showed kinks in their armor,” said Ed Kim, an industry
analyst for AutoPacific Inc., in Tustin,  California . Bringing
out the Camry and other new models “is tremendously
important,” he said.  The new models, starting with four more this year, come
none too soon for the Toyota City, Japan-based company, set to
lose its ranking as the world’s largest automaker this year.
 Japan ’s March earthquake slowed Toyota plants in the months that
followed, hindering efforts to bounce back from last year’s
record recalls.  U.S. deliveries for Toyota’s three brands fell 7.1 percent
this year through July to 943,590, its lowest for the period
since 1999. By comparison, total light-vehicle sales grew 11
percent, with Hyundai up 23 percent,  General Motors Co. (GM)  up 16
percent and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  rising 12 percent.  ‘Camry is Keystone’  “It really starts with the all-new Camry; Camry is the
keystone of the brand,” Carter said in an interview yesterday.
“Then the cadence comes faster than I’ve seen in 30 years with
Toyota.”  Along with Camry, Toyota this year will add the hybrid
Prius v wagon, revamped Yaris subcompact, Scion iQ minicar and a
modified Tacoma pickup, Carter said. Releases in 2012 include a
plug-in version of Prius and compact Prius c hybrid, a new Lexus
GS sport sedan, a battery-powered RAV4 sport-utility vehicle and
a rear-wheel-drive Scion FR-S sports car, he said.  “It is definitely good to have a heavy schedule of new
models on the way, to kind of wow the public,” said Kim.  The Camry and expanded line of Prius models are designed to
help overcome lingering consumer concerns about the quality and
safety of Toyota products after the company recalled millions of
cars and light trucks for flaws linked to accelerator-pedal
interference.  “Those two are key to building back the brand,” Carter
said, who has said Prius will be Toyota’s top-selling line by
the end of the decade.  ‘No Joke’  The new Camry has the best safety, handling and fuel
economy among U.S. midsize sedans, with the hybrid version
averaging 41 miles per gallon of gasoline, up 24 percent, Carter
said. Toyota is determined to keep the model the top-selling
passenger car, a position held for 13 of the past 14 years.  “To become the biggest-selling car in America is no
joke,” Yoshimi Inaba, Toyota’s North American chief executive,
said in a July 12 interview. “You have to be good everywhere.
We think we’ve got it.”  Camry is symbolic of Toyota’s success, Chief Executive
Officer  Akio Toyoda  said in a speech yesterday marking the start
of production of the model in Georgetown,  Kentucky .  “This is an opportunity to show the world what Toyota is
all about,” said Toyoda, grandson of the automaker’s founder.
“I can introduce the new Camry with 100 percent confidence,”,
he said.  Sales Slipping  Through July, Camry sales slipped 7.8 percent to 174,485
from a year earlier. Nissan Motor Co.’s Altima gained 17 percent
to 153,182, second-most among midsize cars. Hyundai’s Sonata had
a 27 percent sales gain, Ford’s Fusion rose 17 percent, GM’s
Malibu increased 11 percent and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ’s Optima more
than doubled.  Toyota’s goal is to sell 360,000 in the U.S. next year,
said Greg Thome, a spokesman.  “The car is fully competitive on all counts,” said Kim,
the AutoPacific analyst, who test-drove the sedan yesterday.
“It seems very poised to hold on to its buyer base, but not go
out and gain new customers. The lower price should help entice
those who might be thinking about moving away from the Toyota
fold to other brands.”  Even if the new car doesn’t lure drivers from Hyundai, Ford,
Kia, Honda Motor Co. or  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Camry has the largest
owner base of any midsize sedan in the U.S., Carter said. Toyota
estimates more than 6.8 million Camry models are on the road in
the U.S., with 90 percent sold since 1995.  “That’s a foundation no other manufacturer has,” Carter
said.  2007 Peak  Toyota’s best year for Camry was 473,108 in 2007, after the
current version came out, and it’s been the best-selling car in
the U.S. for the past nine years.  Changes to Camry’s exterior styling are more
“evolutionary” than “revolutionary,” Carter said.  It retains the 2011 Camry’s basic profile, substituting the
current car’s rounder edges with squared-off corners. While
exterior dimensions are similar, it has a roomier rear seat and
bigger trunk, Toyota said.  Improved ride and handling also a key focus, Inaba said.  “Until the last moment of the launch, we’ve tried to do
better than competitors everywhere,” he said.  Lower Prices  The price of a four-cylinder 2012 Camry LE with an
automatic transmission was trimmed by about $200 to $22,500,
Carter said. The price of a SE version was reduced by about
$1,000 to $23,000, and the top-end XLE grade was cut $2,000 to
$24,725, he said of the models with four-cylinder engines.
Prices of the models with six-cylinder engines won’t change.  A manual transmission isn’t offered because of low demand,
Toyota said.  A 2012 Sonata’s starting price is $19,695, and Ford’s
Fusion begins at $22,830, with an automatic transmission.  The new Camry Hybrid’s 41 mpg average also tops Hyundai’s
Sonata Hybrid at 37 mpg and the Fusion Hybrid’s 39 mpg,
according to U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency  data. The
Camry Hybrid will start at $25,900, and the XLE version will be
priced at $27,400, Carter said today.  The reduced pricing is part of Toyota’s strategy to retain
sales volume, Carter said. “We’d rather price the car right and
not discount it down through incentives,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  