-- 
HP Breakup Looming With Cheapest Technology Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-23T14:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/hp-breakup-looming-with-cheapest-technology-valuation-real-m-a.html
Discontent over  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s strategic shift has left it cheaper than any technology
company in the world, turning the largest computer maker into a
potential takeover target.  Hewlett-Packard lost more than $10 billion in market value
after announcing it will spin off its personal computer unit,
buy Autonomy Corp. and scrap a five-month-old plan to put its
mobile software on devices. The 20 percent plunge drove down the
valuation of Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard to 5
times estimated profit, about 70 percent less than the average
technology company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since  Leo Apotheker  became chief executive officer in
November, Hewlett-Packard’s shareholders have lost out as the
company fell five times as much as the competition and faced its
first decline in profit in more than a decade. It may now lure
buyers looking to break it up and acquire the pieces, according
to Solaris Group LLC. The server unit would boost  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s
share fivefold and help it become the biggest maker of the
hardware. Hewlett-Packard’s printer business, which is 70
percent more profitable than the company as a whole, may also
attract private equity firms, Fiduciary Trust said.  “The value right now looks extremely attractive,” Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust in
 Boston , including Hewlett-Packard shares, said in a telephone
interview. “For the right company, it probably would make sense
for someone to come in and scoop it up. Someone could come and
at least buy pieces of the firm.”  ‘Rudderless Ship’  Hewlett-Packard “appears to be a company that’s a
rudderless ship right now,” Mullaney said.  Bill Wohl , a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, said the
company doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  Shares of Hewlett-Packard slipped 0.5 percent to $24.34 at
10:18 a.m. today in  New York .  Hewlett-Packard is exiting the PC business nine years after
the acquisition of Compaq Computer Corp. vaulted it to the top
of the industry. It is also backtracking on a plan to put WebOS
software it gained in last year’s purchase of Palm Inc. on all
of Hewlett-Packard computers, including tablets and smartphones.  With the PC business, “we are spinning it out and that
should free shareholder value,” Chairman  Ray Lane  said in a
telephone interview. Lane said that he and Apotheker are
spending the week talking to investors around the world who may
want to hold Hewlett-Packard stock for the longer term.  The company also agreed last week to pay a 59 percent
premium to Autonomy’s previous 20-day trading average to buy the
Cambridge, England-based company in the fourth most-expensive
enterprise software or services deal of more than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shareholder Value  The purchase was Hewlett-Packard’s largest since the $13
billion acquisition of Electronic Data Systems Corp. in 2008 and
Apotheker’s biggest since becoming CEO.  He said on March 14 in  San Francisco  that he planned a
“disciplined” approach to acquisitions while shopping for
targets in areas including so-called cloud computing, which lets
users access software and data over the Internet, as well as
security and data analysis. Apotheker, 57, unveiled last week’s
overhaul as he cut sales forecasts for the third time.  The former  SAP AG (SAP)  head is pushing to expand in cloud
computing and challenge Oracle and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  in more profitable products aimed at companies as
consumer demand wanes and Apple Inc. lures buyers to its iPad.  Hewlett-Packard’s per-share earnings will slip more than 1
percent in the year ending October 2012, the first decline since
2001, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Research In Motion  The company’s shares were down 42 percent through yesterday
since Apotheker joined following  Mark Hurd ’s departure as CEO
amid a scandal over a personal relationship with a company
contractor. Hurd now is a co-president at Oracle. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index fell 8 percent over the
same period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hewlett-Packard trades at 5 times projected earnings, the
cheapest of the more than 230 technology companies in the MSCI
World indexes of developed and emerging markets, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Waterloo, Ontario-based  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which has lost 82 percent of its value as Apple’s
iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform siphoned off
BlackBerry customers, trades for 5.2 times.  Compared with reported earnings, Hewlett-Packard was valued
at 5.3 times profit at the end of last week, the lowest since at
least 1980, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hewlett-Packard is now so cheap that its competitors may
consider it vulnerable to a takeover, according to Tim Ghriskey,
 Bedford Hills , New York-based chief investment officer at
Solaris Group, which manages $2 billion.  ‘Huge Benefit’  Buying the company’s so called-enterprise assets, or
products targeting businesses, “would be a huge benefit” to
Oracle, according to Jason Maynard, a San Francisco-based
analyst who covers both companies at Wells Fargo & Co.  Maynard said Hewlett-Packard’s server unit, which makes
computers that companies use to store and access software
programs over a network, could help Oracle, the world’s largest
maker of database software, compete against IBM for business
hardware, according to a report dated Aug. 22.  Hewlett-Packard, which tied with IBM  last year  as the
world’s largest seller of servers, took the lead in the first
quarter after gaining 31.5 percent, according to Framingham,
Massachusetts-based researcher IDC.  Oracle had 6.5 percent in the  first quarter , after selling
6.8 percent of the world’s servers last year, IDC said. Redwood
City, California-based Oracle lagged behind IBM, which had 29.2
percent of the market in the first quarter, and Round Rock,
Texas-based  Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s 15.6 percent share.  Oracle, IBM  “Everything is on the table,” Ghriskey said in a
telephone interview. “I certainly wouldn’t be surprised at all
if in certain board rooms that there was discussion going on
about either approaching Hewlett for the entire company or
approaching Hewlett for pieces of the company.”  Oracle and Armonk, New York-based IBM could acquire all or
parts of Hewlett-Packard’s business, he said.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman at Oracle, declined to
comment on whether it’s interested in Hewlett-Packard. Ed Barbini, a spokesman at IBM, said it doesn’t comment on rumors
or speculation.  Hewlett-Packard’s printing business would also attract
bidders, Fiduciary Trust’s Mullaney said. The unit earned about
17 cents in operating income per dollar of its $26.5 billion in
sales in the past year, the highest margin among its main
businesses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company itself had an operating margin about 10 percent
of revenue in the past 12 months, the data show.  ‘Diamond in the Haystack’  “The diamond in the haystack was always printing and
imaging,” said Daniel Morgan, an Atlanta-based  fund manager  at
Synovus Securities, which oversees about $4 billion, including
Hewlett-Packard shares.  The company’s $50.7 billion market value limits possible
buyers to those with the cash to make a “big asset purchase,”
according to Argus Research’s James Kelleher. A potential
acquirer may also wait for Hewlett-Packard to get cheaper as
growing signs the  U.S. economy  may fall back into a recession
threaten to send the  S&P 500  into a bear market.  Oracle is unlikely to try to buy Hewlett-Packard ahead of a
spinoff of the PC business and other divisions such as printers,
which are of little interest to the software company, according
to a person familiar with Oracle’s strategy, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly for the company.  “The number of people that could pay at least $55 billion
is extremely small,” Kelleher, an analyst at Argus in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “Most people feel the value of
all these assets is going to go down.”  Fiduciary Trust’s Mullaney says Hewlett-Packard, which has
lost almost half its value since Hurd left a year ago, must
consider all options to help shareholders recoup their money.  “You can pretty much take a look at the stock price, look
at when Hurd exited, and then look at now,” he said. “It’s
pretty straightforward. Something’s not working.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 