-- 
HP’s Bradley Says PC Group Worth More Than Quarter of Sales

-- B y   C o r y   J o h n s o n   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-08-24T01:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/hp-s-bradley-says-pc-division-worth-more-than-a-quarter-its-annual-sales.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Executive Vice
President  Todd Bradley  said the personal-computer division,
which the company may spin off or sell, is worth more than a
quarter of its annual sales.  The personal systems group, which sells notebooks, desktops
and other computing devices, is worth “significantly” more
than one-fourth of its annual revenue, Bradley, who runs that
division, said in an interview on “Bloomberg West.”  Hewlett-Packard, which last week announced a sweeping
overhaul aimed at focusing on software, generated $40.7 billion
in revenue from the PC division in the last fiscal year, or more
than 32 percent of the company’s total sales of $126 billion.  “We’re well positioned,” Bradley said. “It was just a
prudent business decision.”  Bradley said the  Palo Alto , California-based company could
spin off a PC business that has opportunities to capture market
share in growing regions including Latin America and Asia.  In an interview yesterday, Hewlett-Packard Chairman Ray Lane said that a spin-out “should free shareholder value” and
that he and Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  are spending
the week talking to investors around the world who may want to
hold Hewlett-Packard stock for the longer term.  Hewlett-Packard rose 9 cents to $24.54 today in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost 22
percent of their value since Aug. 17, the day before Bloomberg
News reported the company would explore divesting the PC
division and acquire software company Autonomy Corp. for $10.3
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cory Johnson in  San Francisco  at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  