-- 
Petronas, Partners Plan $5 Billion Malaysia Gas Investment to Boost Supply

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-08-23T06:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/petronas-partners-to-develop-15-billion-ringgit-gas-project-off-malaysia.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state oil and gas company, plans to invest 15 billion ringgit
($5 billion) with partners to develop natural gas fields off the
country’s eastern coast in a move to help replenish the
Southeast Asian nation’s shrinking energy reserves.  The so-called North Malay Basin project aims to extract gas
with high carbon dioxide content from nine discovered fields to
help meet rising demand on Peninsular Malaysia, according to a
statement today from Petronas, as the company is known. A 200
kilometer-pipeline (124 miles) will be laid to transport the
fuel to Kerteh, in Terengganu state, it said.  “The development of the North Malay basin project follows
recently introduced incentives by the government, particularly
for the development of marginal fields,” Petronas said. “The
gradual revision of gas prices to domestic customers, as
recently announced by the government, also makes the project
more economically feasible for industry players.”  The state utility has traditionally sold gas at a discount
to power distributor  Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB)  to help keep business
and consumer costs low in Malaysia. On May 30, the government
allowed it to reduce that subsidy, acknowledging that this had
limited Petronas’s ability to reinvest and pay dividends.  ‘Minimal’ Investment  “These subsidized gas prices have resulted in minimal
investments in the exploration of gas projects by oil and gas
players, constraining growth in supply capacity,” Petronas said
in today’s statement. “In recent years, demand for gas has
increased by more than 30 percent, buoyed by the introduction of
regulated prices in 1997 that has lagged concomitant increases
in market prices.”  The nation’s crude and natural gas production has fallen
for two straight years, declining to the equivalent of 1.63
million barrels of oil a day in the year ended March 31 from
1.66 million a day a year earlier, according to Petronas’s
annual report.  It didn’t name its production-sharing partners for the
North Malay Basin project. The gas fields are located within
Blocks PM301 and PM302 in the Bergading contract area, about 300
kilometers off the country’s peninsula, it said.  The investment will be undertaken on an “accelerated”
basis, with the first delivery of 100 million cubic feet of gas
per day expected by early 2013, rising to 250 million by 2015,
according to the e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Singapore at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  