-- 
Pimco’s Kiesel Says Bank Bonds ‘Very Attractive’ After Drop

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-08-23T21:44:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/pimco-s-kiesel-says-bank-bonds-very-attractive-after-declines.html
U.S. bank  bonds are “very
attractive” investments after declining this month, according
to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Mark Kiesel .  “This is a sector that makes money, has improved
capital,” Kiesel, Pimco’s global head of corporate bond
portfolios, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“From the debt side, it’s very attractive.”  Pimco, the  Newport Beach , California-based manager of the
world’s largest bond fund, has been wagering on U.S. bank debt
since at least April 2008, when Kiesel said that big banks would
 “slim down”  by raising capital and cutting leverage. Lenders
have improved their balance sheets, making them a safe bet,
Kiesel told Scarlet Fu on the network’s “In the Loop” program.  U.S. bank bonds have lost 1.53 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, as
investors shun borrowers facing more risk from a weakening
economy and  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis. The extra yield, or
spread, that investors demand to hold the debt rather than
Treasuries expanded 1 basis point yesterday to 302 basis points,
the widest gap since September 2009.  The cost of protecting debt from  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  declined after earlier soaring to a
record.  Credit-default swaps tied to the lender fell 2 basis points
to 378.5 as of 5 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA. That pared an earlier surge to at least 445 basis points,
which exceeded the peak during the financial crisis in March
2009, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts wrote in a report.  ‘Irrational’ Valuations  Valuations are becoming “irrational,” JPMorgan analysts
Kabir Caprihan and Matthew Hughart based in New York wrote in
the report. They changed their view on the debt to “neutral”
from “underweight.”  Bank of America credit swaps have more than doubled from
178 basis points at the end of July as concern mounts that the
lender may face larger losses tied to mortgages and will need to
raise additional capital.  Contracts on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, fell 10 basis points to 245, according to
data provider CMA. The swaps earlier rose to 283, the highest
level since April 2009.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Debt issued by large, multinational companies is also a
safe investment if the economy heads into a recession, Kiesel
said. He recommended bonds issued by pipeline companies, metal
producers and OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural-gas export monopoly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 