-- 
Polysilicon Price Climbs as Goldman Predicts Solar Rebound

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-08-23T15:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/polysilicon-climbs-may-signal-faster-german-panel-installations.html
The price of polysilicon, the main
raw material in photovoltaic panels, rose in August for the
first time in five months, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
solar-equipment makers are poised for recovery.  The spot price climbed to $51.96 from $51.17 a kilogram in
July, trimming its decline in 2011 to 30 percent, according to
an index produced by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Higher prices
indicate greater demand for solar panels, the most common device
used worldwide to convert sunlight into power.  Solar equipment makers snapped a five-day plunge today, led
by  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) ,  China ’s biggest polysilicon
maker, which gained 13 percent, and MEMC Electronic Materials
Inc., the second largest in the U.S., which jumped 7.3 percent
as of 11:24 a.m. in  New York . The 17-member Bloomberg industries
Global Large Solar Energy index of manufacturers was 6.6 percent
higher after losing 19 percent in the previous five days.  They had been hammered, as prices skidded for finished
panels by 13 percent in August, extending this year’s drop to 33
percent, Bloomberg’s clean-energy research arm said.  Investors should buy solar stocks as the industry’s cycle
is approaching the bottom and the best companies are set to
rise, Goldman analyst Stephen Benson said in a research note.
Benson raised his recommendations on Manz AG, Wacker Chemie AG
and Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG to “buy” and added  Meyer
Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  to its list of “conviction” picks, saying
the stock may rise as much as 72 percent.  Demand Turnaround  “There has been a turnaround in demand” in panel
installations, said Martin Simonek, a solar analyst at New
Energy Finance in  London . “The price of solar modules has
fallen to levels that make it economical again to install solar
panels in some key markets such as  Germany .”  Solar stocks were sold over the past four months after
officials in Germany and  Italy , the biggest markets, lowered
subsidies for generators and concerns over  government borrowing 
in  Europe  and the U.S. prompted investors to dump riskier
assets. JA Solar Holdings Co., the largest solar-cell maker, has
lost about 50 percent this year, while Suntech Power Holdings
Co., the biggest panel maker, is down 39 percent.  Polysilicon declined by 28 percent in June from the
previous month after the tariff cuts in Germany and Italy
reduced demand for photovoltaic panels.  Axiom Capital Management’s  Gordon Johnson , the New York-
based solar analyst who recommended investors own no solar
stocks until today, raised his view on JA Solar to “Hold,” the
highest of seven ratings he publishes.  Stock Rebound  The European manufacturers of solar production lines tipped
by Goldman are rebounding.  Meyer Burger, the Baar, Switzerland-based engineering
company that bought Roth & Rau AG to boost its market share in
solar production equipment, rose as much as 8.1 percent today
and was at 26.95 francs, down 0.4 percent, at 5:18 p.m. Swiss
time. The stock has gained about 16 percent since reaching a 14-
month low on Aug. 8.  “I expect increased demand in the coming weeks in Germany
and a year-end rally in Q4,” SMA Solar Technology AG Chief
Executive Officer Pierre-Pascal Urbon said in an Aug. 12
analysts’ call. “The prices for system costs are stabilizing,”
he added in an interview.  SMA is Germany’s biggest solar company by market value and
it sells inverters to most of the biggest solar companies.
German equipment manufacturers such as SMA,  Solarworld AG (SWV) , and
Q-Cells AG said demand will pick-up in the second half of the
year as they reported second-quarter results this month. They
said they will continue to face pressure on prices.  German Slowdown  German installations of the photovoltaic devices were about
1 gigawatt in the first five months of the year compared with
7.45 gigawatts in all of 2010, Simonek said. Global
installations will likely increase about 44 percent this year to
26 gigawatts, after jumping 135 percent in 2010, he added.  “The second half should be much stronger,” Simonek said.
“A lot of manufacturers will need to get modules out and there
is still space for cost reduction.”  Wacker Chemie AG, the second-biggest producer of solar-
grade silicon, fell the most in 2 1/2 years on Aug. 2 after its
second-quarter profit missed estimates as spot prices slumped.
The stock rose 3.3 percent today to 95.37 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  