-- 
Primary Global CEO ‘Co-Conspirator’ in Scheme, U.S. Alleges

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-08-23T19:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/primary-global-s-narayanan-participated-in-scheme-u-s-prosecutors-say.html
Unni Narayanan, the chief executive
officer of Primary Global Research LLC, an expert networking
firm, was a “co-conspirator” in an  insider-trading  scheme,
prosecutors said in court papers.  The government’s allegation was made public today in a
filing by a defense attorney for James Fleishman, a former
Primary Global sales manager facing an Aug. 29 insider-trading
trial in Manhattan federal court. The defense lawyer,  Ethan
Balogh , attached a July 15 letter from prosecutors that listed
the “identity of coconspirators” as Narayanan, Chief Operating
Officer Phani Saripella and other Primary Global employees.  The government identified the individuals in response to a
defense request for the names of people allegedly involved in
the insider scheme.  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View , California, is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at  hedge
funds , technology companies, banks and consulting firms.  The firm connects investors with employees of public
companies who purportedly provide them with insight into
specific markets.  Winifred Jiau, a consultant for Primary Global, was
convicted of leaking insider information in June.  Neither Narayanan nor Saripella has been criminally charged
with wrongdoing.  Company Spokesman  Dan Charnas, a spokesman for Primary Global, declined to
comment. Reached at his home in California, Narayanan also
declined to comment, as did  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in New York.  Prosecutors say Fleishman, of  Santa Clara , California,
helped pass leaks from Primary Global’s consultants to the
firm’s clients.  The defense filing by Balogh also includes an Aug. 15
letter from prosecutors that names four other Primary Global
consultants as co-conspirators who allegedly leaked inside
information about sales numbers, shipment forecasts and profit
margins.  They are employees of  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , AT&T Wireless,
Samsung Semiconductor Inc. and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  None of the
individuals has been criminally charged.  A call to Geneva-based STMicroelectronics wasn’t answered.
Mark Siegel, an AT&T spokesman, John Lucas, a spokesman for
Samsung Semiconductor, and Karen Kahn, a spokeswoman for
Broadcom, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  