-- 
Qaddafi Departure May Vindicate Obama’s Policy on Intervention

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/qaddafi-s-fall-to-test-mettle-of-libya-rebels-united-by-hatred-of-dictator.html
After saying for months that Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s days in power were numbered, President
 Barack Obama  said yesterday the future of Libya is “in the
hands of its people.”  The end of Qaddafi’s 42-year rule would hand Obama a
foreign policy victory at a time when his leadership at home is
being questioned by political opponents and voters. The
operation in Libya came off with no U.S. casualties and with
European allies carrying a portion of the military burden.  “The Libyan intervention demonstrates what the
international community can achieve when we stand together as
one,” Obama said yesterday in Martha’s Vineyard,  Massachusetts ,
while warning that the fight isn’t over.  To be sure, the ultimate outcome in  Libya  isn’t settled.
Qaddafi remains at large and loyalist troops have continued
clashing with the rebels. After providing six months of
airstrikes, tactical intelligence and logistics support, the
U.S. and its allies remain uncertain about the future control of
Libya, which holds  Africa ’s biggest proven oil reserves, under
the loose collection of exiles, nationalists and regime
defectors who have led the fight to oust Qaddafi.  “Now there’s a kind of euphoria, but there are all kinds
of reasons to be cautious about what comes next,” said Dirk
Vandewalle, a professor at Dartmouth College in  New Hampshire 
who is an expert on Libya.  Policy Criticized  Since announcing in March that he authorized “limited”
U.S. military engagement to enforce a no-fly zone over Libya in
conjunction with the U.K., France and  Italy , Obama has come
under fire from Republicans both for doing too much and too
little. The campaign evolved from a mission to protect civilians
from government forces to include bombing raids and air cover
for the rebels. Obama eventually turned control of the mission
over to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Republican Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
who is seeking her party’s nomination to run against Obama in
2012, argued that the president failed to articulate U.S. goals
or identify a vital national interest for military involvement
in Libya and criticized him for deferring to NATO. She voted in
June against authorizing the mission and called for cutting off
funding.  Bachmann didn’t back away from her stance yesterday, even
as she said she had high hopes for a new government there.  “I opposed U.S. military involvement in Libya and I am
hopeful that our intervention there is about to end,” Bachmann
said in a statement.  Full Power  Arizona Senator  John McCain , the Republican presidential
candidate in 2008, faulted Obama for not going far enough.  “Americans can be proud of the role our country has played
in helping to defeat Qaddafi, but we regret that this success
was so long in coming due to the failure of the United States to
employ the full weight of our airpower,” McCain said in a joint
statement with Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of South
Carolina.  William Cohen, chairman of the Cohen Group consulting firm
and former defense secretary in the Clinton administration, said
it is unfair to criticize the U.S for “leading from behind” in
its response in Libya and other Arab nations experiencing anti-
government upheavals.  “I think the  United States  has played it about right at
this point,” Cohen said in an interview. With U.S. troops in
Afghanistan and  Iraq , deeper intervention in a third Muslim
country “would have been a mistake.”  Test for Congress  The tougher test ahead may be more for Congress than Obama,
said Anthony Cordesman, a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  “Is the Congress capable of any non-partisan effort that
would really help sustain the emergence of a stable and
democratic Libya?” he said. “Ultimately, it is what we do next
that is going to be at least as important in getting any
meaningful outcome from Qaddafi’s fall as the military actions
we provided that removed him from power.”  Administration officials said the results demonstrate the
critics were wrong.  “We do think that this shows that our strategy both
succeeded in stopping Qaddafi’s forces from massacring civilians
and it succeeded in tipping the balance in favor of the
opposition in a period of just several months,” said  Ben Rhodes , deputy national security adviser for strategic
communications. “Six months is very quick following a 42-year
dictatorship.”  Cost to U.S.  The cost to the U.S. for the Libya operations is on pace to
reach $1 billion. The Defense Department spent $896 million
through July 31, surpassing an earlier estimate sent to Congress
that the operations would cost $800 million by the end of
September.  The total “includes amounts for daily military operations,
munitions used in the operation,” non-lethal aid and
humanitarian assistance, according to Commander Wendy Snyder, a
Pentagon spokeswoman.  Rhodes said the success of the rebels in Libya also has
implications for U.S. policy toward  Syria , where President
Bashar al-Assad has carried out a deadly crackdown against
protests. Obama, joined by the leaders of the U.K.  France ,
 Germany  and  Canada , on Aug. 18 called on Assad to step down.  In Libya, “we wanted to make sure that the forces of
change in the region were empowered and were not overrun by a
dictator,” Rhodes said. “It sends a message to Assad that the
trends are against those who try to crack down and stifle
change.”  Assad may face steadily increasing international pressure,
though not necessarily armed conflict with the U.S. and its
allies.  “We can’t replicate the exact same type of U.S. engagement
in each country,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Vineyard Haven, Massachusetts, at
   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  