-- 
Qantas Second-Half Profit Slumps on Disasters

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-24T04:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/qantas-second-half-profit-slumps.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
biggest airline, had an 83 percent decline in second-half profit
as natural disasters on three continents slashed travel and
outweighed higher fares.  Net income fell to A$9 million ($9.5 million) in the six
months ended June 30 from A$54 million a year earlier. Second-
half figures were calculated by subtracting first-half numbers
from the A$250 million full-year profit Sydney-based Qantas
reported today.  Earthquakes in Japan and  New Zealand , Cyclone Yasi in
Australia and a Chilean volcano eruption that belched ash across
the Pacific disrupted the carrier’s services in the fiscal
second half. The incidents outweighed a gain from a payout by
engine-maker Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc and higher airfares
following an increase in fuel prices.  “Conditions are still tough,” said Will Seddon, who helps
oversee more than $300 million at White Funds Management in
Sydney. “However, as the various efficiency initiatives flow
through and market conditions improve the outlook for earnings
should also improve.”  The carrier fell 0.7 percent to A$1.53 at 2:19 p.m. in
Sydney, after earlier gaining as much as 3.9 percent. It has
declined 40 percent this year, the second-worst performance
among the 17 stocks in the Bloomberg Asia-Pacific Airlines Index.  Rolls-Royce Payout  The shares rose 8.5 percent yesterday amid speculation the
stock’s slump may prompt a takeover offer.  “We haven’t had any formal or informal approaches from any
potential bidder for Qantas,” Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “We
see it as speculation, there is a lot of speculation about
Qantas in the press all the time.”  Full-year pretax profit totaled A$552 million, compared
with the airline’s June forecast for earnings of A$500 million
to A$550 million. The carrier in June said it agreed to a A$95
million settlement with Rolls-Royce following disruptions caused
by an engine explosion on an Airbus A380 last year.  The company’s result included A$224 million of costs and
lost revenue from the  Japan  quake in March, the Christchurch
temblor in February and  Chile ’s Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic
complex, which began erupting June 4.  Volatility, Costs  “There is so much volatility in the market that can have
an impact on profitability,” Joyce said.  The company’s unit costs, which represents how much the
airline incurs flying a passenger, rose 1 percent and the yield,
the price paid by a traveler, gained 6 percent after Qantas
scaled back seat growth to fill more planes.  Second-half earnings before interest and tax at the Qantas-
branded carrier, the company’s biggest unit by sales, rose to
A$63 million in the half from A$7 million a year earlier as
domestic demand limited the impact of losses on international
routes.  Qantas last week said it will pare Europe flights and form
two new Asian carriers to revive its international operations.
One of the new airlines will be a premium carrier, likely based
in Singapore or  Malaysia , while the second will be a budget
airline in Japan.  The turnaround plan will also see Qantas cut 1,000 jobs and
delay the delivery of six Airbus SAS A380 planes with at least
three of its unions criticizing the program. The airline will
also order as many as 110 single-aisle A320s to support growth.  “The headwinds are quite significant,” said Colin Whitehead, an equity analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “Not
just with regard to costs but also with management time on union
issues which are going to be a huge issue.”  Half-year profit at budget unit Jetstar more than doubled
to A$26 million from A$10 million. Frequent-flyer earnings fell
11 percent to A$153 million, while freight profit fell 16
percent to A$21 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  