-- 
Rand Gains After China Manufacturing Report Eases Global Growth Concerns

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-23T08:47:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/rand-gains-after-china-manufacturing-report-eases-global-growth-concerns.html
The South African rand advanced
versus the dollar for the second day in three after a report on
manufacturing in  China  eased concern the global economy is
losing momentum.  The rand strengthened as much as 0.9 percent to 7.1534 per
dollar, and traded 0.8 percent stronger at 7.1616 as of 10:15
a.m. in Johannesburg. The currency rose 0.2 percent to 10.3672
per euro.  A preliminary gauge showed manufacturing in China, the
biggest buyer of South African raw materials including iron ore
and coal, shrank less than expected in August. Commodity prices
rose and  South Africa ’s benchmark stock index advanced for a
third day, led by mining companies including BHP Billiton Ltd.  “The country most affected by better Chinese growth
prospects” among emerging markets in Europe and Africa “is
South Africa,” BNP Paribas analysts led by London-based Bartosz Pawlowski said in an e-mailed research note. “Hence, we would
expect some outperformance of the rand in case of a risk-on
environment.”  The rand maintained gains after a gauge of German
manufacturing growth for August exceeded economists’ estimates.  The rand’s gain also was fueled by speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will unveil a third round of stimulus to revive the  U.S.
economy , boosting demand for riskier assets. U.S. policy makers
meet at Jackson Hole, Wyoming, from Friday.  “Markets appear to have stabilized, following last week’s
hysteria,” John Cairns and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a
research note. The rand will likely trade at from 7.05 to 7.26
per dollar, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  