-- 
Treasuries Snap Decline on Speculation U.S. Home Sales Dropped Last Month

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-23T01:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/treasuries-snap-decline-on-speculation-u-s-home-sales-fell-last-month.html
Treasuries snapped a decline before
a government report that economists said will show purchases of
new homes fell in America for a third month in July.  U.S. securities have returned 3.3 percent in August, their
best performance since December 2008, based on Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Investors sought the relative safety of the
nation’s debt as concern that the world economy is faltering
sent the MSCI All Country World Index of stocks down 13 percent
in the same period. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $35 billion of
two-year notes today, the same amount of five-year debt tomorrow
and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Aug. 25.  “Risk aversion pushed yields lower,” said Kei Katayama,
leader of the foreign fixed-income group in  Tokyo  at Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd.,  Japan ’s second-biggest bond fund. “The
current yield level contains so much of a premium” that
investors are willing to pay in exchange for safety, he said.  Ten-year yields were little changed at 2.10 percent as of
9:26 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 2.125 percent note maturing in August 2021 changed hands at
100 1/4. The record low rate was 1.97 percent set Aug. 18.  Japan’s 10-year securities yielded 0.985 percent. The
nation’s government bonds have returned 0.53 percent this month,
the Bank of America indexes show.  New home sales fell 0.6 percent to a 310,000 annual pace,
the slowest in four months, according to the median of
economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before the
report today.  Treasuries dropped yesterday on speculation Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal additional measures to
stimulate the economy.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, at an annual conference sponsored by the Fed Bank of
 Kansas City .  “The jury is still out on if we are going to get more from
Bernanke or not, so the market is in a wait-and-see mode,” said
 Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA in  New York , one of
the 20 primary dealers that trade with the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 