-- 
Treasury 2-Year Notes Sell at Record Low Yield; 30-Year Bond Yield Rises

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-23T21:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/treasuries-little-changed-two-year-notes-sell-at-record-low-auction-yield.html
The Treasury sold $35 billion of
two-year notes at a record low yield of 0.22 percent as
investors continue to seek the world’s safest securities as a
refuge from financial market turmoil and a slowing economy.  U.S. 30-year bonds dropped as stocks rose. Yields on
Treasuries were at almost record lows amid speculation Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may signal on Aug. 26 that
policy makers are willing to take further measures to prevent
the  U.S. economy  from returning to recession. The note auction
was the first of the maturity to be sold after  Standard & Poor’s 
on Aug. 5 downgraded the U.S. AAA long-term sovereign rating.  “Obviously, there’s still a bid for fixed-income
securities,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “The
ramifications of this rating doesn’t do much. We have plenty of
money. There’s lots of cash on the sidelines.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose five basis points to
2.15 percent at 5:01 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The yield reached as high as 2.16 percent.
The 2.125 percent securities maturing in August 2021 fell 13/32,
or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 3/4.  The current two-year note yield rose one basis point to
0.22 percent. The yield on the 30-year bond rose to 3.49
percent, touching the highest since Aug. 18.  Earthquake Moves  Treasury yields dipped briefly after reports of an
earthquake in  Virginia  that shook buildings in  Washington  and
New York.  “It’s a nervous reaction after the earthquake,” said
 Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  in New York at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP. “The market is on edge anyway. People panic at
anytime. That’s the initial reaction.”  The difference between yields on two-year notes and 30-year
bonds, known as the yield curve, rose to 328 basis points, the
most since Aug. 17.  “The curve is steepening,” said Thomas Connor, president
and head of trading at Pierpont Securities in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “It’s the unwinding of some trades that people
have had on, and had shorted stocks, and were long gold.” A
short is a bet that the price of a security will drop.  The  S&P 500 Index  rose 3.4 percent as investors speculated
the Fed will act to spur the economy. Gold dropped 2.9 percent.  Record Low  The two-year note auction yield was less than the previous
record low of 0.395 percent on June 27 and compared with the
average forecast of 0.221 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
eight of the Fed’s primary dealers.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.44,
compared with the average of 2.38 from 1998 through 2001, when
the U.S. had four straight years of budget surpluses. The U.S.
is forecast to runs a budget deficit of $1.6 billion in the
current fiscal year.  The bid-to-cover ratio was up from 3.14 times the amount
offered last month and the average of 3.32 for the past 10
auctions.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 31.6 percent of the notes, compared
with 27.7 percent at the July 26 offering and an average of 31.1
percent for the past 10 auctions.  Bid Patterns  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 15.9 percent of
the notes, versus 20 percent last month and an average of 15.1
percent at the last 10 auctions.  The offering was the first of three note sales this week
totaling $99 billion. The Treasury will sell $35 billion in
five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year notes on
Aug. 25.  The 10-year note yields dropped on Aug. 18 to the
historical low of 1.97 percent. Yields on five- and seven-year
notes fell that day to records of 0.79 percent and 1.31 percent.  Two-year note yields reached a record low of 0.1568 percent
on Aug. 9.  U.S. government debt  has returned 3.3 percent this month in
the best performance since the depths of the financial crisis in
December 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks has slid 12
percent during the same period.  Fed Signals  Treasuries fell on speculation the Fed will signal steps to
bolster economic growth. Bernanke may discuss the central bank’s
holdings of $1.6 trillion of Treasuries when he speaks in
 Wyoming .  Last August in Wyoming, Bernanke indicated the central bank
would “do all that it can” to ensure a continuation of the
economic recovery and that more securities purchases might be
warranted if growth slowed. Two months later, the Fed announced
a $600 billion second round of U.S. debt purchases that ended in
June.  “The Fed speech may outline the options at providing
additional accommodation that they’ve already hinted at,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut. “The market, to a large extent,
may come away disappointed from that. There’s a contingency in
the market anticipating something more tangible from the
chairman. People are talking about operation twist. While that
may be the next step, I don’t think that happens on Friday.”  In a Treasury buying program called operation twist, the
Fed may buy longer-duration bonds while shedding shorter-
maturity debt.  Global Markets  Treasury returns have increased as yields dropped to record
lows even after S&P’s downgrade, roiling global markets and
pushing up volatility.  The New York-based company, which was blamed in an April
Senate report for helping fuel the credit crisis, was criticized
by the world’s most successful investor,  Warren Buffett , who
said the U.S. should be “quadruple-A.” The cut conflicted with
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which kept their
triple-A grades.  S&P will replace President Deven Sharma, 55, with Citibank
NA Chief Operating Officer Douglas Peterson. Sharma will leave
at the end of the year to “pursue other opportunities,” S&P’s
parent McGraw-Hill Cos. said in an e-mailed statement. Peterson,
53, will take over Sept. 12, and Sharma will work on the
company’s strategic review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  