-- 
Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for August (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-08-23T14:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-august-text-.html
The following is the text of the Richmond Federal
Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector activity survey for August.  Overview  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region pulled back in August
after stalling in July, according to the Richmond Fed’s latest survey. The index of
overall activity was pushed lower as growth in new orders and shipments declined
further into negative territory. Employment remained in positive territory but grew
at a pace below July’s rate. Other indicators also suggested weakening activity.
District contacts indicated that backlogs and capacity utilization continued to
contract, while delivery times turned negative. Moreover, manufacturers reported
that inventory building remained on pace with July.  Looking ahead, manufacturers’ optimism regarding future business prospects
dropped considerably in August. An increasing number of firms anticipated slower
growth across the board for all future activity indicators.  Survey assessments of current prices revealed that both raw materials and
finished goods prices grew at a somewhat quicker rate in August than a month ago. In
addition, respondents indicated that during the next six months they expected growth
in both raw materials and finished goods prices to advance more quickly from what
they had anticipated last month.  Current Activity  In August, the seasonally adjusted composite index of manufacturing activity --
our broadest measure of manufacturing -- declined nine points to −10 from July’s
reading of −1. Among the index’s components, shipments lost sixteen points to −17,
and new orders dropped six points to finish at −11, while the jobs index inched down
three points to 1.  Other indicators also suggested additional softening. The index for capacity
utilization declined eight points to −14 and the backlogs of orders fell seven
points to end at −25. Additionally, the delivery times index moved down twelve
points to end at −4, while our gauges for inventories were virtually unchanged in
August. The finished goods inventory index held steady at 17 in August, while the
raw materials inventories index added one point to finish at 19.  Employment  Hiring activity at District plants slowed in August. The manufacturing
employment index subtracted three points to 1 and the average workweek index moved
down five points to −5. Moreover, wage growth eased, losing eight points to finish
at 2.  Expectations  Respondents in the current survey were notably less optimistic about their
business prospects over the next six months. All indicators for future activity fell
but remained in positive territory. The index of expected shipments decreased
eighteen points to end at 17, and the volume of new orders index fell twenty-three
points to 17. Backlogs moved down twenty-one points to end at 4 and the capacity
utilization index dropped fifteen points to 15. Moreover, the vendor lead time
indicator edged down three points to 3 and readings for planned  capital expenditures 
lost six points to finish at 10.  District manufacturers’ intentions to expand hiring also weakened in August.
The expected manufacturing employment index declined nine points to finish at 5 and
the average workweek indicator slipped one point to end at 12. In addition, the
index of expected wages lost ten points to 20.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices increased at an
average annual rate of 4.16 percent in August -- up somewhat from their 3.41
forecast in July. Finished goods prices rose at a 1.46 percent pace -- also somewhat
above July’s reading of 1.18 percent.  Looking forward, respondents expected that the prices they pay will advance at
a 4.54 percent pace, somewhat higher than July’s reading of 4.35 percent.
Additionally, contacts looked for finished goods prices to increase at a 3.35
percent annual rate, also slightly above last month’s expected rate of 2.97 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  