-- 
Rugby World Cup Gives New Zealand Opportunity of a Lifetime, Minister Says

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-08-23T21:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/rugby-world-cup-gives-new-zealand-opportunity-of-lifetime-minister-says.html
New Zealand  will use its six weeks
as host of the  Rugby World Cup  to attract global investment
and broaden exports to help its economy recover from the
deadliest earthquake in 80 years, tournament Minister Murray McCully said.  New Zealand plans to promote its most lucrative products
during the Sept. 9-Oct. 23 event to an expected 95,000 fans,
business people and media who descend on the South Pacific
nation, McCully said in an interview in Wellington. The
campaign is part of a longer-term plan to boost foreign
earnings to 40 percent of gross domestic product from about
30 percent, he said.  “Despite the economic times, it’s a matter of us just
being focused enough to make the most of an opportunity that
really is the opportunity of a lifetime,” said McCully, who
is Minister for  Foreign Affairs  as well as Rugby  World Cup .  New Zealand, which has more land mass than the U.K.
and one-fourteenth its population, is hosting rugby’s most
prestigious event a year after the first in a series of
quakes that struck Christchurch, killing more than 180 and 
leaving the nation's second-biggest city with a NZ$20 billion
($16.7 billion) repair bill. The country’s dollar has climbed 
more than 20 percent over the same period, peaking at a
record-high near 88 U.S. cents last month.  The surging currency may prevent the nation’s tourist
industry, which vies with dairy as the largest, from reaping
long-term benefits from hosting the tournament, the central
bank said in a report last week. It estimated that fans will
spend about NZ$700 million on local goods and services.  “The dollar is making it tough for all the foreign-
exchange earning sectors of the New Zealand economy,” said
McCully, 58. “It’s not just a question of how we perform. The
fortunes of other economies -- particularly large ones --
reflect themselves in our  exchange rate  as well.”  New Zealand is promoting 16 export markets during the
tournament, McCully said. They will include industries such as
film-making, fashion, information technology and boat-building,
along with more traditional exports such as food and wine.  The effort will target touring investors including
corporations and sovereign wealth funds, as well as promoting
the country through visiting media, McCully said. New Zealand’s
geographic location was previously a disadvantage as it
isolated the country from its main trading partners, McCully 
said. That’s changed in recent years, he said.  “We live in the Asia-Pacific century, and our major
strategic disadvantage has become our major strategic
advantage,” McCully said. “We sit on the rim of the Asia-
Pacific region where all those Asian economic powerhouses
are going to be the center of world economic growth for as 
far ahead as we can see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  