-- 
Russia Warns Assad Ouster May Trigger Collapse, Mideast Unrest

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-08-23T09:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/russia-warns-assad-ouster-may-trigger-collapse-mideast-unrest.html
Efforts by the West to force regime
change in  Syria  after intervening to oust Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  risk triggering the country’s collapse and further
instability in the Middle East, a senior Russian official said.  “I would advise all countries thinking about Syria to keep
in mind the negative example of Libya,” Konstantin Kosachyov,
the head of the lower house of parliament’s foreign affairs
committee, said in telephone interview in Moscow yesterday.
“The risk of civil war there is even greater than in Libya,
which would lead to the collapse of the country.”  Russia this week rejected demands from the U.S. and the
European Union for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to step down
because of his regime’s crackdown on five-month-old protests.
Russia maintains its only military facility in the  Middle East 
in Syria, a Soviet-era ally that is also a major buyer of
Russian weapons.  The success of the rebels in Libya has implications for
U.S. policy toward Syria, said  Ben Rhodes , deputy U.S. national
security adviser for strategic communications.  “It sends a message to Assad that the trends are against
those who try to crack down and stifle change,” Rhodes said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , joined by the leaders of the
U.K. France,  Germany  and  Canada , on Aug. 18 called on Assad to
step down.  Syria, which neighbors  Israel , Lebanon,  Iraq  and  Turkey , is
“one of the key countries in the region,” and its religious
diversity makes the nation vulnerable to internal conflict,
Kosachyov said.  Splinter and Fight  Anti-Qaddafi forces, which were backed by North Atlantic
Treaty Organization air strikes, will probably splinter and
fight among themselves once the current campaign is over,
according to Kosachyov.  “I don’t want to be a prophet of ill tidings, but I fear
Libya is facing serious unrest,” he said. “There are various
political forces, which will probably end up in conflict. This
is a more realistic outcome than a happy ending in which
democracy replaces dictatorship.”  Russia , with power to veto United Nations Security Council
resolutions, abstained from a March vote that authorized the air
campaign by the U.S. and its allies and enabled rebel forces to
halt an offensive by Qaddafi’s forces.  ‘Crusade’  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin, potential candidates in next year’s presidential
election, clashed over the Libya campaign, with Medvedev saying
it was “unacceptable for Putin to describe NATO’s involvement
as a ‘‘crusade.’’  While later criticizing NATO for overstepping its mandate
to protect civilians in Libya, Russia in May joined calls for
Qaddafi’s departure.  That won’t help Russia keep billions of dollars in
contracts it signed with Qaddafi’s regime, Aram Shegunts, head
of the Arab-Russian Chamber of Industry in Moscow.  ‘‘Russian companies will lose everything,” Shegunts said
in a telephone interview today. “NATO countries spent billions
of dollars on this campaign and they won’t give our companies a
slice of the action.”  Russian weapons exporters may lose contracts worth $4
billion,  Sergei Chemezov , head of state-owned Russian
Technologies Corp., said March 3 after the UN imposed an arms
embargo on  Libya . Potential civilian contracts in Libya,
including for the construction of a railroad network, are worth
“billions of dollars,” Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said on
March 22.  Energy companies such as state-run gas exporter OAO Gazprom
and oil producer OAO Tatneft also have hundreds of millions of
dollars invested in the country.  Navy Base  In Syria, Russia maintains a servicing point for visiting
navy vessels in the port of Tartus, which was a permanent base
for Soviet warships in the Mediterranean in the Cold War.  Russia has weapons contracts with Syria worth at least $3
billion, according to Ruslan Pukhov, director of the Moscow
based Center for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies.
The orders include Yakhont anti-ship cruise missiles, MiG-29
fighter jets and Pantsir short-range air-defense systems.  Russia won’t halt weapons deliveries to Syria, Anatoly Isaikin, the head of arms exporter Rosoboronexport, said Aug.
17. The country has repeatedly rejected Western demands to
impose sanctions on its Syrian ally.  The U.S., Britain and  France  are preparing to ask the UN
Security Council this week to freeze the foreign financial
assets of Syrian president Assad, a Western diplomat said
yesterday. The measure would also bar foreign travel by the
Syrian leader and call for an arms embargo on Syria, the
diplomat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  