-- 
S&P’s Peterson Takes Over in Bid to Boost Credibility

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-08-23T17:32:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/s-p-hires-peterson-to-restore-ratings-confidence-as-sharma-sets-departure.html
(Corrects value of drop in stocks in 17th paragraph.)  Douglas Peterson’s highest priority
as the new president of  Standard & Poor’s  will be to restore
confidence in the credit-ratings process amid criticism over how
the firm handled the downgrade of the U.S. and new probes into
how it evaluated mortgage bonds.  “S&P is in crisis mode,” said Richard Torrenzano, a
former member of the management committee at the  New York  Stock
Exchange and now chief executive officer of the Torrenzano Group
in New York. “They’re going to have to set and state public
standards for their ratings, and they will need to bring in
outside experts to help set standards. They’re in for a rough
time in the barrel over the next six to nine months.”  Peterson, Citibank NA’s chief operating officer, is taking
over as president of S&P from Deven Sharma, 55, who will leave
at the end of the year to “pursue other opportunities,” S&P’s
parent McGraw-Hill Cos. said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday. Peterson, 53, will start Sept. 12 and Sharma will
work on the company’s strategic review in the meantime.  S&P’s Aug. 5 decision to reduce the U.S. to AA+ from AAA
roiled global markets and boosted demand for Treasuries, helping
to send the yield on the 10-year note, the benchmark for home
mortgages and  car loans , to a record low 1.97 percent.  The New York-based company, which was blamed in an April
Senate report for helping fuel the credit crisis, was criticized
by the world’s most successful investor,  Warren Buffett , who
said the U.S. should be “quadruple-A.” The cut conflicted with
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which kept their
AAA grades.  Compliance Requirements  Since 2008, “we have strengthened our governance and
control framework by reviewing the quality and performance of
our ratings and identifying areas for improvement; developing
and enhancing the criteria we use to rate issues and issuers;
interpreting and applying new regulations so we meet compliance
requirements; and identifying and reporting on key areas of
risk,”  Edward Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, wrote in an e-mail.  S&P downgraded the U.S. even after Treasury Department
officials told the firm it had overestimated future national
debt by $2 trillion. The company said the error didn’t affect
its decision, and based its conclusion on the U.S. government
becoming “less stable, less effective and less predictable.”  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee is looking into the
downgrade decision, a committee aide briefed on the matter said
Sept. 8. The aide declined to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The Securities and
Exchange Commission is scrutinizing the method S&P used and
whether the firm properly protected the confidential decision, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said Aug. 15.  Justice Probes  The U.S.  Justice Department  is probing S&P and Moody’s over
ratings of mortgage-backed securities, according to three former
employees who said last week they were interviewed by
investigators. The former employees asked for anonymity because
the investigation is ongoing. The inquiry is a civil matter, two
of them said.  The probe is the latest of dozens of government
investigations and investor lawsuits targeting S&P and Moody’s
over the top grades they assigned to bonds backed by subprime
mortgages. The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission called them
“key enablers of the financial meltdown.”  Congress and regulators are discussing ways to implement
the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains provisions aimed at reducing
the role of ratings firms in the financial system and creating
more competition in an industry dominated by S&P, Moody’s and
Fitch. In an April report, a Senate panel said the credit raters
engaged in a “race to the bottom” to stamp inflated grades on
mortgage-backed securities.  Political ‘Risk’  “The bigger risk that he’s going to have to deal with
obviously is political,”  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at the New
York-based research firm Graham Fisher & Co., said of Peterson’s
hiring. “The government is implementing Dodd-Frank, trying to
figure out how to reduce reliance on ratings, and the Europeans
are looking at the same issues.”  The Dodd-Frank law, passed last year, directs bank
regulators such as the  Federal Reserve  to avoid using credit
ratings in making rules such as bank capital requirements.
Regulators have yet to comply with that provision, in part
because they are searching for an alternative way to judge bonds.  Sharma, who was named president of S&P in August 2007, will
exit as McGraw-Hill faces mounting pressure from some of its
shareholders to separate into four units. Jana Partners LLC and
 Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , which together own a 5.2 percent
stake, presented a plan Aug. 22 to split the company, saying it
has “consistently underperformed its potential” and is trading
at “a sizable discount.”  ‘New Challenges’  S&P said it started the process for replacing Sharma before
its downgrade of the U.S., after overseeing a split of the
company into a credit rater and McGraw-Hill Financial.  “Deven assisted us with the creation of these two high-
growth segments and was then ready for new challenges,” Terry McGraw, chairman, chief executive officer and president of the
company, said in a statement. “Accordingly, we began a process
to identify a new leader for S&P.”  In downgrading the U.S., S&P said lawmakers failed to meet
targets for reducing the  budget deficit . The market value of
global stocks tumbled by $761 billion between Aug. 5 and Aug. 12,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  swung
by at least 4.6 percent in the four trading days following the
change. Gold rose 5 percent.  Buffett, the billionaire chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. said the decision doesn’t reflect the
inability of the U.S. to pay its debts.  Peterson’s Experience  Peterson was approached by McGraw-Hill in March, a person
with direct knowledge of the talks said. He was CEO of Citigroup
Japan from 2004 to 2010 and was hired by the New York-based
investment bank out of business school 26 years ago, according
to an internal memo outlining his departure, whose contents were
confirmed by  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman in New York.  Peterson, who has an undergraduate degree in mathematics
and history from California-based  Claremont McKenna College  and
a MBA from the Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania 
in Philadelphia, began his career in  Argentina  as a corporate
banker and became Citigroup’s country manager in  Costa Rica  and
then Uruguay, according to the memo.  McGraw said last month the company is conducting a
strategic portfolio review after announcing in June plans to
sell its broadcasting group. Sharma will work on the review
until December. In November, S&P was divided between McGraw-Hill
Financial and the credit rating service. With the split complete,
Sharma is “ready for new challenges,” the company said in a
statement.  ‘Stronger Company’  “Today, S&P is a stronger company, whose 1,300 global
analysts are sharply focused on the quality, independence and
transparency of S&P’s research and analytics,” McGraw said.  Sharma holds a bachelor’s degree from the Birla Institute
of Technology in  India , a master’s degree from the  University of
Wisconsin  and a doctoral degree in business management from  Ohio
State University . He joined McGraw-Hill in January 2002 from
consultants Booz Allen Hamilton, where he was a partner.  He was appointed president in August 2007, one month after
S&P started lowering its ratings for hundreds of mortgage-backed
securities, acknowledging that notes it originally deemed safe
were now worth little.  S&P’s revenue rose 10.4 percent to $1.7 billion in 2010,
from $1.54 billion a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  on 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  