-- 
Sales of New U.S. Homes Probably Fell in July for Third Month

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-probably-fell-in-july-for-a-third-straight-month.html
Purchases of new U.S. homes probably
fell for a third straight month in July, pointing to lingering
housing market weakness two years into the economic recovery,
economists said before a report today.  Sales fell 0.6 percent to a 310,000 annual pace, the
slowest in four months, from a 312,000 rate in June, according
to the median estimate of 75 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Purchases last year totaled 323,000, the fewest since
record-keeping began in 1963.  Builders are less inclined to start new projects as they
face competition from cheaper existing homes and the prospect of
foreclosures putting more unsold properties on the market. A
jobless rate above 9 percent and limited employment growth
indicate housing will weigh on the recovery even with mortgage
rates at a record low.  “Real estate activity was very quiet through July,” said
Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Inc. in  Dallas .
“Households and businesses are very much on recession-watch.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
290,000 to 325,000.  Distressed properties, which include foreclosures and
short-sales, have made up about 33 percent of all existing-home
purchases since late 2008, according to the National Association
of Realtors.  Sales of previously owned houses, which account for the
bulk of the market, fell last month to the slowest pace since
November, the NAR reported on Aug. 18. The 3.5 percent decrease
reflected an increase in cancelations due to strict lending
rules and low appraisals.  Builder Shares  Builder shares reflect an industry that’s struggling to
gain momentum. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilders
Index is down 32 percent so far this year, compared with an 11
percent decline for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  “The U.S. housing market remains under stress,” Frank
Blake, chairman and chief executive officer at  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,
said on an Aug. 16 teleconference with analysts. “We do not
expect any meaningful improvement in the housing market for the
back half of 2011, and events here and across the globe would
suggest that there are more risks to the downside than the
upside on GDP growth.”  The home sales figures underscore Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that the market is hampered by limited
job growth and declining  consumer confidence .  Bernanke on Housing  “Residential construction activity remains at an extremely
low level,” Bernanke said in July 13 testimony to Congress.
“The demand for homes has been depressed by many of the same
factors that have held down  consumer spending  more generally,
including the slowness of the recovery in jobs and income as
well as poor consumer sentiment.”  Bernanke will speak on Aug. 26 at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual conference for global central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . He used the gathering last year to hint at a second
round of so-called quantitative easing, in which the Fed
purchased $600 billion of Treasuries from November 2010 through
June.  Consumer confidence in August plunged to the lowest level
since May 1980, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index. Rising pessimism poses a risk
household spending will cool further, hindering a recovery
that’s shown signs of fatigue.  Declining sentiment, a lack of hiring and limited income
are hurdles for a housing market even with  mortgage rates  at
all-time lows. The average on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was
4.15 percent in the week ended Aug. 18, down from 4.42 percent
in the period a year ago, according to  Freddie Mac .  Late Payments  More signs of strain in the housing market emerged
yesterday. The percentage of U.S. mortgages overdue by one month
rose to the highest level in a year in the second quarter as
homeowners who lost jobs were unable to make their payments.  The share of home loans overdue by 30 days rose to 3.46
percent of all mortgages, from 3.35 percent in the first
quarter, according to a report today from the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  in  Washington . The percentage of mortgages overdue
by 60 days increased to 1.37 percent from 1.35 percent, while
foreclosures dropped for the second consecutive quarter.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  