-- 
Santiago Bourse Sees Record IPO Year as Companies Wait for ‘Right Moment’

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-23T16:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/santiago-bourse-sees-record-ipo-year-as-companies-wait-for-right-moment-.html
Chile  is poised for a record year of
initial public offerings as companies in industries from
construction to fish farming wait for global financial turmoil
to subside to sell shares, according to the Santiago exchange.  Companies have put off rather than canceled their share
sale plans, Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago Chief Executive
Officer Jose Antonio Martinez said in an interview yesterday
from the exchange in downtown Santiago.  Four companies have made their trading debuts in Santiago
this year, the most since 2005. Builder Ingevec SA, scheduled to
sell shares today, shelved plans earlier this month, citing
volatility in a regulatory filing. A four-week rout in equities,
driven by concern the global economy will enter a recession,
wiped out more than $8 trillion in global stock values. Chile’s
Ipsa index slumped 11 percent in the past month.  “We’ll see in the next months, once the market turbulence
subsides, more companies coming to the market,” Martinez said.
“The process of new offerings is here to stay.”  While Chile isn’t immune to global turbulence and would
feel the effect of any global recession, the local economy is on
a sound footing, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told Radio
Cooperativa yesterday. The economy grew 10 percent in the first
quarter from a year ago and 6.8 percent in the second quarter.
The government forecasts 6.6 percent growth for this year.  Two-Year Low  The Ipsa, which trades at 15.6 times reported earnings, the
lowest since May 2009, will rise 10 percent by year-end driven
by consumer demand even as the economy shows some signs of
deceleration, Tomas Langlois, who manages the country’s second-
best performing equity fund, said by phone yesterday.  The integrated Andean securities exchange formed by the
Santiago, Lima and  Colombia  bourses, known as MILA, expects to
start a  stock index  with Standard and Poor’s “in the coming
days or weeks,” Martinez said.  Chilean brokerage Celfin Capital SA may start operations in
Colombia as soon as next month, company President Juan Andres Camus said today at the Bloomberg Chile Economic Summit in
Santiago.  The Santiago exchange is also working on integration
arrangements with the main exchanges in Brazil and  Mexico . A
project with Brazil’s  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  to enable cross-border
transactions similar to MILA will probably start in the first
half of next year, Martinez said. An accord with Bolsa Mexicana
de Valores SAB is subject to a clarification of tax treatments,
he said.  Transaction Volumes  MILA is also planning to allow investors to trade “in the
short term” exchange-traded funds and shares in closed
investment funds, Martinez said.  “MILA should lead in the long run to an increase in
activity in the three markets where it operates,” and its
success shouldn’t be measured by day-to-day transaction volumes,
Martinez said. “The goal is to help in the development of
capital markets in each of the countries involved. Its results
should be evaluated in one, two or three years,” he said.  BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager, is
preparing to start a local exchange-traded fund in Chile after
the regulatory changes, Axel Christensen, BlackRock’s managing
director for  South America  excluding Brazil, said at the summit
in Santiago today.  Trading in MILA, which started May 30, totaled $1.3 million
with 116 transactions in June, falling to $275,000 and 23
transactions in July, according to data on the Santiago
exchange’s website. There were 59 transactions worth a combined
$608,000 between Aug. 1 and Aug. 19, according to the exchange.  Cross Border  Even as MILA’s first three months garnered just $2.2
million in trades, financial-services firms including Larrain
Vial SA and Celfin Capital and companies such as Grupo de
Inversiones Suramericana are stepping up their regional
operations.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  created a mutual fund that invests in the
three countries, Global X Funds started a regional exchange-
traded fund and Colombia’s Helm Bank SA formed an alliance with
Chile’s Empresas Penta SA.  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) , Colombia’s
 Interconexion Electrica SA (ISA)  and  Peru ’s Grana y Montero SA are
also expanding in the region.  ING agreed last month to sell most of its Latin American
insurance operations to Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana SA,
the parent company of Colombia’s largest bank, for about 2.7
billion euros ($3.9 billion).  MILA stocks have a combined value of $583 billion,
surpassing Mexico’s $418 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Average daily traded volume in the past year was $234
million in Chile, $101 million in Colombia and $34 million in
Peru. That compares with Mexico’s $676 million and Brazil’s $4
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s benchmark index, the IGBC, has outperformed its
MILA peers so far this year with a 15 percent retreat. Peru’s
IGBVL has declined 17 percent in the same period while Chile’s
IPSA has slumped 16 percent. The main indexes in  Brazil  and
Mexico have fallen 24 percent and 12 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  