-- 
Sarkozy Economic-Growth Forecasts Seen as Too High, Pointing to More Cuts

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-08-25T14:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/sarkozy-prepares-deficit-reduction-blueprint-for-election-year-austerity-.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
budget cuts announced yesterday marked just a first step in
meeting deficit targets.  That’s because his growth forecasts remain too optimistic
even after they were lowered yesterday, said economists
including Bruno Cavalier, chief economist at Oddo & Cie. in
Paris.  Prime Minister Francois Fillon yesterday announced 12
billion euros ($17 billion) of measures in 2011 and 2012 and
said the euro region’s second-largest economy will expand by
1.75 percent in each year. The deficit will be 4.5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012, when Sarkozy seeks re-election,
beating the target.  “I really doubt France will make 1.75 percent next year.
My forecast is 1.1 percent and that means the shortfall will
then be about 10 billion euros,” said Cavalier. “Once the
election is over, it will be much easier to pass extra austerity
measures.  Sarkozy, like President  Barack Obama , must balance his re-
election bid against the need to fix his nation’s finances.
France, the second-biggest contributor to euro bailout funds,
now pays a premium of 67 basis points over  Germany  to borrow for
10 years, up from 27 basis points when the rescue system was set
up in May 2010. Germany forecasts a balanced budget by 2014.  Sarkozy’s budget cutting became urgent this month when
speculation mounted that France was vulnerable to the euro-area
debt crisis after the U.S. was downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s .
Fillon cut forecasts of economic expansion from 2 percent in
2011 and 2.25 percent in 2012.  Addressing Doubts  The government’s announcement yesterday ‘‘came on time
because there were doubts on the deficit targets,” said Jean-
Christophe Caffet, an economist at Natixis in Paris in an
interview.  Caffet forecasts 1.2 percent growth in 2012, pointing to
further cuts to meet deficit targets.  “There is a crisis of public debt in industrialized
nations and the U.S. economic slowdown is slowing our own
economy,” Fillon said late yesterday on TF1 television.
“Eighty-three percent of the measures in this plan are aimed at
big companies, owners of capital and wealthy households. We
aimed for measures that were not going to break growth.”  ‘Patchwork’  Socialist presidential contender  Francois Hollande  called
Sarkozy’s policies a “patchwork” that fail to address
fundamental issues. A  CSA poll  released today showed 47 percent
of French voters believe Hollande would do a better job of
reducing debt than Sarkozy, who was backed by 35 percent.  French economic growth stalled in the second quarter.
Jobless figures for July to be released today are likely to be
“as bad as in the two previous months,” Labor Minister Xavier Bertrand said on  France  2 television. “When there is no
economic growth, it’s tough to lower unemployment,” he said.  Fillon repeated pledges to reduce the deficit, which
reached 7.1 percent of GDP in 2010. It is targeted to drop to
5.7 percent this year and 3 percent by 2013. Debt will peak at
88 percent of GDP in 2013, the  International Monetary Fund  says.  Spending will be cut by 500 million euros this year and 1
billion euros in 2012, Fillon said, without providing details.  Measures to raise revenue include a 3 percent surcharge on
those earning more than 500,000 euros, in addition to higher
taxes on  capital gains , alcohol, tobacco, sugared drinks and
better-than-average private health-care plans.  The steps may still not be enough to avoid a French
downgrade, said  Jennifer McKeown , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London , who sees 2012 growth at 0.5 percent.  Rating Risk  “They are unlikely to prevent France losing its AAA credit
rating in the end,” she said in an e-mailed note. “France’s
top-notch credit rating remains on shaky ground. And perhaps
most importantly, the greatest risk to France’s public finances
still stems from outside the country. With Italian and Spanish
government debt amounting to 130 percent of French GDP, France
can ill afford to bail either out.”  Pierre Salaun, the spokesman for France’s debt management
agency AFT, said “all three rating agencies maintained their
triple AAA with a stable outlook, even before Fillon announced
the extra deficit cuts measures” in a telephone interview.  Raising Revenue  The biggest revenue raiser would yield 2.2 billion euros
next year and 200 million euros in 2011. The measure would
cancel the capital-gains exemption from property sales,
excluding the principal residence. A stricter inflation-based
standard will be applied to the calculation.  Another 1.5 billion euros will be generated next year, and
500 million euros this year, by limiting companies’ ability to
carry over losses as tax write-offs to one year. And 1.5 billion
euros in the next two years will come from a tax increase on
capital gains.  The exceptional levy on the wealthy, which will remain
until France’s deficit reaches 3 percent of GDP, will generate
about 200 million euros next year. Fillon called the tax a
symbol to show “solidarity.”  Sixteen French business leaders including the chief
executive officers of  Accor SA (AC) ,  L’Oreal SA (OR) ,  Total SA (FP) ,  Societe
Generale (GLE) , Air France-KLM Group and Publicis SA published an open
letter Aug. 23 volunteering to pay more taxes as an exceptional
and temporary measure.  “At a time when the government is asking for solidarity,
it seems necessary for us to contribute,” they said in the
letter published in Le Nouvel Observateur magazine.  ‘Fairness’  The emphasis on what Fillon called “fairness” is “a
necessary feature to avoid street protest, with higher taxes for
both household and corporations,”  Dominique Barbet , an
economist at BNP Paribas in Paris, said in an interview.  The  sales tax  at amusement parks, such as  Euro Disney SCA (EDL) ’s
Disneyland Paris, will be raised to 19.5 percent from 5.5
percent.  The cost of cigarettes will rise by about 6 percent this
year and again next year, yielding 700 million euros. The
imposition of a tax on sugared drinks will yield 100 million
euros. The tax on alcohol excludes wine, rum and local products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  