-- 
Saudi Economic Outlook ‘Favorable’ on Oil Revenue, IMF Says

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-08-23T14:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/saudi-economic-outlook-is-favorable-on-oil-spending-imf-says.html
The outlook for  Saudi Arabia ’s
economy is “favorable” as the kingdom benefits from additional
government spending and increased oil revenue, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  Gross domestic product will increase 6.5 percent this year,
compared with 4.1 percent in 2010, the  Washington-based lender 
said in a review of the Saudi economy.  The kingdom, which depends on oil for 86 percent of its
revenue, announced increases in government spending in March as
protests calling for more job opportunities and democracy
engulfed the  Middle East . The package included $67 billion on
housing and funds for the military and religious groups that
backed the government’s ban on domestic protests, and followed a
$36 billion handout announced on Feb. 23. Crude  oil prices  have
so far averaged $97 a barrel this year compared with about $80
last year.  “Oil revenues are likely to be significantly higher than
in 2010, reflecting both higher oil prices and increased oil
volume,” the IMF said. “Fiscal and external balances are
expected to strengthen further in the near term.”  The biggest Arab economy may grow 6 percent this year, up
from an initial estimate of 4.3 percent, central bank Governor
Muhammad al-Jasser said in June. Saudi crude oil production was
9.4 million barrels a day in July, according to Bloomberg data.  Inflationary Pressures  Saudi Arabia must “carefully monitor” possible
inflationary pressure caused by imported-food prices, rents,
increased government spending and high domestic liquidity, the
IMF said. Inflation may average 6 percent this year, it said.  Saudi inflation accelerated to 4.9 percent in July,
compared with 4.7 percent in June, according to data from the
kingdom’s Central Department of Statistics.  High unemployment for Saudi nationals and housing shortages
remain “important challenges” for the government, the IMF
said. “Over the medium term, policy priorities should focus on
maintaining fiscal sustainability, securing broad-based growth
and fostering  job creation ,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia, at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 