-- 
Sazka, Lehman, ShengdaTech, Pinnacle Point Units: Bankruptcy

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-23T08:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/sazka-lehman-shengdatech-pinnacle-point-units-european-bankruptcy.html
International bondholders for Sazka
AS, the bankrupt Czech lottery operator, said they oppose terms
for the sale of the business as proposed by bankruptcy
administrator Josef Cupka.  “The international holders call on Mr. Cupka to reconsider
the terms of the tender as a matter of urgency,” the law firm
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP said in a statement in Prague. The legal
firm represents investors holding more than 25 percent of
Sazka’s 2021 bonds.  The statement said the bondholders believe the terms of the
tender “are prejudicial” to their interests and “won’t
maximize returns to Sazka’s creditors.”  The Prague Municipal Court, which put the company into
bankruptcy in May, approved the terms for Sazka’s tender
proposed by its administrator and the creditors’ committee last
week. The terms include a 500 million-koruna ($29.35 million)
deposit from each bidder before doing due diligence on the
company. The price offered by bidders will be the main criterion
for choosing the new owner.  Canary Wharf  Agrees Not to Vote Against Lehman Liquidation Plan  Canary Wharf Group Plc, saying it won’t vote against  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s amended liquidation plan, agreed to
reduce its claims against the collapsed bank to $780 million
from $4.5 billion.  Under an agreement with the London real estate developer,
Lehman will reserve against payment an amount equal to what
would have been provided had the debt been classified as senior
unsecured claims in the amended plan, according to a filing in
U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Lehman had earlier disputed Canary Wharf’s $4.5 billion in
claims, filed in September 2009, according to the filing. The
agreement is subject to bankruptcy court approval.  Lehman, Canary Wharf Group’s largest tenant, occupied more
than 1 million square feet (93,000 square meters) of office
space at  London ’s 20-25 Bank Street in 2003 on a 30-year lease.
Canary Wharf filed three claims in 2009, including a $4.3
billion claim in rent and charges for units on Heron Quays. The
Heron Quays claim was reduced to $770 million, according to the
filing.  ShengdaTech Board Sues CEO in Chinese Reverse Merger Case  Board members of  ShengdaTech Inc. (SDTH) , a Chinese company that
gained access to U.S. investors through a reverse merger, sued
the chief executive officer of the bankrupt chemical maker,
claiming he’s obstructing an internal fraud investigation.  A special committee of ShengdaTech sued Chen Xiangzhi to
prevent him from regaining control of the company, ending a
probe of its finances and ousting a newly appointed chief
restructuring officer.  Reorganizing ShengdaTech requires “the continued existence
of the special committee and the CRO, and the preservation of
their independent powers,” the board members said in court
papers filed Aug. 20 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Reno,  Nevada .  Chen could not be immediately reached for comment at
ShengdaTech offices, where no one answered the phone before
business hours in  China .  The company listed $295.4 million in assets and $180.9
million in debt as of last Sept. 30 in court papers the special
committee filed Aug. 19.  Danish Banks No Better Buy After Rescue Proposals, PFA Says  Denmark’s second-biggest pension fund is under-weighting
its holding of Danish financial stocks as government efforts to
ease the country’s banking crisis fail to win over investors.  “We would need to see both an improvement in the macro
economy and a new government bank package before we would change
our view,” Glenn Martin Vestergaard, senior portfolio manager
at PFA, said in an interview. The Copenhagen-based fund has
about 285 billion kroner ($55 billion) in investment assets.  Danish financial stocks have underperformed the country’s
equity market this year after the economy contracted and two
regional banks failed, triggering the European Union’s first
senior creditor losses within a resolution framework. Policy
makers have struggled to repair the damage as banks face a
funding drought that’s likely to worsen when a state guarantee
expires in 2013.  Shares of the country’s three biggest banks have lost more
than a third of their value this year, compared with a 25
percent decline in the benchmark OMX Copenhagen Index of 189
companies. Bank stocks were today’s biggest losers in the index,
with the sub-index dropping 3 percent compared with a 0.7
percent decline for the overall gauge.  ISDA Rules No Bankruptcy Credit Event at Spain’s CAM  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association ruled
there hasn’t been a bankruptcy credit even at  Caja de Ahorros
del Mediterraneo (CAM) , according to a statement on its website.  Pinnacle Point Says Five of Its Units Placed Into Liquidation  Pinnacle Point Group Ltd. (PNG)  said yesterday five of its
businesses have been placed in provisional liquidation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 