-- 
Shaky Degas Dancer Gets the Silent Treatment: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-08-23T00:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/shaky-degas-sculpture-gets-silent-treatment-commentary-by-william-cohan.html
Americans rightly take great pride
in the freedoms afforded to us by the First Amendment. Which is
what makes the ongoing self-censorship among a group of highly
regarded art scholars, who work at some of our most prestigious
and respected museums and universities, so deeply and profoundly
disturbing.  Instead of speaking out publicly and forcefully against
what they believe to be wrong -- specifically, a questionable
multimillion-dollar trade in sculptures supposedly by Edgar Degas -- they instead meet in secret, communicate cryptically
and repeatedly decline requests to be interviewed on the record.  These experts are keeping mum not because they have doubts
about the accuracy of their opinions or their facts, but
because they are afraid of being sued at a time when museum and
university budgets are increasingly constrained and fighting
potential libel or defamation lawsuits is a decidedly low
priority.  Against this deeply unsettling backdrop, the silence of the
experts almost makes sense. Unfortunately, it also allows a
questionable trade to proliferate. Is this the way freedom of
speech is supposed to work -- that it exists only for those who
can afford the costs required to defend it?  This sad saga began in 2001, when a New York businessman,
Walter Maibaum, and his wife, Carol Conn, got wind of the fact
that a new bronze edition of the famous “Little Dancer, Aged
Fourteen” by Edgar Degas was being cast in the Valsuani foundry
outside of Paris, which is owned by an art dealer and sculptor
named Leonardo Benatov.  At first, Maibaum has written, he was skeptical that a new
bronze of the famous sculpture could be in production. He was
aware that the two known plasters from which bronze sculptures
can be cast were in the  National Gallery  in Washington and in
the  Joslyn Art Museum , in Omaha,  Nebraska . Neither museum had
lent its plaster to the foundry to be cast in bronze.  Curious, Maibaum and his wife flew to Paris and
eventually were led to a previously unknown plaster of the
famous Degas sculpture, said to have been created during the
artist’s lifetime. When Maibaum saw it, he had no doubts about
its authenticity. “Only Degas himself could have created
something so masterful,” he later wrote. It could not have been
“a copy or a fake, for had it been, the compositional forms on
this plaster would have more closely conformed to those” at the
National Gallery and the Joslyn. Furthermore, he decided, “the
figure’s structure and anatomy was perfect -- not clumsy in any
respect.”  Degas, one suspects, was turning in his grave. Before his
death in 1917, he repeatedly expressed concern that charlatans
might highjack his legacy by casting his sculptures in bronze
and selling them to collectors, and is said to have told his
fellow painter Georges Rouault, “What I fear most is not dust
but the hand of man.”  The “Little Dancer” was the only sculpture Degas ever
allowed to be exhibited, at the sixth Impressionist Exhibition
of 1881. It was made of yellow wax and dressed in a cloth
costume, including a gauze tutu and a ribbon in her hair. That
wax sculpture is now in the National Gallery. Degas worked in
wax and clay for almost 40 years, but he didn’t cast a single
work in bronze. “To be survived by sculpture in bronze -- what
a responsibility!” he said. “Bronze is so very
indestructible.”  As he predicted, Degas’ heirs couldn’t resist cashing in on
his legacy and, in the decades after the artist’s death,
authorized the casting of something like 1,400 bronzes from
plasters found in his studio. In 2009, a bronze “Little
Dancer” cast in 1922 from a plaster made from the wax figure in
the National Gallery was sold at Sotheby’s  London  to a collector
in  Asia  for $19.2 million. There are said to be only 10 bronzes
of the “Little Dancer” cast from the original left in private
hands. Others are in museum collections around the world.  In any case, after seeing that plaster for the first time
outside Paris, Maibaum was eventually introduced to Benatov, the
owner of the Valsuani foundry, and he bought from him an
unspecified number of “Little Dancer” bronzes. Maibaum refuses
to say how many. (Maibaum is no stranger to controversy: He once
sold a sculpture purported to be by Picasso through Christie’s
auction house, for more than $6 million -- including taxes and
commission -- to the collector and media mogul S.I. Newhouse Jr.
After the auction house raised questions of provenance, the sale
was rescinded on contractual grounds.)  Then, in 2004, the plot thickened. According to Maibaum, he
was at Benatov’s foundry when suddenly, after lunch, Benatov
leapt to his feet and took Maibaum to a locked storeroom. In
front of him, Maibaum saw a cache of 73 more previously unknown
plasters supposedly made by Degas. “It was a shocking sight,”
Maibaum wrote. “To me it was the equivalent of opening King
Tut’s tomb in  Egypt  or uncovering the terra cotta warriors in
 China . The moment I gazed upon these remarkable plasters I
instantly knew that everything that had been written about
Degas’ sculptures in the past had to be reconsidered.”  Maibaum and Conn bought the 73 plasters from Benatov
through a new company they created -- the Degas Sculpture
Project Ltd. -- and agreed to cast the plasters into bronze and
sell them into the market. (In 2010, a New York dealer appraised
a set of 74 bronzes -- the 73 plus the “Little Dancer” -- at
$37.25 million.)  By this time, Maibaum had joined forces with Gregory
Hedberg, an art historian at the  Hirschl & Adler Gallery  in  New
York , and Stuart Feld, the president of the gallery. Independent
of Maibaum, Hedberg and Feld had heard about new Degas plasters
floating around Paris, and the bronzes being made from them at
Valsauni, and became convinced that not only were they authentic
but also that Degas had made the newly discovered plasters
himself, which if true would upset most of what Degas experts
generally believed about the way Degas worked.  In late 2009, in an elegant four-color catalogue produced
in conjunction with the first exhibition of the 74 bronzes cast
from the new plasters at an obscure museum in Athens, Maibaum
and Hedberg announced to the world their findings. Their essays
in the catalogue were full of vim and vigor and were bursting
with confidence.  “All the bronze sculptures in this exhibition were cast
from recently discovered plasters made from Degas’ original
waxes during his lifetime and with his consent,” the catalogue
claimed. “This is remarkable since all the other bronzes one
can currently see in museums and elsewhere were cast from
masters made after the artist’s death. Therefore, the bronzes in
this exhibition can be considered the original versions, and all
the others the second versions of these sculptures.”  Not surprisingly, the catalogue -- and its hyperbole --
caught the attention of Degas experts worldwide. They were
appalled by the claims of Maibaum and Hedberg that museums
around the world -- including in Israel and  Bulgaria  -- had
agreed to exhibit the bronze sets, and that they were being sold
to collectors for millions of dollars.  A group of Degas experts agreed to meet discreetly in
January 2010 at New York’s  Metropolitan Museum  of Art to discuss
what, if anything, they should say or to do about Maibaum and
Hedberg and their seemingly outlandish claims.  Attendees at the meeting have told me that among those
present were Gary Tinterow, chairman of the department of 19th-
century, modern, and contemporary art at the Metropolitan
Museum; Richard Kendall, consultative curator at the Sterling
and Francine Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Massachusetts;
Theodore Reff, professor emeritus of European painting and
sculpture at Columbia University; Patricia Failing, professor of
art history at the University of  Washington ; Shelley Sturman and
Daphne Barbour, conservators and Degas specialists at the
National Gallery of Art; and Arthur Beale, retired chairman of
the department of conservation and collections management at the
Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, and co-author (with Kendall) of
“Degas and the Little Dancer.”  I heard about the secret meeting shortly afterward and then
wrote a lengthy article about the growing controversy for
ArtNews magazine, which appeared in the April 2010 issue. None
of the participants in the meeting would speak with me on the
record, nor would they confirm that it had in fact occurred,
what transpired there or what they intended to do, if anything,
about the Degas Sculpture Project.  Still, on the grounds that I would not attribute the
comment to any individual participant, I was told there was
universal agreement among the experts that these things were not
what they were being advertised as. In declining to speak on-
the-record to me, each attendee cited a fear of the potential
legal consequences any criticism of Maibaum’s and Hedberg’s
“discovery” might engender.  “It’s a shame that a scholar is afraid to offer an
opinion,” John Cahill, a partner at the New York law firm Lynn
& Cahill, which specializes in art law, told me last year. “The
law is generally on the side of people who give opinions in good
faith, but the cost and aggravation of litigation is a deterrent
in and of itself.”  Since then, I have continued to write about the
controversy, peeling back one layer of it after another whenever
possible. Yet the Degas experts remain silent. Only Tinterow, of
the Metropolitan Museum, has stepped slightly out of the
shadows. In May 2010 -- after fully vetting it through the Met’s
legal department -- he gave a brief statement to ArtNews about
the controversy: “In my opinion, there is nothing that
demonstrates that Degas had a set of plaster casts made of his
sculptures during his lifetime.”  The Kabuki theater reached an apotheosis, of sorts, earlier
this year when Sturman and Barbour -- the Degas experts from the
National Gallery -- published their new, comprehensive catalogue
of Degas. In it, they steered clear of the controversy,
mentioning “recently discovered” plasters only in a footnote.
Sturman and Barbour -- and the National Gallery on their behalf
-- declined to answer any of my questions.  Unfortunately, such silence is not an isolated incident but
part of what seems to be a growing trend nationwide among art
experts, where fear of litigation seems to be stifling open,
honest and constructive debate. Also keeping much quieter than
they should on the matter of the Degas sculpture market are
organizations such as the Association of Art Museum Directors,
the Art Dealers Association of America, the  American Association 
of Museums and the College Art Association. These groups should
be using their bully pulpits, and their professed dedication to
art scholarship and integrity, to engage in the scandal but
they, too, have remained eerily silent.  One idea being bandied about among the Degas scholars and
those collectors who have spent millions of dollars on Maibaum’s
sculptures is to convene a symposium that will allow all sides
of the debate to air their views in a “litigation-free zone,”
if you will. “I’ve encouraged people to get over their
litigation hang-ups,” Beale, one of the Degas experts, told me
recently. “The concern for litigation is beyond the pale.”  Although the symposium has not yet been agreed to, Beale is
right. It should be in the interest of all reputable dealers,
museums and scholars to unravel the mystery of the Degas
plasters.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 