-- 
Shell Declares Force Majeure on Nigeria Bonny Light Crude Oil Exports

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-08-23T16:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/shell-declares-force-majeure-on-nigeria-bonny-light-crude-oil-exports.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Nigerian
unit declared force majeure on its Bonny Light crude oil exports
after “several pipeline incidents,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  The force majeure, a legal clause that allows the company
to miss scheduled deliveries for circumstances beyond its
control, “came into effect today,”  Tony Okonedo , a Shell
spokesman, said today by e-mail from Lagos, the commercial
capital. It covers shipments for the rest of August as well as
next month and October, Okonedo said.  Shell shut its Adibawa pipeline yesterday in the southern
Bayelsa state after saboteurs cut crude lines and has begun
repair works on the link. At least six crude spills were
recorded from Aug. 2 to Aug. 15 along a 33-kilometer (21-mile)
stretch of its Okordia-Rumuekpe pipe at Ikarama, also in Bayelsa
state, which were fixed on Aug. 20, the company said.  Attacks by armed groups targeting the oil industry cut more
than 28 percent of the country’s crude output from 2006 to 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Attacks subsided after
thousands of militants campaigning for more local control of the
delta’s energy resources accepted a government amnesty and
disarmed in 2009.  Nigeria is  Africa ’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports. Shell operates a joint
venture in the nation in which it holds a 30 percent stake and
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. owns 55 percent.
Total SA has a 10 percent stake and Eni SpA holds 5 percent.  -- Editors: Rob Verdonck, Alessandro Vitelli  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  