-- 
Shoprite Boosts Expansion to Fight Wal-Mart in South Africa

-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 
2011-08-23T15:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/shoprite-to-accelerate-store-expansion-to-fight-wal-mart-in-south-africa.html
Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,  South
Africa ’s largest retailer by market value, plans to accelerate
its store expansion this year as it fights increased competition
following the entry to the market of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Shoprite will add 106 outlets in the 12 months ending June
2012, more than the 96 it opened in the prior year, the Cape
Town-based company said in a statement today. The retailer ended
the last fiscal year with 1,246 stores.  Competition in South Africa’s food retail market is likely
to intensify this year, according to Shoprite, which today
reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, made its
first foray into South Africa by taking a controlling stake in
 Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  for 16.5 billion rand ($2.3 billion), a
transaction which received antitrust approval on May 31.  “We have to open new stores to keep growing and keep
market share,” Shoprite Chief Executive Officer Whitey Basson
said today at a press conference. “It’s still profitable to
open stores and keeps us ahead of competitors.”  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) , South Africa’s second-biggest food
retailer, said last week that Wal-Mart’s entry into the South
African market presents a “huge challenge.”  Of the new stores planned by Shoprite, 74 will be
supermarkets, and the company may hire 8,000 to 9,000 people.
The retailer plans to continue its expansion into Africa.  Static Prices  Earnings, excluding extraordinary items, increased 12
percent to 5.08 rand a share in the year through June, Shoprite
said today, beating the 5-rand average estimate of 12 analysts
polled by Bloomberg.  Food prices at Shoprite declined 0.1 percent in the 12
months, the company said, compared with year-earlier inflation
of 2.2 percent. While the retailer expects food inflation to
rise in fiscal 2012, “prices are likely to be held in check by
the ongoing competition amongst the major food retailers.”  Shoprite’s stock fell 2.79 rand, or 2.7 percent, to 102.40
rand at the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, while the 10-member
FTSE/JSE  Africa  General Retailers Index dropped 1.7 percent.  “The outlook was a little downbeat, with the company
warning of some tougher times ahead and increased competition,”
said Syd Vianello, a retail analyst with Nedcor Securities, who
has a “sell” recommendation on the stock.  Shoprite made a 70 million-rand provision for treasury
shares in Zambia that have gone “missing,” Basson said.
Investigations are underway and the money may still be repaid to
the company, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  