-- 
Singapore’s Inflation Accelerates to Fastest Pace Since January on Housing

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-08-23T06:02:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/singapore-s-inflation-quickens-to-5-4-adding-pressure-for-currency-gains.html
Singapore ’s inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace since January as transportation and housing
costs increased, maintaining pressure on the central bank to
allow the currency to strengthen even as growth falters.  The  consumer price index  rose 5.4 percent last month from a
year earlier, the Department of Statistics said in a statement
today. That’s higher than the median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News for a 5 percent gain. Inflation was
5.2 percent in June, according to previously reported data.  The Singapore government lowered its forecast for the
economy’s expansion in 2011 this month even after the central
bank raised its inflation estimate. The island’s currency has
appreciated to unprecedented levels since the central bank said
in April it would allow further gains to tame price pressures,
the third monetary tightening in a year.  “Domestic inflation pressure is what will keep overall
inflation elevated in the coming months,”  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before
the report, citing rising wage costs. “While we believe
inflation will ease, the decline will be significantly
gradual.”  The  Singapore dollar  has gained more than 12 percent
against the U.S. currency in the past year to be the best
performer in  Asia  excluding  Japan . It traded at S$1.2062 a
dollar at 1:14 p.m. local time.  Hong Kong Inflation  The island’s central bank may maintain a stance of allowing
modest appreciation in the local dollar in October because the
threat from inflation remains, even as declining exports raise
the risk of a “technical” recession, Song Seng-Wun, an
economist at CIMB Research Pte in Singapore who has analyzed
Asian economies for more than two decades, said last week.  Hong Kong ’s inflation surged to the fastest pace since
1995, the government reported on its website yesterday. The
consumer price index rose 7.9 percent from a year earlier after
a 5.6 percent increase in June.  A currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  means that Hong Kong
can’t use  interest rates  to tame price gains. The city’s
inflation is likely to remain “notable in the near term” for
reasons including elevated global food costs, the government
said yesterday.  Singapore’s consumer prices may climb 4 percent to 5
percent this year, more than a previous forecast of 3 percent to
4 percent, the central bank said last month. Singapore, which
uses the  exchange rate  as its main tool to manage inflation,
said in April it would re-center the currency’s trading band
higher.  Appropriate Stance  The monetary policy stance remains appropriate, Ong Chong Tee, deputy managing director at the central bank, said Aug 10.
Policy makers are giving equal priority to containing inflation
and spurring growth, Kwek Mean Luck, a deputy secretary at the
Ministry of Trade and Industry, said the same day.  Still, a global stocks rout and a weakening world economic
outlook may put pressure on Asian central banks to delay further
monetary policy tightening after the region led interest-rate
increases in the past year, even as inflation remains elevated.  “Inflation is becoming a less talked-about theme in recent
weeks much due to the growing uncertainties in the global
economy and risk aversion in the financial markets,” Seah said.  Analysts at Westpac Banking Corp. say Singapore will let
its currency fall to arrest a slump in exports.  Prices rose 1.5 percent last month from June, without
adjusting for seasonal factors, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  