-- 
South Africa’s ‘Overvalued’ Rand ‘Debilitating,’ Trade Minister Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-23T13:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/south-africa-overvalued-rand-debilitating-trade-minister-davies-says.html
South Africa ’s “overvalued” rand
and high level of labor-union strikes are hampering the
manufacturing industry of the continent’s biggest economy, Trade
and Industry Minister  Rob Davies  said.  The rand’s decline in recent weeks has been
“significant,” yet “we still don’t have what we could call a
competitive  exchange rate ,” Davies said in comments after a
speech in Cape Town today. “The currency is overvalued. That
has a debilitating effect on the productive sector of our
economy.”  The rand has depreciated 4.2 percent since Aug. 5 against
the dollar, the worst performer among its major and emerging-
market peers in the period, as investors shunned riskier assets
amid signs the global economy is slowing. The rand weakened for
a second day against the dollar, trading 0.1 percent down at
7.2296 as of 3:44 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Strikes in industries ranging from mining to energy also
hampered efforts to grow manufacturing, Davies said. His
comments came after Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said last
week that South Africa should consider more flexible labor laws
to boost  job creation .  South Africa’s unemployment rate rose to 25.7 percent in
the second quarter, from 25 percent in the previous three
months, while manufacturing growth slowed to 0.9 percent in
June, from a revised 1 percent the month before.  Labor Laws  “It would be desirable if we had a reduction in the level
of strikes,” Davies said. “Some of the problems caused in the
productive sector have been because of the number of days lost
to strikes.”  The government would consider “appropriate, pragmatic and
reasonable” changes to labor laws aimed at improving
productivity, Davies said. Taking away workers’ rights would not
reduce industrial action, he added.  “We don’t have a future in trying to compete with the
lowest labor standards in the world,” Davies said. “We have to
focus on particular productivity-raising areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  