-- 
South Africa to React Appropriately to Global Growth Slump, Marcus Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-08-23T09:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/south-africa-to-react-appropriately-to-global-growth-slump-marcus-says.html
South  Africa ’s central bank will act
“appropriately” if there’s a sustained slowdown in the global
economy amid signs the U.S. recovery is losing momentum and the
debt crisis in  Europe  is spreading, Governor Gill Marcus said.  While South African inflation is on an “upward trend”
because of rising food and fuel prices, there are “few obvious
signs” of demand pressures in the economy, Marcus said today in
a speech in Johannesburg to the American Chamber of Commerce in
South Africa.  The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year to help spur
Africa’s biggest economy, even as price pressures increase.
Growth probably slowed in the second quarter and the recovery in
 consumer spending  may not be sustained because of rising
joblessness, Marcus said.  “The economy has made a fragile and uneven recovery from
the recession, but the future growth prospects will be affected
significantly by global developments,” she said. “In the event
of a significant global downturn, monetary policy will react
appropriately.”  Investors are increasing bets the central bank will reduce
its key rate even after inflation climbed to a 15-month high of
5 percent in June. Forward-rate agreements, which investors use
to lock in borrowing costs, are pricing in a 50 percent
possibility of a rate cut in the first half of 2012, Tradition
Analytics said in a research note yesterday.  Bonds Gain  Bonds gained after Marcus’s comments. The yield on the R157
bond, due 2015, fell 9 basis points to 6.49 percent as of 10:30
a.m. in Johannesburg from 6.58 before she began her speech. The
rand gained to 7.1648 against the dollar from 7.1785.  “They were pretty dovish comments,” Jeffrey Schultz, an
analyst at Absa Group Ltd., said in a telephone interview from
Johannesburg. “We are likely to see policy rates on hold for
longer. The market is, though, becoming more confident that a
rate cut is on the cards.”  Economic growth probably slowed in the second quarter from
an annualized 4.8 percent in the first three months of the year
as the recovery in manufacturing and mining output waned, Marcus
said. Statistics  South Africa  is due to publish second-quarter
gross domestic product data on Aug. 30.  Consumer Spending  While consumer spending has been the main driver of
expansion in recent quarters, Marcus said, “for some time the
Monetary Policy Committee of the bank has questioned the
sustainability of this consumption growth.” She cited the slow
pace of employment growth, consumer debt levels, weak credit
growth and low growth in  house prices .  Retail sales rose 2.2 percent in June from a year ago,
after gaining 0.2 percent in May, while manufacturing growth
eased to 0.9 percent from 1 percent in the same period,
according to the statistics office.  Marcus said low interest rates in developed nations will
continue to spur investors’ demand for high-yielding assets,
fueling demand for South African bonds. Foreigners have bought a
net 51 billion-rand ($7.1 billion) of bonds this year, while
selling 8 billion-rand worth of equities, she said.  “These flows are expected to continue, although are likely
to become more volatile and uncertain during episodes of
heightened  risk aversion ,” Marcus said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 