-- 
Korea Won Strengthens on Speculation Federal Reserve Plans More Stimulus

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-08-23T07:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/south-korean-won-strengthens-on-fed-stimulus-speculation-bonds-decline.html
South Korea’s won rose for a second
day on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will introduce additional
stimulus measures to sustain a U.S. recovery, possibly involving
asset purchases that boost the supply of dollars.  The Fed will hold its annual symposium at Jackson Hole,
Wyoming on Aug. 26. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on
Aug. 9 it is “prepared to employ” additional tools to bolster
the economy, indicating more pro-growth policies are being
considered. The local  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  and the MSCI Asia-Pacific
Index of shares rose for the first time in four days.  “The won is gaining from expectations that the Fed will
announce market-supportive policies, although it isn’t clear if
such steps will be unveiled this week itself,” said Park Joo
Hyung, a Seoul-based currency dealer at Korea Exchange Bank.
“Regional stock movements added support to currency gains.”  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,077.90 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, following a 0.3 percent advance yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
appreciated 4.5 percent this year and touched 1,048.30 on July
27, the strongest level since August 2008.  South Korea ’s overseas short-term debt rose for a second
straight quarter to $149.7 billion in the three months through
June, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement today. The Ministry
of Strategy and Finance said in a separate statement it will
continue to act “preemptively” against external risks while
closely monitoring changes in overseas debt, capital flows and
financial markets.  Three-year  government bonds  declined for a second day. The
yield on the 3.5 percent debt due June 2014 rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.52 percent, according to
Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  