-- 
South African Bonds Extend Rally as Marcus Comments Fuel Rate-Cut Talk

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-23T14:36:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/south-african-bonds-extend-rally-as-marcus-comments-fuel-rate-cut-talk.html
South African bonds extended a
seven-day rally and the rand erased gains after central bank
Governor  Gill Marcus  said policy makers will respond
“appropriately” to a slowing global economy, fueling
expectations of an interest-rate cut.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 climbed 21 cents to 124.481
rand, driving the yield down five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 6.515 percent as of 4:04 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The yield has declined 49 basis points in the past
seven days. The rand traded at 7.2191 per dollar after advancing
as much as 0.9 percent to 7.1520.  Marcus, speaking to the American Chamber of Commerce in
Johannesburg, said while inflation is on an “upward trend,”
there are “few obvious signs” of demand pressure in the
economy. Growth in Africa’s largest economy will depend on
global developments, and the central bank would react
“appropriately” in the event of a slowdown, she said.  Marcus’s comments indicated “a big shift in the central
bank’s policy,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , an emerging-market
strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said in response to questions by
Bloomberg. “We are bullish towards the  bond market  and we
expect the market to start pricing in a cut already in
September.”  BNP said on Aug. 18 the yield on the 2015 bond may fall to
6.5 percent, when it yielded 6.77 percent. Four-year borrowing
costs may fall even further, especially if comments from central
bankers meeting at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming this week confirm
concerns about global growth, Pawlowski said today.  Rate-Cut Bets  Forward-rate agreements starting in six months dropped
seven basis points to 5.34 percent, the lowest level in at least
10 years, indicating traders are pricing in a 46 percent chance
of a rate cut, Tradition Analytics strategists led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note.  Pretoria-based Statistics South  Africa  may report tomorrow
that the consumer price index rose 5.2 percent in the year
through July, from 5 percent the previous month, according to
the median estimates of 18 economists polled by Bloomberg. The
central bank’s mandate is to keep inflation within a 3 percent
to 6 percent target range, though it also takes into account the
effect of monetary policy on economic growth.  The rand declined on speculation a rate cut may reduce the
currency’s yield advantage. South Africa’s benchmark interest
rate of 5.5 percent compares with near-zero rates in the U.S.
and  Japan .  “Rate cuts down the line obviously won’t be good for the
rand,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at Bidvest Bank in
Johannesburg, which runs  South Africa ’s largest chain of
moneychangers, said by phone. “The rand is going to remain
under pressure.”  Earlier, the rand advanced versus the dollar after reports
showed manufacturing from  China  to Europe beat forecasts, easing
concern the global economy is losing momentum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  