-- 
Soybean Production Probably Will Miss Forecast, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-23T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/soybean-production-probably-will-miss-forecast-oil-world-says.html
World soybean production probably
will be lower than previously estimated as adverse weather in
the U.S. curbs yields, Oil World said.  Output will total 261.42 million metric tons in the 2011-12
marketing year, the Hamburg-based researcher said in a report
today, 1.8 percent below its estimate at the end of July. U.S.
farmers will collect 84.4 million tons, down 4.7 percent from
last month’s forecast, the report showed. Hot, dry weather in
the U.S. Midwest may cut production, Oil World said.  “Some areas are still too dry, which is detrimental for
the developing crop,” Oil World said. “The biggest decline
will occur in the U.S., for which we are currently using a crop
estimate” lower than last month because of the weather, the
researcher said.  Soybeans for November delivery gained 9.5 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $13.9475 a bushel by 1:15 p.m.  London  time on the
Chicago Board of Trade after reaching $13.97, the highest price
since July 22. The oilseed gained 39 percent in the past year
and is up 2.8 percent this month.  Stockpiles of soybeans will probably total 75.8 million
tons, up 1.7 percent from the July estimate, on higher Southern
Hemisphere production, the researcher said. Usage may rise as
 China  increases processing amid a shortage of soybean oil and
meal, according to the report.  “This will considerably moderate the prospective
production shortfall and result in an increase in total soybean
supplies,” Oil World said. “China will face difficulties in
acquiring sufficient quantities of soya oil and rape oil on the
world market, which will raise the dependence on soybeans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 