-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Political Allies Say Comeback Bid Is Up to Him

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-23T08:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/strauss-kahn-s-political-allies-say-comeback-bid-is-up-to-him.html
The French Socialists who replaced
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  as their party’s leading presidential
candidates said his return to politics is up to him, declining
to predict a comeback after a New York prosecutor recommended
sexual-assault charges be dismissed.  “I would like to leave it to him to express his views on”
his future political role, said  Martine Aubry , a candidate for
the Socialist Party’s presidential nomination, today on  France 
Info.  Francois Hollande , who leads Aubry in polls, said in an
interview published in today’s La Provence newspaper, “it’s for
him to decide” what he’ll do upon his return to France. “His
skills should be put to use for our country.”  Strauss-Kahn, the 62-year-old former International Monetary
Fund chief and French finance minister, was the leading
contender to beat incumbent President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in next
year’s election before he was arrested in May after a Manhattan
hotel maid told police he attacked her when she arrived to clean
his room. He was jailed and stepped down from the IMF and passed
the filing deadline for the Socialist nomination race under
house arrest.  Manhattan prosecutors met with the housekeeper, Nafissatou
Diallo, yesterday to explain why they decided to drop her case
and filed a motion seeking dismissal of the charges based on her
numerous false statements and “irreconcilable accounts” she
gave about events immediately after the encounter.  Strauss-Kahn still faces a civil suit by Diallo filed in
New York state court as well as accusations of attempted rape by
a Frenchwoman that Paris police are looking into, questioning
another witness yesterday.  That complaint, by writer Tristane Banon, was filed July 5,
days after Strauss-Kahn was released from detention and had his
bail returned when Manhattan prosecutors first revealed their
doubts about Diallo. Banon claims Strauss-Kahn attacked her in
2003. He has denied her account and retaliated with a slander
suit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  