-- 
Strauss-Kahn Faces Lawsuit, French Probe After Charges Dismissed

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-24T20:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/strauss-kahn-sexual-assault-charges-are-dismissed-by-new-york-city-judge.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
International Monetary Fund chief who won dismissal of sexual-
assault charges in New York, still faces a lawsuit by his
accuser and remains the subject of a French rape investigation.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus yesterday
granted Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s request to
dismiss the indictment against Strauss-Kahn, 62. Obus also
rejected the accuser’s bid for a special prosecutor in the case,
a decision that an appeals court refused to reverse.  Vance’s office sought to dismiss the case after concluding
that the housekeeper who accused Strauss-Kahn of attempting to
rape her and forcing her to have oral sex had lied about events
surrounding the alleged May 14 attack at the Sofitel hotel in
midtown  Manhattan , as well as about key details of her life.  “I can’t wait to go back to my country, but I still have a
few things to do before going,” Strauss-Kahn, speaking in
French, told reporters yesterday outside the Lower Manhattan
townhouse where he has been staying. He said that he’s
“relieved” for his wife, his children, his friends and the
people who supported him. “I will talk more when I get back to
France.”  Travel Documents  Benjamin Brafman , one of Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers, said
yesterday in an e-mail that he expects his client’s travel
documents to be returned today. Brafman didn’t respond to an e-
mail today about the status of those documents. The  district
attorney ’s office said it expects Strauss-Kahn’s passport to be
returned today.  “Unless you have been falsely accused of a very serious
crime that you did not commit, it is impossible for you to
understand or grasp the full measure of relief that Dominique
Strauss-Kahn feels,” Brafman said yesterday. “This was not a
forcible encounter. You can engage in inappropriate behavior
perhaps, but that is much different than a crime and this case
was treated as a crime when it was not.”  Investigators in France are probing allegations that
Strauss-Kahn tried to rape French writer Tristane Banon eight
years ago, a claim he has denied.  Banon filed a criminal complaint against Strauss-Kahn in
July, saying he assaulted her in February 2003 when she went to
interview him for a book. Strauss-Kahn,  France ’s former finance
minister, has filed a complaint with Paris prosecutors accusing
Banon of slander.  Nafissatou Diallo, the Sofitel housekeeper, will pursue a
lawsuit in which she accuses Strauss-Kahn of “deplorable
acts,” according to her lawyer,  Kenneth Thompson .  ‘Equal Justice’  Thompson accused Vance of failing to uphold the standard of
equal justice under the law in a case in which the accuser was
an immigrant from Guinea.  “If Dominique Strauss-Kahn was a construction worker from
Harlem, do you really believe that District Attorney Cyrus Vance
would turn his back on a seven-count indictment that a grand
jury returned based on the evidence that he presented?”
Thompson said to reporters after yesterday’s court hearing.  “Women who are raped and sexually assaulted should not
have to go through some test to show that they lived a perfect
life,” Thompson said. “The standard shouldn’t be whether they
lived a pristine life or whether they came to the  United States 
on the Mayflower.”  The dismissal came about three months after Strauss-Kahn,
once a potential French presidential candidate, was pulled off a
flight at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  on May 14 and
arrested.  ‘Nightmare’  The experience has been “a nightmare for me and my
family,” Strauss-Kahn said in an English-language statement
after Obus ruled. “We are obviously gratified that the district
attorney agreed with my lawyers that this case had to be
dismissed. We appreciate his professionalism and that of the
people who were involved in that decision.”  Strauss-Kahn may take legal action against Diallo, Brafman
said in an e-mail.  “We will consider whether to file appropriate counter-
claims if civil litigation continues,” he said. In a CNN
interview that included fellow Straus-Kahn lawyer William Taylor III, Brafman said the former IMF chief isn’t bitter.  “I think he regrets this incident with all of his heart,”
Brafman said. “We view her as either evil or pathetic or
both,” he said of Diallo.  Taylor, in the CNN interview, called Diallo an
“accomplished actress.”  “She doesn’t have much of a chance in a civil case,”
Taylor said. “We’re not worried about a civil case.”  Impossible to Pursue  Diallo told police that Strauss-Kahn attacked her when she
went to clean his suite at the Sofitel. During the
investigation, Diallo, 33, admitted to lying about the
circumstances of the incident and other matters. Prosecutors
said those lies made it impossible to pursue the case.  “The complainant was untruthful with us in nearly every
substantive interview,” Assistant District Attorney Joan
Illuzzi-Orbon said in court yesterday. “She was untruthful
about matters great and small in significance.”  A press conference by Vance was interrupted by an
earthquake that shook the eastern U.S. from at least  North
Carolina  to  New York .  Vance said later in a statement that his office wasn’t
convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that a crime had been
committed.  ‘Critical Elements’  “The crimes charged in the indictment required the People
to prove that Strauss-Kahn engaged in a sexual encounter using
force and without the complainant’s consent,” Vance said in the
statement. “Proof of these two critical elements -- force and
lack of consent -- rests solely on the complaining witness’
testimony. But her testimony was fatally damaged.”  Evidence collected by New York investigators established
that Strauss-Kahn engaged in “a hurried sexual encounter” with
the maid, “but it does not independently establish her claim of
a forcible, nonconsensual encounter,” prosecutors said in an
Aug. 22 court filing requesting the dismissal.  Prosecutors said Diallo gave three different accounts of
what happened immediately after the encounter at the Sofitel,
and admitted to lying to the grand jury, something defense
lawyers could have used against her at a criminal trial.
Prosecutors said she told investigators a fictitious tale,
“with great emotion and conviction,” about how she was gang-
raped by soldiers in  Guinea .  ‘Highly Relevant’  “In a case where a complainant is accusing a defendant of
a sexual assault, the fact that she has given a prior false
account of a different sexual assault is highly relevant,”
prosecutors said.  They said Diallo also repeatedly asserted that she wouldn’t
try to make money off of the case, only to sue Strauss-Kahn this
month. She failed to disclose $60,000 in cash deposits made into
her checking account by individuals in four different states,
and she lied about her job to obtain low-income housing,
prosecutors said.  “If we do not believe her beyond a reasonable doubt, we
cannot ask a jury to do so,” prosecutors said.  Robert Morgenthau, a Manhattan district attorney for 34
years and now of counsel at the  law firm  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen
& Katz in New York, said in a statement that although he hasn’t
reviewed the case, he believed Vance and his staff conducted
their investigation “in accordance with established
procedure.”  “They are not afraid of making tough or unpopular
decisions,” said Morgenthau, 92. “If they have determined that
the prosecution cannot win the case, their judgment not to go
forward is not only wise, as a matter of policy, but required
under the relevant rules as a matter of prosecutorial ethics.”  Presidential Contender  Strauss-Kahn was a leading contender to run for president
of France before his arrest. Other Socialist candidates for his
party’s nomination said it was for him to decide whether to
return to politics.  “I would like to leave it to him to express his views” on
his political future,  Martine Aubry , a candidate for the
Socialist presidential nomination, said yesterday on France
Info.  “He is not a candidate in the upcoming presidential
election, but I can’t see how the country could do without his
competence,” Jean-Marie Le Guen, a French lawmaker and Strauss-
Kahn ally, told France Info. “I think that those who can count
on Strauss-Kahn’s support will have a top card to play.”  Manhattan Townhouse  Strauss-Kahn, who resigned his post as the IMF’s managing
director on May 18, was confined to a Lower Manhattan townhouse
before bail requirements were dropped as the prosecution began
to unravel. Brafman, his lawyer, declined to discuss Strauss-
Kahn’s plans after yesterday’s dismissal of the criminal case.  “There is a measure of privacy that Dominique and his wife
would like restored to the personal family, so we’re not going
to discuss what his plans are now,” Brafman said.  The criminal case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New
York State Supreme Court (New York County); the civil case is
Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New York State Supreme Court
(Bronx County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  