-- 
Strauss-Kahn, Spitzer, Bunge, Motorola, BofA in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-23T11:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/strauss-kahn-spitzer-motorola-bank-of-america-in-court-news.html
Prosecutors asked a judge to dismiss
all criminal charges against Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former
International Monetary Fund chief accused of sexual assaulting a
hotel maid who lied to authorities about some details of her
life and the case.  “The nature and number of the complainant’s falsehoods
leave us unable to credit her version of events beyond a
reasonable doubt whatever the truth may be about the encounter
between the complainant and the defendant,” the office of
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said in a filing
yesterday in Manhattan. “If we do not believe her beyond a
reasonable doubt, we cannot ask a jury to do so.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was arrested in May after Nafissatou
Diallo told police he attacked her when she came to clean his
suite at the Sofitel in midtown Manhattan. He pleaded not guilty
to the charges. The accuser’s credibility came into question
when prosecutors learned that she had lied about events
immediately after the alleged attack, among other things.  “We have maintained from the beginning of this case that
our client is innocent,” Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers, Bill Taylor
and  Benjamin Brafman , said in a statement. “There were many
reasons to believe that Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s accuser was not
credible. Mr. Strauss-Kahn and his family are grateful that the
district attorney’s office took our concerns seriously.”  Vance’s office invited Diallo and her lawyers to a meeting
yesterday to explain what she could expect at a status hearing
scheduled for today before  New York  State  Supreme Court  Justice
Michael Obus.  “Cyrus Vance has denied the right of a woman to get
justice in a rape case,” Diallo’s lawyer Kenneth Thompson said
after the meeting. “He has not only turned his back on this
innocent victim, but he has also turned his back on the
forensic, medical and other physical evidence in this case.”  Diallo’s civil case is still pending against Strauss-Kahn
in New York state court in the Bronx. In the suit, which alleges
“violent and deplorable acts” occurred in the suite in the
Sofitel, Diallo is seeking unspecified monetary damages.  The criminal case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New
York State Supreme Court (New York County); the civil case is
Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New York State Supreme Court
(Bronx County).  New suits  Ex-Marsh & McLennan Executives Sues Spitzer, Slate Magazine  Two former Marsh & McLennan Cos. executives, who had
insurance-fraud charges against them dropped, sued ex-New York
Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  claiming they were defamed in a
Slate magazine article.  In the suit, William Gilman claimed Spitzer, in a Slate.com
opinion piece written in response to a Wall Street Journal
editorial critical of his investigation, indicated that Gilman,
who wasn’t named in the article, had committed crimes. Gilman’s
suit was filed in federal district court in Manhattan on Aug.
19. Edward McNenney, another former Marsh & McLennan executive,
filed suit in New York State Supreme Court on Friday as well.  Gilman worked for Marsh & McLennan from 1976 to 2004,
according to his complaint. In 2004 Spitzer announced an
investigation into practices at the company, including fees paid
by insurers to brokers who place business with them. Gilman was
indicted in 2005 on 37 counts. He was convicted of one charge,
restraint of trade and competition.  The convictions of Gilman and McNenney were thrown out by
the trial judge, James Yates of state Supreme Court, who said
newly discovered contradictory evidence “undermines the court’s
confidence in the verdict.”  “I haven’t seen the lawsuit and so will not comment on
it,” Spitzer said in a telephone interview. “The illegalities
rampant at Marsh & McLennan leading to their fine of $850
million and the multiple judicial findings of illegality are
clear from the public record.”  The Slate Group LLC was also sued by Gilman and McNenney.
E-mails to the magazine’s press office seeking comment didn’t
receive a reply.  Gilman is seeking at least $60 million in damages in the
federal suit. McNenney seeks $30 million in the state case.  The federal case is Gilman v. Spitzer, 11-c-5843, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
state case is McNenney v. Spitzer, 109628/2011, Supreme Court of
the State of New York.  Syngenta Sues Bunge for Refusal to Accept Modified Corn  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest maker of agricultural
chemicals, sued a unit of  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  over claims it is illegally
refusing to accept corn produced from the company’s
bioengineered seeds.  Bunge, which operates a network of grain elevators and
receiving stations, posted a notice on its website and at
several locations that it is “unable to accept” delivery of
corn or soybeans produced by Syngenta’s Agrisure Viptera seeds
and another product made by DuPont Co., according to the
complaint. Bunge said in the notice that the seed products
haven’t received international approval from major export
destinations, according to the complaint filed in federal court
in Sioux City, Iowa.  The product complies with all U.S. regulatory requirements,
Syngenta said yesterday in a statement.  “When a product has been legally approved, growers should
be able to use that technology without subsequently being
subjected to arbitrary actions,” David Morgan, president of
Syngenta Seeds Inc., said yesterday in the statement.  Viptera, which received U.S. regulatory approval last year,
is genetically modified to combat damaging insects such as corn
earworm and fall armyworm. The technology has been approved for
cultivation in Canada, Argentina and Brazil, and for import in
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, the
Philippines, Korea and Taiwan, Syngenta said in its statement.
Approval is pending in  China  and is expected early 2012, the
company said.  Bunge spokeswoman Deb Seidel didn’t immediately return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Syngenta Seeds Inc. v. Bunge North America
Inc., U.S. District Court Northern District of Iowa Western
Division (Sioux City).  Gunmakers’ Group Sues to Block U.S. Tracking of Border Purchases  A group representing gun dealers and manufacturers
including  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  and Glock GmbH sued to
block U.S. rules aimed at curbing illegal weapons-trafficking
across the border into Mexico.  The  National Shooting Sports Foundation Inc.  asked a
federal judge in Washington yesterday to block the  Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives  from requiring dealers
in Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas to report when any
customer buys two or more semi-automatic rifles in five days.  “A preliminary injunction will curtail an unlawful
regulation by ATF that sets a dangerous legal precedent,”
Lawrence G. Keane, the general counsel of the foundation, said
in a statement. “This is the proverbial ‘slippery slope.’”  The group, based in Newton, Connecticut, said it was
seeking an immediate halt to the requirement on behalf of 759
retail gun dealers in the four border states. The group on Aug.
3 asked a federal judge to throw out the new rules, which took
effect Aug. 14. The request for an injunction is meant to block
those rules from being enforced while the case proceeds.  On July 12, the ATF sent letters to gun sellers in U.S.
states along the Mexican border requesting reports on purchases
of semi-automatic rifles that are greater than .22 caliber and
include a detachable magazine.  The reporting requirement, part of a one-year-pilot
program, will affect about 8,500 gun sellers in those states.  The case is The National Shooting Sports Foundation v.
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, 11-
cv-01401, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia
(Washington).  Trials/Appeals  Microsoft Says Motorola’s Android Phones Infringe Its Patents  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, began
arguing its U.S. trade case that Android-based smartphones made
by Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. use technology derived from
Microsoft inventions.  In a trial that began yesterday before the International
Trade Commission in Washington, Microsoft accused Motorola
Mobility of infringing seven of its patents and requested a halt
to imports of certain Motorola phones. The ITC has the power to
stop imports of products that violate U.S. patent rights.  The case is the first smartphone dispute to be heard by the
agency since  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said Aug. 15 it would buy Motorola
Mobility for $12.5 billion to obtain patents that could be used
as a bulwark against a surge of lawsuits targeting handsets and
tablet computers that use Google’s Android operating system.  “We have a responsibility to our employees, customers,
partners and shareholders to safeguard our intellectual
property,” David Howard, Microsoft’s corporate vice president
and deputy general counsel for litigation, said in an e-mail.
“Motorola is infringing our patents and we are confident that
the ITC will rule in our favor.”  Motorola Mobility is “vigorously defending” itself
“against Microsoft’s patent attack business strategy,”
 Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. “We have also brought legal actions of our own in the
U.S. and in Europe to address Microsoft’s large scale of
infringement of Motorola Mobility’s patents.”  Microsoft’s claim against Libertyville, Illinois-based
Motorola Mobility is one of more than a dozen smartphone cases
before the ITC, as companies seek to use patents to gain a
bigger share of a market projected by researcher IHS Inc. to
reach $206.6 billion this year. Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft makes its own mobile operating system, Windows Phone
7, which competes with Android and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Testimony in yesterday’s Motorola Mobility trial focused on
details about functions that Microsoft calls “essential to the
smartphone user experience,” including ways to synchronize e-
mail, calendars and contacts; schedule meetings; and notify
applications of changes in signal strength and battery power.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile Devices,
Associated Software and Components Thereof, 337-744, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Bank of America Unit Pays $5 Million in San Francisco Accord  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s credit card unit agreed to pay $5
million and suspend arbitrations of consumer debt collections in
California for two years to settle San Francisco’s lawsuit over
its collection practices.  The agreement, filed yesterday in state court in San
Francisco, resolved a 2008 lawsuit alleging that Bank of
America’s FIA Card Services unit used an arbitration service
that was biased in favor of the bank and against consumers. The
 National Arbitration Forum Inc. , based in Minneapolis, employed
unfair business practices while administering arbitrations for
consumer who owed credit-card debt to the unit, according to the
lawsuit.  FIA agreed not to use the mediation service in arbitrations
for five years or enforce unconfirmed arbitration awards
obtained through the company, said San Francisco City Attorney
Dennis Herrera in an e-mailed statement. FIA is prohibited from
barring consumers from suing the company as a group, according
to the statement.  “Both sides agreed to the settlement to avoid the costs
and uncertainty of further legal action,”  Shirley Norton , a
Bank of America spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Bank of America denies any wrongdoing, Norton said. The
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company discontinued mandatory
arbitration for consumer credit card disputes in August 2009 and
hasn’t used National Arbitration Forum since then, she said.  The bank, the largest U.S. lender, also eliminated
mandatory arbitration and requirements barring group lawsuits
from consumer and small business credit card agreements, Norton
said.  Mark Fellows, a spokesman for National Arbitration Forum,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is People of State of California v. National
Arbitration Forum, 473569, California Superior Court, County of
San Francisco.  3M Agrees to Pay $3 Million to Settle Age Discrimination Suit  3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of Post-It notes and Scotch tape, will
pay $3 million to former employees, ending a federal age-
discrimination lawsuit, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission said.  The EEOC charged that 3M unlawfully dismissed hundreds of
employees over age 45 in a series of job cuts from July 2003
through the end of 2006, according to an agency statement
yesterday. 3M shed many “highly paid older employees, among
others, apparently to save money,” according to the statement.  Pending a judge’s approval, 3M will pay about 290 former
employees as part of the settlement, which also requires the
company to announce openings for positions that it hadn’t
advertised previously.  3M, based in St. Paul, Minnesota, is among the 30 companies
in the benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index. Donna
Runyon, a spokeswoman for the company said the settlement is a
“compromise and allows the company to avoid ongoing investments
in time and legal fees. It is not an admission of any
liability.”  Runyon added that there was a separate lawsuit involving
employees in Minnesota that was settled earlier in the year and
is awaiting court approval.  Ex-Duane Reade Chief Cuti Gets Three-Year Prison Sentence  Former Duane Reade Inc. Chief Executive Officer Anthony Cuti was sentenced to three years in prison for falsely
inflating income and misleading investors.  Cuti, 65, of Saddle River,  New Jersey , was convicted in
June 2010 of conspiracy and securities fraud after a federal
jury trial in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. U.S. District
Judge  Deborah Batts  also yesterday ordered Cuti to pay a $5
million fine.  Cuti was “a gifted, arrogant, driven, entitled
individual,” Batts said, adding that he had “bullied people
into committing fraudulent acts to make the company look better
than it actually was” to increase his executive compensation.  Batts said Cuti was also guilty of “the height of hubris”
for re-writing his employee compensation plan.  Cuti didn’t admit any wrongdoing when he spoke in court
before the sentence was imposed. “I’ve always led my life with
integrity,” Cuti said as his wife, adult daughter and brother
sat in the courtroom. “The conviction is so at odds with what
I’ve tried to be,” he also said.  Cuti’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , yesterday asked Batts to
impose no jail time and allow his client to remain free to
perform public service.  “He was not a guy motivated by greed and driven to line
his pockets,” said Weingarten. Investors weren’t harmed, he
argued, and said they had profited from Cuti’s transformation of
Duane Reade from “a sleepy nearly bankrupt drug store on a
Manhattan street corner to being a force to be reckoned with.”  Former Duane Reade Chief Financial Officer William Tennant,
who was tried with Cuti and convicted of one count of securities
fraud, is scheduled to be sentenced Aug. 29. The U.S. said both
men engaged in a scheme to falsely increase revenue and lower
expenses from 2000 to 2005.  Batts yesterday directed Cuti to surrender to U.S. Bureau
of Prisons officials on Jan. 31.  The case is U.S. v. Cuti, 08-cr-00972, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  EMI Wins Partial Victory in Copyright Suit Against MP3tunes  EMI Group Ltd. won a partial victory in a copyright lawsuit
against the online music storage site MP3tunes LLC.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan ruled
yesterday that MP3tunes contributed to infringement when it
failed to remove unauthorized songs from its website after being
informed about them.  “Users of MP3tunes unlawfully copied songs from
unauthorized third-party websites,” Pauley wrote in his order.
Pauley also ruled that Michael Robertson, MP3tunes’s founder and
chief executive officer, was liable for direct infringement for
personally transferring songs digitally from websites that
weren’t authorized to provide them.  EMI and other music companies have taken websites to court
in attempts to reduce losses caused by people sharing songs
online without paying for them. In May, the music industry
reached a $105 million settlement with Lime Wire LLC for
copyright infringement, while the case was on trial in federal
court in New York.  Pauley, agreeing with MP3tunes that the safe harbor
provision of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act protected it,
ruled against EMI on some claims. The safe harbor protection
doesn’t apply to instances in which MP3tunes users got songs
from unauthorized sites and stored them on the San Diego-based
company’s website, the judge said.  The judge also rejected EMI’s request for a ruling that
MP3tunes employees were liable for infringement by downloading
171 songs.  “The court’s decision confirms that businesses cannot
simply pay lip service to the law while undermining the rights
of the musicians, artists and writers that create popular
music,” Dylan Jones, a spokesman for London-based EMI, said in
an e-mail. “The decision also proves that company executives
that personally contribute to and commit copyright infringement
will be held accountable for their actions.”  Jones said the company is evaluating its options for
seeking review of the decision that that MP3tunes was protected
by the so-called safe harbor defense.  Robertson didn’t have an immediate comment on the ruling.  EMI is owned by New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which is
trying to sell it.  The case is Capitol Records v. MP3tunes LLC, 07-09931, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 