-- 
Sudan’s Bashir Orders Cease-Fire in Southern Kordofan, State TV Reports

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-08-23T13:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/sudan-s-bashir-orders-cease-fire-in-southern-kordofan-state-tv-reports.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir
announced today a unilateral cease-fire in Southern Kordofan and
banned any foreign organization from entering the oil-producing
state,  Sudan ’s state TV reported.  Forces loyal to the government in Khartoum have clashed
since June 5 with insurgents from the northern sector of South
Sudan’s ruling party.  The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for
Human Rights called in an Aug. 15  report  for an investigation
into possible crimes against humanity and  war crimes  in the
state, allegedly committed mainly by government forces.  The Sudanese government rejected the UN report as
“baseless,” the state-run SUNA news agency reported on Aug.
15, citing Foreign Ministry spokesman Al-Obaid Murawih.
Government officials previously denied that their forces
violated human rights in the state.  Both al-Bashir and his governor in Southern Kordofan,  Ahmed
Haroun , are wanted by the  International Criminal Court  over
allegations they were involved in war crimes in the western
region of  Darfur , where insurgents took arms against the
government in 2003.  Fighting broke out in Southern Kordofan a month before
South Sudan’s July 9 independence, which was the culmination of
a 2005 peace agreement that ended a two-decade civil war between
the north and south.  Clashes and airstrikes by the Sudanese army in Southern
Kordofan forced more than 73,000 people to flee their homes,
according to the UN.  Southern Kordofan is Sudan’s only oil-producing state,
accounting for 115,000 barrels a day, according to Sudan’s
minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 