-- 
Syria Kills 10 as Demonstrators Cite Libya

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-08-23T12:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/syria-kills-10-as-demonstrators-cite-libya-for-assad-ouster.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 10 people during demonstrations as the protesters,
emboldened by rebel advances in  Libya , called for President
Bashar al-Assad to bow to international pressure to resign.  About 300 people were detained in the eastern city of Deir
al-Zour and authorities also carried out many arrests in other
cities, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human
Rights, said today by phone. Security forces conducted raids in
Hama, deployed tanks in Deir al-Zour and positioned forces
around Damascus, Al Jazeera television reported.  Assad has used tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the most serious threat to his family’s 40-
year rule. The uprisings began in mid-March after revolts ousted
the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a conflict in
Libya. In the Libyan capital, Tripoli, rebels were fighting
Muammar Qaddafi’s loyalists today in an effort to consolidate
their control over the city after declaring his regime over.  “Qaddafi is gone, gone and it’s now your turn, Bashar,”
today’s London-based  Asharq al-Awsat  newspaper cited Syrians as
chanting. At least 10 protesters died yesterday in the
governorates of Hama, Homs, Aleppo and the southern area of
Daraa, where rallies against Assad’s rule began, according to
Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human
Rights in  Syria .  The  United Nations Human Rights Council  today ordered a
probe into Syria’s crackdown on anti-government protesters,
including possible crimes against humanity.  Systematic Violations  The council condemned what it called “continued grave and
systematic human-rights violations by Syrian authorities, such
as arbitrary executions, excessive use of force and the killing
and persecution of protesters and human-rights defenders.”  The resolution to “urgently dispatch an independent
international commission of inquiry to investigate violations of
international human-rights law in Syria since July 2011” passed
in Geneva by a 33-4 vote, with nine abstentions, on the second
day of a special session on Syria. The European Union, the U.S.
and Arab countries including Saudi Arabia sponsored the
resolution.  China , Russia, Cuba and Ecuador voted against the
resolution while  India , Mauritania, Angola, the  Philippines ,
Cameroon, Uganda, Bangladesh, Djibouti and  Malaysia  abstained.  Assad told UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Aug. 18 that
security operations had stopped. A day later 40 protesters were
killed in Homs, Daraa and a suburb of Damascus, according to
Merhi and Qurabi.  “It’s troubling that he has not kept his word,” Ban told
reporters yesterday in  New York .  Russian Warning  In Russia, the foreign-affairs committee chief in the lower
house of parliament warned yesterday that efforts by western
nations to force regime change in Syria after intervening to
oust Qaddafi risk triggering the country’s collapse.  Russia  this
week rejected demands from the U.S. and the EU for Assad to step
down.  “I would advise all countries thinking about Syria to keep
in mind the negative example of Libya,”Konstantin Kosachyov
said in telephone interview in Moscow yesterday. “The risk of
civil war there is even greater than in Libya, which would lead
to the collapse of the country.”  At least 2,400 people have been killed since the protests
started, according to Merhi’s and Qurabi’s organizations. The UN
puts the death toll at more than 2,200. At least 500 members of
the security forces have died, the government has said.  “Colonialist” Powers  Assad, who succeeded his father as president after his
death in 2000, said security has improved and that Syrian forces
had foiled efforts to undermine the country. He has blamed the
protests on foreign-inspired plots.  Assad, in an interview on state television from Damascus on
Aug. 21, rejected U.S. and European demands to step down and
pledged to schedule parliamentary elections by February and
review the constitution. He called the U.S. and European nations
“colonialist” powers that want to violate Syria’s sovereignty.  The U.S., Britain and  France  are preparing to ask the  UN
Security Council  this week to freeze Assad’s foreign financial
assets, a western diplomat said yesterday. The measure would
also bar foreign travel by the Syrian leader and call for an
arms embargo on Syria, the diplomat said.  The three nations are planning to introduce the draft
resolution that targets Assad and about five other government
and military leaders, according to the diplomat, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the text hasn’t been made public.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a coordinated move with
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , French President Nicolas Sarkozy, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European Union
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , issued a statement on
Aug. 18 saying Assad should leave and let Syrians chart their
own political future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh ,  Saudi Arabia , at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 