-- 
U.K. Regulators Need Power to Overrule Banks on Checks, Lawmakers Report

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-08-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/u-k-needs-power-to-overrule-banks-on-checks-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K. government should give
regulators the power to prevent banks withdrawing checks and
require retail lenders to write to customers to tell them the
payment method is still available, a panel of lawmakers said.  The Payments Council , which is “dominated by the banks”
and said checks would be phased out by 2018, needs greater
consumer representation, the House of Commons  Treasury Select
Committee  said in a report on the future of checks published in
London today.  The council reversed its 2009 plan to end the use of checks
last month after a campaign by lawmakers and consumer groups.
The council said checks will continue in use “indefinitely.”  “Checks have been saved, for the moment, but we need to
remain vigilant,” the panel chairman,  Andrew Tyrie , said in an
e-mailed statement. “The incentive for the industry to get rid
of checks has not gone away. Neither have we. That is why we are
making far-reaching recommendations about the future of the
Payments Council as well as to secure the future of checks.”  The proposed Financial Services Bill should include powers
to allow the new  Financial Conduct Authority  “to intervene to
protect bank customers by preventing checks being withdrawn,”
the committee said in its report. The bill should also bring the
Payments Council into the system of financial regulation, the
panel said.  The financial secretary to the Treasury, Mark Hoban, said
the government would look carefully at the panel’s
recommendations.  “The Payments Council ultimately did the right thing by
abandoning their plans to abolish checks,” Hoban said in an e-
mailed statement. “However, the way they handled this decision
does raise questions about the governance of the Payments
Council.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  