-- 
U.K. Factory-Orders Index Rises on Consumer Goods, CBI Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-23T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/u-k-factory-orders-index-rises-on-consumer-goods-cbi-says.html
A U.K. index of factory orders rose
from a three-month low in August and  consumer-goods 
manufacturers predict a “strong rise” in output in the next
quarter, the Confederation of British Industry said.  The gauge of orders climbed to 1 from minus 10 in July, the
U.K.’s biggest business lobby group said in a report published
in  London  today. A measure of export demand rose to zero from
minus 8.  Manufacturing indexes from America to  Europe  fell in July
as Europe’s sovereign debt-crisis, political haggling over the
U.S. debt limit and monetary tightening in  China  combined to
restrain the global economic recovery. The  Bank of England  kept
its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low this month as the
faltering recovery outweighed the risk from rising prices.  “Manufacturing order books are holding up,” said Richard
Woolhouse, the CBI’s head of fiscal policy. “But the risks to
manufacturing activity and business confidence have, if
anything, increased due to market volatility and the
recalibration of growth expectations worldwide. Concerns about
growth in the U.S. and the euro area present further challenges
to the manufacturing recovery.”  The measure of expected average selling prices increased to
9 in August from 4 in July, the CBI said. The gauge of
manufacturers’ stockpiles rose 2 points to 14, the highest since
December 2009, and an index of the volume of output advanced to
13 from 6.  ‘Encouraging’  “Order-book positions remain encouraging and expectations
for output growth are now back above their long-run average,”
the lobby group said. “The improvement on July was driven by
consumer-goods manufacturers, who also expect a strong rise in
output over the next three months.”  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the world’s biggest maker of pumps for the
mining industry, said on Aug. 2 that full-year profit will be
“somewhat ahead” of previous forecasts because of higher
sales in the company’s oil and gas business.  The rise in price expectations in August was driven by the
consumer-goods industry, the CBI said. U.K. inflation was at 4.4
percent in July, more than double the Bank of England’s 2
percent goal.  The CBI surveyed 510 manufacturers between July 27 and Aug.
17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  