-- 
New-Home Sales in U.S. Drop to Lowest Level in Five Months

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-23T14:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/u-s-new-home-sales-fell-in-july-to-lowest-level-in-five-months.html
Sales of new U.S. homes declined
more than projected in July to the lowest level in five months,
indicating the industry is struggling to stabilize two years
into the economic recovery.  Purchases fell 0.7 percent to a 298,000 annual pace after a
300,000 rate in June that was slower than previously estimated,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.
The median projection in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
called for a 310,000 rate in July.  Builders are less inclined to start new projects as they
face competition from cheaper existing homes and the prospect of
foreclosures putting more unsold properties on the market. A
jobless rate above 9 percent and limited employment growth
indicate housing may keep weighing on the recovery even with
 mortgage rates  at a record low.  “There is no upside momentum at all in housing,” said
 Eric Green , chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New
York , whose forecast for sales was 300,000. “Without any
meaningful job growth, we’re going to continue to look at a
housing sectors that is moribund.”  Stocks held gains after the figures, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbing 1.5 percent to 1,140.21 at 10:49 a.m.
in New York. Treasuries were little changed with the yield on
the benchmark 10-year note as 2.11 percent.  Estimates of the 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from annual selling rates of 290,000 to 330,000. About 323,000
new dwellings were sold in 2010, the fewest on record.  Richmond Fed  Another report today showed manufacturing, which helped the
economy emerge from recession, is beginning to slow. The Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond’s business activity index dropped to
minus 10 in August, the weakest since June 2009, from minus 1 as
orders contracted.  The monthly survey of producers in the region covering the
Carolinas,  Maryland ,  Virginia  and West Virginia corroborates
factory reports from Philadelphia and New York that pointed to
weakness in the industry.  The Commerce Department’s data showed the median sales
price of a new home increased 4.7 percent to $222,000 from July
2010. There were a record-low 165,000 new houses on the market
at the end of July, leaving the supply of homes at the current
sales rate at 6.6 months’ worth, the same as in June.  Sales dropped in two of the four U.S. regions, led by a 7.4
percent slump in the South that was the biggest since August
2010. Purchases declined 5.9 percent in the West.  Previously Owned Homes  Competition from cheaper, existing homes is hurting sales
of new dwellings. Distressed properties, which include
foreclosures and short-sales, have made up about 33 percent of
all existing-home sales since late 2008, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  Purchases of previously owned houses, which account for the
bulk of the market, fell last month to the weakest pace since
November, the NAR reported on Aug. 18. The 3.5 percent decrease
reflected an increase in cancellations due to strict lending
rules and low appraisals.  “The U.S. housing market remains under stress,” Frank Blake, chairman and chief executive officer at  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,
said on an Aug. 16 teleconference with analysts. “We do not
expect any meaningful improvement in the housing market for the
back half of 2011, and events here and across the globe would
suggest that there are more risks to the downside than the
upside on GDP growth.”  Fed’s Bernanke  The home sales figures underscore Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that the market is hampered by limited
job growth and declining  consumer confidence .  “Residential construction activity remains at an extremely
low level,” Bernanke said in July 13 testimony to Congress.
“The demand for homes has been depressed by many of the same
factors that have held down  consumer spending  more generally,
including the slowness of the recovery in jobs and income as
well as poor consumer sentiment.”  Consumer confidence in August plunged to the lowest level
since May 1980, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index. Rising pessimism poses a risk
household spending will cool further, hindering a recovery
that’s shown signs of fatigue.  Declining sentiment, a lack of hiring and limited income
are hurdles for a housing market even with mortgage rates at
all-time lows. The average on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was
4.15 percent in the week ended Aug. 18, down from 4.42 percent
in the period a year ago, according to  Freddie Mac .  Signs of Strain  More signs of strain in the housing market emerged
yesterday. The percentage of U.S. mortgages overdue by one month
rose to the highest level in a year in the second quarter as
homeowners who lost jobs were unable to make their payments.  The share of home loans overdue by 30 days rose to 3.46
percent of all mortgages, from 3.35 percent in the first
quarter, according to a report today from the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  in  Washington . The percentage of mortgages overdue
by 60 days increased to 1.37 percent from 1.35 percent, while
foreclosures dropped for the second consecutive quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  