-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Hurricane Irene Nears U.S. Coast

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-23T12:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-hurricane-irene-nears-u-s-coast.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Hurricane Irene Intensifies as Storm Nears Bahamas, U.S. Coast  Hurricane Irene grew into a Category 2 storm that is
forecast to strengthen as it moves toward the Bahamas and
possibly the Carolinas and U.S. Northeast.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  VSMPO to Invest $800 Million on Rising Titanium Use in Aircraft  OAO VSMPO-Avisma, the largest titanium company, will spend
$800 million by 2015 to increase output and make semi-finished
products for airplanes as clients including Boeing Co. seek
components that are ready to install.  OPEC Has No Need to Cut Overproduction, Gulf Official Says (1)  OPEC has no immediate plans to cut crude production as
 Libya ’s oil output will most likely come back gradually as rebel
forces push into Tripoli to force an end to Muammar Qaddafi’s
rule, a Persian Gulf oil official said.  Swaps Jump Means Ruble Supply Eroded by Oil Drop: Russia Credit  The cost of locking in  interest rates  in Russia for one
year is rising even as it falls in Brazil, China and India, a
sign that sliding  oil prices  are eroding the amount of cash in
the country.  Norway Policy Tracking  Europe ’s Debt Crisis, Johnsen Says (1)  Norway needs to adapt economic policy to ensure its
exporters remain competitive as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
threatens to deplete the country’s trade markets, Finance
Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said today.  Russia  Warns Assad Ouster May Trigger Collapse, Mideast Unrest  Efforts by the West to force regime change in  Syria  after
intervening to oust Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi risk
triggering the country’s collapse and further instability in the
Middle East, a senior Russian official said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises on Speculation Fed Will Act to Spur U.S. Economy  Copper rose in  London  on speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will act to bolster the economy in the U.S., the world’s second-
biggest consumer of the metal.  Antofagasta Profit Surges 54% on Copper Prices, Dividend (2)  Antofagasta Plc, the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, said first-half profit climbed 54 percent as
production and metal prices advanced.  ANZ Approved to Trade Gold Futures on Shanghai Exchange  The  Australia  and  New Zealand  Banking Group Ltd has been
approved to trade gold on the Shanghai Futures Exchange,
becoming the second foreign bank permitted to do so, the
Melbourne-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.  World Is Already in Recession, Metals Signal: Chart of the Day  The world economy is already in a recession, markets for
industrial and precious metals indicate.  MINING:  U.S. Stock Futures Rise on Fed Speculation,  China  Manufacturing  U.S. stock-index futures climbed amid continuing
speculation the Federal Reserve will act to prop up the
faltering economic recovery and as a contraction in Chinese
manufacturing eased.  ArcelorMittal Faces Profit Slump on ‘Brutal’ Prices, Exane Says  ArcelorMittal may post its lowest earnings in two years in
the fourth quarter as the world’s biggest steel producer bears
the brunt of a “brutal” drop in prices spurred by Europe’s
debt crisis, Exane BNP Paribas said.  Whitehaven Coal Profit Falls 91% on Legacy Sales Agreements (2)  Whitehaven Coal Ltd., an Australian coal producer, said net
income fell 91 percent after it had to buy coal to fulfill older
supply contracts.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Declines From Record Above $1,910 as Some Investors Sell  Gold dropped for the first time in seven sessions in London
as some investors sold the metal after concerns about slowing
economic growth pushed prices to a record above $1,910 an ounce.  Silver ‘Neckline’ Break May Signal 15% Rally: Technical Analysis  Silver may climb 15 percent, extending its 38 percent
advance this year, and return to its level in April which was
the highest for at least three decades, according to technical
analysis by Citigroup Inc.  Hochschild Mining Profit More Than Triples on Silver Prices (1)  Hochschild Mining Plc, a producer of silver in Peru and
Argentina, said first-half profit more than tripled after prices
of the precious metal rose.  Shanghai Gold Exchange Raises Margin Requirement to 12% (1)  The Shanghai Gold Exchange, China’s largest spot market for
the precious metal, will increase the margin by 1 percentage
point, joining other bourses in an effort to curb volatility
after prices gained to a record.  UBS Physical Gold Sales to  India  Yesterday Highest Since May 10  UBS AG said its physical gold sales to India yesterday were
the highest since May 10 and more than double the daily average
volumes this year.  Gold Stocks Have ‘A Lot to Gain’ as Metal Surges: Chart of Day  Gold-mining stocks are worth a closer look because they
have failed to keep pace with a record- setting surge in the
metal’s price, according to Citigroup Inc. and  RBC Capital
Markets .  Gold Margins Assessed on Market Volatility, CME’s Hunnable Says  CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures market, decides
on margin changes based on market volatility, said its head of
metals products Harriet Hunnable. The CME raised the initial and
maintenance margins on gold contracts by 22 percent from the
close of business Aug. 11. She spoke in an interview with
Bloomberg in  Singapore  yesterday.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Gains as Dry Weather Threatens Soybean Crop Prospects  Palm oil gained the most in more than a week on concern
that the worsening soybean crop condition in the U.S., the
world’s biggest shipper, will lower global vegetable oil
supplies.  Sugar Gains for 3rd Day on  Brazil  Crop Outlook; Coffee Advances  Sugar rose for a third day in London on speculation of more
damage to the cane crop in Brazil’s Center South, the biggest
producing region. Coffee also gained.  Corn Advances to 10-Week High as U.S. Crop Condition Worsens  Corn rose to a 10-week high in Chicago and soybeans gained
as worsening crop conditions in the U.S., the top global
exporter, raised concern supply may be smaller than estimated.  SHIPPING:  Australia May Ship Most Wheat Since 2004: Freight Markets (2)  Australia may displace the European Union as the world’s
second-biggest wheat shipper as cargoes jump to an eight-year
high, easing a shortage that drove global food costs to a
record.  Nigerian Crude Exports to Reach Seven-Month Low in October (1)  Nigeria , a favored supplier of crude to U.S. refiners,
plans to cut its daily exports of 14 major grades by 7 percent
in October to a seven-month low, according to loading plans
obtained by Bloomberg News.  India to Seek Funds for New Ports That Cost $7.6 Billion (2)  India will seek private funds for seven new ports costing
350 billion rupees ($7.6 billion) as the government tackles
transport bottlenecks that are hindering plans to triple exports
of agricultural and manufactured goods.  ECONOMIES:  China Manufacturing May Shrink at Slower Pace, Survey Shows (2)  China’s manufacturing may contract at a slower pace in
August as the world’s second-biggest economy weathers slumping
global confidence.  Europe’s Failure to Stem Banking Crisis Haunts Markets Again (1)  Four years to the month since the global credit crisis
began, European lenders remain dependent on central bank aid,
plaguing markets and economies worldwide.  European Banks Must Pay Up to Borrow $100 Billion: Euro Credit  European banks with more than $100 billion of cash to raise
by year-end will have to pay up because investors perceive them
as the worst credits they’ve ever been.  Merkel Never Holding Hands With Sarkozy Betrays Europe’s Crisis  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy have never held hands like Helmut Kohl and
Francois Mitterrand once did at a World War I battlefield.
Merkel worries they don’t even talk enough.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Commodities Gain on Fed Speculation, China; Dollar Slips  Stocks and U.S. equity-index futures jumped, while
commodities rallied for a third day on speculation the Federal
Reserve will take steps to bolster the economy and after a gauge
showed China’s manufacturing may have contracted at a slower
pace. Treasuries and the dollar declined.  Dollar, Yen, Franc Fall as Manufacturing Data Exceeds Forecasts  The dollar, yen and Swiss franc weakened against most of
their major counterparts after reports showed manufacturing from
China to Europe exceeded economists’ forecasts, reducing demand
for safer assets.  Pimco Favors Currencies of China,  Mexico , India, Crescenzi Says  Pacific Investment Management Co. favors currencies of
China, Mexico, Australia, India, Malaysia and Singapore because
of the loss of the U.S. top credit rating and growing caution on
the global economy.  European Stocks Rise for Second Day; U.S. Index Futures Advance  European stocks rose for a second day amid continuing
speculation the Federal Reserve will take action to bolster the
economy and as Chinese manufacturing data exceeded forecasts.
U.S. index futures and Asian shares gained.  Emerging Stocks Rally From 1-Year Low on China, Fed Speculation  Emerging-market stocks rose, lifting the benchmark index
from a one-year low, as a report showed China’s manufacturing
may contract at a slower pace and investors speculated the
Federal Reserve will take further steps to bolster the U.S.
economy.  Oil Rises a Second Day on Fed Stimulus Hopes, Libyan Fighting  Oil advanced for a second day in  New York  on speculation
that the Federal Reserve will take further steps to stimulate
the economy and as fighting continued in the Libyan capital,
Tripoli.  Qaddafi Loyalists Fight On as Libyan Rebels Claim His Capital  Libyan fighters loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  counterattacked
rebel forces in parts of Tripoli today as both sides claimed
control of most of the capital.  Maehara to Run for Japan Prime Minister as Kan Gives Exit Date  Former Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  announced he
will enter the race to succeed Prime Minister Naoto Kan, who
said today he may resign in three days.  SPORTS:  Arsenal Manager Wenger Fights Two-Match Touchline Ban: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  All Blacks Omit Sivivatu, Messam, Pick Vito for World Cup (1)  New Zealand omitted wingers Sitiveni Sivivatu and Hosea
Gear as selectors picked the most experienced All Blacks squad
to try and win the Rugby World Cup on home soil starting next
month.  Wallabies Recall Vickerman, Samo for Tri-Nations; Trio Cleared  Australia recalled forwards Dan Vickerman and Radike Samo
for this weekend’s Tri-Nations rugby decider against top-ranked
New Zealand.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  