-- 
U.S. to Slash Marcellus Shale Gas Estimate 80%

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-08-23T20:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/u-s-to-slash-marcellus-shale-gas-estimate-80-.html
The U.S. will slash its estimate of
undiscovered Marcellus Shale natural gas by as much as 80
percent after a updated assessment by government geologists.  The formation, which stretches from  New York  to Tennessee,
contains about 84 trillion cubic feet of gas, the  U.S.
Geological Survey  said today in its first update in nine years.
That supersedes an Energy Department projection of 410 trillion
cubic feet, said Philip Budzik, an operations research analyst
with the Energy Information Administration.  “We consider the USGS to be the experts in this matter,”
Budzik said in an interview. “They’re geologists, we’re not.
We’re going to be taking this number and using it in our
model.”  The revised estimates, posted on the agency’s website, are
likely to spur a debate over industry projections of the
potential value of shale gas.  Last week,  Range Resources Corp. (RRC) ,  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  and
 Goodrich Petroleum Corp. (GDP)  were subpoenaed by New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman  over whether they accurately
represented the profitability of their natural-gas wells in the
region, according to a person familiar with the matter. The
subpoenas, sent Aug. 8, requested documents on formulas used to
project how long the wells can produce gas without additional
drilling using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  The previous Geological Survey estimate in 2002 said the
Marcellus Shale contained about 2 trillion cubic feet of gas.
The 42-fold increase is the result of “new geologic information
and engineering data,” the agency said. The Marcellus formation
may hold from 43 to 144.1 trillion cubic feet, the agency said.  Technology Advances  Advances in the technology used to recover shale gas led
the Energy Department to more than double its estimate of
recoverable shale resources, to 827 trillion cubic feet, in an
April  report  and to project that the nation has enough natural
gas to heat homes and run power stations for 110 years. Shale
gas is recovered by fracturing, a technique in which millions of
gallons of chemically treated water are forced underground to
break up rock and allow gas to flow.  “One fifth of a big number is still a big number,”  Kevin
Book , managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a
Washington-based policy analysis firm, said today in an
interview. “It shouldn’t tell you anything about your
conclusions. It should tell you what you need to know about
estimates. They get revised.”  Budzik said much remains unknown about the Marcellus. Most
drilling by companies such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and Range
Resources Corp. has occurred in the northeast corner of
Pennsylvania, Budzik said. New York has banned drilling until
the state completes environmental regulations.  ‘Sense Of Proportion’  “There hasn’t been a lot of drilling elsewhere yet,”
Budzik said. “Layer on that the fact that over the next 30
years, the technology is going to evolve. It will have an impact
on our projections. We all need to keep a sense of proportion
here.”  The Energy Information Administration, the data-gathering
arm of the Energy Department, will incorporate the USGS
estimates in its annual energy outlook, which should be issued
by the end of the year, Budzik said.  The Marcellus Shale assessment covered areas in Kentucky,
 Maryland , New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee,  Virginia , and
 West Virginia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  