-- 
U.S. Army Corps Flood Failures on Mississippi Demand New Vision

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-08-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/u-s-army-corps-flood-failures-on-mississippi-demand-new-vision.html
I stood at the edge of the
Mississippi in  New Orleans  last May, the river so high that a
fat wake would have sent swirling waters over the levee’s edge.  That day the  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  began opening the
Morganza Spillway above  Baton Rouge , Louisiana, routing water
from the swollen Mississippi down the Atchafalaya River. To keep
the Mississippi from overtopping levees in Baton Rouge and New
Orleans, the diversion inundated farms and prime oyster-rich
inlets.  In  Missouri , just two weeks earlier, the Corps had blown
out more than two miles of levee at Birds Point to vent
floodwaters that threatened Cairo,  Illinois . A fifth of the
river’s flow quickly covered 130,000 acres of farmland.  The record-breaking spring floods “tested the limits of
the system,” said Paul Harrison, senior director for
 Mississippi River  and East Coast at the  Environmental Defense
Fund . He said the Army Corps, which has managed the river’s flow
since 1824, “wants to continue to invest in the old system
rather than look at these events as an opportunity to create a
21st-century system.”  Similar criticism has come from Congress, flood-plain
managers, and other major interests, and more people are daring
to say that the river defenses need to be redesigned from top to
bottom.  Levee Failures  Is the Corps up to the task? It’s too soon to forgive the
army for the colossal levee failures that brought New Orleans to
its knees.  The future some envision is breathtakingly audacious.
Instead of the dull, domesticated mass of mud-laden water that
today runs largely in straight channels between mown-grass
levees, the river would run free, winding in wide, lazy oxbows,
around ponds and marshlands covered with flocks of waterfowl.  Forest and wetland buffers would filter out fertilizers and
pesticides that are today sluiced at high speed to the  Gulf of
Mexico . There, they plunge off the edge of the continental shelf
and form a deepwater dead zone that threatens fisheries. This
year, it covers 6,800 square miles.  Major General Michael J. Walsh commands the Mississippi
River Valley Division in Vicksburg. I asked him by phone whether
the flood protections are up to the task. “Historic? Defining?
Epic? We’ve been looking for the right adjective to describe
this year’s flooding,” he said.  “We used every element of the flood-control system, but my
hydraulic engineers are reporting that we used about 85 percent
of the system’s design capacity. We still had a reserve.” He
added that the Corps increasingly works with the river’s natural
features to slow floodwaters.  Marsh Destruction  Others aren’t as sanguine. Environmental Defense and
several other groups are tackling a vexing problem: the need to
rebuild coastal  Louisiana  marshes that have rapidly receded, in
part because they are denied sediments the river supplied by
overflowing its banks.  Last year I was guided into the river’s lower reaches by
Ben Weber of the  National Wildlife Federation ’s Coastal
Louisiana program and two local officials of the National
Audubon Society, Paul Kemp and Bruce Reid.  Our motorboat departed from  Venice , Louisiana, steering
past net-covered fishing boats and oil rig staging yards. As we
reached Southwest Pass, the shipping channel into the Gulf, I
was surprised to find the river demarcated from the sea only by
a rock embankment and a thin line of grasses.  With prehistoric-looking, and aptly named, Magnificent
Frigatebirds circling overhead, massive, rumbling dredgers
labored 24 hours a day to keep the navigation channel open. The
river is trying to short circuit the delta, but the dredging
keeps it on the course the  Army Corps  has set.  Delta Renewal  The delta is falling apart, according to my guides, and the
disappearing coastal marshes harm the fishing industry and leave
inland cities like New Orleans more vulnerable to hurricanes.
They see the Corps efforts as unsustainable in the long term.  Harrison and his colleagues have been raising money to
sponsor a competition that would invite teams of experts to
redesign the delta so that it reconciles the needs of the
environment, flood control, and navigation. In architecture,
competitions have led to great buildings, like the Sydney Opera
House.  Asked about the competition, Walsh said, “We would
certainly add any of their ideas to our study matrix.”  Walsh advocates “a 200-year vision,” one that covers the
entire watershed because flooding tributaries contributed to the
near record flows of the  Mississippi . That sounds impressive,
but the vision today comprises a list of aspirations covering a
single page.  ‘We Know Best’  It doesn’t take a stand on the many battles among competing
interests that must be fought, and it certainly doesn’t identify
how many billions it would cost or where the money would come
from. And that suggests Corps “we know best” business as usual.
It’s not good enough.  The river’s outsize contribution to the  U.S. economy  and
environment makes fleshing out that vision an urgent task. A
series of design competitions could drive innovation and help
find common ground.  Fabled 100-year floods seem to show up every few years now.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 