-- 
UBS, Bank of America, Duane Reade, Spitzer, Goldman Sachs: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-23T11:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/ubs-bank-of-america-spitzer-goldman-sachs-compliance.html
U.S. prosecutors won a victory in
their crackdown on offshore  tax evasion  when a federal appeals
court said a former UBS AG client must turn over his bank
records to a U.S. grand jury.  The client, identified only as M.H., must produce records
sought by a federal grand jury in San Diego, according to the
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. A three-judge panel rejected
M.H.’s constitutional argument that the Fifth Amendment right
against self-incrimination should cover records on foreign bank
accounts.  “It’s a huge win for the government,” said tax attorney
Ed Robbins of Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez in
Beverly Hills,  California , who is not involved in the case.
“This ruling says that the government has the right to go to
any taxpayer anywhere and say, ‘Give me your foreign bank
records’ and they’d have no Fifth Amendment protection.”  Prosecutors seek information that M.H. must keep under the
Bank Secrecy Act, asking for the name and number of each
account, the name and address of each bank, and the maximum
values of accounts, according to the Aug. 19 opinion. Such
record-keeping requirements mean M.H. must comply, the appellate
panel ruled.  “Because the records sought through the subpoena fall
under the Required Records Doctrine, the Fifth Amendment
privilege against self-incrimination is inapplicable, and M.H.
may not invoke it to resist compliance with the subpoena’s
command,” according to the panel.  The grand jury issued a subpoena in June 2010 to M.H., who
is the target of an investigation into whether he used secret
Swiss bank accounts to evade taxes, according to the ruling. He
transferred securities from his UBS account in 2002 to a
different Swiss bank, UEB Geneva, according to the ruling.  M.H. attorney Pamela Naughton of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter
& Hampton LLP in San Diego didn’t return calls seeking comment.  The case is In re Grand Jury Investigation M.H. v. United
States of America, 11-55712, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
( San Francisco ).  Compliance Action  Bank of America Unit Pays $5 Million in San Francisco Accord  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s credit card unit agreed to pay $5
million and suspend arbitrations of consumer debt collections in
California for two years to settle San Francisco’s lawsuit over
its collection practices.  The agreement, filed yesterday in state court in San
Francisco, resolved a 2008 lawsuit alleging that Bank of
America’s FIA Card Services unit used an arbitration service
that was biased in favor of the bank and against consumers. The
 National Arbitration Forum Inc. , based in Minneapolis, employed
unfair business practices while administering arbitrations for
consumer who owed credit-card debt to the unit, according to the
lawsuit.  FIA agreed not to use the mediation service in arbitrations
for five years or enforce unconfirmed arbitration awards
obtained through the company, said San Francisco City Attorney
Dennis Herrera in an e-mailed statement. FIA is prohibited from
barring consumers from suing the company as a group, according
to the statement.  “Both sides agreed to the settlement to avoid the costs
and uncertainty of further legal action,”  Shirley Norton , a
Bank of America spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Bank of America denies any wrongdoing, Norton said. The
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company discontinued mandatory
arbitration for consumer credit card disputes in August 2009 and
hasn’t used National Arbitration Forum since then, she said.  The bank, the largest U.S. lender, also eliminated
mandatory arbitration and requirements barring group lawsuits
from consumer and small business credit card agreements, Norton
said.  Mark Fellows, a spokesman for National Arbitration Forum,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is People of State of California v. National
Arbitration Forum, 473569, California Superior Court, County of
San Francisco.  Ex-Duane Reade Chief Cuti Gets Three-Year Prison Sentence  Former Duane Reade Inc. Chief Executive Officer Anthony
Cuti was sentenced to three years in prison for falsely
inflating income and misleading investors.  Cuti, 65, of Saddle River, New Jersey, was convicted in
June 2010 of conspiracy and securities fraud after a federal
jury trial in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan . U.S. District
Judge Deborah Batts yesterday also ordered Cuti to pay a $5
million fine.  Cuti was “a gifted, arrogant, driven, entitled
individual,” Batts said, adding that he had “bullied people
into committing fraudulent acts to make the company look better
than it actually was” to increase his executive compensation.  Batts said Cuti was also guilty of “the height of hubris”
for re-writing his employee compensation plan.  Cuti didn’t admit any wrongdoing when he spoke in court
before the sentence was imposed. “I’ve always led my life with
integrity,” Cuti said as his wife, adult daughter and brother
sat in the courtroom. “The conviction is so at odds with what
I’ve tried to be.”  Cuti’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , yesterday asked Batts to
impose no jail time and allow his client to remain free to
perform public service.  “He was not a guy motivated by greed and driven to line
his pockets,” said Weingarten. Investors weren’t harmed, he
argued, and said they had profited from Cuti’s transformation of
Duane Reade from “a sleepy nearly bankrupt drug store on a
Manhattan street corner to being a force to be reckoned with.”  Former Duane Reade Chief Financial Officer William Tennant,
who was tried with Cuti and convicted of one count of securities
fraud, is scheduled to be sentenced Aug. 29. The U.S. said both
men engaged in a scheme to falsely increase revenue and lower
expenses from 2000 to 2005.  Batts yesterday directed Cuti to surrender to U.S. Bureau
of Prisons officials on Jan. 31.  The case is U.S. v. Cuti, 08-cr-00972, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  America Movil  Mexico  Dominance Rulings to Get Speedy Review  America Movil SAB will get a speedy review by Mexico’s
Federal Competition Commission in an appeal of its findings that
the company is dominant in five aspects of the phone business,
the nation’s antitrust chief said.  The antitrust agency will honor a  Supreme Court  decision
last week requiring it to review its 2009 and 2010 rulings that
America Movil’s Mexican units were dominant in fixed-line and
mobile telecommunications, Eduardo Perez Motta said yesterday.
While the agency has 60 business days to review an appeal, it
will seek to complete the process more quickly, he said.  The court decision stalls Mexican regulators’ plans to chip
away at the market share of America Movil, controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim . The Federal Telecommunications
Commission, which had expected to issue new rules this year
based on the antitrust agency’s findings, will have to await the
results of the review, Perez Motta said.  “What we’re going to do is issue our findings as soon as
possible,” Perez Motta said in a phone interview. “I welcome
this decision by the Supreme Court because it clears up where we
go from here.”  America Movil, based in Mexico City, has about 70 percent
of Mexico’s wireless subscribers. Its Telefonos de Mexico SAB
unit, also known as Telmex, has about 78 percent of the fixed-
line market.  The antitrust agency must wait for instructions from lower
courts before beginning the review process, Perez Motta said.  Telmex dominates the markets for originating phone calls,
carrying local calls, completing calls and leasing lines to
rivals, the antitrust agency found in 2009. The agency found
America Movil’s wireless unit dominant in the mobile-phone
market the following year.  America Movil asked the antitrust commission to review
those rulings. Perez Motta’s agency didn’t find a legal basis
for granting a review and denied America Movil’s request,
setting up a court fight that led to the Supreme Court ruling.  The dominance findings are separate from antitrust
commission decisions this year to assess fines of $1 billion
against America Movil and of $7.4 million against Telmex for
anticompetitive practices. The antitrust agency has accepted
America Movil’s requests to review those cases.  Blankfein Hires Lawyer Weingarten for Justice Investigation  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C.
Blankfein and other employees hired attorneys this year when the
U.S. began a probe of matters raised by the Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations.  Attorney General Eric H. Holder said on May 3 that the
Justice Department was reviewing an April report on the
financial crisis by the Permanent Subcommittee, led by Carl M.
Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and Thomas A. Coburn, Republican of
Oklahoma. The report accused Goldman Sachs of misleading clients
about complex mortgage-related investments in 2007, and Levin
alleged that Blankfein misled Congress.  “As is common in such situations, Mr. Blankfein and other
individuals who were expected to be interviewed in connection
with the Justice Department’s inquiry into certain matters
raised in the PSI report hired counsel at the outset,” the
company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Goldman Sachs fell 4.7 percent in New York trading on
concern that Blankfein’s hiring of a criminal defense attorney
could mean the firm will face more legal woes. He has been
represented by Reid H. Weingarten, a partner at Steptoe &
Johnson LLP in  Washington , since the Justice Department inquiry
began, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Blankfein, 56, hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing amid
federal probes of Wall Street’s role in the housing boom and
credit crisis. Goldman Sachs is paying Blankfein’s legal costs,
according to the bank.  Goldman Sachs has said the testimony its employees gave to
the Permanent Subcommittee “was truthful and accurate and this
is confirmed by the subcommittee’s own report.”  “The fact that the attorney was hired months ago rather
than recently moderates the impact and implications of the
story,” William Tanona, an analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN)  who has a “buy”
rating on the stock, wrote in a note yesterday. Still “these
continued distractions increase the probability of a management
reshuffle over the next few years, which will undoubtedly cause
some investor angst.”  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment. Weingarten didn’t respond to e-mail and phone
messages requesting comment.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
subpoenaed earlier this year by the Manhattan District
Attorney’s office for information related to the Permanent
Subcommittee’s report, a person familiar with the matter said in
early June.  Compliance Policy  Swiss President Says U.S. Approach in Tax Probe ‘Unacceptable’  Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey said the way U.S. tax
authorities are seeking information from Switzerland on alleged
tax evasion by Americans  is “legally unacceptable.”  “These means are too drawn out, legally unacceptable or
politically unjustifiable,” Calmy-Rey said in the text of a
speech given yesterday in Lucerne, Switzerland.  Switzerland said in June that it was in talks with the U.S.
to resolve the issue of untaxed assets held by American citizens
in Swiss bank accounts. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service and
the Justice Department have stepped up enforcement to combat
offshore tax evasion after UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank,
handed over data on 4,450 accounts to resolve a lawsuit.  “I don’t think there’s an agreement on the table,” Donald
Beyer, U.S. ambassador to Switzerland, said in an interview in
Geneva yesterday. “The Americans and Justice, the IRS, and
certainly the Swiss leaders, would like to find a solution that
works for everybody.”  UBS avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting
it fostered tax evasion, and giving the IRS data on more than
250 accounts. U.S. prosecutors told  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  last
month that it’s a target of a probe into its former cross-border
banking services to American customers.  New Suits  FDIC Sues Ex-Silverton Directors, Officers for $71 Million  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. sued former directors
and officers of Atlanta-based Silverton Bank N.A. seeking $71
million to help recoup costs stemming from the biggest bank
collapse in Georgia history.  The bank consistently disregarded its own policies when
making loans, according to the suit. At the same time, it built
a “large and lavish” office building and spent millions on new
corporate aircraft, the suit states.  “Silverton’s aggressive expansion plan was accompanied by
significant weaknesses in loan underwriting, credit
administration and a complete disregard of a declining
economy,” the FDIC said in its complaint.  The damages sought by the FDIC represent less than a fifth
of the $386 million it spent on Silverton, which was declared
insolvent in May 2009, the lawsuit alleges.  Begun in 1986 to serve small community banks, Silverton
gained a national charter and expanded into real estate
development and acquisition loans, according to the suit. Its
assets grew to $3 billion in 2008 from $1.7 billion in 2005, the
FDIC said in its complaint.  The suit names former chief executive officer and board
member Tom A. Bryan, former Chief Lending Officer Brian D.
Bueche, and former Chief Credit Officer and Senior Vice
President Brock Fredette. A message seeking comment on the case
left at a home number for Bryan, the lead defendant, wasn’t
returned.  The agency sued 14 other former directors as well.  The case is Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation v. Bryan,
1:11-CV--2790, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  ShengdaTech Board Sues CEO in Chinese Reverse Merger Case  Board members of  ShengdaTech Inc. (SDTH) , a Chinese company that
gained access to U.S. investors through a reverse merger, sued
the chief executive officer of the bankrupt chemical maker,
claiming he’s obstructing an internal fraud investigation.  A special committee of ShengdaTech sued Chen Xiangzhi to
prevent him from regaining control of the company, ending a
probe of its finances and ousting a newly appointed chief
restructuring officer.  Reorganizing ShengdaTech requires “the continued existence
of the special committee and the CRO, and the preservation of
their independent powers,” the board members said in court
papers filed Aug. 20 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Reno, Nevada.  Chen could not be immediately reached for comment at
ShengdaTech offices, where no one answered the phone before
business hours in  China .  ShengdaTech makes nano precipitated calcium carbonate, or
NPCC, a chemical additive used in automotive and polyvinyl
chloride products. The company was organized by a so-called
reverse merger in 2006 and traded on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange
until April, when it failed to file an annual financial report
and its auditor resigned.  Since 2007, more than 150 Chinese companies with a market
value of $12.8 billion entered U.S. markets through reverse
mergers,  according  to the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board, which oversees auditors of public companies. During that
same period, about 50 Chinese companies filed initial public
offerings.  In a reverse merger, a company not listed in the U.S. buys
an American public shell corporation, allowing the new entity to
avoid the scrutiny of an initial public offering.  U.S. exchanges have frozen or delisted shares of more than
a dozen China-based firms since March.  The case is In re ShengdaTech Inc., 11-52649, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  Ex-Marsh & McLennan Executives Sues Spitzer, Slate Magazine  Two former Marsh & McLennan Cos. executives, who had
insurance-fraud charges against them dropped, sued ex-New York
Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  claiming they were defamed in a
Slate magazine article.  In the suit, William Gilman claimed Spitzer, in a Slate.com
opinion piece written in response to a Wall Street Journal
editorial critical of his investigation, indicated that Gilman,
who wasn’t named in the article, had committed crimes. Gilman’s
suit was filed in federal district court in Manhattan on Aug.
19. Edward McNenney, another former Marsh & McLennan executive,
filed suit in New York State Supreme Court on Friday as well.  Gilman worked for Marsh & McLennan from 1976 to 2004,
according to his complaint. In 2004 Spitzer announced an
investigation into practices at the company, including fees paid
by insurers to brokers who place business with them. Gilman was
indicted in 2005 on 37 counts. He was convicted of one charge,
restraint of trade and competition.  The convictions of Gilman and McNenney were thrown out by
the trial judge, James Yates of state Supreme Court, who said
newly discovered contradictory evidence “undermines the court’s
confidence in the verdict.”  “I haven’t seen the lawsuit and so will not comment on
it,” Spitzer said in a telephone interview. “The illegalities
rampant at Marsh & McLennan leading to their fine of $850
million and the multiple judicial findings of illegality are
clear from the public record.”  The Slate Group LLC was also sued by Gilman and McNenney.
E-mails to the magazine’s press office seeking comment didn’t
receive a reply.  Gilman is seeking at least $60 million in damages in the
federal suit. McNenney seeks $30 million in the state case.  The federal case is Gilman v. Spitzer, 11-c-5843, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
state case is McNenney v. Spitzer, 109628/2011, Supreme Court of
the State of New York.  Comings and Goings  Gary Barnett Named Swaps Division Director by U.S. CFTC  Gary Barnett was named director of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s division of swap dealer and intermediary
oversight, according to an e-mailed statement from the agency.  Barnett currently heads Linklaters LLP’s U.S. derivatives
and structured finance practice group, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 