-- 
UBS Keeps 2,000 Jobs in Connecticut in Five-Year Loan Deal

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-08-23T20:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/ubs-keeps-at-least-2-000-jobs-in-connecticut-in-five-year-deal-with-state.html
UBS AG (UBS) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
lender, promised to keep at least 2,000 jobs in  Connecticut 
under a five-year agreement with the state, in which the company
will get a $20 million “forgivable” loan.  The bank, which has about 3,500 people in the state, views
the pledge as a minimum level, not a target, UBS Americas Chief
Executive Officer Phil Lofts said in an interview today. The
deal lets the firm make “minor staff relocations” between
 Stamford , Connecticut, and New York, he and Connecticut Governor
Dannel P. Malloy said in a statement. UBS may receive $7 million
in additional loans by adding jobs.  The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Oswald J. Gruebel,
said today it would cut 3,500 jobs globally as earnings decline
amid stricter capital rules and a slowdown in client trading.
The Zurich-based firm has been reviewing its use of real estate
in Connecticut, New York and  New Jersey  and earlier this year
considered moving U.S. investment-bank staff from Stamford to a
site at  Manhattan ’s World Trade Center, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said in June. By July, the company had
shifted focus to locations in Midtown.  “This project will retain at least 2,000 high-quality,
high-paying jobs in the state, spur  capital investment  and
reaffirm the state’s reputation as a leader in financial
services,” Malloy said in the statement.  ‘Very Dark Day’  UBS completed its Stamford expansion in 2002, building a
trading floor for 1,400 people. The office is about an hour by
train from Manhattan’s Grand Central Terminal. The company
leases more than 3 million square feet of  office space  for
various operations in the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
region, a company spokeswoman said in June.  The bank plans to keep the Stamford trading floor, Lofts
said at a press conference. He declined to comment on what
impact the global job cuts may have on operations in the city.
Under the deal for additional loans, the bank will get credit
for every 250 jobs it adds, according to the statement.  “It would have been a very, very dark day if they had
pulled up stakes and left,” said John Goodkind, managing
principal in commercial property broker Newmark Knight Frank’s
Fairfield County office. “It’s a good thing for Stamford, and
for the whole area,” said Goodkind, who helped negotiate the
relocation of Starwood Hotels & Resorts to Stamford from White
Plains,  New York .  The loans will help offset UBS’s investment in
infrastructure, technology and training, according to the
statement. The firm has more than 17,000 employees across the
three states, said Christiaan Brakman, a company spokesman.  “This decision enables our employees to continue to
support the local communities where they live and work, which is
especially important in light of the challenging economic
climate,” Lofts said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 