-- 
UBS Plans to Cut 3,500 Jobs as Trading Slowdown Hurts Profit

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-08-24T00:23:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/ubs-plans-to-cut-about-3-500-jobs-to-save-costs.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
will eliminate about 3,500 jobs, or 5.3 percent of its
workforce, as stricter  capital requirements  and a slowdown in
client trading reduce earnings.  About 45 percent of the reductions will come from the
investment bank, 35 percent from the wealth management and Swiss
bank division and 10 percent each from the asset management and
wealth management Americas units, the Zurich-based bank said in
a statement today. UBS had 65,707 employees at the end of June.  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  aims to reduce
annual costs by 2 billion Swiss francs ($2.5 billion) by the end
of 2013 after scrapping the bank’s profit target. The world’s 50
largest banks announced almost 60,000 job reductions this year
through the first week of August, the fastest rate since 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said
last month it will cut about 2,000 jobs, or 4 percent of staff,
to help save 1 billion francs a year beginning in 2012.  “UBS realized that despite expansion after the credit
crisis they lost market share everywhere, and in  investment
banking  they won’t get back to where they once were,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, who
has a “hold” rating on the company. “UBS will probably drop
out from the bulge-bracket investment banks sooner or later.”  UBS rose 22 centimes, or 2.1 percent, to close at 10.75
francs in Swiss trading. The shares have dropped 30 percent this
year, compared with a 31 percent decline in the 46-company
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  Stalling Growth  The company had announced about 18,500 job cuts during the
credit crisis, which resulted in more than $58 billion of
writedowns and credit losses for the bank and the biggest annual
loss in Swiss corporate history in 2008.  “UBS will continue to be vigilant in managing its cost
base while remaining committed to investing in growth areas,”
the bank said in the statement. It expects to book restructuring
charges of about 550 million francs, including about 450 million
francs this year, mostly in the third quarter.  UBS’s profit dropped 49 percent in the second quarter on a
slump in earnings at the investment bank. The job reductions
will affect almost 9 percent of 17,776 employees at the unit,
based on headcount at the end of June.  “It is clear to us that the new capital and regulatory
requirements will weigh on banking profits going forward,”
Gruebel, 67, said at a press conference in Zurich last month.
“This is a constraint for the entire banking industry, and we
cannot rely on markets to boost our profits when global economic
growth looks as if it may have stalled.”  Two-Year Effort  UBS had been aiming to double pretax profit to about 15
billion francs by 2014 from 7.46 billion francs in 2010. The
bank abandoned the earnings goal on July 26 and said it will
give an update on its targets in November.  UBS earnings have been hurt as the global economic recovery
faltered, Europe’s sovereign debt crisis intensified and the
Swiss franc climbed to records against the dollar and euro. The
Bloomberg European bank index dropped 20 percent since the start
of August to the lowest level since March 2009.  Gruebel and Carsten Kengeter, 44, who runs the investment
bank, have been trying to revive earnings at the division for
two years. They hired more than 1,700 people across the
investment bank and brought in new business heads to replace
those that left or were fired. They’ve also increased risk-
taking to improve earnings opportunities.  Market Share  The measures have brought limited benefits. UBS’s share
among the nine biggest investment banks of revenue from trading
stocks and bonds and advising clients on capital-market
transactions and mergers more than doubled from 2009 to the
first half of this year, yet it remained the lowest.  Separately, UBS said it promised to keep at least 2,000
jobs in  Connecticut  under a five-year agreement with the state,
in which the company will get a $20 million “forgivable” loan.
The bank, which has about 3,500 people in the state, views the
pledge as a minimum level, not a target, UBS Americas Chief
Executive Officer Phil Lofts said in an interview today.  UBS said the client and investment advisory businesses in
Switzerland will be largely unaffected by the job cuts. In total
about 400 reductions are planned in the country, mostly in
central services and administrative units, it said.  Job cuts will affect about 4.4 percent of staff at the
wealth management and Swiss bank division, 9.2 percent in asset
management and 2.2 percent in  wealth management  Americas. Cost-
cutting measures will also include some changes in the use of
real estate, the bank said without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  