-- 
Humala Bigger Risk to Peru Than Global Slowdown, Exporters Say

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-23T19:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/humala-bigger-risk-to-peru-than-global-slowdown-exporters-say.html
Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala ’s
pledges to increase state control of the Andean nation’s natural
resources pose a bigger threat to the economy than slower global
growth, said the general manager of exporter association
Comexperu.  The government’s proposals to increase mining taxes and
tighten rules on developing new mines have caused private
investment to stall, Patricia Teullet said in an interview in
Lima yesterday. That is a larger concern than a slowdown denting
prices for  Peru ’s copper and zinc exports.  Though Humala formed an investor-friendly Cabinet and vowed
to respect contracts, companies remain wary of his pledges to
strengthen the state’s role in industries such as oil and gas,
she said. Companies have also expressed concern that the
government may take away mining concessions to appease local
communities, she said.  “The government still isn’t giving out clear signs to
reassure investors,” Teullet said. “They’re sending mixed
messages and it’s not clear what the state’s role in the economy
will be. That’s why long-term investments are being postponed.”  The government on Aug. 25 may announce an agreement with
mining companies on a windfall tax as it seeks to finance
increased spending on infrastructure, health and education,
Humala said Aug. 14.  While the tax may be acceptable to mining companies, the
government needs to reassure investors there won’t be additional
measures to increase taxation on the industry, said Cesar Perez- Novoa a managing director at Celfin Capital, a Santiago-based,
Chile-based brokerage.  A further tax increase “would raise a red flag on the
government’s credibility,” which would “translate into lower
investment and lower potential for future economic growth,”
Perez said yesterday in an e-mailed report.  The sol was little changed at 2.7330 per dollar at 3:09
p.m. New York time from 2.7325.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  