-- 
Russia Signals Opposition to Western Bid for Sanctions Against Assad

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-08-24T00:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/un-to-investigate-syrian-human-rights-violations-overriding-russia-china.html
Russia today signaled opposition at
the  United Nations  to a bid by the U.S. and its European allies
to freeze the foreign assets of  Syria ’s President Bashar al- Assad and impose an arms embargo on his country.  “We don’t think so,” Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
said when asked whether his government would support the
proposed imposition of UN sanctions on Assad and 22 senior
government officials. Churkin said the UN  Security Council 
should only “work within the scope” of its Aug. 3 statement
condemning use of force against civilians by Syrian authorities.  The U.S., Britain and  France  today circulated a draft
resolution to UN Security Council members that would freeze the
foreign assets of Assad, his brother Maher and 21 other senior
government officials. President Assad was excluded from the list
of 22 officials whose travel from Syria would be barred. Maher
Assad commands a Syrian army division.  The measure would also freeze the assets of the Syrian
General Intelligence Directorate, the Military Housing
Establishment and two entities -- Al Mashreq Investment and Bena
Properties -- that are described as funding the Assad regime.  Sale of weaponry to Syria and purchase of arms by the
regime would be banned, and all nations would be urged to
inspect any cargo going to or from Syria when there is reason to
believe it might contain embargoed goods.  Further Sanctions  Adoption by the  Security Council  would create a committee
to make further designations for sanctions and a panel of
experts to monitor implementation of the resolution. Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon would be asked to report on implementation
within 30 days and every 60 days thereafter.  The text would “strongly condemn the grave and systematic
human rights violations by Syrian authorities, such as arbitrary
executions, excessive use of force and the killing of
protesters.” It demands an immediate end to the violence.  Russia voted earlier today in the Geneva-based UN Human
Rights Council against a resolution authorizing an investigation
into Syria’s crackdown on anti-government protesters, including
possible crimes against humanity.  China , which like Russia can
veto the sanctions resolution, also voted against the  Human
Rights Council  measure.  The resolution to “urgently dispatch an independent
international commission of inquiry to investigate violations of
international human-rights law in Syria since July 2011” passed
in Geneva by a 33-4 vote, with nine abstentions, on the second
day of a special session on Syria. The European Union, the U.S.
and Arab countries, including  Saudi Arabia , sponsored the
resolution.  ‘Immoral Course’  “We are beginning the discussion in the Security Council
of sanctions that can be imposed on a global basis, and I think
Assad needs to know that he is on a dangerous and immoral course
that will have significant consequences for his leadership,”
U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said on CNN.  The Human Rights Council condemned what it called
“continued grave and systematic human-rights violations by
Syrian authorities such as arbitrary executions, excessive use
of force and the killing and persecution of protesters and
human-rights defenders.” UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Navi Pillay said yesterday that more than 2,200 people have been
killed during the crackdown.  Assad has used tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the most serious threat to his family’s 40-
year rule. The uprisings began in mid-March after revolts ousted
the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a civil war in
 Libya .  Clear Message  “Today’s resolution sends a clear message from the
international community:  The writing is on the wall for the
Syrian regime,” Hillel Neuer, director of UN Watch, which heads
an international coalition of 50 human-rights groups that
petitioned for the Human Rights Council meeting, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The government of President Bashar al-Assad
is an enemy of human rights and should surrender power
immediately.”  Cuba and  Ecuador  also voted against the resolution, while
 India , a Security Council member, joined Mauritania,  Angola , the
Philippines, Cameroon, Uganda, Bangladesh, Djibouti and  Malaysia 
in abstaining.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  