-- 
Hungarian Central Bank Leaves Main Rate Unchanged to Stem Currency Decline

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-23T15:27:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/hungarian-central-bank-leaves-main-rate-unchanged-to-stem-currency-decline.html
Hungary ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a seventh month as
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis weakens the forint and increases
the country’s credit risk.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  kept the two-week deposit rate at 6
percent today, matching the forecast of all 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. It also set the inflation target at 3
percent after a review, according to a statement on its website.
The “success” of measures to contain the euro-area crisis and
domestic inflation will drive monetary policy, the bank said in
a separate statement.  “Inflation may be near the target by the end of next year
and to achieve that it may be necessary to keep  interest rates 
at the current level for an extended period,” central bank
President Andras Simor told reporters in Budapest today. Policy
makers voted unanimously to keep the rate steady, he said.  The forint fell this month to a record low against the
Swiss franc, in which most Hungarian mortgages are denominated.
While inflation is easing and data show the economy is slowing,
policy makers may have shunned a rate cut to avoid further
weakening the forint, which would hurt borrowers in the Swiss
currency and lower their capacity to spend.  ‘Preserving the Forint’  “In the bank’s view, preserving the value of the forint
and the credibility of monetary policy in the current jittery
risk environment is far more important than cutting rates a few
times,” Pasquale Diana, economist at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
wrote in a note today. “This suggests that the central bank
will err on the side of caution as much as possible.”  The forint has declined 15.6 percent against the Swiss
franc since the end of April, falling to a record low of 272.62
on Aug. 10. The franc, seen by investors as a haven, advanced
after Europe’s debt crisis spread to Italy and  Spain  from
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  and  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
the U.S. credit rating for the first time on Aug. 6. It traded
at 239.77 at 5:24 p.m. in Budapest.  The cost of insuring the nation’s debt against default
using five-year credit-default swaps rose to 424.03 basis points
from a 2011 low of 238.17 on May 4.  “Hungary’s risk assessment has deteriorated since the last
rate decision, which has mostly global reasons,” Simor said.
“Country-specific factors haven’t influenced the fall in asset
prices.”  ‘Too Aggressive’  Forward-rate agreements fixing three-month interest costs
in six months rose to 5.76 percent after hitting a 9-month-low
of 5.61 percent today. The FRA traded 30 basis points below the
three-month Budapest Interbank Offered Rate to which it settles,
compared with a spread of minus three basis points after the
last rate decision on July 26. That shows investors expect the
central bank to lower its benchmark by at least 0.25 percentage
points.  “We believe the market’s pricing of a rate cut is too
aggressive at this point -- there simply isn’t enough room for
one,”  Gyorgy Barta , a Budapest-based economist at CIB Bank, an
Intesa unit, said in a note after the decision. “As the crisis
shows no signs of abating, we think rates could remain on hold
throughout the year.”  The forint has been “fairly” stable against the euro
recently and the central bank sees no reason for using reserves
to intervene in the forint market, Simor said.  The Hungarian currency has slid 1 percent against the euro
this month, while  Poland ’s zloty has depreciated 4 percent and
the South African rand has lost more than 7 percent.  Mortgage Squeeze  The stronger franc is squeezing homeowners, who face higher
monthly payments on mortgages denominated in the Swiss currency.
OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s top lender, fell 21.4 percent this
month.  Hungary’s economy stalled in the second quarter as global
growth faltered. Gross domestic product was unchanged from the V
previous three months, while the pace of expansion slowed to 1.5
percent compared with the same period of last year from 2.5
percent in the first quarter.  Growth this year may be about 2 percent, less than the
government’s initial 3.1 percent forecast, Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban  said last week. Lower growth will force the government to
plug a budget hole of around 100 billion forint this year, Orban
said.  The inflation rate fell to 3.1 percent in July, the lowest
since March 2009, from 3.5 percent in June. Inflation may
undershoot forecasts this year, according to Orban. The central
bank expects 2011 inflation to average 3.9 percent.  Following a triennial review, the central bank set an
inflation target of 3 percent, the same as its previous goal.
The target may be reduced within the next three years, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  