-- 
Hungary Central Bank Leaves Interest Rates Unchanged to Stem Forint Drop

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-23T13:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/hungary-central-bank-leaves-interest-rates-unchanged-to-stem-forint-drop.html
Hungary’s central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a seventh month as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis weakens the forint, threatening
defaults on foreign-currency loans and slower economic growth.  The  Magyar Nemzeti  Bank kept the two-week deposit rate at 6
percent today, matching the forecast of all 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. It also set a new inflation target for
the next three years, according to a statement on its website.  The forint fell this month to a record low against the
Swiss franc, in which most Hungarian mortgages are denominated.
While inflation is easing and data show the economy is slowing,
policy makers may have shunned a rate cut to avoid further
weakening the forint, which would hurt borrowers in the Swiss
currency and lower their capacity to spend.  “We believe the market’s pricing of a rate cut is too
aggressive at this point -- there simply isn’t enough room for
one,”  Gyorgy Barta , a Budapest-based economist at CIB Bank, an
Intesa unit, said in a note after the decision. “As the crisis
shows no signs of abating, we think rates could remain on hold
throughout the year.”  Investor Bets  Forward-rate agreements fixing three-month interest costs
in six months fell to 5.66 percent today, the lowest since
November. The FRA traded 43 basis points below the three-month
Budapest Interbank Offered Rate to which it settles, compared
with a spread of minus three basis points after the last rate
decision on July 26. That shows investors expect the central
bank to lower its benchmark by at least 0.25 percentage points.  The forint has declined 15.6 percent against the Swiss
franc since the end of April, falling to a record low of 272.62
on Aug. 10. The franc, seen by investors as a haven, advanced
after  Europe ’s debt crisis spread to Italy and  Spain  from
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  and  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
the U.S. credit rating for the first time on Aug. 6. It traded
at 238.46 at 2:28 p.m. in Budapest.  A rate cut would be “fatal for the forint at present,”
Carolin Hecht, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , wrote today in a note.  Homeowners Squeezed  The stronger franc is squeezing homeowners, who face higher
monthly payments on mortgages denominated in the Swiss currency.
OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s top lender, fell 21.4 percent this
month, while the cost of insuring the nation’s debt against
default using five-year credit-default swaps rose to 412.79
basis points from a 2011 low of 238.17 on May 4.  Almost two thirds of the country’s mortgages were issued in
foreign currencies as of May 31, according to the central bank.  Hungary ’s economy stalled in the second quarter as global
growth faltered. Gross domestic product was unchanged from the
previous three months, while the pace of expansion slowed to 1.5
percent compared with the same period of last year from 2.5
percent in the first quarter.  The franc’s gains may trim growth by as much as 0.5
percentage point, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s chief of staff,
 Mihaly Varga , said in an interview published July 22 on the
website of Gazdasagi Radio. Growth this year may be about 2
percent, less than the government’s initial 3.1 percent
forecast, Orban said last week.  The inflation rate fell to 3.1 percent in July, the lowest
since March 2009, from 3.5 percent in June. Inflation may
undershoot forecasts this year, according to Orban. The central
bank expects 2011 inflation to average 3.9 percent.  Following a triennial review, the central bank set an
inflation target of 3 percent through 2014, the same as its goal
for 2008-11. The target may be reduced within the next three
years, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  