-- 
Hungarian Stocks Strengthen for Second Day, Forint Appreciates

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-23T07:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/hungarian-stocks-strengthen-for-second-day-forint-appreciates.html
Hungarian shares advanced for a
second straight day and the forint appreciated amid speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will take action to bolster the economy.  The benchmark BUX index of shares rose 2 percent to
18,468.75 by 9:26 a.m. in Budapest. OTP Bank Nyrt., the
country’s biggest lender, jumped 3.8 percent to 4,100 forint.
The Hungarian currency strengthened 0.5 percent to 271.5 per
euro.  The Fed is holding its annual symposium in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, this weekend. This time last year, Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  hinted that the central bank might embark on a second
round of asset purchases, known as quantitative easing, kicking
off a 28 percent rally in the  S&P 500  that ended in a three-year
high on April 29.  “There is more and more talk of Friday’s central banker
meeting at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, where the Fed is increasingly
expected to announce some form of QE3,” Balint Torok and
Zsigmond Gelencser, analysts at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., wrote
in a research report today.  Hungary ’s central bank will keep the two-week deposit rate
at 6 percent today, according to all 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest,
with central bank President Andras Simor scheduled to comment at
3 p.m.  “The central bank is unlikely to cut rates in a hurry,”
strategists at Commerzbank AG including Carolin Hecht in
 Frankfurt  wrote in an e-mail to clients today. “This would put
additional pressure on the already suffering forint causing the
Swiss franc-forint rate in particular to rocket once again.”  The forint appreciated 0.8 percent against the franc to
238.5, paring losses this year to 6.7 percent.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  