-- 
Hunt for Qaddafi Takes Rebels Fighters in Search of Tunnels

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-24T12:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/hunt-for-qaddafi-takes-rebels-under-tripoli-in-search-of-secret-tunnels.html
When Libyan rebels stormed Muammar Qaddafi’s compound in Tripoli, he was nowhere to be found. The
hunt for the Libyan dictator may now take them underground.  Suspecting it might come to this, Qaddafi taunted  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization  allies three months ago, saying in
a May 13 speech: “I live in a place they cannot reach and where
you cannot kill me.”  Rebels broke into the compound in Bab Al Aziziya on Aug. 23
after a day of gun battles, some of them riding black pick-ups
with machine guns welded to the back. The fighters were shown in
news broadcasts entering the broken gates of the compound and
trying to tear down a statue of a  golden fist  holding a jet,
which Qaddafi used as backdrop for speeches and rallies.  Libyans have grown up on tales of an intricate network of
air-conditioned 1970s-era secret passages, which were fortified
in the aftermath of the 1986 U.S. bombing raid on Tripoli to
provide an increasingly paranoid Qaddafi with a safe way out,
according to Karim Mezran, a Libyan exile and a professor at
Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International
Studies in Bologna,  Italy .  Search Is On  “Nobody visited these underground bunkers, but the
information we got is that he has some tunnels leading from Bab
Al Aziziya to some other places like the airport and even
Martyrs’ Square,” the former Green Square staging ground for
pro-Qaddafi demonstrations,  Ibrahim Dabbashi ,  Libya ’s former
deputy ambassador to the  United Nations , told reporters
yesterday in  New York . Dabbashi, who now represents the
opposition, said the rebels “expect him to have some residences
underground.”  While Qaddafi’s whereabouts are still unknown, the rebels
said they had achieved “total victory” over him. Abdel Hafiz
Ghoga, vice president of the rebel National Transitional
Council, said in an interview that Qaddafi isn’t in the Al
Aziziya compound and that rebels will comb the area where they
expect to find underground tunnels and corridors.  Rebel units in the opposition stronghold of Misrata, now
racing west to support comrades in Tripoli, say their forces in
the capital have already begun searching the city’s drainage
system.  Qaddafi said he has managed to slip through the streets of
Tripoli unnoticed to see for himself what is happening, Al
Arabiya TV reported, citing a recording of comments broadcast
today by a local radio station. He called on his supporters to
“cleanse” the city of “rats.”  Hitler, Stalin  Other dictators who took refuge in various forms of
underground labyrinths include  Adolf Hitler  and former Soviet
leader Joseph Stalin. Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu spent
much of his rule constructing tunnels to all parts of Bucharest
so he could slip away via the suburbs in the event of a popular
uprising, though he never used them. Besieged inside the
communist party headquarters shortly before Christmas 1990,
Ceausescu fled the capital by helicopter and was arrested when
it ran out of fuel and landed in a field.  Former Libyan Prime Minister Abdel-Salam Jalloud, once one
of Qaddafi’s closest associates, told Italian television RaiTre
on Aug. 21 that Qaddafi will fight to the very end, though he
won’t kill himself like Hitler. After the 1973 military coup,
Chilean President Salvador Allende committed suicide with a gun.  “I can envisage him more of a  Saddam Hussein  than a
Salvador Allende,” Ronald Bruce St. John, author of 14 books on
Libya, said by telephone from  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico . “I can
see him in a spider hole somewhere but not with an AK-47. I
think he is probably insane. He is totally detached from
reality.”  Hussein’s Hole  In December 2003, nine months after the U.S.-led invasion
of Iraq, Hussein was finally caught in a hole next to farm
buildings in his hometown of Tikrit. In 2006, he was led to the
gallows by masked men and hanged in  Baghdad .  Qaddafi’s Bab Al Aziziya underground complex has several
entrances, including one that his son, Saif al-Islam, has used
to drive in and out. It also may have a tunnel that connects the
compound to Tripoli’s Rixos hotel, where foreign journalists
were staying during this year’s conflict and where Saif al-Islam
re-emerged this week after reports he had been captured, Mezran
said.  The storming of the compound came after three days of
battles between rebels and Qaddafi forces inside the capital.
The rebels mounted a three-pronged attack on Tripoli over the
weekend, ending weeks of stalemate in the sixth-month conflict.  ‘Luxury’ Bunker  The bunker discovered by rebels underneath Qaddafi’s villa
in the mountain town of Bayda may give a clue what the tunnels
in Tripoli might be like.  According to a report and photos in  the Daily Mail 
newspaper in February, the bunker had three nine-inch-thick
blast doors and led to a massage room, seven bedrooms, a kitchen
and caverns full of equipment. Passageways with power generators
and an air-filtration system led to an escape shaft in the
countryside.  That’s a lot more luxurious than the accommodation  Iraq ’s
Hussein had to resort to. His chamber was six to eight feet
deep, with only enough room for one person to lie down, an air
vent and an extractor fan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  