-- 
Huntsman Gay Merges ICongo With Hybris to Expand in E-Commerce

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-08-23T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/huntsman-gay-merges-icongo-with-hybris-to-expand-in-e-commerce.html
Huntsman Gay Global Capital LLC , the
private-equity firm founded by  Jon Huntsman  and Robert Gay,
merged its Canadian software developer ICongo Inc. with
Germany’s Hybris GmbH, creating what it calls the world’s
largest independent electronic-commerce software business.  Hybris, based in Munich, and Montreal’s ICongo provide
companies and manufacturers with software to run Internet sales
and manage inventories, the investment firm said today in a
statement.  Palo Alto , California-based Huntsman Gay, which
acquired ICongo with management in November, has a majority
stake in the combined Hybris. Terms weren’t disclosed.  The buyout firm seeks to capitalize on growth in global e-
commerce, which it expects to more than double to $653 billion
by 2015. The new Hybris has about 350 customers, including
Adidas AG,  Nikon Corp. (7731)  and Toys “R” Us Inc., allowing it to
compete with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and International Business Machines
Corp.’s units for large clients and better serve smaller
companies as well, according to Richard Lawson, a co-founder and
managing director at Huntsman Gay.  “Most of these retailers and manufacturers are taking out
what they bought 10 years ago in the early 2000s and putting in
more dynamic and more robust solutions,” Lawson said in a
telephone interview.  The combination follows  Redwood City , California-based
Oracle’s January acquisition of Art Technology Group Inc., a
maker of software for online marketing, and San Jose-based  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s $2.4 billion purchase of GSI Commerce Inc. in March.  $1.1 Billion Fund  Hybris’s sales will exceed those of Demandware Inc., an e-
commerce provider that reported $36.7 million in revenue last
year, according to Lawson. Demandware, based in Woburn,
 Massachusetts , filed in July to raise about $100 million through
an initial public offering to finance growth.  The transaction is the 18th investment Huntsman Gay has
made since raising a $1.1 billion fund in 2009, Lawson said.
That fund focuses on buying majority stakes in companies with
annual profits of $25 million to $30 million, the firm said at
the time.  Huntsman is the founder and chairman of chemical maker
Huntsman Corp., and father of presidential candidate Jon
Huntsman Jr. Gay is a former managing director of buyout firm
Bain Capital LLC. The firm’s partners include Steve Young, the
retired National Football League quarterback, and  Gary
Crittenden , a former Citigroup Inc. executive, according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  