-- 
Uranium Spot Market a ‘Ghost Town’ With No Price Change, Ux Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-08-23T01:30:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/uranium-spot-market-a-ghost-town-with-no-price-change-ux-says.html
Uranium spot prices, depressed by
the nuclear crisis in  Japan , were unchanged last week amid low
trading volume,  Ux Consulting Co.  said.  Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery sold for
$50.50 a pound in the seven days ended yesterday, the same
as the previous week, Ux said in an e-mailed report today.
That’s based on the most-competitive offer tracked by the
Roswell, Georgia-based company.  The spot price for the nuclear fuel has declined 24 percent
since the week before the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
damaged Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
station. The crisis prompted some nations to put their atomic
power plans on hold.  “A number of market participants have indicated that recent
market activity has been very limited,” Ux said in the report.
“This lack of activity has been described as the market looking
like a ghost town.”  Nuclear-power utilities buy the bulk of their uranium from
mining companies, with the contracts mostly extending beyond 12
months. The  spot market  allows trading for delivery within a
year and includes buying and selling by financial investors.  “Some activity still proceeds as the spot price floats
near the $50 level,” Ux said. “Several spot transactions have
been posted over the past week, most involving smaller
quantities.”  Kazatomprom, the Kazakhstan state nuclear company, said
yesterday it plans a 100-fold increase in sales of uranium
pellets to  China  within three years as the world’s biggest
energy consumer almost triples the number of nuclear power
plants it operates.  Kazatomprom expects shipments to China to grow to 200
metric tons of uranium pellets in 2013 or 2014 from the 2 tons
planned this year, Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Shkolnik
said in an interview in Almaty yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  