-- 
Turkey Boom Most Since Ataturk Began Lets Erdogan Contemplate Masterpiece

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-23T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/turkey-boom-most-since-ataturk-lets-erdogan-take-up-masterpiece.html
At the height of his power in a
country he has transformed, Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is positioned for the first time as an anchor of
stability and economic growth both in Europe and the Middle
East.  Erdogan’s brand of moderate Islamist politics -- his
 Justice and Development Party , or AKP, calls it “conservative
democracy” -- has won admirers across the region, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its October issue.  From the  North Sea  to the  Persian Gulf , they watched as
Erdogan, first elected in 2003, turned a nation addicted to
unstable coalition governments into one whose political system
is seen as a potential model by the Arab spring countries of
North Africa and the Middle East.  Under Erdogan, the Turkish economy has posted achievements
that are the envy of its neighbors. In the first quarter of the
year, gross domestic product expanded by 11 percent on an
annualized basis, faster than in  China  or any other developed
economy.  That followed an 8.9 percent expansion in 2010 as Turkey
bounced back from the global financial crisis. The performance
of the $740 billion economy, the world’s 16th largest, has been
“magnificent,” Erdogan, 57, told party members three weeks after
the June 12 election in which the AKP won 327 of the 550 seats
in the Grand National Assembly.  The size of the expansion under Erdogan is the biggest in 
the history of the republic, founded in 1923 by Mustafa Kemal
Ataturk following fighting after the collapse of the  Ottoman
Empire .  A Few Obstacles  “God willing, we’ll keep up the momentum and reach our goal
of a $2 trillion economy by 2023,” he said.  The prime minister’s optimism overlooks a few obstacles
standing in the way of smooth progress.  First, Erdogan’s final term started with an unprecedented
legislative boycott in which 169 opposition deputies refused to
take their oath of office in parliament.  They did so to protest decisions by judicial and electoral
authorities that barred some deputies-elect from taking their
places in the national assembly on grounds of previous
convictions or trials under way for alleged links to terrorism
or plots to overthrow the government.  Even after the main opposition bloc, the  Republican
People’s Party , or CHP, relented and joined the legislature, 35
pro-Kurd lawmakers continued the boycott.  Second, with a current account deficit of about 10 percent
as of June, the Turkish economy risks falling more out of
balance as weak spots elsewhere, especially in Europe, hurt
Turkish exporters and as prosperity-fueled domestic demand for
imports continues to rise.  A Secular State  Third, tensions have flared up between the military, which
has traditionally seen itself as the guardian of a secular
state, and those who advocate freedom of religious expression,
including the AKP.  The chief of Turkey’s armed forces, General Isik Kosaner,
together with the heads of the navy, army and  air force ,
resigned in July in protest over the arrests of dozens of
generals as suspects in an alleged plot to overthrow the
government.  Finally,  Turkey ’s bid for European Union membership looks
further away than at any point in recent years; weighing against
Turkey are local politics in  Germany ,  France  and other EU member
states, not to mention the thorny issue of Cyprus.  The island republic, an EU member, is effectively
partitioned, with Turkish Cypriots controlling the smaller,
northern region and Greek Cypriots dominant elsewhere.  Grand Plans  Erdogan’s response to these scattered signs of adversity is
typical: to plow ahead with grand plans for a new constitution
to replace the one written after a military coup in 1980. Hoping
to build a consensus in parliament and overcome the boycott, the
prime minister has argued for a document that would widen civil
liberties and express them in language that’s simple and easily
understood.  The existing charter puts protecting the state and public
order above the rights of individual citizens, according to the
AKP. The constitution is riddled with “buts and howevers,”
Erdogan said in July. “We want a shorter, more concise
constitution that everyone can call their own,” he said.  Erdogan was a member of an Islamist party that was shut
down by the Constitutional Court in 1998 for allegedly breaching
the constitution’s secular provisions. He served four months in
jail in 1999 after being convicted of having incited religious
hatred by reading an Islamic poem at a rally in the southeast of
the country.  Step Toward Peace  In 2001, his response was to establish the AKP, which
rejected the Islamist label. In 2008, he won a legal battle
against judges who tried to outlaw the AKP as a threat to the
state’s secularist system.  Erdogan and his supporters say a new constitution could be
a step toward peace in the mainly Kurdish southeast corner of
Turkey, where an armed insurgency has resulted in 40,000 deaths
since 1984.  Kurds say the current charter marginalizes their culture by
establishing Turkish as the official national language and
making it illegal to express views that threaten the state’s
“indivisible integrity.”  The EU has stipulated changes in the current constitution,
including greater protections of civil liberties, as a
prerequisite to Turkey being granted membership. Turkey has long
sought to deepen its ties to the EU, its largest trading
partner.  Rolling Crisis  It applied for full EU membership in 1987. Formal accession
talks began in 2005. Turkey’s bid is now faltering in the face
of rising nationalist sentiment in  Europe .  What’s more, Erdogan said in July that Turkey’s relations
with the EU “will be completely frozen” if Cyprus assumes the
rotating EU presidency. Cyprus is set to do that in the second
half of 2012, before a deal reunifying the ethnically split
island is reached. Erdogan has said he favors a federal solution
in which the two nationalities can coexist.  The Cyprus question may be a moot point. The EU is in the
middle of a rolling crisis that threatens the euro and calls
into question the relevance of the EU.  “We are getting to a stage where you can see a reappraisal
of the whole relationship,” says James Ker-Lindsay, a fellow and
EU specialist at the  London  School of Economics. “At some point,
there will need to be a proper sit-down to decide where this is
going and what does Turkey ultimately want. Maybe Turkey is just
getting to the point of saying, ‘We don’t want to join the
European Union.’ Frankly, if you look at the mess that the EU is
in at the moment, it doesn’t look that alluring.”  Slide Into Recession  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis now threatens Erdogan’s
economic successes. The economy was already in urgent need of
cooling or the twin goals of price and financial stability would
be threatened, said Melissa Ball, an economist at Lombard Street
Research in London, in a report published on July 29. On Aug. 4,
with the prices of Italian and Spanish debt tumbling, the
Turkish central bank said the economy risked a slide into
recession.  In June, the cumulative 12-month current-account deficit
had more than doubled from a year earlier to $72.5 billion, the
biggest gap since monthly records began in 1984, according to
the central bank. The likely slowdown ahead, combined with
falling oil prices, will bring about a “rapid and sizable”
improvement in the  trade gap , the central bank said.  The bank kept the benchmark one-week repo rate (the
discount rate at which a central bank repurchases government
securities from the commercial banks) at 6.25 percent from Jan.
1 to Aug. 4, when it cut the rate to 5.75 percent, an all-time
low in the 88-year history of the Turkish republic.  Fresh Downturn  In keeping  interest rates  below the rate of consumer
inflation, which stood at 6.3 percent in July, central bank
governor Erdem Basci’s objective is to keep the domestic economy
healthy while the developed world enters a fresh downturn. To
keep the local market in check, he’s hitting the forces he
believes are fueling growth: the country’s lenders.  Basci has more than doubled the amount of money that banks
are required to set aside as reserves, reducing the pool of cash
available to lend to local consumers and businesses.  Even though the strategy is likely to reduce bank profits
this year by as much as 20 percent, according to the Banks
Association of Turkey, it hasn’t yet slowed growth. “In the end,
interest rates are too low for a country like Turkey,” says  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps manage about $17 billion at Landesbank
Berlin Investment GmbH.  Another Notch  The Turkish economy should not be viewed in isolation from
Turkish society, says Vassilis Karatzas, managing director of
Levant Partners Greece SA, an Athens-based hedge fund that has
invested $125 million in Turkey and the  Middle East .  “You can’t have a country progress economically as far as
Turkey has without having the institutional structures keep up
the pace,” Karatzas says. “Ideally, it would be through a
process of consensus, but the chances of that seem slim. The
society is still polarized.”  Under those circumstances, if Erdogan can achieve a broad
parliamentary support for a new constitution, he’ll add another
notch to his list of achievements. He has presided over the
strongest economic expansion of any Turkish leader since the
republic’s founding.  During his eight years in power, $94 billion in foreign
investment has flowed into Turkey, an increase of more than 10-
fold from the previous decade, according to Turkish Treasury
data.  Erdogan’s ‘Masterpiece’  In the eyes of his admirers, Erdogan has also won
acceptance for Turkey as a candidate for EU membership, reined
in the military’s influence in politics and bolstered civilian
control of the government. When he campaigned for his third
term, Erdogan called the first two terms his “apprenticeship.”
The third, he says with characteristic immodesty, will be his
“masterpiece.”  -- Editors: Stryker McGuire, Gail Roche  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net  and
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  