-- 
Turkish Central Bank Holds Rates, Says May Need to Cut Benchmark Ahead

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-23T11:50:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/turkish-central-bank-holds-rates-says-may-need-to-cut-benchmark-ahead.html
Turkey ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a historic low after a
surprise cut three weeks ago and said there may be further
reductions ahead.  The central bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending
rate at 5.75 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.
That matched the forecast of 15 of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank will release minutes of the meeting within
five working days.  The bank’s cut at an extraordinary rates meeting on Aug. 4
was an “early action” designed to cushion the economy from the
impact of a likely slowdown caused by European debt problems,
Governor Erdem Basci said in a written interview with Bloomberg
last week. The bank may have to loosen monetary conditions
further depending on the state of the global economy, and will
take action “without delay” if it’s needed, the bank said in
today’s statement.  “They definitely have an easing bias,”  Inan Demir , chief
economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments. “A rapid deterioration in data could well lead them
to cut both the policy rate and reserve requirements, perhaps
again in an extraordinary session if necessary.”  The lira rose after the decision and was trading at 1.7799
per dollar at 2:08 p.m. in Istanbul. Bonds pared their gains,
with yields 0.01 percentage point lower at 7.88 percent.  Reserve Requirements  The lira has fallen about 3 percent against the dollar
since the Aug. 4 rate cut, extending a decline that’s reached
about 13.5 percent this year, the most among 25 emerging-market
economies tracked by Bloomberg. The bank on Aug. 4 lowered the
foreign-currency reserve requirements banks must set aside
against liabilities, releasing an additional $930 million into
the market.  The economy expanded 1.4 percent in the first quarter from
the end of 2010. Growth may be flat in the second quarter, Basci
forecast. The 12-month current-account gap widened to a record
$72.5 billion in June. The deficit will improve in the second
half of the year, helped by slowing growth, the weaker lira and
cheaper  oil prices , Basci said Aug. 15.  Inflation accelerated to 6.3 percent in July from 6.2
percent a month earlier. The slowing economy will help minimize
the impact of the weaker lira on prices and inflation remains on
course to meet the 2012 goal of 5 percent, the statement said
today. It said  core inflation  will accelerate and the secondary
impact of the weaker lira will prove “temporary.”  Inflation Risk  “Their argument as to why a weaker  exchange rate  does not
pose inflation risk is another dovish argument preparing the
ground for easing in case indicators do not turn up soon,”
Tatha Ghose, a senior emerging-markets economist in  London  at
Commerzbank AG, said in e-mailed comments.  Inflation will end this year closer to the bank’s 5.5
percent goal than its forecast of 6.9 percent made last month,
Basci said Aug 15.  The bank has increased reserve requirements four times
since December to reduce bank lending and tame a boom in
consumer demand that drew in imports and drove the current-
account deficit to record levels. The higher ratios now give the
bank room to loosen monetary policy without using the benchmark
 interest rate .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 