-- 
Turkish Rate Cut May Push Lira to Record Low, DZ Bank Says

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-23T08:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/turkish-rate-cut-may-push-lira-to-record-low-dz-bank-says-1-.html
The lira may test record lows at
about 1.82 per dollar should the central bank cut the benchmark
 interest rate  at a meeting today,  DZ Bank  AG said.  The lira gained 0.1 percent to 1.7840 at 11:16 a.m. in
Istanbul. Yields on two-year bonds headed for the lowest since
January, falling 7 basis points to 7.82 percent.  “We expect the central bank to even continue its expansive
stance by cutting the  base rate  by another 50 basis points to
5.25 percent,” DZ Bank said in an e-mailed report to clients
late yesterday. “A first cut may already come about as early as
on tomorrow’s (today’s) regular rate sitting.”  Governor Erdem Basci lowered rates unexpectedly at an
emergency meeting of his Monetary Policy Committee on Aug. 4, as
concern about the debt crisis in  Europe  intensified. The lira
has lost 5 percent against the dollar since, making it the worst
performing emerging market currency after the South African
rand. The lira hit an all-time low of 1.8243 on March 9, 2009.  The central bank is expected to keep the one-week repo
lending rate steady at 5.75 percent, according to 15 of 18
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Three predicted a reduction. The
bank will announce its decision at 2 p.m. in Ankara.  Basci is likely to reduce the rate 50 basis points in
September, because lowering it now might make the lira more
vulnerable, BNP Paribas said in an e-mailed report to clients.  The bank will probably “wait for risk appetite to recover
before initiating another round” because it “would prefer to
see a more stable  exchange rate ,” BNP said.  Some investors are betting on a rate cut today, reflected in
the decline in two-year bond yields, Selim Gulkan, a fixed
income trader at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said by
telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  