-- 
Lira Is Little Changed as Turkey Keeps Rates at Record Low

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-23T15:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/turkish-lira-strengthens-after-bank-keeps-rates-unchanged-1-.html
The lira was little changed after
the central bank kept the benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low, easing pressure on the currency stemming from speculation
of a second rate cut this month.  The lira gained as much as 0.5 percent and pared gains to
trade at 1.7842 per dollar at 5:10 p.m. in Istanbul. The central
bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending rate at 5.75
percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.  “There was concern that the central bank may cut rates and
we were comforted when this did not happen,” Emir Baruh, a
currency trader at Akbank TAS, said in e-mailed comments to
Bloomberg.  The inflation rate is on target for a 2012 goal of 5
percent, the central bank said in a statement accompanying the
decision. Bond yields fell 25 basis points last week on bets
that the central bank will cut rates after  Germany ’s gross
domestic product missed estimates in the first quarter, fueling
concern about the economic slowdown in  Europe .  Gains in the lira were limited because the central bank
didn’t cut  reserve requirements  for foreign currency deposits as
some investors had expected, Tufan Comert, a strategist at
Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said after the decision.  The bank also said that a slower economy minimizes the
pass-through of recent lira weakness. That is “another dovish
argument preparing the ground for easing in case indicators
don’t turn up soon,” Tatha Ghose, a senior emerging-markets
economist at Commerzbank AG in  London , said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Yields on two-year benchmark lira bonds rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.90 percent, paring earlier
declines of up to 20 basis points, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index
of the securities showed.  “The  bond market  has priced in a 25 basis point cut at
least and some expected an increase in liquidity with a cut in
reserve requirement,” Arda Kocaman, head of treasury at Finans
Invest in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  