-- 
Turkish Stocks Snap 2-Day Gain as Banks Slide on Reserve Ratios

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-08-23T14:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/turkish-shares-extend-losses-after-bank-keeps-ratios-unchanged.html
Turkish stocks fell for the first
time in three days, as banks reversed earlier gains after policy
makers left  reserve requirements  for lenders unchanged.  The benchmark  ISE National 100 Index (XU100) , of which financial
shares make up 53 percent, dropped 1.6 percent to 52,411.48 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul. The  ISE Banks (XBANK)  Index sank 2
percent, after earlier climbing 1.1 percent.  Policy makers kept reserve ratios on hold and their
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low after a surprise cut
three weeks ago, saying there may be further reductions ahead on
signs of further global economic weakness. About $7 trillion has
been erased from the value of equities worldwide amid concern
the recovery was stalling.  Investors probably bet the central bank would relax reserve
requirements, freeing up more capital for banks to lend,
according to Ata Doganoglu, a trader at Ekspres Invest in
Istanbul.  Turkey’s three largest listed banks by market value led
declines.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , part-owned by Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA of  Spain , declined 2.6 percent to 6.04
liras.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , part-owned by Citigroup Inc., fell 1.9
percent to 6.20 liras, and  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS, the country’s
biggest bank by assets, lost 2.5 percent to 4.33 liras.  The gauge for lenders has tumbled 25 percent as the central
bank lifted reserve ratios four times since December to curb
consumer borrowing that sent the current-account deficit to a
record $72.5 billion in June.  Policy makers said on Aug. 4 they cut their key rate to a
record low of 5.75 percent in an “early action” to cushion
Turkey’s economy from the impact of a likely slowdown caused by
European debt problems.  Measures to limit lending at banks may be relaxed if the
global economic outlook worsens further, Deputy Prime Minister
Ali Babacan said in an interview with CNBC-e earlier this month.  Central bankers from around the world meet this week in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  The Turkish central bank may convene next week and change
some policy actions if the U.S. indicates it may take more
measures to stimulate the world’s largest economy, Doganoglu
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  