-- 
Hurricane Irene May Damage Cotton in Georgia, South Carolina

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-08-23T04:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/hurricane-irene-may-damage-cotton-in-georgia-south-carolina.html
Hurricane Irene threatens to damage
about a quarter of the cotton areas in  Georgia , the second-
largest grower in the U.S., and a large part of  South Carolina ,
when it makes landfall, a weather forecaster said.  Irene was  forecast  to reach the eastern  Florida  coast and
hit South Carolina on Aug. 27, according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center. It may affect Florida, Georgia and the
Carolinas, causing about $2.2 billion in losses, according to an
initial estimate by Kinetic Analysis Corp., a risk modeling firm
in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland .  “There is a potential for about 25 percent of the Georgia
crop to be impacted,” curbing cotton yields, said Michael Ferrari, director for climate modeling at  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based CSC. “In South Carolina, it may be a little bit
higher,” he said.  Losses to the cotton crop in the U.S., the world’s largest
shipper, may tighten supply, helping stem a 51 percent slump in
prices from a record in March. Cotton for December delivery was
little changed at $1.065 a pound in New York at 10:32 a.m.
Singapore time.  Farmers in Georgia were forecast by the USDA on Aug. 11 to
boost output by 11 percent to 2.5 million bales, from a year
ago. South Carolina was estimated to increase production to
440,000 bales, from 376,000 bales a year ago, the USDA said.  “They’ll get more moisture than what they’ll need,”
Ferrari, 42, who has been tracking weather trends and risks to
investments for 15 years, said in a phone interview today from
 Washington . “It will have an impact on cotton.” Ferrari
correctly predicted in February that drought will persist in
 China , hurting the nation’s wheat crops.  Moisture Needed  The hurricane may also bring much-needed moisture in other
drought-stricken cotton areas in the southeastern portion of the
U.S., Ferrari said.  “It’s going to start off with everybody reacting
negatively, but in the long run, it will be a good system to
help growers in that area because they really need this
moisture,” Ferrari said. The impact on yields “depends on how
the growers are managing their fields,” he said.  Irene, with maximum sustained winds of 100 miles per hour,
intensified to a category 2 storm, and may further strengthen,
the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in a  update  released at
8:30 p.m.  New York  time.  CSC is a technology company that serves as contractor to
NASA, the U.S. Department of Interior and other U.S. government
agencies, according to Ferrari, a former vice president at
Weather Trends International Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  