-- 
Verizon, AT&T Say Calling Surges, See No Network Damage

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-24T00:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/verizon-at-t-sprint-say-calling-surges-after-quake-no-network-damages.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  experienced a surge in phone calls
after an earthquake struck Virginia today, while Web users
rushed to discuss the disaster on social-networking sites.  “There has been high call volume,”  Peter Thonis , a
spokesman for New York-based Verizon, said in an interview.
“You have to call several times to get through some places.
It’s very temporal. I know of no network issues at this time”
on the wireless or land-line networks, he said.  A 5.8-magnitude earthquake, the biggest to strike Virginia
in more than a century, hit about 40 miles (65 kilometers)
northwest of Richmond, rocking buildings from Washington to
Boston. Residents used their phones to communicate about the
earthquake and went to websites such as Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. to chat about the topic.  Following the quake, Facebook had the term “earthquake”
appear in status updates for almost 3 million people in the
U.S., the company said in an e-mailed statement. Within a minute
of the temblor, Twitter users sent more than 40,000 earthquake-
related messages, known as tweets, according to Jodi Olson, a
spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Twitter. Tweets were being
sent at a rate of about 5,500 per second, a faster pace than
when  Osama bin Laden  died, she said.  In addition, tweets tagged “#earthquake” were some of the
most popular along the East Coast, she said.  Scott Sloat, a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, said the company is “experiencing an intermittent mass
calling event, as is expected following an incident of this
nature.” Sprint Nextel has had no reports of “impact to its
network” and encouraged customers to send text messages rather
than place calls to reach family and friends, he said.  There were no reports of network damage at AT&T, “but we
are seeing heavy call volume,” said Mark Siegel, a spokesman
for the Dallas-based company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  