-- 
Earthquakes Have Rattled Virginia Since George Washington’s Day

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 
2011-08-24T03:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/virginia-quakes-have-hit-since-washington-s-day.html
While major earthquakes on the U.S.
East Coast are rare, the area around yesterday’s 5.8-magnitude
temblor near Mineral,  Virginia , has rocked noticeably since at
least George  Washington ’s day.  A February 1774 quake knocked houses off their foundations
in Petersburg and Blandford, suburbs of Richmond, according to
the  U.S. Geological Survey . The towns are about 62 miles (100
kilometers) from yesterday’s epicenter. An 1828 shock in
southwestern Virginia, felt in Washington, caused President John
Quincy Adams to liken it to the heaving of a ship at sea.  The earthquake yesterday,  centered  38 miles northwest of
Richmond and 84 miles southwest of Washington, rocked buildings
as far away as  Boston  and prompted evacuations in the nation’s
capital and in  New York City .  “There was all this shaking, at first I thought something
had hit the building,” said Julian Teixeira, a spokesman for
the National Council of La Raza, a civil-rights group whose
office is two blocks from the White House. “You don’t expect
your desk to be moving and the floor to be shaking in
Washington, D.C.”  The  Virginia  tremor is among the 1 percent of U.S.
earthquakes that occur when pressure intensifies along a fault
in the middle of a large piece of the earth’s crust known as a
tectonic plate, said Kate Hutton, a staff seismologist at the
 California  Institute of Technology in Pasadena.  ‘Strain Builds Up’  “The strain builds up over a long time period and at some
point, it breaks,” Hutton said in a telephone interview.
“There’s no reason it happens at a particular time.”  The remaining 99 percent of earthquakes occur when tectonic
plates shift along boundaries with each other, such as in Japan
and California, she said.  “There’s much more action going on on plate boundaries,”
Hutton said.  The closest plate boundaries to the central Virginia
seismic zone are in the center of the Atlantic Ocean and in the
 Caribbean Sea , according to the USGS website.  In the rural area where the quake occurred, the North
American plate is moving westward along a fault that Hutton said
is a few miles long at most.  East Coast quakes tend to be felt over much larger areas
than their West Coast counterparts, making them potentially
damaging to a wider region, according to Thomas Hillman Jordan,
director of the  Southern California  Earthquake Center at the
University of Southern California in Los Angeles.  While the chances of yesterday’s earthquake or an
aftershock causing significant damage are small, it’s a wakeup
call, Jordan said in a telephone interview.  “It’s a good reminder that even a moderate-size earthquake
occurring in a built-up region could be quite disastrous,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story: 
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at  joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  