-- 
Vodafone to Extend Google Android Billing in App Fight-Back

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-24T08:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/vodafone-to-extend-google-android-billing-deal-in-app-fight-back.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile phone operator, will extend an application
billing deal with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system across all its
markets to regain lost ground in additional data services.  “We’ve done a deal that covers the global footprint,”
 Tobin Ireland , Vodafone’s commercial development director, said
in an interview. The company, which also held talks with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  about its Windows Phone 7 mobile-phone system,
aims to get deals with all application stores, he said.  Vodafone last week unveiled plans to enable payments for
Android online services through its own billing system in the
U.K. and  Germany , allowing clients to pay for applications for
everything from music, restaurants and games, to the weather and
news, without entering credit card details with Google.  Operators are aiming to drive sales from additional
services and boost smartphone sales after they lost the battle
for online app stores to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google. The worldwide
market for games, entertainment and workplace tools for mobile
devices may balloon to $40 billion by 2014, compared with $14.3
billion in 2010, according to consulting firm Booz & Co.  “They are rapidly appreciating that it is the basic
connectivity and getting punters to pay up for the amount of
data that they consume which is the real growth sector,” said
Morten Singleton, an analyst at Investec Securities in  London .  Data Shift  Vodafone shifted away from competing directly with the app
stores about 12 months ago, Ireland said, adding that the
company has focused on boosting data sales from smartphones. The
company’s annual sales from mobile data have climbed to more
than 5 billion pounds ($8.3 billion.)  The British operator will focus on deals with the existing
systems due to their “predominance,” rather than build its own
direct platform in partnership with other operators, Ireland
said.  Vodafone rose 0.8 percent to 165.95 pence in London trading
as of 9:25 a.m. Before today, the stock had lost 0.7 percent
this year.  For Google, which has also signed single billing deals with
U.S. carriers including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Japan ’s Softbank Corp.,
the deal may drive the take up of paid-for apps within Android,
said Bengt Nordstrom, the CEO of Stockholm-based consulting
company Northstream AB.  Apple Challenge  Apple isn’t currently interested in billing deals with
operators, Ireland said. The Cupertino, California-based company
gets revenue directly from apps sold through its iTunes Store
and App Store and said those sales rose 29 percent to about $1.6
billion in the three months through June from a year earlier.  Android, the most popular operating system, accounted for
43.3 percent of the smartphone market last quarter, according to
research firm Gartner Inc. Apple had an 18.2 percent share.  Vodafone, based in Newbury, England, has also rolled out
billing deals with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  In the
U.K., the number of games and apps sold since May with RIM has
doubled with more than 70 percent of sales from direct billing,
Ireland said.  “Everyone strategically wants these app stores to be as
vibrant and as powerful as Apple has been, but there’s a bit of
a gap today in terms of the number of users and the money you
can make,” Ireland said. “But I think that will change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  