-- 
VSMPO to Invest $800 Million as Boeing, Airbus Buy Titanium Aircraft Parts

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-08-23T10:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/vsmpo-to-invest-800-million-on-rising-titanium-use-in-aircraft.html
OAO VSMPO-Avisma, the largest
titanium company, will spend $800 million by 2015 to increase
output and make semi-finished products for airplanes as clients
including  Boeing Co. (BA)  seek components that are ready to install.  “Aircraft producers don’t want to do the details for
aircraft anymore,” Mikhail Voevodin, chief executive officer of
VSMPO-Avisma, said in an interview in Moscow last week. “They
want to be focused on research and development, assembly, and
have the chassis made in full by the suppliers.”  Titanium companies are investing in capacity to make more
sophisticated products as rising demand from plane manufacturers
counters a sluggish market for slabs and ingots. VSMPO-Avisma
stopped selling ingots this year to focus on semi-processed
materials, using the scrap generated to feed its refineries.
Competitors  Titanium Metals Corp. (TIE)  and  Allegheny Technologies
Inc. (ATI)  already refine most of their ingots.  Boeing expects the aircraft industry to deliver 33,500 new
planes over the next 20 years, valued at more than $4 trillion,
according to its  website . In 2009, the Chicago-based company
began a venture with VSMPO-Avisma to produce parts in  Russia  for
the 787 Dreamliner, the first composite-plastic airliner. VSMPO-
Avisma is now seeking to set up other similar ventures with
international companies at its base in the Sverdlovsk region.  Boeing, Airbus  “We are in talks with Boeing and Airbus, as well as with
their suppliers,” Voevodin said, without naming potential
partners. VSMPO-Avisma would hold 50 percent of any joint
venture, he said.  Such a venture would benefit from tax breaks in Titanium
Valley, a special economic zone in Sverdlovsk. The zone, one of
several established by the Russian government to attract foreign
manufacturers, was announced in 2010.  As part of the $800 million investment plan, VSMPO-Avisma
will boost output of forgings, corrosion-resistant products used
in airplane wings, more than threefold to about 8,000 tons in
2015 from 2,200 tons this year, Voevodin said. Separately,
VSMPO-Avisma and Boeing will together invest $10 million in
equipment to expand their  Ural Boeing Manufacturing  venture.  “The business model for the 787 aircraft is that we buy
parts that have been processed to the highest degree,” said
Dmitry Krol, a spokesman for Boeing in Moscow.  Forgings fetch about $80 to $200 a kilogram, compared with
about $17 to $30 a kilogram for titanium ingots, Voevodin said.
Prices will probably be flat this year and next, he said. VSMPO
fixes prices for about 70 percent of its production in long-term
contracts; about 15 to 18 percent of output goes to Boeing.  Production Outlook  VSMPO-Avisma expects to produce 27,000 metric tons of
titanium this year, returning to 2007 levels, Voevodin said.
Titanium for non-aircraft use, trading for $27 a kilogram, won’t
climb back to pre-crisis prices of $45 a kilogram because  China 
is expanding output, he said.  VSMPO-Avisma agreed to supply titanium products for Airbus
SAS’s A350 aircraft through 2020, the Russian company said Aug.
16. It’s aiming to become the sole supplier of A350 chassis
parts for European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co., maker of
Airbus airplanes, Voevodin told reporters at the Moscow Air Show
after the companies signed the accord.  Demand from the  aerospace industry  will rise in 2013 or
2014, or sooner if Boeing starts to sell its 787 aircraft after
tests this quarter, he said in the interview. Aircraft
manufacturers are still using up stockpiles of titanium from
before the crisis, Voevodin said.  Stock Sale  VSMPO-Avisma may issue new stock to raise $300 million to
$600 million to build an ilmenite mine in Russia’s Tambov
region, and the board will discuss the plan in September,
Voevodin said. The company currently buys the mineral, an oxide
of iron and titanium, in Ukraine, India and  Mozambique , and is
in talks to source supplies from  Vietnam  and  Sri Lanka , he said.  VSMPO-Avisma has also purchased ilmenite from London-based
producer  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , which extracts the mineral in
Russia’s Amur region.  VSMPO-Avisma’s shares have risen 41 percent to 4,160 rubles
in Moscow in the past 12 months, valuing the company at about
$1.7 billion.  The producer may also sell stock for the first time abroad,
Voevodin said. VSMPO-Avisma may hold an offering overseas in
2014,  RIA Novosti  reported last week, citing  Sergei Chemezov ,
head of Russian Technologies Corp., the state-run holding
company that controls VSMPO-Avisma.  It “makes sense” to start the international offering only
when the investment program is nearing completion, Voevodin
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  