-- 
Wheat Rallies to Two-Month High as U.S. Spring-Crop Conditions Deteriorate

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-08-23T19:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/wheat-rallies-to-two-month-high-as-u-s-spring-crop-conditions-deteriorate.html
Wheat rose to a two-month high after
a government report showed adverse weather in the northern U.S.
has deteriorated spring crops.  About 62 percent of spring wheat, grown in northern states,
was in good or excellent  condition  as of Aug. 21, less than a
week earlier and below the year-earlier rating of 82 percent,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday after the
close of trading in Chicago. Excess rains during planting, hot
weather and disease have pressured yields, the  North Dakota
Wheat Commission  has said.  “The spring-wheat crop has really struggled all year
long,” said Louise Gartner, the owner of Spectrum Commodities
in Beavercreek,  Ohio . “Yields are coming in light. Although
quality is decent, you’re seeing a drop in total spring
production.”  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 18.5 cents, or 2.4
percent, to settle at $7.845 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, after touching $7.865, the highest for a
most-active contract since June 13. The price is up 8.1 percent
in the past year.  About 20 percent of German wheat was left in fields as of
yesterday because of excess rainfall, curbing the crop’s
quality, the U.K.’s Home-Grown Cereals Authority said in a
report.  Texas A&M University  said today that the crops farmers
will plant in September and October may not emerge from the soil
if fields don’t get rain.  “We do have dryness in the Plains and concerns around the
rest of the world,” Gartner said. “It’s raining on the German
harvest, and that’s where the high-quality wheat in  Europe  is
grown. They’ve had rain on the Chinese wheat harvest and
persistent drought in some Russian growing areas.”  The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter of wheat, the
country’s fourth-largest crop, valued at $13 billion in 2010,
behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  