-- 
Washington Monument Indefinitely Closed After Quake Rocks Nation’s Capital

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-08-24T19:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/white-house-chandeliers-federal-workers-nerves-rattled-amid-rare-quake.html
A black fence encircled the
 Washington  Monument, the obelisk most visible among memorials to
American leaders on the National Mall, the day after a 5.8-
magnitude earthquake centered in Virginia rocked the capital.  The shuttered monument, which the National Park Service
announced will be closed for an undetermined period, wasn’t the
only casualty of an earthquake recorded almost 90 miles (145
kilometers) southwest of the U.S. capital and 3.7 miles below
the earth’s surface, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .
Stones tumbled from the Washington National Cathedral.  Some of the tourists milling around the Washington Monument
today had their hearts set on ascending the tower. Kay Chapman,
52, had bought tickets online for a visit with her family.  “I was disappointed, because this is something I’ve always
wanted to do,” said Chapman, who lives in Anderson,  South
Carolina .  Just weeks from the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks that included an assault on the Pentagon,
across the Potomac River from Washington, the temblor yesterday
rattled workers and tourists forced to evacuate office buildings
and national monuments, including the White House.  Kids Won’t Forget  “The Secret Service and armed guards started telling us to
leave, firmly,” said Barbara Maring, 42, who was finishing a
tour of the White House with her husband and three children. She
at first worried that the floor shaking beneath her was caused
by a bomb. “Our kids won’t ever forget that experience.”  The fence at the 555-foot-high Washington Monument is
keeping visitors about 100 feet away. Engineers are
investigating the cracks in stones at the top of the monument
and determining how to fix them, the Park Service said.  Sarah Bogun, 18, today took a last opportunity to visit
Washington and the monument before returning to her native  New
Zealand . She has been staying with an aunt and uncle in suburban
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “I was kind of hoping that I’d get a chance to go up
there,” Bogun said.  The city’s public schools were closed today while officials
assessed damage. Many federal workers stayed away from the
capital, given the option to work from home.  Cathedral Damage  The  National Cathedral , which reported “substantial
damage,” will remain shut at least through Aug. 27, said
spokesman Richard Weinberg. A service scheduled that day for the
opening of the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial will be held
elsewhere and the cathedral is still assessing whether it can
open for Sunday services, he said.  The central tower of the cathedral, used for state funerals
for leaders such as President  Ronald Reagan , represents the
highest point in the city because the building is situated on a
hill. Three of the four pinnacles on the tower broke and the
fourth is twisted, Weinberg said.  Flying buttresses on the cathedral also sustained some
cracks. The cathedral is appealing for donations to help fix the
building, which has been deemed structurally sound.  “We’ll definitely be in the millions of dollars,”
Weinberg said. It’s too early to say exactly how much it will
cost, he said. “You can’t really put a price on that
artistry.”  ‘We Flunked’  A day after the biggest earthquake to strike the area in a
century, officials were still assessing the damage and
evaluating the city’s response. Traffic was gridlocked
yesterday, as Amtrak railway service into Washington was
disrupted and Metro trains in the city slowed to a 15-mile-per-
hour crawl.  “We flunked this test,” said John Townsend, a Washington
spokesman for AAA, a group that advocates for travelers. People
were unaware of the main evacuation routes and the mass transit
systems were unable to handle the sudden influx of passengers,
he said.  “It was a low-grade panic but even a low-grade panic, like
a low-grade fever, can cause all kinds of problems,” Townsend
said. His group is encouraging people to become aware of escape
routes and sign up for alerts from local government agencies.  Yesterday’s evacuation of office buildings was
“spontaneous,” Federal Emergency Management Agency
Administrator  Craig Fugate  said during a conference call with
reporters. “This was not something that was called for by local
officials.”  The earthquake was a reminder that cell phones shouldn’t be
the only communication tool people rely on in emergencies, he
said. Text messages and Facebook postings worked well to
communicate with family members when cell service jammed, he
said.  Nuclear Reactors  The effects of the earthquake centered at Mineral,
Virginia, were felt far beyond the capital.  Both reactors at the North Anna Power Station in Mineral
shut down automatically after the temblor,  David McIntyre , a
spokesman for the  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission , said in an
e-mail. No nuclear plants were evacuated, he said.  Off-site power has been restored at the North Anna plant,
eliminating the need to run cooling systems on back-up
generators, according to a company statement. Twelve plants from
 North Carolina  to  New Jersey  felt the earthquake and went to the
first of four emergency classifications while continuing to
operate, he said. North Anna was on an alert status that is the
second-lowest of four NRC emergency classifications, the
statement said.  No major injuries were reported. Kathy Zeiler, who teaches
at Louisa County High School in Mineral, said there were only
about six or eight minor injuries among the 1,400 students who
evacuated as the earth started to move.  ‘Incredibly Frightening’  “It was the sound that was so incredibly frightening to
me,” Zeiler said. “It was a sound I never heard. I thought the
bowels of the earth were going to split open.”  U.S. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Republican who
represents the area that was home to the quake’s epicenter,
planned to visit the school today, along with the North Anna
power station and several other sites in the state.  The House and the Senate are both on August recess, and
President  Barack Obama  is on vacation at  Martha’s Vineyard ,
 Massachusetts , where reporters felt the temblor. Obama didn’t
feel it, according to a White House spokesman.  During a conference call about the earthquake with aides,
including Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, White
House Chief of Staff Bill Daley and FEMA’s Fugate, the president
was told there were no initial reports of major infrastructure
damage, according to a White House statement.  Other Damage  A few buildings other than the cathedral sustained damage
in Washington, including the Embassy of  Ecuador , said Pete Piringer, a spokesman for the city’s fire department.  The evacuation decisions varied at federal buildings. While
the White House and U.S. Capitol were evacuated, the  Supreme
Court  and the State Department weren’t. Flights were briefly
halted at  Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport  in  Virginia ,
just across the Potomac River from the capital.  Nearby, the Pentagon quickly evacuated after the tremors,
with hundreds milling in the courtyard. The mood lightened after
people were alerted on mobile devices that the shaking was
caused by an earthquake and not a terrorist strike.  A damage assessment by the Pentagon’s Washington
Headquarters Services found only a burst pipe that caused
“considerable standing water,” according to an announcement
over a loudspeaker system installed after the Sept. 11 attack.  Erin Schwartz, who recently returned from  Seattle  to her
hometown in Arlington, Virginia, said she had been more
concerned about an earthquake on the West Coast. The tremor made
her feel “kind of like the earth was Jell-O,” she said.  Her fiancé, whose downtown office building was evacuated,
texted her one word: “Earthquake!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  