-- 
Dexia to Set Up ‘Bad Bank’ With Government Guarantees from France, Belgium

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-05T07:06:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/-bad-bank-will-be-set-up-for-dexia-belgium-s-leterme-says.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , Belgium’s biggest bank,
plans to pool its troubled assets into a “bad bank” with
Belgian and French government guarantees to protect depositors
and its municipal-lending business.  The Belgian-French lender bailed out by the two governments
in 2008 will put its “legacy” division, which held 113 billion
euros ($150 billion) of assets at the end of June, into the bad
bank, Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  told reporters in
Brussels yesterday. Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said
details of the plan will be released after talks with partners.  “What we’re looking for is not to spend taxpayers’ money
on a dossier such as this one,” Reynders said. “Our wish is to
consolidate, reinforce and safeguard the banking activity in
 Belgium , as our colleagues will do in France.”  The creation of a separate entity with government
guarantees may help shield Dexia’s banking units and avoid a
repeat of the 2008 taxpayer-funded capital infusion. Belgium and
France said yesterday that they will take “all necessary
measures” to protect clients and will guarantee Dexia’s loans.
Both governments have stakes in the bank following its 2008
bailout.  Dexia’s board met on Oct. 3 to discuss a possible breakup
of the lender after  Europe ’s debt crisis reduced its ability to
obtain funding, said three people with knowledge of the talks,
who declined to be identified because the negotiations are
private. A breakup would mark the clearest evidence yet that the
banking crisis spurred by the sovereign-debt woes is spreading
to the core of the euro region.  Dexia's Shares  Dexia’s shares, which yesterday dropped the most in three
years, rebounded in early trading today. The stock gained 9.1
percent to 1.10 euros at 9:04 a.m. in Brussels, after plunging
22 percent yesterday.  Belgian bonds sank and the cost of insuring Belgian
government debt with credit-default swaps surged to a record on
concern Dexia’s possible breakup will increase the country’s
debt load, the third-highest in the euro region.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds of similar maturity widened 29
basis points to 210, the most since Sept. 14. Credit-default
swap contracts on Belgium climbed to a record 309 basis points,
according to CMA prices.  Belgium’s credit rating, now the second-highest investment
grade, has a negative outlook at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, while debt-insurance costs indicate  France ’s AAA rating
is the weakest of the six top-rated euro-area nations.  ‘Negative Pressure’  Moody’s Investors Service warned yesterday that euro-area
nations with ratings below the top AAA level may face
downgrades, saying “all but the strongest euro-area sovereigns
are likely to face sustained negative pressure on their
ratings.” Moody’s yesterday lowered its rating on Italy for the
first time in almost two decades on concern the government will
struggle to reduce its debt.  For Dexia, “the fact that two countries are involved, both
under pressure from rating agencies, makes it even more
difficult,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets with a “hold” rating on the shares.
“We are not in 2008 anymore, when you could just inject
multibillions of cash.”  Prime Minister Leterme said yesterday that there’s “no
reason justifying” Dexia Bank Belgium’s clients pulling
deposits from the bank. Belgium guarantees that no client “will
lose a single eurocent,” he said.  Asset-Management Division  The lender may hive off its French municipal loan book into
a venture funded by state-owned La Banque Postale and Caisse des
Depots et Consignations, and seek buyers for its Belgian bank,
 Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in  Turkey  and its asset-management division, one of
the people with knowledge of the talks said.  Dexia posted a 4 billion-euro loss for the second quarter,
the biggest in its history, after writing down the value of its
Greek debt. Once the world’s biggest lender to municipalities,
it received a 6 billion-euro bailout from Belgium, France and
its largest shareholders in September 2008 following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Moody’s put Dexia’s three main operating units on review
for a downgrade on Oct. 3 on concern the lender was struggling
to fund itself.  “Dexia has experienced further tightening in its access
to market funding,” Moody’s said in a statement.  Wholesale Funding  Dexia emerged from the 1996 merger of Credit Local de
France and Credit Communal de Belgique SA, the biggest municipal
lenders in their respective countries. Unlike Credit Local de
France, which relied exclusively on wholesale funding for its
lending, the Belgian firm also operated a retail bank in Belgium
and a private bank in Luxembourg.  That reliance on wholesale funding hobbled the bank as
money markets seized up after Lehman collapsed, and Dexia turned
to emergency funding from central banks. It was the biggest
euro-area user of emergency loans from the U.S. Federal Reserve,
borrowing a $58.5 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008, according to a
Bloomberg News compilation of data obtained through Freedom of
Information Act requests, months of litigation and an act of
Congress.  In September 2008, France and Belgium led the first rescue
of Dexia, buying a combined 3 billion euros of stock. The bank’s
existing shareholders, which include Caisse des Depots et
Consignations and Belgium’s Holding Communal SA, provided an
additional 3 billion euros.  First Bailout  Less than a month later, Dexia also obtained as much as 150
billion euros of debt guarantees from France, Belgium and
Luxembourg, of which it tapped a maximum of about 96 billion
euros in May 2009. The bank stopped issuing government-backed
debt in June 2010. It still had 29 billion euros outstanding at
the end of last month.  Reynders said yesterday the guarantees that will be
provided now will be “inferior” to the ones granted in 2008,
when Belgium’s share exceeded 90 billion euros.  He also said that Belgium has “no intention” of chalking
up losses, adding that it will collect a fee in return for the
guarantees. Dexia paid 489 million euros last year for use of
guarantees, according to company filings.  Dexia’s legacy division, which will be folded into the bad
bank, has a pool of long-term assets that were put together so
they could be financed with earlier debt guarantees. The
division was created to meet European Union demands that earlier
debt guarantees not be used to finance its commercial businesses
and give investors greater clarity about its capacity to
generate profits.  Municipal Loans  At the end of June, the division included 95 billion euros
of bonds with an average maturity of almost 13 years and $9.5
billion of mostly U.S. residential-mortgage backed securities,
the majority of which were sold in July.  It also had 11 billion euros of municipal loans in
countries where Dexia has halted operations.  Dexia may also transfer an additional 50 billion euros of
assets from its municipal-lending units in  Italy  and  Spain  into
the bad bank. Dexia agreed to dispose of its controlling stakes
in Rome-based Dexia Crediop SpA and its joint venture with
Barcelona-based Banco de Sabadell SA to win European Commission
approval for its 2008 bailout. Moody’s lowered Italy’s debt
rating by three levels to A2 late yesterday.  “In the current environment, the size of the non-strategic
asset portfolio impacts the group structurally,” Dexia said in
a statement yesterday. “This is why the board of directors
asked the CEO, in consultation with the relevant governments and
the supervisory authorities, to prepare the necessary measures
to resolve the structural problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 