-- 
H&R Block Gives Justice Department Test for AT&T Antitrust Trial

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/h-r-block-trial-tests-justice-department-unit-handling-at-t-antitrust-case.html
The government’s fight to keep  H&R
Block Inc. (HRB)  from buying the maker of TaxAct products gave the
 Justice Department  unit seeking to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s purchase of
T-Mobile USA Inc. its first merger trial in seven years.  “It doesn’t matter whether it’s a relatively small
transaction or a transaction involving billions of dollars, the
law should be applied the same way,” Joseph Wayland, the deputy
head of the antitrust division said in closing arguments
yesterday. “This merger totally lacks any redeeming features.”  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell in  Washington  said she
expected to decide by the end of the month whether H&R Block’s
$287.5 million acquisition of closely held 2SS Holdings Inc.
violates antitrust law.  Howell’s ruling could serve as a template for the judge
overseeing the government’s case against AT&T, which is
scheduled for trial on Feb. 13, said Washington antitrust lawyer
 David Balto .  “If the Justice Department is unsuccessful, it could pose
significant obstacles to its objection to the AT&T merger,”
Balto said in an interview.  The lawsuits against AT&T and H&R Block are among a handful
of occasions in the past decade when the Justice Department sued
to block a merger. In the AT&T and H&R Block cases, Wayland, who
joined the antitrust unit a year ago from Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP in  New York , leads the litigation.  Oracle Loss  The last time the department tried a merger case was in
2004 when it failed to block  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s $8.4 billion
purchase of PeopleSoft Inc., according to the department.  Wayland told Howell yesterday that the proposed
acquisition, announced last year, would eliminate a company that
competed aggressively with  Kansas City , Missouri-based H&R Block
and “disrupted” the U.S. digital do-it-yourself tax-
preparation market through low pricing and product innovation.  Wayland said the government must only show that the deal
“may” reduce competition. The size of the H&R Block
acquisition shouldn’t figure in the judge’s determination its
potential harm to consumers.  The transaction would leave H&R Block and  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ,
whose TurboTax product is the most widely used digital and
online software for tax preparation, as the two dominant
companies in the market, Wayland said. That could lead to higher
prices and collusion, he said, pointing to H&R Block e-mails and
documents that he said showed the company sought to curb price
erosion caused by TaxAct.  Mischaracterized Evidence  During a trial that began on Sept. 6, lawyers for H&R
Block, the biggest U.S. tax-preparation firm, said the Justice
Department mischaracterized evidence and used “sound bites”
from internal documents.  H&R Block, which has said the deal will improve its
products and create low-cost alternatives for customers, claims
digital tax preparation products are part of a larger industry
that includes in-store tax preparation and those who file taxes
without accountants or software.  “We’re saying all methods of tax preparation are in the
market,” H&R Block’s lawyer J. Robert Robertson told the judge.
“They affect each other and it’s consumer choice that
matters.”  Last year, as many as 40 million taxpayers used software to
prepare and file their taxes, the department said in the
lawsuit. Three companies account for 90 percent of all sales of
digital, do-it-yourself tax preparation products, the department
said.  The purchase of TaxAct by H&R Block would combine the
second- and third-largest providers of these products, according
to the department’s complaint.  Same Market  Wayland said it was “implausible” to consider assisted
and digital tax preparation in the same market. He pointed to
the company describing its competition separately as “Assisted
Competitor Analysis,” and “Digital Competitor Analysis” in a
presentation to the board last year.  “There may be larger markets, but the monopolist test,
common sense, and the parties’ own documents established the
relevant market is smaller,” Wayland said.  H&R Block said in court papers that yesterday’s tax
preparation industry includes more than 17 competitors as well
as an Internal Revenue Service-sponsored website “promoting
competition and free offers to the public.”  Robertson, a partner at  Hogan Lovells  in Washington, said
that those competitors would “love to get more customers” if
TaxAct raises its prices. H&R Block said that the department
ignores its rivalry with Intuit, which Robertson said targets
H&R Block’s retail store customers in television and online
advertisements.  “They do more tax returns than Block does,” Robertson
said. “That’s where the battle is.”  The case is U.S. v. H&R Block, 1:11-cv-00948, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 