-- 
Abengoa Raises $395 Million of Funding Through Share Sale to First Reserve

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-04T14:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/abengoa-to-raise-395-million-in-share-sale-to-first-reserve.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) ,  Spain ’s largest developer
of solar-thermal plants, raised 300 million euros ($395 million)
by selling new shares to First Reserve Corp., increasing capital
and allying with the U.S. private equity firm.  The Seville-based developer agreed to sell 17.142 million
Class B shares at 17.50 euros each, above the 15.84-euro closing
price yesterday of its common Class A shares, according to a
filing today. First Reserve will also receive warrants to buy
4.02 million more Class B shares for 1 euro cent each. Abengoa
dropped as much as 7.7 percent in Madrid trading.  The pioneer of plants that focus sunlight with mirrors to
power steam turbines reinforced its capital with the help of a
private investor as banks across  Europe  and the U.S. have put
more conditions on energy-project loans. Abengoa said its
corporate net debt will drop to 2.4 times corporate Ebitda from
3 times before the deal.  The company now “won´t have any financial stress for the
next couple of years,” Abengoa Chief Executive Officer Manuel Sanchez Ortega told analysts on a conference call. First Reserve
must hold the shares for 30 months under the agreement.  The Class B stock, which doesn’t trade, will pay Greenwich,
Connecticut-based First Reserve cash equal to the dividend that
ordinary stockholders receive though will have only 1/100th the
voting rights of the A shares.  Abengoa said it agreed to offer the additional stock for
only 1 euro cent to compensate for it being illiquid and to
reward the buyer for investing during unstable markets.  The company’s ordinary shares fell 1.09 euros to 14.75
euros at 4:14 p.m. local time.  ‘Ideally Positioned’  First Reserve, which invests in energy projects around the
world, selected Abengoa because it has “market-leading
positions in industries and geographies that we know well,”
First Reserve Chief Executive Officer William E. Macaulay said
on the call. Abengoa “is ideally positioned to benefit from the
global growth in energy infrastructure,” he said.  The Spanish company said its U.S. partner, which will have
a board seat, will jointly explore future business opportunities
such as financing Abengoa’s infrastructure projects, which range
from aluminum recycling and water desalination to power-
transmission lines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Todd White at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net  