-- 
Madoff Fuels Apocalyptic ‘Dreams’; ‘Newsies’ Triumphs: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-10-04T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/madoff-scam-fuels-apocalyptic-dreams-newsies-triumphs-jeremy-gerard.html
Jarring thumps and an unnatural,
sickly-colored sky are upending the high-priced calm of cocktail
hour in a wealthy Connecticut enclave at the start of “Dreams of
Flying Dreams of Falling,” Adam Rapp’s extraordinary,
unsettling new play at the  Atlantic Theater Company  in
 Manhattan .  Although the words “ Bernard Madoff ” are never uttered,
“Dreams” paints an apocalyptic vision of lives affected by the
Ponzi schemer. Not only among the high-flying rich in whose
dining room we spend the next 85 minutes, but among the
disenfranchised as well.  Canada geese are bashing themselves against the windows of
the expensively appointed home where Dr. Bertram Cabot (Reed
Birney) and his wife Sandra (Christine Lahti) are having drinks
with Bert’s best friend since Yale, Dirk Von Stofenberg (Cotter
Smith).  Awaiting the arrival of Dirk’s wife, Celeste (Betsy Aidem),
and grown son James (Shane McRae), recovering from a recent
suicide attempt, Sandra flirts shamelessly with the virile Dirk
(“I’ve always been so impressed with your physique”) in front of
the passive Bertram.  She also corrects the pronunciation of the young woman
serving them, whom Sandra refers to not as the maid, but as
“kind of like our own little continuing-ed program. Berlitz
French, state capitals, Shakespearean sonnets.”  Truly Weird  It’s not until Sandra and Bert’s otherworldly daughter,
Cora (Katherine Waterston) arrives -- in black, barefoot and
vaguely wild-looking -- that things turn truly weird. She’s
completing an “art project” that involves taking samples of arm
hair and claims that a lioness is being kept in the basement
near the billiards annex, the aquarium, the gym and the sauna.  Left alone for a moment, Cora asks Dirk, “You’ve had quite
the lucky streak lately, wouldn’t you agree? All that business
with everyone losing their money. The king of the jungle got
caught, but somehow all the other animals got away scott-free.”  Neil Pepe urges with restraint his pitch-perfect cast
through Rapp’s surrealistic trip, echoing Edward Albee and Len
Jenkin, as the four adults careen toward an inevitable
conclusion.  “Dreams of Flying Dreams of Falling” is so over-the-top
you may be tempted to dismiss it as a cartoon. Be warned; it’s
likely to linger with you, like a fever dream whose impact
quietly expands in the hours after you’ve left the theater. I
haven’t forgotten a second of it.  Through Oct. 30 at 136 E. 13th St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://www.atlantictheater.org .
Rating: ****  ‘Newsies’  A musical version of the Disney Company’s “Newsies” has
been long aborning in the wake of the 1992 movie about the
newsboys’ strike of 1899. That’s when street hawkers demanded
decent pay from the publishers of papers put out by moguls
including Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst.  Despite tunes by perennial Oscar winner Alan Menken,
working with lyricist Jack Feldman, the movie was a flop in
theaters. It went on to become a hit in home-viewing iterations.  Harvey Fierstein (“La Cage aux Folles”) has rewritten the
book, Menken and Feldman added more songs, and the result is
making its debut at the reborn  Paper Mill Playhouse  in Millburn,
New Jersey.  It’s no “ Lion King .” There’s not a memorable song in the
lot, and the smiley-faced optimism may compel you to reach for
the rotten tomatoes.  Still, it is good-hearted, pro-labor, paint-by-numbers
family entertainment, with several exceptional things going for
it:  Foremost is the exuberant choreography by Christopher
Gattelli. Never mind that the boys break out in dance at the
oddest times -- just after, say, they’ve been beaten to a pulp
by the bosses’ thugs. The tap-dancing ensemble numbers are
terrific.  Then there’s Tobin Ost’s imposing design, three massive
girdered towers that act according to their own choreography and
lend a scrappy urban feel to the proceedings, especially in the
wonderfully variegated lighting by Jeff Croiter.  Finally, there’s the assured staging by Jeff Calhoun, a
Tommy Tune protege. Working with an attractive cast led by
Jeremy Jordan (who will play Clyde Barrow beginning next month
on Broadway in Calhoun’s production of “Bonnie & Clyde”) as the
boys’ ringleader, Calhoun paces the show fleetly. There’s talk
of a move to Broadway. Catch it at the Paper Mill after a fall
drive and save your money for family dinner.  Through Oct. 16 at 22 Brookside Drive, Millburn,  New
Jersey . Information: +1-973-376-4343;  http://www.papermill.org 
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 