-- 
Maersk Says More Ships May Cut Speed for Fuel

-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 
2011-10-04T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/maersk-says-more-ships-may-cut-speed-after-engine-damage-study.html
A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S, the world’s
largest owner of ships that carry manufactured goods, expects
more vessels to cut speeds after it completed a study showing
the practice doesn’t damage engines.  Maersk vessels sustained zero damage from slowing since the
Copenhagen-based owner began lowering speeds to cut fuel costs
in 2007, Jan de Kat, Maersk senior technical adviser, said by
phone Sept. 30. The ship owner’s operating expenses declined as
a result of the practice because it placed less strain on the
engines, meaning they required less maintenance, he said.  “If you look at average speeds, we think they will be
slower,” de Kat said. “There were a lot of concerns about soot
build-up, vibrations and propeller health. We addressed those
concerns and found solutions.”  The most economical speed for  container ships  is 10 to 15
knots instead of the standard 25 knots, according to the
company, which has a fleet of about 500 vessels, de Kat said.  The findings from the research are being presented at a
Brussels seminar today and should reassure other owners that
they won’t damage vessels by following the same strategy, he
said. Maersk is sharing its data with engine manufacturers and
other ship owners to show ways to overcome technical concerns
about slower speeds, de Kat said.  Voluntary Slowdown  Maersk backs voluntary slow-steaming rather than regulation
so shipowners can retain the flexibility to keep shipments on
schedule, de Kat said.  The company said its findings apply to any ship propelled
by a two-stroke engine, the most common type for tankers,
container ships and bulk carriers. Maersk said its own fleet has
reached its lower limit and won’t slow further.  The average speed of all vessels has fallen about 27
percent since July 2008, when average daily earnings were 3.6
percent higher than today, according to data from Bloomberg and
Clarksons Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. As global demand
sank and fleets swelled, shipowners reduced speeds to boost
earnings by saving on fuel.  Some 90 percent of world trade moves on ships, according to
the Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  Nearly all of Maersk’s container ships, and now some of its
tankers, have operated at 10 percent of maximum power since
January 2009, according to de Kat. The company said the engines
haven’t been damaged as a result and its fuel savings average
about 7 percent.  Engine Suppliers  Maersk said its slow-steaming practices have the support of
its engine suppliers, Waertsilae Oyj and Man Diesel & Turbo SE.  Maersk had expected mechanical problems such as loss of
lubrication, fires from soot build-up, corrosion of combustion
parts and increased vibration levels, de Kat said. The company
found that such failures didn’t occur and made mechanical tweaks
to keep its engines functioning safely at low speeds, he said.
Maintenance and operating costs fell, de Kat said.  Shipping accounts for 2.7 percent of global carbon-dioxide
emissions, according to the  International Maritime Organization ,
the United Nations agency responsible for the industry. Reducing
ship speeds may cut emissions by as much as 30 percent from the
2007 level, according to a 2010 report produced by the Dutch
advisory company  CE Delft  for Brussels-based environmental
organization Seas at Risk.  Seas at Risk, host of today’s seminar in Brussels, said it
is preparing another report, due later this year, on the
feasibility of setting ship speed limits through global treaties
or European Union legislation, John Maggs, policy analyst at
Seas at Risk, said by phone on Sept. 30. Seas at Risk is a
member of an organization that is one of 80 non-governmental
groups with non-voting consultative status in the International
Maritime Organization.  The IMO or EU could require ports to deny entry to ships
that violate speed limits, Maggs said. The economic incentives
of slower speeds are causing the idea of speed limits to gain
traction, he said.  That report is being funded by the U.S.-based ClimateWorks
Foundation and the German Federal Environment Agency, according
to Maggs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  