-- 
Air Passengers Should Be Separated by Security Risk, IATA Says

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-10-04T13:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/air-passengers-should-be-separated-by-security-risk-iata-says.html
Airport security would be cheaper and
more effective if passengers were divided up according to risk,
the head of the  International Air Transport Association  said.  The aviation industry spends $4.7 billion a year on
security in the aftermath of the attacks at the World Trade
Center in  New York  10 years ago,  Tony Tyler , chief executive
officer of the trade group, said today in Amsterdam.  “We have not made it any more intelligent,” he said,
speaking at an air security conference. “For the billions of
dollars we spend, we could do a lot better.”  The CEO called for an overhaul of airport security scanning
and said airline passengers should be screened with their bags,
without having to stop, remove clothing or unpack.  IATA favors splitting passengers into three categories:
“normal,” “enhanced,” and “known traveler,” based on
customs and immigrations data and information about their travel
arrangements such as the payment method.  Based on the risk-assessment the passengers would be guided
through different lanes, with limited scanning for “well-
known” customers and more extensive security screening,
including body scans and explosive trace detectors, for higher-
risk passengers.  ‘Well-Known’ Fliers  To obtain the “well-known” customer qualification,
travelers would have to provide background data to governments.  Such a program has already started on a trial basis at four
airports in U.S.,  John Pistole , head of the U.S. Transportation
Security Administration, said at the conference.  The question is “how can we treat those we have confidence
in better,” Pistole said. “We should use our resources to
focus on who we know less about.”  The new model of security systems could be available to
airports worldwide within three to seven years, Tyler said in a
press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  