-- 
Alter Ego Tony Plush Helps Milwaukee Brewers Outfielder Outsell All-Stars

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-10-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/alter-ego-tony-plush-helps-milwaukee-brewers-outfielder-outsell-all-stars.html
The top-selling T-shirt inside
 Milwaukee ’s Miller Park doesn’t carry the name of Prince Fielder, whose 38 home runs were second in the National League,
or Ryan Braun, whose .332 batting average trailed only  Jose Reyes  of the  New York Mets .  Fans of the National League Central Division-champion
Brewers, who are one win shy of their first championship series
since 1982, this season declared their preference for “Tony
Plush,” a brash-talking persona that 31-year-old right fielder
Nyjer Morgan assumes during media interviews. While Plush is
make-believe, the revenue, buzz and sponsor validation derived
from the character are real, says Rick Schlesinger, the team’s
chief operating officer.  “He’s certainly moved the needle,” Schlesinger said in a
telephone interview, declining to give specific sales or revenue
figures for the merchandise.  Retail has three functions, he said: revenue, brand
enhancement and fan connectivity. “Nyjer has helped all
three,” Schlesinger said.  The Brewers offer three styles of $30 Morgan/Plush T-
Shirts. There is a Morgan shirt with his No. 2 on the back; a
similar Plush model, and a gold shirt emblazoned with the words
“Gotta Go,” which is how Plush likes to end interviews. Plush
is outselling Fielder and Braun by a three-to-one margin.  “We’re basically on the stage out there,” Morgan, whose
Brewers have a 2-0 lead over the Diamondbacks entering today’s
Game 3 in  Arizona , told reporters. “All entertainers have a
name. And for me it’s Tony Plush.”  The alter ego urges young fans to work on what he calls
their Plushdamentals -- the art of bunting, throwing to the
right base and “playing in a fundamentally sound manner with
just the right amount of panache.”  Sales of the Plush T-shirt equaled the volume done in 2007
with Braun, who that season won Rookie of the Year, and Fielder,
who hit 50 home runs, Schlesinger said, adding that the Brewers
re-ordered multiple times this season.  Surprise Demand  Michael Johnson , a spokesman for  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s Majestic brand,
which supplies the Brewers, declined to comment.  Major League
Baseball  hasn’t compiled its list of best-selling jerseys for
this season, spokesman Matt Bourne said.  “We certainly didn’t anticipate this kind of demand,”
Schlesinger said. Nor, Schlesinger noted, did the baseball folks
anticipate this kind of production from Morgan, who hit .304
during the regular season, 16 points better than his career
average with the Pittsburgh Pirates and  Washington Nationals .  Thanks to Morgan, a former hockey player, fans in Milwaukee
are grinning, even when the team is losing, said Brewers owner
 Mark Attanasio , who co-ran TWC Group Inc.’s leveraged finance
group that separated from the firm last year.  Attanasio recalled being approached by a fan during
Milwaukee’s Sept. 15 game against the  Colorado Rockies , who were
ahead 6-1 at the time. The deficit wasn’t enough to keep the
customer from stopping the owner to say how much he enjoyed
watching Morgan play.  Running Hard  Morgan, Attanasio said, runs hard to first base no matter
the score or situation.  “I would focus on Nyjer’s competitiveness and spirit,”
Attanasio said when asked what makes Morgan so appealing to
fans.  The Brewers last month were showcased by  Sports
Illustrated , which for the first time since 1987 featured
Milwaukee players exclusively on the  cover . The picture showed
Morgan, Braun and Fielder with the accompanying text: “Living
the High Life, How T-Plush and Two Wallbanging MVP Candidates
are Mixing a Strange Brew in Milwaukee.”  Morgan, whose Plush persona caused friction with some
former teammates and club executives, said Braun and Fielder
understand his desire to enjoy the game.  Baseball or Hockey  “They trust me to go out there and have fun, but still be
under control,” Morgan said. A San Francisco native, he gave up
baseball as a teenager to pursue hockey. He played for the
Regina Pats of the Western Hockey League, a major junior team in
 Canada . He eventually signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 2002
as a 33rd-round draft choice, and played his first game in the
big leagues five years later.  Schlesinger said he received calls from several MillerCoors
LLC executives saying how pleased they were with the attention,
particularly the SI cover, because it played off of the
company’s High Life tag line.  “It helps to validate their decision to partner with us,”
Schlesinger said.  Plush Rally Towel  Demand for all things Plush has prompted the Brewers to
take an unprecedented measure. The club in August staged “Tony
Plush Rally Towel” night, marking the first time they’d
produced a towel for a specific player, Schlesinger said. He
laughed when reminded that Plush isn’t a player.  “OK, first towel night for an alter ego,” he said. A Tony
Plush bobblehead is being planned, he said.  Morgan makes $400,000 a year, compared with Fielder’s $15
million and Braun’s $4.29 million. Morgan stands to make money
from the popularity of his Plush character, which the player
trademarked in August.  While baseball’s official licensees can make and sell
Morgan and Plush products, non-license holders would have to pay
the player for the right.  Morgan in the next few weeks will announce The Plush
Foundation, which the player will use to donate an undisclosed
amount to charities, said his marketing agent, Larry Goldman.
The player will also sell Plush merchandise on his  Web site .  “Nyjer is the guy who gets timely hits and plays great
defense,” Schlesinger said. “Tony is the character, the
enthusiasm. It elevates player to phenomenon.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  