-- 
Dollar Surges With U.S. Treasuries Defying Debt Downgrade by S&P

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-10-05T12:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/american-dollar-surges-along-with-treasuries-defying-debt-downgrade-by-s-p.html
Two months after  Standard & Poor’s 
said the U.S. was becoming less creditworthy, the market value
of assets denominated in dollars is surging.  While about $6 trillion has been erased from the market
value of global equities since Aug. 5, when the New York-based
unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. cut America’s credit rating to AA+ from
AAA, the dollar has appreciated 8.1 percent against the world’s
most-traded currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Instead of depreciating, Treasuries returned 6.4 percent last
quarter, the most since the three months ended December 2008.  “The U.S. dollar is the only relevant reserve currency and
bastion of safety,” Matt Toms, the head of U.S public fixed-
income investments at Atlanta-based ING Investment Management,
which oversees more than $500 billion, said Sept. 28 in a
telephone interview. “The market views the risk of not being
paid back as miniscule.”  When S&P lowered its outlook for the nation in April, it
cited the “dollar’s preeminent place among world currencies”
as a reason for keeping the AAA rating, mentioning the word
“dollar” four times in a statement. When it downgraded the
U.S. in August, the company all but disregarded the dollar,
mentioning it once in the announcement in the 15th paragraph.  Markets are saying S&P was right the first time. The dollar
beat stocks, bonds and commodities last month for the first time
since May, showing that in times of turmoil, there are no safer
assets than those denominated in the world’s reserve currency.
Central banks have 60 percent of their foreign-exchange  holdings 
in the U.S. currency, compared with the euro’s 27 percent, the
next highest.  Best to Own  The dollar was the best performing developed-nation
currency besides the yen, gaining 7.4 percent in the past month
next to nine peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. It strengthened 5.5 percent against the euro,
9.2 percent versus the Australian dollar and 17 percent compared
with the Swiss franc.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and falling interest rates
from  Brazil  to  Turkey  helped the dollar rally as investors
retreated from riskier assets. The weakening U.S. economy has
also contributed to the currency’s strength.  The gap between the cost of insuring German and U.S. debt
against default rose to the highest on record amid growing
concerns that a default by  Greece  would drag the 17-nation euro
region into another recession, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 2008. Greek two-year note yields have
climbed to 62 percent from 12.6 percent in January.  Not Positive  “Things in Europe are likely to drive the rest of the
world at this point and not in a positive way,” Brian Schneider, senior portfolio manager and head of U.S. rates in
Louisville,  Kentucky , for Invesco Fixed-Income, at Invesco Ltd.,
which oversees $653 billion, said Sept. 27 in an interview.  Brazil’s central bank cut its so-called Selic target to 12
percent from 12.5 percent at the end of August. Turkey reduced
its key rate to 5.75 percent in August from 7 percent last year.  U.S. unemployment has hovered at about 9 percent for the
past two years, prompting the Federal Reserve to take
unprecedented steps to reduce borrowing costs and President
 Barack Obama  to propose a $447 billion stimulus plan. The
economy grew 1.3 percent in the second quarter according to
revised government figures released Sept. 29.  Auction Demand  Even with market rates near the lowest on record, demand at
U.S. government debt auctions surged last week. Treasuries
outperformed three of the five biggest AAA economies since the
downgrade, trailing U.K. gilts and German bunds, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields on benchmark
10-year Treasuries fell to a record 1.67 percent on Sept. 23
from 3 percent in July.  “You saw the market buying Treasuries hand over fist while
trying to get out of other assets” right after the ratings
move, Invesco’s Schneider said. “If the U.S. was only AA+, what
did that make the rest of the world?”  S&P announced the change after weeks of disagreement
between the Obama administration and Congress over raising the
nation’s borrowing limit to avoid a government default. On Aug.
2, they reached an agreement to increase the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling and put in place a plan to enforce $2.4 trillion in
spending reductions over the next 10 years, less than the $4
trillion S&P had said was needed to keep the AAA ranking.  The ratings cut after markets closed on a Friday drew
criticism from Obama and from billionaire  Warren Buffett , who
said the U.S. should be “quadruple-A.” John Bellows, acting
assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy, said S&P had
made a $2 trillion “mistake” in its math and then changed the
rationale for its decision to politics instead of financial
metrics.  Stable Outlook  Moody’s Investors Service affirmed its top U.S. ranking on
Aug. 8 and has a negative view of the debt.  Fitch Ratings  kept
its AAA credit rating on Aug. 16 and said the outlook is stable,
citing the nation’s central role in the global financial system
and the flexible, diverse economy.  S&P on Aug. 22 named Citibank NA Chief Operating Officer
Douglas Peterson as president, replacing Deven Sharma who will
leave at the end of the year to “pursue other opportunities.”  Among AAA countries, “there should be no genuine question
within policy makers’ circles of the paramount importance of
honoring the government’s market debt obligations in full, on
time, and unconditionally,” S&P said Sept. 15 in a report. The
U.S. political process contrasts “unfavorably and
increasingly” with top-ranked nations, S&P said.  A survey of 1,031 Bloomberg subscribers showed that 67
percent backed the downgrade, though 35 percent also said grades
given by rating firms aren’t reliable.  ‘Too Political’  “Their action was too political,”  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New
York , said in a telephone interview on Oct. 3. “Normally if
there’s a downgrade, yields on the sovereign debt tend to go up.
Just the opposite happened in this case. I don’t know if people
are taking the downgrade seriously.”  The U.S. has shown willingness in the past to raise taxes
and cut expenditures to reduce deficits. President  Bill Clinton 
signed a law in August 1993 that increased the top individual
 tax rate  to 36 percent from 31 percent, and a 10 percent surtax
on those who make $250,000 a year or more boosted the top
effective tax rate to 39.6 percent, paving the way for a  budget
surplus  in 1998.  “It’s the depth, the liquidity and the ability to pay that
matters, is what the market said” after the S&P downgrade, Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $54 billion, said
yesterday in New York. “The S&P approach was subjective.”  Overseas Holdings  The U.S. sold five-year debt on Sept. 28 at yield of 1.015
percent, the lowest ever. Two-year Treasuries were auctioned at
a yield of 0.249 percent, compared with a record low 0.22
percent on Aug. 23. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand
by comparing bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.76 in last week’s two-year sale, the most since September
2010.  While total overseas holdings of Treasuries fell to $4.48
trillion in July from a record $4.51 trillion in May,  China 
increased its U.S. debt securities to $1.17 trillion, the
highest ever.  Treasury yields have also been kept down by the  Federal
Reserve , which has left its target rate for overnight loans
between banks at a record low since December 2008 and last month
said it will extend the maturities of its $2.64 trillion of
securities holdings to reduce longer-term borrowing costs. In
August, the central bank promised to keep its target rate for
overnight loans between banks near zero through mid-2013.  Fed Measures  The Fed’s measures are “having some impact” on yields,
Tom Higgins, global macro strategist in  Boston  at Standish
Mellon Asset Management Co., which oversees about $85 billion in
fixed-income assets, said Sept. 28 in a telephone interview.
“Even with the downgrade, Treasuries are deemed the safest
place to put your money.”  The dollar’s share of global currency reserves dropped to
60.2 percent in the period ended June 30, the least since March
31, 1999, as far back as the IMF provides data. That compared
with 61.5 percent in the fourth quarter, according to the IMF’s
quarterly Composition of Official Foreign Exchange Reserves
 report  on Sept. 30. The euro’s share rose to 26.7 percent, from
26.6 percent, while the yen rose to 3.9 percent of the total.  S&P may downgrade the U.S. in the coming year. There is a
one-in-three chance of another rating cut, though a change may
not occur until late 2012 or 2013,  John Chambers , a managing
director of S&P, said Sept. 15 at the Bloomberg Markets 50
Summit in New York.  Though he didn’t disagree with the August S&P downgrade,
Higgins of Standish Mellon said he still views the U.S. as AAA
because it’s the reserve currency. “Right now there’s no
alternative to the  U.S. dollar .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  