-- 
Man. City Witnesses Back Tevez’s Account, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-04T09:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/man-city-witnesses-back-tevez-s-account-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Tevez Inquiry  Manchester City substitutes have told a club inquiry they
didn’t hear  Carlos Tevez  refuse to play at Bayern Munich,
contradicting coach  Roberto Mancini ’s version of events, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Tevez has been suspended for two weeks while City
investigates what happened in last week’s  Champions League  game.
He denies he ignored Mancini and says a misunderstanding led to
him not realizing he was supposed to enter as a substitute.  Stamford Bridge  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich has given up on keeping the
club at Stamford Bridge because he can’t find a way to increase
its 42,000-seat capacity, the  Sun reported .  The Blues plan to buy the land on which the stadium is
built from a fan group before reselling it to finance a new
arena within a 3-mile radius, the Sun said.  Newcastle Striker  Newcastle will make a renewed effort to sign striker Modibo
Maiga from Sochaux in January after failing in the off-season,
the  Mirror  reported.  Manager  Alan Pardew  was ”furious” on missing out on the
player but the team will return for him after making a strong
start to the Premier League season, according to the Mirror.  Taarabt Warning  Queens Park Rangers midfielder Adel Taarabt has escaped
with a warning after walking out during a 6-0 loss at Fulham at
the weekend, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Manager  Neil Warnock  will warn Taarabt about his future
conduct and not fine the Moroccan, the Mail said. Taarabt was
substituted at half-time and seen by QPR fans outside Craven
Cottage before the game ended, the Mail said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  