-- 
Anadarko Plans to Sell All Brazil Oil Blocks, ANP Says

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-10-04T20:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/anadarko-plans-to-sell-all-brazil-oil-blocks-anp-director-says.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the largest
U.S. independent oil and natural-gas company by market value,
plans to sell all its blocks in Brazil, a director at the
nation’s crude regulator said.  “Anadarko is taking the option to negotiate an exit from
Brazil, it’s a business option,” Magda Chambriard, a director
at the agency known as the ANP, told reporters today in Rio de
Janeiro. “Anadarko did very good work in Brazil, making
discoveries in exploration areas.”  Anadarko has about 1 million gross acres off Brazil’s coast
and made four discoveries, including Wahoo and Itaipu. Those two
finds have combined potential of at least 500 million barrels of
oil equivalent, Anadarko has said. The company based in The
Woodlands,  Texas , may sell assets in Brazil as it works to
develop projects off the coast of Africa and in the U.S.  “There’s no doubt” Anadarko is seeing more capital return
in other areas than Brazil, John Gerdes, an analyst with
Canaccord Genuity Corp. in Houston, said today in a telephone
interview. “It’s not surprising. They haven’t really gained the
substance of critical mass in the area.”  Gerdes has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Some oil reservoirs offshore Brazil are buried beneath
layers of salt thousands of feet thick, known as pre-salt. Much
of Anadarko’s projects have been in Brazil’s deep-water, pre-
salt region.  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, declined to
comment.  Citigroup, Morgan Stanley  The company previously sold an interest in the Peregrino
field off Brazil to what’s now  Statoil ASA (STL)  for about $1.4
billion. Anadarko is working with Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley
and Scotia Waterous to line up a possible transaction that may
be valued at $3 billion to $5 billion, a person familiar with
the potential sale said last week.  Anadarko’s plan to sell some or all of its properties in
Brazil follows the national oil regulator’s approval in May of
BP’s $3.2 billion purchase of  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) ’s exploration
licenses in Brazil. The sale included Oklahoma City-based
Devon’s stakes in Itaipu and Wahoo.  Brazil’s government hasn’t sold any exploration areas in
the South American country for three years, increasing demand
for existing licenses.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
sold stakes this month in exploration projects in Brazil.  Proved Reserves  Anadarko has said it’s seeking to have 3 billion barrels of
proved reserves by the end of 2014, up from 2.4 billion at the
end of 2010. The company is a partner in the Jubilee project off
Ghana and plans to explore offshore countries including  Sierra
Leone , Liberia and  Ivory Coast .  In North America, Anadarko has reported increased
production in such formations as the Eagle Ford in Texas and the
Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania.  Independent oil and gas companies don’t own refining,
chemical or retail fuel businesses.  Anadarko rose $1.03, or 1.7 percent, to $61.56 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped 19
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 