-- 
Manhattan Office Leasing Slides 36% From ‘Phenomenal’ Second Quarter Pace

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-10-04T20:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/manhattan-office-leasing-fell-36-in-third-quarter-cushman-says.html
Manhattan  office leasing fell 36
percent in the third quarter from a 12-year high in the previous
three months as demand retreated from what had been a
“phenomenal” pace,  Cushman & Wakefield  said.  A total of 6.4 million square feet (594,600 square meters)
of leases were signed in the three months ended Sept. 30, the
New York-based brokerage said in a statement today. About 10
million square feet of offices leased in the previous period,
the most since the third quarter of 1999, as the market was
boosted by Conde Nast Publications Inc.’s 1 million-square-foot
deal at 1 World Trade Center in lower Manhattan, Cushman said.  Cutbacks at financial firms are expected to temper leasing
demand in Manhattan, the biggest and most expensive U.S. office
market, brokerage Cassidy Turley said in July. Global financial
companies have announced plans to cut more than 120,000 jobs
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  “Financial services has been challenged,” Ken McCarthy,
Cushman’s managing director for  New York  research, said at a
briefing today. “As uncertainty increases, businesses in
general, and large users in particular, have taken a step back
and are being more cautious.”  While deals declined from the second quarter, the three
months through September marked New York’s strongest third
quarter for office leasing since 1998, Cushman said in the
statement.  ‘Back to Normal’  “We had a great first quarter, a great second quarter, a
lot of good deals got done,” said  Joseph Harbert , Cushman’s
chief operating officer for the New York region. “We’re back to
normal. I’m not troubled by this.”  Office rents rose and vacancy declined in Manhattan,
according to Cushman. Landlords sought an average of $56.15 a
square foot, up 1.1 percent from the second quarter and 4.4
percent from a year earlier. Vacancy fell to 9.3 percent from
9.4 percent in the previous three months and 10.9 percent a year
earlier.  Rent increases are concentrated among “trophy” buildings
in Midtown, brokerage  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said today in a
separate statement. Rents for the highest-quality Midtown
skyscrapers averaged $85.15 a square foot in July, an increase
of 9.7 percent this year, compared with $53.56, a 2.6 percent
gain, for all of Manhattan, according to the firm.  Trophy Buildings  “Smaller floorplates at the top of the city’s trophy
buildings are performing the best out of all other office market
segments,” James Delmonte, research director of Jones Lang’s
New York office, said in the statement.  The company, based in  Chicago , defines trophy office
buildings as those that were built or significantly renovated
since 1985, are in high-profile locations or have recognized
tenants or architectural significance.  Delmonte questioned whether space demand is high enough to
keep rents climbing in the face of recent stock-market
volatility and concern that the economic recovery has stalled.  “If the high amount of volatility continues and asking
rents are to decline, the first declines could be seen in the
trophy market,” he said.  Broken down by area, Cushman said, Midtown rents had the
biggest increase, gaining 1.1 percent from the second quarter to
$64.07 a square foot. Lower Manhattan rents averaged $39.10 a
square foot, down 0.7 percent from the previous three months.
Vacancy rates in both markets rose by 0.2 percentage points to
10 percent in Midtown and 9.9 percent downtown.  Midtown South  The vacancy rate in Midtown South, the tightest U.S. office
market, declined to 6.1 percent from 7.1 percent in the previous
quarter. The area is roughly between 30th and Canal streets.  The quarter’s biggest deals include a 271,247-square-foot
lease by  Pearson Plc (PSON) , owner of the Financial Times, at 330
Hudson St. in Midtown South. Investment firm Oppenheimer & Co.
agreed to take 267,647 square feet at 85 Broad St., the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  headquarters in lower Manhattan.  Besides the Conde Nast deal, second-quarter leases included
an agreement by Nomura Holding Inc. for 901,000 square feet at
Worldwide Plaza in Midtown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  