-- 
Anti-Wall Street Protests Fuel Drive for U.S. Jobs, Trumka Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-10-04T14:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/anti-wall-street-protests-fuel-drive-for-u-s-jobs-trumka-says.html
Protests against  Wall Street  that are
spreading nationwide will help build a movement by workers and
the unemployed to “rebuild the American dream,” AFL-CIO
President Richard Trumka said.  The arrests of 700 demonstrators in  New York  City over the
weekend reflect frustration about a lack of work at a time of
high corporate profits and executive bonuses, Trumka said in
remarks today for a conference of Democratic party allies in
Washington. U.S. unemployment has been 9 percent or higher for
five consecutive months.  “A lot of people got arrested on the Brooklyn Bridge, and
is there any wonder why,” Trumka said. “Millions out of work?
Millions thrown out of their homes? And the bonuses keep
flowing? And Wall Street wants more tax cuts for corporations
and less regulation so they can do what they just did to us all
over again?”  The rallies, which began in lower  Manhattan  in mid-
September, spurred protests in  Los Angeles  and  Boston , where 25
people were arrested Sept. 30 after police said they refused to
leave the lobby of a Bank of America Corp. building. The next
day, New York police halted a march over the bridge and arrested
activists for blocking traffic.  Trumka said the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor
federation, will join the protests with a week of rallies called
“America Wants to Work.”  The weekend arrests in New York prompted Transport Workers
Union Local 100 to seek a court order barring police from
forcing transit workers to abandon their routes and carry
demonstrators arrested for disorderly conduct.  Transport Workers  The union of 38,000 members, which last week said it’s
supporting the protests, asked U.S. District Judge Paul
Engelmayer to prohibit the New York police or  New York City 
Transit Authority from forcing drivers to transport protesters
as ordered by police on Oct. 1.  A court hearing is set for today on the request, said Jim
Gannon, a spokesman for the union, which represents about 9,000
city bus drivers.  Trumka also said in the prepared remarks that free-trade
agreements with  South Korea , Colombia and Panama, which
President  Barack Obama  sent to Congress yesterday, are “lousy”
deals that will destroy 159,000 jobs by encouraging companies to
send work overseas.  The agreements are on the  Tea Party ’s “anti-government”
agenda that aims to block programs to help the unemployed, stall
action on funding government and make it harder for new voters
and students to cast ballots next year, he said.  Trumka, who didn’t criticize Obama for backing the trade
agreements, urged the group to support the president’s jobs
program.  “I’ve been the first to call out President Obama when I
thought it was needed,” he said. “When he is doing the right
thing, the courageous thing, it’s time for us to fight back.”  Trumka will make his comments at a conference of the
Campaign for America’s Future, a coalition of Democratic party
allies that is seeking to counter the impact of the Tea Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  