-- 
Apple Speeds Up IPhone 4 as It Tussles With Android Devices

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-04T20:14:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/apple-unveils-iphone-4s-with-faster-chip-in-tussle-with-google-s-android.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , in its first product
unveiling since  Steve Jobs  resigned as chief executive officer,
introduced a faster iPhone with voice features and a higher-
resolution camera to help it vie with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.  The new iPhone 4S’s A5 chip will make graphics seven times
faster than the old processor, Apple said today at an event at
its headquarters in Cupertino,  California . The model will cost
$199, $299 and $399, depending on features, and will be sold by
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for the first time. Apple already has
agreements with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless .  The update of Apple’s best-selling product marks an early
test for  Tim Cook , CEO since Aug. 24, who hasn’t shown he can
match his predecessor’s skills at product design and marketing.
While the iPhone is the world’s most popular smartphone,
Google’s Android software is more widely used, showing up in
devices from Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC Corp. Apple let
down some investors today by not unveiling a more groundbreaking
iPhone 5 model, though shares rebounded late in the day.  “There is some disappointment that only one new iPhone has
been announced,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Birmingham,
Alabama-based Sterne Agee.  Jobs, who remains Apple’s chairman, didn’t appear at the
event today. The 56-year-old has taken three medical leaves over
the past seven years amid a battle with a rare form of cancer.  Camera Phone  The iPhone 4S, available Oct. 14, will have a camera with
60 percent more pixels and can handle high-definition video. The
device also relies on an “intelligent antenna system” that’s
designed to improve call quality and works with both CDMA and
GSM wireless standards. Users will have up to 8 hours of talk
time on one charge.  “For many customers, the iPhone 4S will be the best still
camera they’ve ever owned, the best video camera they’ve ever
owned, and it’s with them all the time,” said Phil Schiller, a
senior vice president in charge of product marketing.  A new voice-recognition system, meanwhile, will turn the
device into a hands-free personal assistant. The technology lets
users check weather, get directions or surf the Web using speech
commands. Apple already had basic  voice-control  abilities on the
iPhone for placing a call or accessing a song.  Apple acquired a speech-recognition software company last
year called Siri, which helped it develop the new features. The
system relies on artificial intelligence to handle users’
questions.  ‘Who Are You?’  Scott Forstall , a senior vice president in charge of iPhone
software, demonstrated the technology on stage by asking the
phone, “Who are you?”  It responded, “I am a humble personal assistant.”  The features, combined with the more aggressive prices,
will give Apple an edge, said  Andy Hargreaves , an analyst at
Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon .  “Siri is very unique from what I’ve seen and should
continue to differentiate them at the high end,” he said.  The older iPhone 4 model will now cost $99, and the iPhone
3GS will be free with a wireless contract, Apple said.  The company also demonstrated iCloud, a new service for
storing files such as pictures and music on Apple’s remote
servers. That means the files can be accessed through iPads,
iPhones and Macs, and mobile devices no longer have to sync up
to a computer. Apple will give away advertising-free e-mail as
part of the service, which comes out Oct. 12.  Twitter Features  Apple showed off other new software features, including an
integration with Twitter Inc. that lets users quickly post
updates to the social-blogging service. Apple’s new iOS 5
operating system, which runs its mobile devices, also will be
available for free on Oct. 12.  The iPhone accounted for almost half Apple’s sales in the
most recent quarter. Combined, the iPhone, iPad tablet and iPod
Touch touch-screen media player have sold 250 million units in
total, Apple said today. There are now more than 500,000
applications in the company’s  App Store , which has generated $3
billion for developers since its debut in 2008.  “In three years, customers have downloaded 18 billion apps
-- and it’s accelerating,” Forstall said at today’s event. The
rate is now over 1 billion per month, he said.  The company also is making inroads with corporate users.
Ninety-three percent of Fortune 500 companies are testing the
iPhone for use by their employees, and 92 percent are trying out
the iPad, Apple said today.  Smartphone Showdown  At stake is leadership in the market for smartphones, which
is projected to double by 2015, when 1 billion of the handsets
will be sold, according to research firm IDC. While Apple is the
single biggest smartphone maker, the Android coalition leads the
market, accounting for 41.7 percent.  It’s been 16 months since the last iPhone release -- a
longer lag than usual. The pent-up demand may help Apple sell a
record 25 million iPhones during the December quarter, according
to estimates by  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.
The lack of an all-new iPhone, with a different outer design,
won’t deter buyers, he said.  “Everyone would have liked a new form factor, but they’re
still going to sell a boatload, and there will be long lines,”
Munster said. “It’s less about hardware and more about software
and services.”  The success of the iPhone has helped Apple’s stock weather
market turmoil and the resignation of the CEO who made Apple the
world’s most valuable company. The shares have climbed 15
percent this year. Apple fell $2.10, or less than 1 percent, to
$372.50 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Chinese Growth  The company is looking to  China  to fuel a new wave of
growth. Apple plans “a lot more” stores for the country, Cook
said today. The company’s retail outlet in  Shanghai  had 100,000
visitors on its opening weekend, he said.  Voice recognition is emerging as the latest arena for
Apple’s rivalry with Google, which has  spent years  promoting
speech technology. Current Google features transcribe voice
messages to text and perform Web searches based on verbal
commands. The challenge so far has been getting mainstream users
to adopt the technology, said venture capitalist Larry Marcus,
who has invested in speech-recognition company SoundHound Inc.  The new speech technology builds on a service Apple
introduced in 2009 called Voice Control, which lets users make a
call or play music by speaking into the phone. Those features
haven’t taken off among the general public, Marcus said.  Apple also gave updated figures on its Mac computer
division. The new OS X Lion operating system has been downloaded
6 million times, and the Mac business has an installed user base
of 58 million, Cook said.  Apple’s iPod, meanwhile, remains an important business,
Cook said -- even as the iPhone cannibalizes some of its sales.
The company introduced a new $129 version of the iPod Nano and a
range of iPod Touch models starting at $199.  The iPod, which made its debut 10 years ago, has reached
sales of 300 million units globally.  “It took Sony 30 years to sell 220 million Walkman
cassette players,” Cook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  