-- 
Apple’s Next IPhone Poised to Usher In ‘Star Trek’-Style Voice Recognition

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-04T13:56:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/apple-may-unveil-voice-recognition-technology-with-new-iphone.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s next iPhone, due to be
unveiled at an event today, may be a showcase for improved voice
controls, bringing phones closer to the realm of “ Star Trek ”-
style speech recognition.  New voice commands will let users make appointments in
their calendars, send text messages or e-mails, and surf the
Web, said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. Apple
already has basic  voice-control  abilities on the iPhone for
placing a call or accessing a song. Today’s event is called
“Let’s talk iPhone,” hinting at an expansion of the features.  Voice technology is emerging as the latest arena for
Apple’s rivalry with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which has  spent years 
promoting speech technology. Current Google features transcribe
voice messages to text and perform Web searches based on verbal
commands. The challenge so far has been getting mainstream users
to adopt the technology, said venture capitalist Larry Marcus,
who has invested in speech-recognition company SoundHound Inc.  Apple can “make it exciting and make people think about it
in different ways,” Marcus said. “Voice controls are a very
fundamental way to interact with your device.”  Voice commands won’t be the only features added to the new
 iPhone . The device may include a better camera and a stronger
processor to make programs run faster, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this year. Apple showed off some of the new
software for the device in June, including new messaging and
notification features.  ICloud Approaches  The company also is readying iCloud, a service for storing
files such as pictures and music on Apple’s remote servers so
they can be accessed through iPhones, iPads and Mac computers.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on today’s event.  The fifth-generation iPhone comes at a pivotal time for
Apple. Today’s event will be the company’s first major product
unveiling since co-founder  Steve Jobs  resigned as chief
executive officer in August, when he turned the job over to
longtime deputy  Tim Cook .  The new speech technology would  build  on a service Apple
introduced in 2009 called Voice Control, which lets users make a
call or play music by speaking into the phone. Those features
haven’t taken off, Marcus said.  “They have probably been taking extra time to figure out
how to get it right,” he said.  Nuance Software  Speech-recognition technology also is available from
companies such as  Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) , which offers
voice-to-text transcription software. Automakers are adding
speech features as well, letting drivers make a call or choose a
song while keeping their hands on the wheel.  Mobile devices represent a growth market for voice-command
technology as people try to perform more complex computing tasks
on the go. Features will increasingly blend vocal and physical
commands, said John Donovan, chief technology officer of  AT&T
Inc. (T) , a carrier for the iPhone.  “Certain things are more naturally spoken, some things are
more naturally typed, and some things are more naturally
swiped,” he said, referring to the swiping motion that iPhone
users make on the device’s touch screen. While declining to talk
about Apple specifically, he said a big product event can
“accelerate” adoption.  Apple acquired a speech-recognition  software company  last
year called Siri, which lets users make restaurant reservations
or search for a flight with voice commands. Apple also is
probably working with Nuance to power the voice capabilities of
the new iPhone, said  Mike Phillips , chief technology officer and
 co-founder  of Vlingo, which also makes voice-recognition
technology.  How Far?  The move is good for the whole market, Phillips said. “The
question is: How much farther do they go?” he said. “Do they
really try to transform the search experience?”  That would mean making voice a main method of searching,
rather than a once-in-a-while method, Phillips said.  Apple also is facing mounting competition in touch-screen
smartphones -- a market it pioneered. Samsung Electronics Co.
and HTC Corp. are relying on Google’s Android software to woo
iPhone users. And Google is acquiring its own mobile-phone
company, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., for $12.5 billion.  The Apple-Google rivalry has expanded to the courtroom,
where Apple and Android adherents are suing each other for
patent infringements.  Smartphone Showdown  At stake is leadership in the market for smartphones, which
is projected to double by 2015, when 1 billion of the handsets
will be sold, according to research firm IDC. While Apple is the
single biggest smartphone maker, the Android coalition leads the
market, accounting for 41.7 percent.  The iPhone is Apple’s top-selling product, generating
almost half its sales last quarter. The company hasn’t released
a new model since June 2010, so there may be pent-up demand for
an update. Apple will sell a record 25 million iPhones during
the December quarter, Piper Jaffray’s Munster estimates.  The success of the product has helped Apple’s stock weather
market turmoil and the loss of its CEO. Shares of Apple, the
world’s most valuable company, have climbed 16 percent this
year. The stock fell 43 cents to $374.17 at 9:55 a.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Even so, the long delay between new iPhones has put
pressure on Apple to ward off competitors, said  Ramon Llamas , an
analyst with Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  “It’s critical they have an iPhone coming out every single
year,” he said. The 16-month lag “left the door open for some
other competitors to jump in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  