-- 
Argentina Drought May Cut South American Corn, Soy Production

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-04T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/argentina-drought-may-cut-south-american-corn-soy-production.html
Drought in  Argentina  and dry weather
in parts of  Brazil  is threatening crops in South American
countries, Hamburg-based researcher Oil World said in an e-
mailed report today.  A “severe” drought in Argentina, the second-biggest
exporter of corn and third-largest shipper of soybeans, may cut
yields and production, Oil World said. Dry weather in Mato
Grosso state in Brazil, the second-largest shipper of soybeans
and third-biggest exporter of corn, will harm plants if
precipitation doesn’t fall soon, the researcher said.  “At the moment several important agricultural areas in
Brazil and Argentina are reporting soil moisture deficits,” Oil
World said. “If those are not repleted by favorable rains in
coming weeks, yields and production of soybeans and other crops
will be threatened.”  Corn futures plunged 23 percent in September, the biggest
such loss since June 2009, and soybeans dropped 19 percent on
speculation the European debt crisis will curb demand for raw
materials used to make food.  Only 22 percent of normal rain fell in the Argentina
province of  Santa Fe , with a quarter to a half of the normal
amount in Entre Rios, La Pampa, 40 percent in Cordoba and 49
percent in  Buenos Aires province , according to the report. Corn
growers in the country seeded only 13 percent of the intended
area through Sept. 29, half of what was planted in the same
period last year, Oil World said.  South American Supplies  “With Northern Hemisphere soybean production declining
sizably this autumn the global market will become increasingly
dependent on South American supplies in 2012,” the researcher
said. “If the moisture deficits are not repleted by well-spread
and sufficient rainfall during October and November, Argentine
soybeans and other crops will be in trouble.”  Falling yields in Argentina and Brazil would be bullish for
prices in the medium term, Oil World said. Traders probably
won’t react to weather concerns in  South America  until November,
according to the report.  Demand for soybeans and soybean derivatives may boost
prices as biodiesel production rose 35 percent in the year
through September, Oil World said. Argentine biodiesel output
through September probably totaled 2.27 million metric tons and
exports gained 18 percent, according to the report. Soybean oil
stockpiles also declined on increased biodiesel production.  “Biodiesel production increased more sharply than expected
on account of rising demand,” the researcher said. “With soya
oil the major feedstock, the accelerating domestic consumption
curbed Argentine soy oil exports and reduced stocks more sharply
than expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 