-- 
Asia Currencies Drop, Led by Won, on Slowdown Signs, Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-04T08:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/asia-currencies-drop-on-slowdown-signs-interest-rate-outlook.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
 South Korea ’s won, after data showed export growth is moderating
in the region and slowing inflation reduced the likelihood of
more interest-rate increases this year.  Indonesia and South Korea released figures this month
showing slowing gains in overseas sales and consumer prices,
while Thailand announced a lower inflation rate and export
growth almost halved in India. Global inflationary pressure is
easing as the world economic recovery slows, Taiwan’s central
bank said in a report released yesterday. The bank left  interest
rates  unchanged at a quarterly policy meeting last week, ending
a run of five increases.  The won slumped 1.3 percent from last week’s closing level
to 1,194.20 per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. South Korea’s financial markets were closed yesterday
for a holiday.  Indonesia ’s rupiah fell 0.7 percent today to
8,965 as of 3:13 p.m. in Jakarta, India’s rupee lost 0.6 percent
to 49.4350 and Taiwan’s dollar dropped 0.3 percent to NT$30.68.  “The global economic slowdown is increasing downside
growth risks for Asian countries that rely on exports and that
puts downward pressure on regional currencies,” said  Hideki
Hayashi , a specially appointed fellow at the Japan Center for
Economic Research in Tokyo. “Rate-hike expectations in the
region are much reduced now. Sentiment remains quite weak.”  The won and the ringgit sank to their weakest levels since
July 2010, while the Singapore and Taiwan dollars set new lows
for the year, as concern  Europe  will fail to contain its debt
crisis prompted investors to seek refuge in the dollar. The
greenback strengthened against 15 of 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  European Debt Woes  Greece passed austerity measures yesterday that will cut
its 2012  budget deficit  to 6.8 percent of gross domestic product,
short of the 6.5 percent goal previously agreed to secure
financial aid from the European Union,  International Monetary
Fund  and  European Central Bank . Euro-region finance chiefs will
meet on Oct. 13 to decide whether the push is enough to win
bailout funds needed to avoid a default.  The won touched a 14-month low of 1,208.25 today, before
paring its loss on suspected intervention and demand from
exporters, said Lee Jung Ha, a currency trader with  Korea
Development Bank .  “Demand for dollars was strong, after Korean markets were
closed for a holiday yesterday, on concern that Greece may
default on its debt,” he said in  Seoul . “There is speculation
that the government intervened in the morning after the won
weakened below 1,200. The currency trimmed losses in the
afternoon as exporters sold dollars to convert income.”  South Korea’s export growth slowed to 19.6 percent in
September from 25.9 percent in August, while consumer-price
gains eased to 4.3 percent from 5.3 percent, official data show.  Indonesia Intervention  The rupiah fell for a second day after overseas investors
cut holdings of the nation’s assets. Global funds owned 218.1
trillion rupiah ($24 billion) of the government’s local-currency
bonds at the end of last month, 12 percent less than at the
start, official figures show.  Bank Indonesia  will remain in the market to stabilize the
rupiah, Hendar, the central bank’s director of monetary policy,
said yesterday as the currency declined toward its weakest level
since June 2010.  “The possible default in Greece and the dimmer global
economic outlook are now the major concerns in the market,”
said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth
in Jakarta. “Global investors are taking profits in emerging
markets and holding more dollar assets.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso declined 0.2 percent to
44.075 against the greenback and the Singapore dollar slid 0.3
percent to S$1.3152. Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed at
3.2068 while  Thailand ’s baht added 0.1 percent to 31.17.  China ’s
onshore markets are closed this week for a public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  