-- 
Asthma Plans Shouldn’t Affect Payments, Study Finds

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-10-04T22:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/asthma-home-care-plans-shouldn-t-affect-payments-study-finds.html
(Corrects name in sixth paragraph.)  A common measure of how well
hospitals treat children and teens with asthma is statistically
meaningless and shouldn’t be used to determine federal quality
payments under the health-care law, a study found.  Discharging patients ages 2 to 17 with a home-management
plan for treating the condition doesn’t reduce readmissions or
emergency room use, researchers led by Rustin Morse, medical
director of quality at the Phoenix Children’s Hospital, wrote
today in the  Journal of the American Medical Association .  The 2010 health-care law cuts government payments to
operators by $155 billion in a decade and reallocates $850
million in fiscal 2013 to facilities that meet U.S. quality
standards.  The Joint Commission , based in  Oakbrook Terrace ,
 Illinois , determines standards used to accredit more than 19,000
health-care organizations.  “Measurement can play a key role in helping redress the
shortcomings of the U.S. health-care system, but measures must
meet high standards,” Charles Homer, president and chief
executive officer of the National Initiative for Children’s
Health Care Quality in Boston, wrote in an accompanying
editorial.  Home-management plans are one of three quality measures for
treating chronic disease of the lungs, a condition that affects
an estimated 20 million Americans, according to the Asthma and
Allergy Foundation of America, in Landover,  Maryland . The others
are administering medicines that relax muscles and
corticosteroids that reduce inflammation.  Value of Surveillance  Homer, who also is an associate clinical professor of
pediatrics at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston , said the study
highlights the “great value of post-marketing surveillance of
performance measures.”  The study examined data from 37,267 patients admitted to 30
children’s hospitals from Jan. 1, 2008, to Sept. 30, 2010.
Patients’ conditions were followed for as long as 90 days.  Home-management plans had no effect on whether patients
were readmitted or needed emergency care, the study concluded.
Mean emergency-room use rate was 11 percent and the mean
hospital readmission rate was 7.6 percent after 90 days, the
study showed.  Use of reliever medications that relax muscles and
corticosteroids remained high throughout the study, a sign that
hospitals may no longer need to collect data on compliance with
these measures, according to the study.  Relying on data from children’s hospitals where patients
get better care may have skewed the study results, the authors
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 