-- 
Australian Services Expand at Slower Pace on Hiring, New Orders

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-04T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/australian-services-expand-at-slower-pace-on-hiring-new-orders.html
Australia ’s services industry
expanded at a slower pace last month as global financial turmoil
weighed on hiring plans and new orders, a private survey showed.  The performance of services index dropped 1.8 points to
50.3 in September from a 16-month high of 52.1 in August,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and the Australian Industry Group
said in Sydney today. Fifty is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia yesterday left its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 4.75 percent, citing a “softer”
labor market and consumers who are “more concerned about the
possibility of unemployment rising.” The RBA also signaled less
concern about wage pressure from a mining investment boom.  “Consumer related sectors such as retail and personal
services weakened as shell-shocked consumers exercised
caution,” Commonwealth Bank senior economist James McIntyre
said in a statement. “Conditions in business-related sectors
such as property and business services, and transport and
storage were stronger, as the mining boom benefits trickle
through the economy.”  The index’s gauge for sales rose to 52.2 from 51.2, and the
reading for new orders fell to 50.7 from 53.9. The wages
indicator sank to 62.2 from 66.7, the report showed. The
employment measure declined 4.3 points to 47.8.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  