-- 
Australia’s RBA Sees Scope for Rate Cut as Inflation Eases; Currency Falls

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-04T07:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/australia-central-bank-holds-key-interest-rate-as-inflation-outlook-eases.html
Australia’s central bank signaled it
has scope to lower the nation’s benchmark interest rate if
necessary as inflation pressures ease, sending the local
currency to the lowest level in more than a year.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  held the overnight cash rate target
at 4.75 percent, he said in a statement released today in Sydney,
matching the prediction of all 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The outlook for consumer prices through 2013
“may now be more consistent” with the  Reserve Bank ’s target of
2 percent to 3 percent, he said.  “An improved inflation outlook would increase the scope
for monetary policy to provide some support to demand, should
that prove necessary,” Stevens said. “It will take more time
for evidence of any effects of the recent European and U.S.
financial turbulence on economic activity in other regions to
emerge.”  The nation’s dollar fell to the lowest since September 2010
against its U.S. counterpart after the RBA cited “very
unsettled” global financial markets and signs of weaker
domestic growth. Investors raised to 86 percent the chance that
Stevens will lower borrowing costs by 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, next month, according to cash rate futures.  ‘Door is Open’  “The door is open to rate cuts if need be -- whether
that’s because the global situation deteriorates further or the
 unemployment rate  shifts into a higher range,” said Su-Lin Ong,
head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Sydney. “The RBA’s signaling it’s a bit more
comfortable on the inflation front.”  The Australian currency fell, trading as low as 94.56 U.S.
cents in Sydney from 95.27 cents yesterday in  New York  and 95.09
cents before the decision. At 6:05 p.m. in Sydney, it fetched
95.20 cents. The local dollar last month dropped by 9.8 percent,
the steepest monthly decline since October 2008.  Since the RBA last met on Sept. 6, a government report
showed monthly employment growth averaged 2,800 from January
through August, less than a 10th of the average of 30,500 in the
first eight months of 2010. Australia’s unemployment in August
rose for a second straight month, reaching a 10-month high of
5.3 percent.  Today Stevens called the labor market “a little softer”
and said consumers are “more concerned about the possibility of
unemployment rising.” A weaker job market reduces the
likelihood of a “significant acceleration” in labor costs in
industries that aren’t benefiting from a mining boom, the RBA
governor said.  Slumping Retailers  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , Australia’s biggest department-store
chain, sees  consumer confidence  at a three-decade low and
doesn’t expect any improvement in at least six months, Chief
Executive Officer Bernie Brookes said in an interview last week.  “While there remain good reasons to expect solid growth
over the medium term, the indications are that the pace of near-
term growth is unlikely to be as strong as earlier expected, due
both to local and global factors, including the financial
turmoil and related effects on business confidence,” he said.  The central bank, which last raised rates in November, has
balanced inflation driven by resources investment and a stronger
currency that’s hurt manufacturing jobs and damaged confidence.  The so-called Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has dropped 14 percent from its record-high $1.1081
reached July 27 as speculation mounts that Greece will default
and spur a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Trade Windfall  Government reports earlier today showed the strength of the
nation’s mining industry and signaled a rebound in building
approvals.  Australia ’s exports surged in August to a record A$28.4
billion ($27 billion) on coal shipments, and the nation’s A$3.1
billion trade surplus was the second-widest on record. A
separate release showed the number of permits granted to build
or renovate houses and apartments jumped 11.4 percent from July,
the biggest increase since March 2010.  “Australia’s terms of trade are very high, which has
increased national income considerably,” Stevens said today,
referring to export prices relative to import prices.
“Investment in the resources sector is picking up very
strongly.”  Stevens reduced rates from 7.25 percent to a 49-year low of
3 percent from September 2008 to April 2009 as the collapse of
Lehman worsened a global financial crisis.  The RBA boosted its rate seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010, tempering a rise in consumer debt, which more
than tripled in the past 20 years to 153.7 percent of disposable
income in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  