-- 
Austria Resists EFSF Bond Buying, Sees Risk of Creating Bad Bank

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   N e j r a   C e h i c
-- 
2011-10-04T15:08:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/austria-resists-efsf-bond-buying-sees-risk-of-creating-bad-bank.html
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said she’ll resist pressure to use the euro area’s
bailout fund to buy bonds in the secondary market, saying such
an initiative would risk turning it into a “bad bank.”  “I don’t support this because I don’t want to make the
facility into a bad bank,” Fekter said when asked about the
possibility in an interview today in  Luxembourg , where European
Union finance ministers are meeting.  The fund, known as the European Financial Stability
Facility, is set to gain the power to purchase euro-area
sovereign bonds under the terms of an accord that the region’s
governments are trying to ratify by the end of next week.  Fekter’s remarks underline how political concerns may
hamper the impact of the EFSF even after it is retooled under
the terms agreed by European leaders on July 21.  European stocks fell for a third day and investors shunned
riskier countries’ bonds amid concern that the crisis is
careering out of control. The euro has dropped about 8 percent
since the end of August, trading at $1.3275 as of 4 p.m. in
 London .  Austria , one of six AAA-rated euro-area countries, would be
reluctant to offer further financial support in order to
increase the firepower of the EFSF, which has 440 billion euros
($584 billion) to spend in the face of bond-market turmoil,
Fekter said.  “I could not support huge amounts from the taxpayer for
the EFSF,” she said. This “is not possible to pass national
parliaments.” The fund “should be flexible in the operational
work and in this flexibility I hope the amount is enough,” she
said.  Fekter also said that there is “no consensus” on whether
the EFSF should be granted a banking license in an effort to
increase its size.  “Some countries support this, some are not happy, we will
see if we find a technical solution,” she said. “We have to
strengthen the instruments for handling or managing the crisis.
The ECB alone is not enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Luxembourg or  markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Nejra Cehic in Luxembourg or  ncehic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  