-- 
Azumi Demands Europe Make Greek Bailout Transparent to End Euro Weakness

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-10-04T05:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/azumi-demands-europe-make-greek-bailout-transparent-to-end-euro-weakness.html
Japan called on  Europe  to implement
its rescue of  Greece  with speed and transparency as investor 
concern the European crisis is deepening drove the euro to a 
decade-low against the yen.  “In order to halt the extreme strength in the yen and
weakness in the euro, Europe should make the process of rescuing
Greece more transparent to the markets,” Japanese Finance
Minister Jun Azumi told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  Azumi’s comments reflect growing international frustration
with Europe’s inability to resolve the sovereign debt crisis
after 18 months of incremental steps. The euro fell today to
100.76 yen, the weakest since June 2001, before reports that may
indicate the European economy is slowing as governments
implement austerity measures.  “At a time when none of the developed economies are doing
that well, the biggest downside risk is that the problem in
Europe deteriorates,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior
economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. Europe is a “possible spark
for a global economic crisis.”  He added that Japanese finance ministers have traditionally
refrained from commenting on other nations’ policies.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last week
that Europe’s debt woes are “starting to hurt growth
everywhere.”  Azumi said he told Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer 
during a Tokyo visit yesterday that Europe needs to implement
Greece’s rescue measures “as soon as possible.”  Greek Debt Losses  European finance ministers dropped clues that bondholders
may have to take bigger losses on Greek debt in a second aid
package, after a meeting in Luxembourg.  The ministers also pushed back a decision on the release of
Greece’s next 8 billion-euro ($10.6 billion) loan installment
until after Oct. 13. It was the second postponement of a vote
originally slated for yesterday as part of the 110 billion-euro
lifeline granted to Greece last year.  Azumi said that Japanese shares are excessively weak and
that companies are doing better than their stock prices suggest.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, which has lost more than 4 percent
in the last month, slid 1.6 percent to 8412.12 at 1:41 p.m. in
Tokyo.  Sony Corp. is “especially concerned” about weakness in
the euro, Ryoji Chubachi, vice chairman, said at a convention
near Tokyo today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded today its forecast for
Japanese economic growth to 2.1 percent from 2.5 percent for the
year starting April 2012, and to 0.1 percent from 0.2 percent
for this fiscal year.  With supply chains restored after the March earthquake,
“the Japanese economy will be strongly influenced by external
demand conditions,” Naohiko Baba, chief Japan economist at
Goldman, said in a report today.  In a sign of the weakness of domestic demand in the world’s
third largest economy,  Japan ’s wages slid 0.6 percent from a
year earlier in August, the third straight month of decreases,
the Labor Ministry said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  