-- 
Thai Interest-Rate Swaps Drop to 6-Month Low as Inflation Eases

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-04T08:47:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/baht-drops-for-a-second-day-after-inflation-cools-in-september.html
Thailand ’s onshore  interest-rate 
swaps dropped to a six-month low after a government report
showed inflation eased last month to the least since March,
reducing the likelihood of more rate increases this year.  Consumer prices gained 4.03 percent in September from a
year earlier after having risen 4.29 percent the previous month,
the Ministry of Commerce said yesterday. The Bank of Thailand
may cut its estimate for economic growth this year and
inflationary expectations aren’t likely to rise, Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said on Sept. 24.  “We are not in an environment to see a rate hike with
growing uncertainties in Europe and the U.S.,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a specially appointed fellow at the Japan Center for
Economic Research in  Tokyo . “Inflation is easing and there’s
growing downside risks from the global economic slowdown.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive a floating payment, dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.62 percent as of 3:15 p.m. in Bangkok,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate was the lowest
since April 1 on an intraday basis.  The central bank, which has raised its benchmark interest
rate six times this year to 3.5 percent, meets next on Oct. 19
to review monetary policy. Governor Prasarn said last week that
risks to global economic growth have increased, and Bank of
Thailand policy makers will weigh the risks to growth and
inflation when they next meet.  The central bank may keep its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at its next meeting because inflation will continue to
ease,  Permanent Secretary  for Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach said
yesterday.  The baht added 0.2 percent to 31.15 per dollar. It touched
31.36 yesterday, the weakest level since Aug. 27, 2010.  Government bonds  fell for a second day. The yield on the
government’s 5.25 percent bonds due May 2014 added one basis
point to 3.56 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  