-- 
BofA May Face Fraud Claims for Soured Loans

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-10-05T15:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bank-of-america-s-countrywide-may-face-fraud-suit-after-u-s-housing-audit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  should face
fraud proceedings after its Countrywide unit submitted faulty
data to back up claims for reimbursement on federally insured
mortgages, according to an audit by a U.S. watchdog.  Half of 14 loans reviewed had “material underwriting
deficiencies” concerning borrowers that resulted in more than
$720,000 in losses, according to a Sept. 30  report  from the
Department of Housing and Urban Development’s inspector general.
Kelly Anderson, a HUD regional inspector general, recommended
the agency pursue legal remedies against  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender.  “Countrywide did not properly verify, analyze, or support
borrowers’ employment and income, source of funds to close,
liabilities and credit information,” Kelly wrote in the audit.
“This noncompliance occurred because Countrywide’s underwriters
did not exercise due diligence in underwriting the loans.”  The  Federal Housing Administration , run by HUD, insures
mortgages on loans to borrowers who can’t find traditional
financing, such as those with low incomes. Lenders can ask the
FHA to cover losses if borrowers default. The agency has stepped
up scrutiny of those claims, and denials could be the next wave
of expenses tied to faulty mortgages for lenders including Bank
of America, FBR Capital Markets Corp. said on Oct. 3.  More Denials  The U.S. said in May it may pursue other firms after suing
Deutsche Bank AG for more than $1 billion, accusing the firm of
lying to the FHA while arranging  mortgage insurance .  “This is exactly what we’re concerned about,” said  Paul Miller , FBR’s banking analyst, said in an interview yesterday.
“These loans were put together really sloppy. There were
problems with the loans and the servicing. They can go after
these banks as much as they want. The issue is, how deep do they
want to go?”  Bank of America, which bought Countrywide Financial Corp.
in 2008, may be among the biggest losers if its claims are
rejected, according to Miller.  The lender should perform a review of all mortgages that
defaulted within the first six months of their creation,
implement a quality-control program, and repay the government
for the $720,000 in losses, according to the HUD report.  BofA’s Response  Bank of America “adheres to HUD regulations and has taken
the audit findings seriously,”  Rick Simon , a company spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This audit took place over a
year ago and pertains to loans originated under Countrywide
operations, policies and procedures. Bank of America believes
the loans generally complied with FHA underwriting requirements,
were made to qualified FHA borrowers, and that Countrywide
adhered to a written quality control plan.”  The average rate of “seriously delinquent” loans-to-
claims in the area audited --  Illinois ,  Michigan ,  Minnesota ,
 Ohio ,  Wisconsin  and  Indiana  -- was 6.76 percent for Countrywide
compared with a regional average of 3.59 percent. Bank of
America was the second-biggest FHA lender after  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  during the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2010, with $22
billion in loans.  HUD’s inspector general identified 4,050 Countrywide loans
originated between July 1, 2008, and May 26, 2009, that were at
least 60 days overdue within their first six mortgage payments.  Doing the Math  In one instance, Countrywide said a borrower earned $6,192
a month when pay stubs reflected income of $4,377. In other
cases, Countrywide failed to properly review bad loans to ensure
they met HUD’s guidelines before submitting claims, the
department said.  In a 35-page response to HUD dated July 19, Bank of America
Senior Vice President Linda Jacopetti acknowledged that
“oversights may have occurred in some instances” and said the
unit didn’t intentionally disregard FHA guidelines. There were
“isolated occurrences in a handful of cases among thousands of
FHA loans originated” in that time, she said.  Lemar Wooley at HUD and Michael Zerega of the inspector
general office declined to comment on the report.  Bank of America has lost more than half its market value
this year amid rising claims tied to defective loans, mortgage-
bond securitization and foreclosures. Costs related to those
problems have totaled at least $65.7 billion for the five
biggest U.S. home lenders, including $39.1 billion for Bank of
America since the start of 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Citigroup Loans  CitiMortgage, a unit of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , was faulted in a
separate inspector general’s report. A review of 68 loans showed
the firm, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54,
improperly submitted claims of almost $5 million, which should
be returned to HUD, according to the audit, which covered 2010.  That case stems from an FHA program that let borrowers in
default sell their homes to satisfy mortgage debts to  New York- 
based Citigroup, even if the proceeds were less than the total
owed. The FHA compensated the bank for the difference between
the sale price and the debt, according to the report.  “Citi did not have adequate policies and procedures in
place to ensure that it properly determined borrower eligibility
to participate in the program,” according to the report.  Citigroup disagreed with the watchdog’s findings, according
to the audit.  Sean Kevelighan , a spokesman for the bank, said he
couldn’t comment.  Borrowers increasingly rely on FHA-backed loans after the
collapse of subprime lenders, according to Miller. The FHA
covers about 10 percent of all mortgage debt outstanding, up
from 4 percent in 2006, he wrote. The program has $4.7 billion
in capital against a $1 trillion portfolio, he wrote.  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  was asked during a
June conference whether he was concerned that the FHA would
reject the lender’s demands for reimbursement.  “I’d say it is a risk,” said Moynihan, 51. “All of us,
as we think about the mortgage business, continue to think about
how you do business with various counterparties if their
behavior can change on you during stress times.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  