-- 
Short-Sale Bans, Forex Slippage, Hedge Police: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-04T11:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/banning-short-sales-forex-slippage-hedge-police-compliance.html
Financial stocks subject to rules
restricting short sales in France, Italy, Belgium and Spain have
behaved about the same as banks in European countries with no
such prohibitions, according to Instinet Inc.  French lenders governed by the regulations trailed the
benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  by about 7 percentage points between Aug.
12, when the ban was imposed, and Aug. 29, data compiled by the
New York-based brokerage show. Italian financial firms fell
about 4 points more than the FTSE MIB Index, the data show.
Shares in the U.K. and Netherlands, which didn’t ban bearish
bets, underperformed by 5 or 6 percentage points, Instinet said.  The study says prohibiting bearish bets did little to stem
volatility or reverse losses after concern about the European
debt crisis sent banks in the Stoxx Europe 600 down more than 30
percent from their February highs. France banned short sales in
 companies  such as Societe Generale SA and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, and
Italy’s rules covered almost  30 companies  such as  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   A report on the short-sale ban from  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) 
said banned financial stocks fell 10.4 percent from Aug. 12 to
Sept. 20, while German, Dutch and British constituents of the
MSCI Europe Financials Index declined 4.4 percent. The study,
published yesterday, says the rules didn’t stop share price
declines in affected European stocks. Analysts Mark Buchanan,
Jonathan Tse and Drew Vincent, based in  London , wrote the
report.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  FSB Backs Capital-Surcharge Plan for World’s Biggest Banks  The Financial Stability Board backed plans for the world’s
largest banks to set aside additional capital and develop
measures to wind down their operations in a crisis, the group’s
chairman  Mario Draghi  said yesterday.  Lenders whose collapse could roil global markets will face
surcharges as high as 2.5 percentage points, Draghi said after a
FSB meeting in Zurich, Switzerland. The group also agreed more
must be done to implement banker pay rules and said the
international community would miss a 2012 deadline for tougher
regulation of over-the-counter derivative markets.  Bank watchdogs have clashed with some lenders over the
additional capital requirements, which were released for  public
comment  in July.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T.
Moynihan , are among bankers who have said the proposals would
constrain lending and hurt the economy.  The FSB decision to back the capital surcharges mirrors a
decision last week by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, which had prepared the plans.  For more, click here.  For a video report, click here.  Finland to Amend Securities Markets Law in 2012, Ministry Says  Finland’s parliament will next year debate the overhaul of
the country’s securities markets legislation, the  Finance
Ministry  said on its website yesterday.  The government will give two proposals to parliament in
2012, with the second focusing on possible indirect holding of
assets, the ministry said.  Express Scripts Must Disclose Markup in Drug Plans, U.S. Says  Pharmacy managers such as Express Scripts Inc. that
administer Medicare drug benefits would have to reveal the
markup they charge insurers for prescription medicines under a
proposed U.S. rule.  The “spread” reflecting the difference between what
companies such as St. Louis-based Express Scripts and  Medco
Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  pay pharmacies and what they charge health
plans hasn’t been reported. Doing so would “promote
transparency of financial transactions” in Medicare, the U.S.
health program administrators said yesterday in a  regulatory
filing .  The rule would also require the companies to report the
percentage of Medicare prescriptions they fill through their own
mail-order pharmacies compared with retail pharmacies, as well
as disclosing discounts and rebates. The U.S. won’t publicly
disclose the information, according to the filing. Medicare
spends about $62 billion a year on its prescription  drug
benefit .  Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, which
represents the companies in Washington, has defended keeping
spreads secret as an incentive for its members to negotiate
lower prices. A spokesman for the association, Charles Cote,
didn’t immediately comment.  Compliance Action  SEC Asked Apple for Information on Nokia Patent Settlement  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer for information
on the financial terms of a patent litigation settlement with
 Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   The SEC requested details of the settlement agreement
including any amounts accrued, the periods in which they were
recognized and the timeline of negotiations in a June 28 letter
to the company released in a regulatory filing yesterday. Apple
said “no aspects of the company’s discussions with Nokia were
material to the company’s consolidated financial statements” in
a July 12 letter to the SEC released in a separate filing
yesterday.  Nokia won an almost two-year patent dispute with Apple, in
a settlement that awards a one-time payment and royalties to the
Finnish handset maker, Nokia said in June. Details of the
contract are confidential, Nokia said at the time.  The two mobile-phone makers had been in litigation since
October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Cupertino,
California-based Apple of infringing patents.  Mark Durrant, a Nokia spokesman, Steve Dowling an Apple
spokesman, and  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment on the SEC request.  FXCM to Pay $14 Million to Resolve CFTC ‘Slippage’ Claims  Forex Capital Markets LLC agreed to pay $14.2 million to
settle U.S. regulators’ claims it failed to properly oversee
handling of more than 57,000 accounts that used the New York-
based firm’s foreign-exchange trading platform.  FXCM, between 2008 and 2010, deprived customers of $8.26
million in “positive price slippage,” advantageous price
changes that occurred after the clients placed orders and before
the transaction was executed, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in an administrative order filed yesterday. The
firm agreed to reimburse the damages and to pay a $6 million
penalty, the CFTC said.  FXCM had agreed in August to pay restitution to the
customers in a settlement with the  National Futures Association ,
which also imposed a $2 million penalty. As part of yesterday’s
settlement with the CFTC, the firm agreed to retain a monitor
for its trade-execution practices.  “FXCM has previously enhanced its execution system to pass
along all price improvements on every order type,” Drew Niv,
the firm’s chief executive officer, said in a statement
yesterday. “We are happy to have settled all our regulatory
matters in the U.S., to have this behind us and to see this come
to an end.”  Courts  S&P Faces Australia Trial Over Ratings of CDOs Sold to Towns  Standard & Poor’s, the rating company being investigated by
U.S. regulators over the nation’s credit downgrade, will face
trial in an Australian court to defend allegations it misled
investors with ratings of collateralized debt obligations, in
the first case of its kind.  Two Australian towns and an insurer sued the U.K. arm of
S&P’s owner McGraw-Hill Cos., along with financial services
firms including the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , who were
involved in the sale of AAA-rated securities that plummeted in
value during the global economic crisis in 2008.  Statecover Mutual Ltd., a workers’ compensation insurer of
local governments in New South Wales, Bathurst regional council
and Corowa Shire Council seek to recoup the losses they incurred
from the purchase of securities in 2006.  The Bathurst council paid A$1 million ($963,000) to acquire
a so-called Community Income Constant Proportion Debt Obligation
Note, or a CPDO, on Dec. 20, 2006, and was advised less than two
years later that the note was being unwound and the council
would receive a repayment on the note of A$67,043, according to
the statement of claim.  The trial in Sydney Federal Court before Justice Jayne
Jagot is scheduled for 10 weeks.  The case is: Statecover Mutual Ltd. v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD1268/2010. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  Kerviel Appeal on SocGen Trading Verdict Scheduled for June  Jerome Kerviel ’s appeal of a three-year jail sentence and
order to repay  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.5
billion) trading loss was scheduled for June 2012.  A Paris appeals court yesterday set the appeal hearings to
run from June 4 to June 28. Kerviel didn’t attend yesterday’s
session.  While Kerviel said during the trial that his activities
were “probably not” part of his mandate, his lawyer Olivier
Metzner said yesterday that he is appealing all three guilty
counts -- breach of trust, forging documents and computer
hacking.  Kerviel, 34, was held solely responsible for the loss in
the 2010 verdict. The judges rejected his arguments that his
superiors at the bank knew he had trades that exceeded his
limits and that it was the bank’s decision to unwind the bets
over three days of falling markets in 2008 that caused such a
large loss.  A spokeswoman for the bank declined to comment on the
appeal yesterday.  Interviews/Speeches  Algorithmic Traders Under Scrutiny From SEC Hedge-Fund Police  Algorithmic traders and quant funds are under close
scrutiny from a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
enforcement team responsible for policing hedge funds, the
unit’s co-chief said at securities law forum.  The SEC is “very much focused” on possible misconduct by
traders who primarily use computer models to execute investment
strategies, and more cases in those areas are likely, Bruce
Karpati said yesterday during a Practising Law Institute panel
discussion in  New York . Investigators are zeroing in on firms
with “aberrational performance,” he said, without giving
details on practices that are under scrutiny.  The February case in which Karpati’s asset-management team
accused Axa Rosenberg Group LLC of causing $217 million in
customer losses by concealing a coding error was “wake-up a
call for all quant managers” to be fully forthcoming about the
risks of their strategies, he said at the time. Axa paid $242
million to resolve the claims.  In his remarks yesterday, Karpati said his team is also
looking at how hedge funds value illiquid assets and whether
some investment managers have used so-called side pockets to
hide underperforming assets. Side pockets are accounts used by
hedge funds to separate less-liquid investments from others.  The SEC will likely bring more cases against hedge funds
that engaged in preferential redemption, where the owners of the
firm or selected investors are able to liquidate their
investments before other clients, Karpati said.  The agency is using powers granted by the Dodd-Frank Act to
bring enforcement actions against unregulated entities and seek
expanded sanctions in administrative cases, he said.  Waugh Says Deutsche Bank Has Written Down Greek Bonds  Seth Waugh, chief executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ’s
Americas division, talks about financial regulation, his
company’s capital levels and the European debt crisis.  He spoke with Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart.”  For the video, click here.  Deutsche Bank’s Ackermann Speaks at CEO Conference  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann
spoke at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banking & Insurance
CEO  Conference  2011 in London. He discussed the “challenging
environment” raised by slowdown in China, indebtedness and real
estate imbalances in the U.S., and the debt crisis in Europe.  For the audio, click here.  Hester Says Firebreak Proposals at ‘Tough End’ of Expectations  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hester  said proposals to erect firebreaks around the
lender’s retail unit will “increase funding costs and capital
need.”  Hester spoke at a conference in London today.  Comings and Goings  Wilson Sonsini Hires Former Justice Department Chief of Staff  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, the law firm whose
clients include  Google Inc. (GOOG) , hired Donald L. Vieira, a former
chief of staff in the U.S. Justice Department’s national
security division.  Vieira, who will be a partner in the Palo Alto, California-
based firm’s Washington office, will focus on regulatory and
enforcement issues related to foreign investments and data
security, according to the statement.  At the Justice Department, Vieira was responsible for day-
to-day management of his division, according to the statement.  Thai Cabinet Approves Vorapol as New SEC Chief, Kittiratt Says  Thailand’s Cabinet approved the appointment of Vorapol
Socatiyanurak as secretary-general of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Commerce Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 