-- 
German Stocks Advance; Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank, Infineon Shares Rally

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-05T16:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bayerische-motoren-werke-prosiebensat-1-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks advanced for the first
time in four days amid speculation policy makers are examining
measures to protect banks from the sovereign-debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Allianz SE rose more than 7 percent.
 Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  climbed 5 percent after ING Groep NV
recommended buying the stock. Xing AG surged 11 percent after
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  initiated coverage of the company’s shares with a
“buy” recommendation.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 256.32, or 4.9 percent, to
5,473.03 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge has
still retreated 27 percent since this year’s high on May 2 and
is trading at about 8.5 times the estimated earnings of its
companies, near the lowest since 2008, according to Bloomberg
data. The broader HDAX Index rallied 4.7 percent today.  The Financial Times quoted  Olli Rehn , the European Union’s
commissioner for economic affairs, as saying there’s an
“increasingly shared view” that the region needs a coordinated
approach to halt the debt crisis.  “Investors were able to snap up bargains after European
governments announced that they may recapitalize the region’s
banks, which led to a rebound in the banking sector,” said
Anita Paluch, senior sales trader at Gekko Global Markets Ltd.
in  London .  $1 Trillion Firepower  European Central Bank  governing council member,  Christian Noyer , said that the European Financial Stability Facility,
together with support from the  International Monetary Fund , has
effective firepower of $1 trillion.  “The fund will be operational in several days,” Noyer
said today on Europe 1 radio. The fund has “440 billion euros
($587 billion), that means in practice, together with IMF
support, $1 trillion. It’s a very significant amount.”  The IMF renewed its call for the ECB to step up its
response to the region’s debt crisis. The central bank “should
lower its policy rate if downside risks to growth and inflation
persist,” the IMF said in its biannual regional economic
outlook for  Europe . “The ECB might need to reinstate some of
its longer-term liquidity provision operations if stresses on
interbank markets intensify further” and make an “explicit
commitment” to buy government bonds “for as long as
necessary,” the IMF said.  In the U.S., a report from ADP Employer Services showed
companies added 91,000 jobs in September, beating the average
estimate of 75,000 workers in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The release came two days before the Labor Department’s
employment report for September, which economists’ predict will
show an increase of 60,000 jobs in the world’s largest economy.  Banks Advance  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, surged 7.6 percent
to 26.50 euros, while Allianz, the country’s largest insurer,
soared 7.3 percent to 71.79 euros.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, advanced 5.4
percent to 1.78 euros after Chief Executive Officer Martin Blessing said the bank is “committed” to deliver on its 2012
targets.  Infineon rose 5 percent to 5.47 euros, ending its longest
falling streak in almost two months. Europe’s second-largest
chipmaker was raised to “buy” from “hold” at ING.  Evotec AG (EVT)  surged 5.5 percent to 2.24 euros as the drug
research company agreed to a second multiyear, multitarget drug
discovery cooperation with UCB SA in the field of immunology.
Evotec will identify small molecules against a selected number
of targets.  Xing jumped 11 percent to 53.84 euros, its biggest gain
since March 2009, after Commerzbank rated shares of the
professional networking site to “buy” in new coverage, saying
it could become a bid target for competitors trying to get into
German, Austrian and Swiss markets.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  rose 5.7 percent to 13 euros after
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Ebeling said the company will
seek “fairly valued” targets for acquisitions. The company
will only make acquisitions in the digital-entertainment area
that require “low cash investments,” Ebeling said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  