-- 
Yankees, Phillies Win MLB Playoff Games; Texas Rangers Oust Tampa Bay Rays

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-05T05:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/beltre-s-three-home-runs-lead-texas-past-rays-into-al-championship-series.html
The  New York Yankees  forced a
decisive fifth game with a 10-1 win over the  Detroit  Tigers
after the  Texas Rangers  beat the  Tampa Bay Rays  in the Major
League Baseball playoffs for the second straight year.  A.J. Burnett and three relievers combined on a four-hitter
for the Yankees at Comerica Park in Detroit last night to tie
their American League Division Series at two games apiece.  The winner of tomorrow’s game at Yankee Stadium will play
the Rangers for a place in the  World Series  after Texas beat the
Rays 4-3 to take the series by three games to one.  In the National League, Ben Francisco’s pinch-hit three-run
homer in the seventh inning broke up a scoreless game and gave
the Philadelphia Phillies a 3-2 win against the  St. Louis
Cardinals  for a 2-1 lead in games. The series winner will play
the Milwaukee Brewers or the  Arizona  Diamondbacks, who avoided a
sweep with an 8-1 home win.  Derek Jeter hit a two-run double in the third inning to
give New York a 2-0 lead. After Victor Martinez hit a home run
for Detroit in the fourth, Curtis Granderson and Alex Rodriguez
drove in runs to make it 4-1 after five innings.  The Yankees made certain of the win with six runs in the
eighth inning, including a two-run single from Robinson Cano and
one-run singles by Jesus Montero and  Brett Gardner .  “As the game went on, the guys continued to get better at
bats,” Granderson said in a televised interview.  Yankees starter Burnett allowed one run on four hits in 5
2/3 innings to get the win.  7.57 ERA  Burnett entered the game a combined 21-26 with a 5.20
earned run average over the past two seasons and only got the
start because rain suspended Game 1 of the series. He’d been set
to pitch in relief during the playoffs after compiling a 7.57
ERA over his final seven starts of the regular season.  Tigers starter Rick Porcello took the loss after
surrendering four runs on five hits in six innings.  “Porcello pitched great and had us off-balance and the
guys stuck to their plan and made adjustments to get hits as the
game went on,” Granderson said.  At Tropicana Field in  St. Petersburg , Adrian Beltre became
the sixth player to hit three home runs in a postseason game as
defending AL champion Texas won three straight games after a 9-0
loss to the Rays in Game 1.  “This is one of the main reasons I came to this team, to
put a ring on my finger,” Beltre, who’s in his first season
with the Rangers, said in a televised interview. “We’re looking
good right now, but we still have a long way to go.”  At Busch Stadium in  St. Louis ,  Missouri , Cole Hamels
allowed five hits in six scoreless innings for the Phillies, who
can reach the NL Championship Series for the fourth straight
season with a win at St. Louis tonight. Albert Pujols had three
doubles for the Cardinals.  Rookie Grand Slam  In the fifth inning at Chase Field in Phoenix, Arizona’s
Paul Goldschmidt became the third rookie to hit a grand slam in
the postseason.  “It was an exciting game,” Goldschmidt, 24, told reporters.
“He threw a fast ball and it ended up pretty much down the
middle.”  Milwaukee leads 2-1 in games and has a second chance to
wrap up the series in Game 4 tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  