-- 
Bernanke Says Federal Reserve Ready to Boost ‘Close to Faltering’ Growth

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-10-04T18:49:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bernanke-says-federal-reserve-ready-to-take-further-action-to-spur-growth.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank can take further steps to sustain
a recovery that’s “close to faltering” and cautioned lawmakers
against making changes in fiscal policy that harm growth.  The Fed can give more information about its pledge to keep
interest rates low at least through mid-2013, reduce the rate
paid on banks’ reserve deposits or buy more securities, Bernanke
said today in testimony to Congress’s Joint Economic Committee
in Washington, reiterating options he mentioned in July. He
signaled that higher inflation this year won’t stop the Fed,
saying it hasn’t become “ingrained” in the economy.  Bernanke is struggling to find ways to reduce unemployment
stuck at 9 percent and avert a second recession in three years
after deploying unconventional stimulus tools in August and
September.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis poses risks to growth
already weak from housing and joblessness, the Fed chief said.  “We need to make sure that the recovery continues and
doesn’t drop back and that the  unemployment rate  continues to
fall downward,” Bernanke said in response to questions from
Senator Bob Casey of  Pennsylvania , the panel’s Democratic
chairman.  They were Bernanke’s first detailed comments on the
economic outlook and monetary policy since his decision Sept. 21
to adopt so-called Operation Twist, replacing $400 billion of
Treasuries in the Fed’s portfolio with longer-term securities in
a move aimed at further reducing borrowing costs and lowering
unemployment.  ‘Close to Faltering’  That action from the Fed, while not a “game changer,” is
“particularly important now that the economy is, the recovery
is close to faltering,” Bernanke said today. The central bank
program should reduce long-term  interest rates  by about 0.2
percentage point, a move “roughly approximate” to a half-
percentage-point cut in the benchmark federal funds rate, he
said.  The central bank has kept that rate near zero since 2008
and purchased $2.3 trillion of housing and government debt. In
August, the Fed pledged to maintain low interest rates through
at least mid-2013, amending previous language for a less
specific “extended period.”  The Fed “will continue to closely monitor economic
developments and is prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context
of  price stability ,” Bernanke said in today’s testimony.  Bernanke, a former Princeton University economist,
reiterated his comments from throughout 2011 that lawmakers
shouldn’t adopt fiscal policies that harm the economy in the
short term while adopting a long-term plan to reduce the federal
 budget deficit .  ‘Substantial Step’  Lawmakers on the separate bipartisan congressional
supercommittee charged with seeking $1.5 trillion in deficit
reduction by Nov. 23 would take a “substantial step” by
accomplishing that goal, Bernanke, 57, said. At the same time,
“more will be needed to achieve fiscal sustainability,” he
said.  “A second important objective is to avoid fiscal actions
that could impede the ongoing economic recovery,” Bernanke
said. “Putting in place a credible plan for reducing future
deficits over the longer term does not preclude attending to the
implications of fiscal choices for the recovery in the near
term,” he said, without being more specific.  Stocks pared losses after Bernanke’s comments. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9 percent to 1,089.15 at 2:29 p.m. in
 New York  after declining as much as 2.2 percent. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note rose three basis points to 1.80
percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  No Plans  Responding to a question, Bernanke said the central bank
has no immediate plans for another round of large-scale asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing. At the same time, he
said, the Fed doesn’t take “anything off the table.”  The U.S. jobless rate was 9.1 percent in August and has
been stuck at 9 percent or higher for five months. Employers
added zero jobs to payrolls in August, down from 85,000 in July,
according to the Labor Department. Sustained payroll increases
of around 150,000 a month are needed to bring unemployment down
about half a percentage point over a year, according to  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in New York.  “Recent indicators, including new claims for  unemployment
insurance  and surveys of hiring plans, point to the likelihood
of more sluggish job growth in the period ahead,” Bernanke said
today. He also said that the “pattern of sluggish growth” in
the economy “was particularly evident in the first half.”  Economy Expanded  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the
second quarter after a 0.4 percent rate in the first three
months of the year, according to the Commerce Department.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last month projected a 1.8
percent rate of growth in the third quarter, based on the median
estimate.  “The recovery from the crisis has been much less robust
than we had hoped,” Bernanke said. Fed officials expect a
“somewhat slower pace of economic growth over coming quarters”
than they did in June, he said, without giving a specific
forecast.  U.S. stocks last week finished their worst quarter since
the financial panic of 2008, burdened by concerns over a
potential Greek debt default and chances the U.S. will relapse
into recession. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 14
percent through Sept. 30.  Yields Risen  Yields on 10-year Treasuries have risen from a record 1.67
percent on Sept. 23. Still, the difference between yields on 10-
year and 30-year Treasuries has narrowed to less than 1
percentage point for the first time since July 2010.  In response to a question, Bernanke said the U.S. banking
system has manageable exposure to European nations buffeted by
the continent’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “We have looked very carefully at bank exposures both to
foreign sovereigns and to foreign banks,” Bernanke said. “The
exposures of U.S. banks to the most troubled sovereigns --
Portugal, Ireland and  Greece  -- is quite minimal. So the direct
exposures there are not large.”  Bernanke said faster inflation this year “does not appear
to have become ingrained in the economy” and cited a recent
decline in what traders expect for inflation in five to 10
years. The FOMC said inflation “appears to have moderated since
earlier in the year” as prices of energy and some commodities
have fallen. The Fed’s preferred price index, which excludes
food and fuel costs, rose 1.6 percent in August from a year
earlier, up from 1 percent in March.  ‘Depressed’ Housing  The housing market, which the Fed said is “depressed,” is
showing little sign of rebounding even with a record-low average
4.01 percent interest rate on the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage.
The annual pace of new-home sales in August was 295,000, just
above the record-low rate of 278,000 in August 2010. That’s less
than one-fourth of the 1.39 million pace in July 2005.  Housing, which had been a “significant driver of recovery
from most recessions” in the U.S. since World War II, is now
among industries contributing to the “slower-than-expected rate
of expansion,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  