-- 
BHP, Rio Bond Risk Soars to 2-Year High on Slowdown Concerns

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-10-04T07:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bhp-rio-bond-risk-soars-to-2-year-high-on-slowdown-concerns-1-.html
The cost of insuring the bonds of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, and Rio Tinto Group
surged to a more than two-year high amid investor concern a
slowdown in China will damp demand for commodities.  Credit-default swaps on BHP surged 50 basis points since
the Sept. 30 market close to 190 basis points at 4:42 p.m. in
Sydney, according to  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
That’s the highest since April 2009, according to data provider
CMA. Contracts on Rio Tinto soared 100 basis points to 290 in
the same period, the highest level since June 2009, according to
ANZ Bank and CMA. It was a public holiday in parts of Australia
yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its 2012 growth forecast for
 China  today to 8.6 percent from 9.2 percent amid domestic
lending curbs and as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis roils
markets worldwide. Commodity prices have been dropping on
slowdown concerns, with copper plunging 32 percent in London
trading since a February high.  “There is a growing realization that we are entering a
global slowdown and Asia is very vulnerable,” said Finbar
Cooke, the Sydney-based head of  credit derivatives  at ANZ Bank.
“If China property development grinds to a halt, that has big
implications for resources demand, and therefore affects BHP and
Rio.”  Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for BHP, wasn’t available for
comment when contacted by phone in Melbourne. Karen Halbert, a
Melbourne-based spokeswoman for  Rio Tinto , declined to comment.  Credit Outlook  Property developers in China face an “increasingly
severe” credit outlook, which may force them to cut prices,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Sept. 27 report.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents in a Bloomberg poll last
month said China’s gross domestic product, which rose 9.5
percent last quarter, will gain less than 5 percent annually by
2016. Policymakers in Europe and the U.S. are battling to keep
their economies expanding as they enact fiscal austerity
measures to rein in deficits.  BHP shares have dropped 25 percent this year to A$33.86 in
Sydney, while Rio’s have fallen 31 percent to A$59.  Mining shares may drop further if the global outlook
worsens,  Glyn Lawcock , head of resources research at UBS
Securities  Australia , said by phone from Sydney.  “What the market is worried about is that we do get that
cessation of activity,’’ he said. “If you talk to the companies,
they say at this stage their order books remain full and they’re
keeping on shipping. But if you press them, they have limited
visibility."  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  