-- 
Bloomberg Seeks $2B of NYC Budget Cuts

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-10-04T20:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bloomberg-seeks-2-billion-of-nyc-spending-cuts-hiring-freeze.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
administration asked agency heads to cut spending by $2 billion
over the next 18 months and freeze hiring on concern that a
slowing economy may reduce city revenue.  Commissioners were told to present plans by Oct. 18 to cut
their budgets 2 percent to save $500 million through the June 30
end of the fiscal year, and by 6 percent through fiscal 2013 for
another $1.5 billion, according to a statement from the mayor’s
office. Budget Director Mark Page also called for a hiring
freeze except in departments for health and safety, it said.  “We’re looking at extreme economic uncertainty, and state
and federal governments that are likely to further cut funds
they return to the city,” Caswell Holloway, deputy mayor for
operations, said in the statement.  New York ’s $66 billion financial plan for fiscal 2012
enacted in June predicted $5 billion deficits in each of the
next two fiscal years.  Today’s directive is the 11th time since 2007 that the
mayor ordered city agencies to reduce spending in anticipation
of economic slowdowns and lower Wall Street profits. The efforts
have trimmed more than $5 billion of yearly costs.  “We’ve preserved services essential to maintaining safety
and quality of life to this point through prudent planning and a
willingness to make the hard decisions, and we’ll do that again
this year,” Holloway said.  Part of Budget Talks  John Liu , the city comptroller who’s said he may seek the
Democratic mayoral nomination in 2013, said spending cuts have
become part of the mayor’s budget negotiations over the years.  “It’s not even a different play from the play book,” Liu
told reporters at  City Hall . “This is part of the mayor’s
process and our office will look at these numbers very carefully
once we see what he’s actually proposing.”  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed  New York City ’s AA general-
obligation credit rating, its third-highest, on Sept. 23. It
said the administration has “historically moved swiftly to
address projected budget gaps.”  A general-obligation security maturing in December 2021
traded recently at a yield of 2.92 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 65 basis points higher than an
index of top-rated 10-year municipal yields and up from an
average 58 basis points this year. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  