-- 
Bloomberg & The Washington Post Present 1st GOP Economic Debate

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-04T14:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bloomberg-the-washington-post-present-1st-gop-economic-debate.html

Press Release  New Hampshire Debate To Air on Bloomberg Television and WBIN-TV
and Stream Live at  washingtonpost.com/debate ; Peter G. Peterson
Foundation Serves as Broadcast Sponsor  NEW YORK -- Next Tuesday, October 11th at 8pm ET, Bloomberg and
The Washington Post, in partnership with WBIN-TV and host
 Dartmouth College , will present the first debate of the 2012
campaign focused solely on the economy.  With the nation facing sustained high unemployment as well as
concern over deficits, weak growth and a possible double-dip
recession, the Bloomberg/Washington Post debate will devote the
entire program to a substantive exploration of the candidates’
specific plans for national economic recovery -- in the state
that will host the first Presidential primary a few months from
now.  The October 11th debate will be moderated by  Charlie Rose ,
Washington Post political correspondent Karen Tumulty and
Bloomberg TV White House correspondent Julianna Goldman.
Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, businessman  Herman Cain , former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , former Utah Gov.  Jon Huntsman ,
Texas Rep.  Ron Paul , Texas Gov.  Rick Perry , former Massachusetts
Gov. Mitt Romney and former Pennsylvania Sen.  Rick Santorum  will
participate in the live debate at Dartmouth College.  The candidates will outline their economic and job creation
proposals in a unique format: seated side-by-side at a round
table facing the hosts and surrounded by audience members. This
format will facilitate serious and substantive debate on issues
of vital importance to the country.  This is the first debate for Bloomberg, the global leader in
financial data and information, and kicks off Bloomberg
Television’s comprehensive “Economy Election” coverage,
featuring a robust line-up of reporters and commentators
uniquely positioned to focus on the election’s most pressing
issues - jobs and the economy. As part of the special 2012
campaign coverage, Bloomberg Television is pleased to announce
that former Senator John Sununu Jr. (R-NH) and ABC News
political analyst Matthew Dowd have joined the Bloomberg team to
provide insight and analysis of the debate and duration of the
election cycle.  The debate, which will be broadcast live on Bloomberg
Television, Bloomberg Radio and WBIN-TV in  New Hampshire , will
be available to viewers across multiple digital platforms
including via livestream on  Bloomberg.com ,
 washingtonpost.com/debate  and Bloomberg Mobile.  The Peter G. Peterson Foundation (PGPF), a non-partisan
organization established by former U.S. Secretary of Commerce
Pete Peterson to foster a deeper national dialogue on fiscal
solutions, will serve as the exclusive broadcast sponsor for the
first Republican primary debate on the economy. The Peterson
Foundation is sponsoring the debate as part of a broader
initiative to generate a bipartisan discussion of our nation’s
long-term economic and fiscal challenges throughout the 2012
presidential election.  Users can follow live blogs from Bloomberg View editors Michael
Kinsley and Francis Wilkinson at  Bloomberg.com/election  and The
Washington Post’s The Fix at  washingtonpost.com/thefix . Visit
 washingtonpost.com  and Bloomberg.com/election for in-depth
coverage of the candidates’ economic policy proposals, as well
as profiles of the candidates, behind-the-scene debate previews
and special analysis from BGOV, Bloomberg’s comprehensive source
for quantifying the business impact of government action.  Leading up to the debate, The Washington Post will invite
readers to send in photographs of how the economy is affecting
their town using Instagram and pose questions in Quora about the
issues that matter most to them. In addition to live-blogging
and continuous analysis from The Fix’s Chris Cillizza, readers
can expect in-depth debate coverage and original video from
Chief Correspondent Dan Balz, the Fact Checker’s Glenn Kessler,
 Ezra Klein , Karen Tumulty and others. Instant debate highlights
will be also be available on The Washington Post iPad App. As
the political hub for 2012 elections coverage, The Post will
continue to provide comprehensive coverage throughout the 2012
campaigns.  Beginning Tuesday morning, Bloomberg Television will be live
from Dartmouth campus, with anchors Margaret Brennan,  Tom Keene 
and Washington executive editor  Al Hunt  reporting on the latest
job numbers, the  unemployment rate  and examining the candidate’s
economic proposals with input from Dartmouth students and New
Hampshire business leaders. At 7pm ET on October 11th, Tom Keene
and Margaret Brennan will host a special debate preview with
Bloomberg TV analyst Matthew Dowd and Bloomberg TV contributor
and Dartmouth economics professor Danny Blanchflower, among
other special guests.  Bloomberg Radio will be live from 5am ET on October 11th on
location from Dartmouth College with “Bloomberg Surveillance”
hosts Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene. Tune into Bloomberg Radio at
WBBR 1130 AM in the  New York  metro area and Sirius XM channels
113 for a simulcast with complete coverage of the special debate
preview and entire debate beginning at 7 pm ET.  Be a part of the Bloomberg/The Washington Post debate
conversation on Twitter with #EconDebate and on Facebook at
 http://facebook.com/bloombergtelevision  and
 http://facebook.com/washingtonpost .  Learn more about the debate here:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/video/76202680/   To find Bloomberg Television in your area, visit
 http://bloomberg.viewerlink.tv/   About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 310,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1-212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net   #<728521.6697419.2.1.95.14779.2660>#
 