-- 
Blue Square Trails Shufersal by Most in Year: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-10-05T15:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/blue-square-trails-shufersal-by-most-in-year-israel-overnight.html
Alon Holdings Blue Square  Israel  Ltd.
is falling the most among local supermarket chains on concern
government measures to lower prices will further erode profit
margins at the country’s second-largest food retailer.  Blue Square declined for a third day, losing 2.9 percent to
18.66 shekels, or the equivalent of $5, at the 4:30 p.m. in  Tel
Aviv . The shares have lost 21 percent in the past month. They
sank 7.2 percent to $5 on the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday.
 Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , Israel’s biggest grocer by sales, rose 3.3
percent in the past 30 days to 15.21 shekels. Israel’s TA-25
Index climbed 1.7 percent to 1,038.50 today.  Demonstrations and boycotts against increases in the cost
of living have led companies to cut prices and the government to
study ways to lower consumer costs and boost competition. Blue
Square posted an operating margin in the second quarter of 3.3
percent, below the 4.9 percent for Shufersal and 6.8 percent for
rival  Rami Levi Chain Stores Hashikma Marketing 2006 Ltd. (RMLI)   “The business environment that was created following the
protests is such that companies cannot raise prices,” said Meir Slater, an analyst at DS Brokerage Ltd. “Blue Square is the
primary and main company to be impacted by these changes because
it has a lower operating profit.”  Tnuva Food Industries Agricultural Co-Op In Israel Ltd.,
which controls about 70 percent of the country’s dairy market,
said Oct. 2 it was cutting recommended prices by as much as 15
percent. Competitor Strauss Group Ltd. followed suit the same
day.  Panel’s Proposals  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appointed a panel led by
economist Manuel Trajtenberg to draft a response to protesters’
grievances. The Cabinet examined this week the panel’s
proposals, which include easing import restrictions, raising
corporate taxes, increasing income taxes on people earning more
than about $130,000 a year and boosting the supply of affordable
housing.  Protesters targeted the cost of cottage cheese in June and
a month later more than 100,000 people had joined a Facebook
page calling for a boycott of the product. The protest inspired
consumer actions against the cost of diapers, baby formula,
 breakfast cereals  and other consumer products.  Food costs fell 0.2 percent in August after declining 0.6
percent in July, according to the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau
of Statistics .  Rami Levi, the Israeli supermarket chain that won customers
with discounts such as a kilogram of chicken for 1 shekel (one
pound for 12 cents), is down 2.7 percent in the past month.  TA-25 Drops  Blue Square, based in Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel, will comply
with the panel’s decisions, Anat Raz, a spokeswoman for the
company said in response to questions.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest New York-
traded Israeli companies rose 0.2 percent to 77.94.  The shekel was little changed at 3.7340 against the dollar.
The currency has dropped 3.4 percent in the past 12 months, the
best performer among 10 emerging markets in  Europe , the  Middle
East  and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq stock
market, the most of any country outside north America after
 China . It is also home to the largest number of startup
companies per capita in the world.  Teva Declines  The nation’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, gained 0.2 percent in Tel Aviv to 133.3
shekels, or the equivalent of $35.70. The U.S. shares fell 1.6
percent yesterday to $35.85.  Merck KGaA said its Merck Serono unit will develop and
market a pill for multiple sclerosis with  Japan ’s Ono
Pharmaceutical Co. to compete with a similar product made by
Novartis AG. Copaxone, Teva’s injected treatment for MS,
accounted for 23 percent of the company’s second-quarter sales.  “This is bad news for Teva,” said Gilad Alper, an analyst
at Excellence Investments House in Ramat Gan, Israel. “This
stresses again the kind of strategic difficulties that the
company faces.”  Teva said on Aug. 1 that laquinimod, its planned successor
to Copaxone, failed to reduce relapses more than placebo in a
clinical trial.  SodaStream, Allot  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Israeli maker of
homemade soda machines, climbed for the first day in five,
jumping 9.1 percent to $31.76. Shares of the company were raised
to “buy” from “hold” at Deutsche Bank AG.  SodaStream’s shares are attractive after their 57 percent
decline in the past three months through yesterday, Bill Schmitz, an analyst at Deutsche in Greenwich,  Connecticut , wrote
in an e-mailed report.  The company “remains in the early stages of a distribution
expansion story with considerable room for further store
expansion,” he wrote.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , Israel’s biggest maker of high-
speed networking equipment, gained 1.2 percent to 37.01 shekels,
or the equivalent of $9.91. The U.S. shares increased 7.8
percent to $10.19.  Allot’s stock in  New York  fell 47 percent in the second-
quarter, leading declines on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index.  “We expect the weakness in share prices to be transient as
the company fundamentals are solid,”  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at
Rodman & Renshaw LLC in New York, said in a note to clients.
“We view any consequential share price weakness from now as a
buying opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  