-- 
BNY Mellon Sued by U.S., New York Alleging Foreign-Currency Trading Fraud

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-10-05T15:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bny-sued-by-new-york-attorney-general-schneiderman-over-currency-trading.html
Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. was
sued by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  and the New York
attorney general for allegedly defrauding clients in foreign
currency trades.  The bank earned $2 billion through a 10-year fraud in which
it misrepresented to customers its pricing practices, according
to a complaint by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman 
and the City of New York. The U.S. Attorney’s Office filed a
separate suit in federal court.  “From at least 2001 to the present, the bank has engaged
in a multipronged campaign of deception,” the state and city
said in their complaint in state  Supreme Court  in Manhattan.  BNY Mellon  fell 67 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $18.15 at
11:47 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after
dropping as much as 4.5 percent.  The bank’s scheme defrauded thousands of clients
nationwide, according to the New York complaint. Victims
included public and private pension funds and federally insured
financial institutions, officials said in court papers and in
statements. New York City pension funds, including the Teachers’
Retirement System of the City of New York, lost tens of millions
of dollars, they said.  Florida,  Virginia  Lawsuits  The lawsuits come after  attorneys general  in Florida and
Virginia sued BNY Mellon in August. Like New York, those states
allege the bank overcharged public retirement funds in foreign
exchange transactions. The New York complaint supersedes, or
replaces, a whistleblower lawsuit filed in 2009, Schneiderman’s
office said in a statement.  BNY Mellon will fight the lawsuits, said Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for the bank. The complaints are based on the same
“flawed analysis” and a misunderstanding of the global foreign
exchange market, he said.  “Simply put, this is the kind of prosecutorial overreach
that ill serves New York, New Yorkers and the pension funds that
the Office of the New York Attorney General purports to
represent,” Heine said in an e-mailed statement.  The lawsuits may add to legal expenses at BNY Mellon, which
is already suffering from rising costs. The bank five weeks ago
named Gerald L. Hassell to replace Robert P. Kelly as chief
executive officer. Kelly, who had run the company since 2007,
stepped down in “mutual agreement” with the board, the firm
said Aug. 31, without giving a reason.  Custody Banks  Custody banks including BNY Mellon have been hurt by
persistent low  interest rates , which reduce income from lending
cash and securities and cut fees from money-market funds. The
U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its main lending rates close to
zero since December 2008 to try to revive the economy.  In a conference call with investors in July, Kelly
described expense growth at the bank as “too high,” citing
rising costs for pensions, compensation, health care and legal
bills. The bank said Aug. 10 it planned to cut 1,500 jobs, or 3
percent of the workforce, to address escalating expenses.  Rival State Street Corp., the third-largest custody bank,
has faced similar claims over foreign currency trades. The
Boston-based bank has cut more than 2,000 jobs in the past year
to reduce expenses.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . They also manage investments for
individuals and institutions.  ‘Standing Instruction’  BNY Mellon defrauded clients that used its “standing
instruction” foreign exchange service under which the bank
automatically provides currency exchange when the client buys or
sells foreign securities, according to the complaint by the U.S.
Attorney’s Office.  BNY Mellon determines the price clients receive on the
currency trades and consistently gives them “virtually the
worst rates of the day,” federal prosecutors said. The bank
obtains more favorable prices for itself on the  spot market  and
pockets the difference. BNY Mellon’s conduct was most egregious
during the 2008 financial crisis when currency prices were
volatile.  “This unprecedented volatility allowed BNYM to pass on
extremely poor pricing to its clients while earning massive
gains on the much better pricing BNYM was able to obtain on the
spot market,” the government said in its complaint.  “Unfortunately, the U.S. Attorney does not appear to have
made any serious independent effort to assess the validity of
the claims in this lawsuit,” Heine said. “We will fight these
claims vigorously and are confident we will prevail.”  The cases are U.S. v.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , 11-
06969, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan), and People of the State of New York v. The Bank of
New York Mellon Corp., 114735-2009, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  