-- 
BofA’s Merrill Lynch Unit Fined $1 Million in Broker’s Fraud

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-04T15:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bofa-s-merrill-lynch-unit-fined-1-million-over-broker-s-fraud.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch
unit will pay $1 million to resolve claims that supervisory
failures enabled a Texas-based representative to operate a Ponzi
scheme using a company account.  Bruce Hammonds, who worked for Merrill Lynch in  San
Antonio , persuaded 11 people to invest more than $1 million in a
fraud he created and ran as B&J Partnership for more than 10
months, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said today
in a statement.  Finra, the Washington-based brokerage regulator,
permanently barred Hammonds from the securities industry in
December 2009, according to the statement. Merrill Lynch
reimbursed all harmed investors, Finra said.  “Merrill Lynch’s inadequate supervisory system and the
firm’s excessive reliance on employee self-reporting enabled
Hammonds to facilitate his  Ponzi scheme  to the detriment of
BofA’s Merrill Lynch Unit Fined $1 Million Over Broker’s Fraud
investors,” Brad Bennett, head of enforcement at Finra, said in
a statement. “Firms must ensure their supervisory systems are
designed to properly monitor employee accounts for potential
misconduct.”  The brokerage firm failed to capture accounts opened by
employees if their Social Security number wasn’t the primary
account number, Finra said. As a result, Merrill Lynch failed to
monitor 40,000 accounts associated with employees from 2006 to
2010, Finra said.  “The firm detected the irregularities with the accounts,
terminated Mr. Hammonds, alerted the authorities and compensated
affected clients,”  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Bank of
America, said in an e-mailed statement. “We have extensive
monitoring in place today and continually take steps to enhance
our monitoring systems.”  Merrill Lynch, which was acquired by  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America in 2009, resolved the claims
without admitting or denying wrongdoing, Finra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  