-- 
Banks Accused of Charging Veterans Illegal Fees

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bofa-wells-accused-of-charging-veterans-illegal-refinance-fees.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  were among 13 banks and mortgage
lenders accused in a so-called whistleblower lawsuit of charging
military veterans illegal fees to refinance home loans.  The banks charged fees barred under a U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs program and hid the charges to get government
guarantees for the loans, according to the whistleblower
complaint brought in 2006 by two mortgage brokers that was
unsealed yesterday in federal court in Atlanta.  “This is a massive fraud on the American taxpayers and
American veterans,” James E. Butler Jr., a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in an e-mailed statement. “Knowing they
weren’t allowed to charge the fees, the banks and mortgage
companies inflated allowable charges to hide these illegal fees
without telling the veterans who were the borrowers or the VA
they were doing so.”  The  Justice Department  isn’t joining the lawsuit, according
to a Sept. 30 filing by the U.S. Attorney’s office in Atlanta.  The whistleblowers, who worked for Financial Services Inc.,
doing business as Veteran’s Mortgage Co., accuse the banks of
violating the U.S. False Claims Act and seek $5,500 to $11,000
in damages on behalf of the U.S. for each violation.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, and Joe Evangelisti, a
spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, declined to comment on
the lawsuit.  The case is U.S. ex rel. v. Wells Fargo, 06-547, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 