-- 
Borders to Put Last Assets in Liquidating Trust, Wiping Out Shareholders

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-05T01:17:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/borders-group-files-bankruptcy-liquidation-plan-disclosure-to-creditors.html
Borders Group Inc., the bankrupt
bookseller, said it will distribute remaining assets through a
liquidating trust, leaving former shareholders with nothing.  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , explained some of
its exit strategy in a liquidation plan and disclosure statement
filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  “Holders of equity interests shall neither receive nor
retain any property under the plan,” the company said in court
papers. Assets that haven’t been either abandoned or sold will
be placed in the liquidating trust, Borders said.  A judge on Sept. 26 approved Borders’s sale of its
intellectual property, including a customer database and
trademarks, to former rival  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  Borders began
going-out-of-business sales at its remaining stores in July.  Borders shares have fallen to about 2 cents from more than
$1.50 a year ago. They traded above $25 in October 2006.  Creditors have until Dec. 9 to either accept or reject the
plan, according to court papers. A confirmation hearing to
approve the plan is scheduled for Dec. 19.  Today, Borders asked a bankruptcy judge to extend by three
months, to Jan. 12, the exclusive period for it to file a
reorganization plan, and give it until March 12 to solicit
approval of the plan.  The request to preserve its exclusive right to file a plan
was made “out of an abundance of caution” because the filing
of a competing plan or “even the mere threat of such a filing”
would delay and possibly derail support for the existing Chapter
11 plan, the company’s lawyers said in court documents today.  Secured claims, including professional fees and taxes, will
be paid in full under the plan, and some unsecured claimants may
get a share of what’s left, according to court documents.  Borders sought  bankruptcy protection  in February with 642
stores, listing assets and debt at more than $1.2 billion each.
It lost business as customers switched from paper books to e-
readers. New York-based Barnes & Noble invested in its own
handheld device to attract customers.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 