-- 
Bovespa Slips Third Day as Rate Concern Blunts Europe Optimism

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-04T20:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/bovespa-futures-fall-on-europe-concern-industrial-output-drop.html
The Bovespa index fell for a third
day as concern Brazil’s central bank will moderate the pace of
interest-rate cuts overshadowed a final-hour U.S. equity rally
spurred by fresh optimism on  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Lender Banco Santander Brasil SA and consumer-goods maker
Hypermarcas SA led declines for companies that depend on
domestic demand. Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer,
followed metals prices lower. The index’s drop was limited as
homebuilders gained after PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes reported an increase in third-quarter sales.  The Bovespa lost 0.2 percent to 50,682.27 at the 4:15 p.m.
New York time close, paring an earlier slide of as much as 2.7
percent. Forty-two stocks dropped on the index while 24 rose.
The real strengthened 1.4 percent to 1.8645 per dollar.  “We’re most worried about whether some country will go
into default,” said Leandro Martins, head analyst at Sao Paulo-
based brokerage Walpires SA. “ Brazil  ends up being influenced
by the global corrections as people in need of capital may sell
positions in other places. The confirmation of a cut in the
Selic would be seen well by the markets.”  The yield on the interest-rate futures contracts due in
January jumped 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to
11.16 percent after a government official familiar with monetary
policy said Brazil’s central bank sees no need to cut  interest
rates  as aggressively as it did after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  The official, who asked not to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to discuss monetary policy, dismissed
speculation that policy makers are aiming to bring the benchmark
rate to 9 percent next year at the urging of President  Dilma
Rousseff . Moderate rate cuts are more appropriate because policy
makers are acting quickly and don’t expect the European debt
crisis to be as deep as the 2008 global credit crunch, he said.  Santander, Hypermarcas  Santander lost 2.5 percent to 13.05 reais while Hypermarcas
slid 3.4 percent to 8.20 reais.  The Bovespa tracked U.S. stocks higher in the last hour of
trading. American equities erased earlier losses following a
report that European Union officials were examining ways to
coordinate the recapitalization of struggling banks and
valuations at the cheapest level since 2009 lured investors. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials still lost 1.6
percent.  Vale dropped 1 percent to 37.85 reais.  PDG, Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, gained 4.1
percent to 6.10 reais after saying quarterly contracted sales
rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier to 1.91 billion reais ($1
billion), according to a regulatory filing after the close of
trading yesterday. That surpassed Credit Suisse Group AG’s
estimate of 1.7 billion reais, according to a note to clients
from analyst Guilherme Rocha.  Industrial Production   Brazil’s industrial production fell in August for the third
time in five months, providing more evidence that  Latin
America ’s biggest economy is losing steam amid the financial
crisis. Output fell 0.2 percent in August from the previous
month, the national statistics agency said in a report today.
Economists expected a 0.1 percent contraction, according to the
median estimate of 39 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  in July after plunging 20
percent from its bull-market peak last year. The measure has
since extended that drop to 31 percent and trades at 9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 9.2 for MSCI Inc.’s
gauge of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Traders moved 7.88 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily
average this year of 6.53 billion reais through Sept. 14,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  