-- 
Brazil Central Bank Said to Rule Out Aggressive Interest Rate Cuts for Now

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-10-04T15:49:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/brazil-central-bank-said-to-rule-out-aggressive-interest-rate-cuts-for-now.html
Brazil ’s central bank sees no need to
cut interest rates as aggressively as it did after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, a government
official familiar with monetary policy said.  The official, who asked not to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to discuss monetary policy, dismissed
speculation that policy makers are aiming to bring the benchmark
rate to 9 percent next year at the urging of President  Dilma Rousseff . Moderate rate cuts are more appropriate because policy
makers are acting quickly and don’t expect the European debt
crisis to be as deep as the 2008 global credit crunch, he said.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts jumped as traders
pared bets that the central bank will accelerate the pace of
rate cuts after reducing the Selic rate by half-point to 12
percent on Aug. 31. Brazil was the second Group of 20 nations
after  Turkey  to slash interest rates in response to slower
global growth. The cut came a day after Rousseff vowed to take
Brazil on a “new pathway” of lower borrowing costs.  Rousseff last week said that unlike the period immediately
following Lehman’s bankruptcy, when the central bank waited four
months to begin slashing the benchmark rate, Brazil can’t miss
the opportunity provided by the current global slowdown to lower
borrowing costs that are the highest in the G-20. The government
wants the Selic rate to fall to 9 percent next year, newspaper
Estado do S. Paulo reported Oct. 2, citing three government
officials that it didn’t identify.  Yields Rise  The yields on the contract due in January 2013, the most
traded in Sao Paulo, rose 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage
point, to 10.28 percent at 11:30 a.m. New York time. Yesterday,
the January 2013 yield fell as much as 29 basis points to 10.04
percent, the lowest since June 2007. The real rose 0.6 percent
to 1.8803 per  U.S. dollar .  “Markets tried yesterday to embrace the view of a 75 basis
point cut this month,” Jorge Dib, portfolio manager at Grau
Gestao de Ativos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. The
rise in yields today is being driven by speculation that the
central bank doesn’t plan an aggressive rate cut, he said.  Deeper cuts in the interest rate, as adopted in 2009, would
only be required if the European debt crisis culminated in a
sovereign default or bankruptcy of a bank in the Euro zone, the
official said.  ‘Moderate’ Cuts  The central bank in its quarterly inflation report
published Sept. 29 said it planned to carry out “moderate”
 interest rate  cuts to shield  Latin America ’s biggest economy
from the European debt crisis, adding that the strategy was
consistent with bringing inflation back to the 4.5 percent
target in 2012.  A day later, Rousseff said the government’s effort to
contain spending is giving the central bank leeway to begin a
“cautious” and “responsible” cycle of rate reductions.  Traders saw yesterday “political pressure from the
government on the central bank, so the speculation that the
central bank may accelerate rate cuts returned,”  Solange Srour ,
chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos, said in a
telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  “I still work under the hypothesis that interest rate
decisions are made by the central bank,” Paulo Leme, head of
emerging markets at Goldman, Sachs & Co. in Miami, said in a
phone interview.  October Reduction  Leme, who expects policy makers to reduce the benchmark
interest rate to 11.5 percent this month, said he gives more
weight to the central bank’s last inflation report than to
Rousseff’s comment.  On Sept. 10, 2008, five days before  Lehman Brothers  filed
for the largest bankruptcy in history, Brazil’s central bank
raised its benchmark rate to 13.75 percent, the highest in
almost two years. Policy makers, led by then bank chief  Henrique Meirelles , kept the rate unchanged until January, when they
slashed it by 100 basis points.  By July 2009, the Selic was at a record low 8.75 percent
and inflation had slowed to 4.5 percent from 6.25 percent in
September 2008. Inflation through mid-September of this year
accelerated to 7.33 percent, a six-year high, and analysts
expect the bank to fail in its attempt to bring the pace of
price increases down to target next year.  The credit squeeze following Lehman’s collapse led Brazil’s
economy to contract in 2009 for the first time in 17 years.
Analysts now expect the economy to expand 3.7 percent in 2012,
up from 3.5 percent this year, according to the median estimate
in a central bank survey published yesterday.  The global outlook may worsen leading the central bank to
accelerate the pace of interest rate cuts, Carlos Kawall, chief
economist at Banco J. Safra SA, said in a phone interview from
 Sao Paulo . He currently expects a half-point cut this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  