-- 
Brazil’s August Industrial Production Falls For Third Time in Five Months

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-10-04T13:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/brazil-s-august-industrial-production-falls-for-third-time-in-five-months.html
Brazil’s industrial production fell
in August for the third time in five months, providing more
evidence that  Latin America ’s biggest economy is losing steam as
markets sold off around the world on growth concerns.  Output fell 0.2 percent in August, from a revised 0.3
percent growth in July, the national statistics agency said in a
report today. Economists expected a 0.1 percent contraction,
according to the median estimate of 39 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Production rose 1.8 percent from a year earlier.  President Dilma Rousseff gave tax cuts to some
manufacturers this year and raised levies on imports after a
surge in the real made Brazilian exports less competitive. An 18
percent decline in the real against the dollar since the end of
July hasn’t yet given relief for these companies as the economy
slows in  Brazil  and abroad, said Ures Folchini, head of fixed
income at Banco West LB do Brasil SA.  “The economy is decelerating at the margin,” said
Folchini in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The currency
drop came so quickly and it takes a while for businessmen to
react and reassess whether to buy locally.”  Traders are betting that the central bank will cut
borrowing costs three quarters of a percentage point this month,
to 11.25 percent, to protect Brazil from financial turmoil that
has seen $10 trillion wiped off world stock markets since the
end of July. The central bank said last week that “moderate”
adjustments in its policy rate will still allow it to hit its
4.5 percent inflation target next year.  Global Slowdown  The slowdown in global demand was the principal reason for
the drop in industrial production, especially in the
intermediary goods segment, said Flavio Serrano, an economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo .  Production of capital goods, a barometer of investment,
rose 0.9 percent in August, while output of consumer products
fell 1.3 percent, today’s report said.  “The currency isn’t going to save the domestic industry
because of a lack of global impulse,” Serrano said.  The yield on interest rate futures contracts due January
2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 17 basis points,
or 0.17 percentage points, to 10.31 percent at 9:17 a.m. New
York time. The real fell 0.1 percent to 1.8928 per dollar.  Lehman Collapse  Brazil’s central bank sees no need to cut interest rates as
aggressively as it did after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008, a government official familiar
with monetary policy said. The official, who asked not to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to discuss monetary
policy, dismissed speculation that policy makers are aiming to
bring the benchmark rate to 9 percent next year at the urging of
President  Dilma Rousseff .  The Purchasing Managers’ Index, a gauge of the strength of
the manufacturing sector, fell in September to its lowest level
since April 2009. Third-quarter business confidence also slid to
its lowest level since 2009.  Last month the government raised a tax by 30 percentage
points on cars with foreign-made parts, to protect carmakers
from a surge in imports from  China . The tax increase followed
the government’s announcement of its “Greater Brazil” policy
to boost manufacturers hurt by a 43 percent rally in the real
since the end of 2008 through August.  Even while production is shrinking, foreign companies
continue to expand in Brazil.  Nissan, Renault  Nissan Motor Co. and  Renault SA (RNO)  plan to build a second
factory here and upgrade an existing one to increase its market
share, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said Oct. 1. after
meeting with President Dilma Rousseff. Brazil is the world’s
fifth-biggest car market.  As the global economy slows, Brazilian manufacturers have
been provided some relief by a weaker real, which has lost 16
percent against the dollar since the end of August, as the risk
of sovereign debt crises in  Europe  led investors to dump
emerging market assets.  Industry may also be helped by lower borrowing costs in the
months ahead. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini surprised
analysts Aug. 31 by slashing the Selic rate by 50 basis points,
citing a “substantial deterioration” in the global outlook.  The central bank’s outlook is in line with the views of
Rousseff, who told her compatriots last week that Brazil can’t
miss the opportunity provided by the global slowdown to cut
 interest rates .  Brazil’s “ideal” interest rate after inflation is 2
percent to 3 percent, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
yesterday. The inflation-adjusted rate was 4.7 percent in mid-
September, the highest in the Group of 20 nations.  The world’s second-largest emerging market after China will
grow 3.51 percent this year and 3.7 percent in 2012, according
to a central bank survey of economists published yesterday. Last
year the economy grew 7.5 percent, its fastest pace in more than
two decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 