-- 
Buffett Likens Berkshire Repurchases to Buying Dollar Bills for 90 Cents

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-10-04T20:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/buffett-likens-buyback-to-getting-dollar-bills-for-90-cents.html
Warren Buffett , who announced plans
to repurchase  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  shares for the first time
in four decades, said he won’t pay full value for the stock.  “If I can buy dollar bills for 90 cents, I’ll buy them,”
Buffett, 81, said today at Fortune magazine’s Most Powerful
Women conference in Laguna Niguel,  California . “I want to warn
the people that are selling to me that I believe I am buying
their dollar bills for 90 cents.”  Buffett targeted a new use for Berkshire’s cash after the
firm’s shares plummeted to a 20-month low in September. Buffett,
Berkshire’s chief executive officer since 1970, previously used
profits to buy companies and securities issued by other firms.
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire may have the capacity to buy
back $15 billion of stock,  Jay Gelb , an analyst with Barclays
Plc, said in a Sept. 26 research report.  “For the indefinite future, if we can buy our stock at
something of a discount from its real value we’re going to do
it,” Buffett said. “If I can find something else even cheaper
I may be doing that too.”  Berkshire Class A shares slid under $100,000 on Sept. 22
for the first time since January 2010. The company’s catastrophe
reinsurance business posted a loss in the first half on claims
from  Japan ’s costliest earthquake. Buffett’s equity-derivative
bets have been pressured by declines in stock markets worldwide.  The A shares advanced 4.3 percent to $110,300 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That compares with
book value of about $98,700 per share as of June 30, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company may report third-
quarter data next month.  Acquisitions  Earnings from Berkshire’s businesses have grown to about $1
billion a month, and finding uses for that cash has become more
difficult, Buffett said in April. Last year, Buffett bought the
78 percent of railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  that his
firm didn’t already own in a $26.5 billion deal, funded partly
by issuing Berkshire stock. Berkshire acquired engine-additives
maker  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  last month for about $9 billion.  Berkshire will buy back Class A and Class B shares for as
much as 110 percent of book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, and refrain from any repurchase that would push
cash holdings below $20 billion, the company said in a Sept. 26
statement. Berkshire had about $47.9 billion in cash as of June
30. The stock traded at an average of more than 1.5 times book
value since the end of 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Demonstrably Less’  “I use this figure of 110 percent of book as being the
limit because I know that that price is demonstrably less than
the businesses are worth,” Buffett said today. “The book value
happens to be an understated measure” of Berkshire’s value.  Buffett is preparing Berkshire for its next generation of
leaders. His roles as CEO, chairman and investment chief will be
split among as many as five people after his eventual
retirement. Buffett hired Todd Combs and Ted Weschler from  hedge
funds  to help oversee a stock and bond portfolio of about $100
billion and may add another  money manager . Berkshire said in
February it has four candidates for CEO, without naming them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  