-- 
Cameron to Offer Optimism on Economy Amid Worse-Than-Expected U.K. Slump

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-10-05T15:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/cameron-to-offer-optimism-amid-worse-than-expected-u-k-slump.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
acknowledged that Britain’s economic slowdown has been worse
than he expected, as he bid to reassure voters he’s “laying the
foundations for a better future.”  With data today showing growth slowed more than initially
estimated in the second quarter, Cameron argued in his closing
speech to the annual conference of his Conservative Party that
his strategy is still the right one. Echoing Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  two days ago, the premier said the debt
crisis hitting developed economies won’t respond to the fiscal
stimulus that might be appropriate for other recessions.  “We need to tell the truth about the overall economic
situation,” Cameron told delegates in Manchester, northwest
England. “People want to know why the good times are so long
coming. The answer is straightforward, but uncomfortable. This
was no normal recession; we’re in a debt crisis.”  Britain has struggled to recover from recession, with the
economy barely growing over the past year. From peak to trough,
GDP contracted 7.1 percent, more than previously thought, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . Only  Japan 
suffered a deeper slump among Group of Seven nations. In the
second quarter, GDP was 4.4 percent below its pre-recession peak
in early 2008, leaving Britain trailing recoveries in the U.S.,
 Germany  and  France .  Slower Growth  U.K. gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent from the first
quarter, lower than the 0.2 percent previously published,
according to the ONS.  Consumer spending  plunged 0.8 percent, the
most since the first quarter of 2009.  The opposition  Labour Party ’s finance spokesman,  Ed Balls ,
said the data should “set alarm bells ringing.” The prime
minister “needs to come up with a plan for jobs and growth and
he needs to do it fast,” Balls said in an e-mailed statement.  “If we put in the effort, correct those mistakes, confront
those vested interests and take on the failed ideas of the past,
then I know we can turn this ship around,” the premier told his
party. “Success will come: with the right ideas, the right
approach, the right leadership.” Cameron used the word
“leadership” 19 times during the 50-minute address.  A ComRes Ltd. poll for ITV News published last night found
54 percent of adults saying Cameron had done “poorly or very
poorly” at providing economic leadership.  Italian Downgrade  Like Osborne, Cameron rejected the idea of “borrowing to
cut taxes or increase spending.” That strategy was endorsed
Oct. 3 when  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed the country’s AAA debt
rating. By contrast, Moody’s Investors Service cut  Italy ’s
credit rating yesterday, citing concern that country’s
government will struggle to reduce its debt.  The government’s plan to eliminate the structural deficit
by 2015 by introducing the deepest public spending cuts since
World War II has drawn criticism from Labour and unions, who say
it’s leading to stagnation.  Consumers are also being squeezed by inflation that’s more
than double the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent target and outpacing
wage growth.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the country’s biggest retailer, said
today its U.K. stores had their worst sales performance in at
least six years in the six months ended Aug. 27.  Osborne announced measures to aid the economy at the
conference two days ago, saying he’ll start a program of
“credit easing” to expand company financing.  ‘Stick With It’  “Our plan will work,” Cameron said, “I know you can’t
see it or feel it right now,” he told delegates. “It’s like
building a house. The most important part is the part you can’t
see -- the foundations. Slowly, but surely, we’re laying the
solid foundations of a stronger future. But the vital point is
this, if you don’t stick with it, it won’t work.”  Cameron said he won’t allow Britain to participate in any
further bailouts of European nations beyond the country’s
contributions to the  International Monetary Fund .  “I won’t let us be sucked into endless bailouts of
countries that are in the euro either. Yes, we’re leading
members of the IMF and have our responsibilities there,”
Cameron said. “But when it comes to any euro bail-out
mechanism, my approach is simple: Labour got us into it and I’ve
made sure we’re getting out of it.”  Cameron also said he wants to change the law to allow same-
sex marriage because he’s a Conservative and believes in
commitment.  “It’s about equality, but it’s also about something else,
commitment,” Cameron told delegates. “Conservatives believe in
the ties that bind us, that society is stronger when we make
vows to each other and support each other. I don’t support gay
marriage despite being a Conservative. I support gay marriage
because I’m a Conservative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Manchester,  England , at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Manchester, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 