-- 
Cameron’s Conservatives End Ban on Conference Champagne, Share in Profit

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-04T17:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/cameron-s-conservatives-end-ban-on-conference-champagne-share-in-profit.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservative Party, which banned champagne from its conference
venues the past two years, has an incentive to see delegates
knock back expensive drinks this year.  The party expects net revenue of 1.85 million pounds ($2.85
million) from this year’s  conference in Manchester , northwest
 England , some of it from alcohol sales, according to two people
familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified because
the details are private.  Payments come from corporate stands at the conference
center and from organizers of fringe events. The party is also
getting about 5 percent of the takings from the bar of the
 Midland , the official conference hotel, the people said. The
hotel is the only one inside the security zone set up by police
from which the public are banned for the duration of the event.  Since the conference started two days ago, the hotel has
been packed every evening, with temporary bars set up in the
foyer and drinkers spilling out of the building.  The Tories banned champagne from the same conference venue
in Manchester in 2009 and again in Birmingham last year in an
effort to avoid pictures at odds with the message of austerity
the party was trying to promote. This year, the Midland is
offering seven vintages, ranging from Lanson Black Label Brut at
45 pounds a bottle to  Perrier Jouet  Belle Epoque at 130 pounds a
bottle.  “Similar to any conference booked at the hotel, the
Midland Hotel pays a commission rate on elements of each
booking,” Mike Magrane, general manager of the Midland, run by
QHotels Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement. “The Midland do
not share profits from the  Conservative Party  conference or any
conference booked at the hotel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 