-- 
Canadian Dollar Drops to One-Year Low as Crude Oil Price Extends Decline

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-10-04T18:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/canadian-dollar-drops-to-one-year-low-as-crude-oil-price-extends-decline.html
Canada’s dollar weakened to the
lowest level in more than a year on concern the global economy
is weakening after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the U.S. central bank stands ready to take additional steps to
boost growth.  The Canadian dollar has dropped 3.9 percent against its
U.S. counterpart during the past five days, dropping along with
the currencies of other commodity exporters including Mexico,
 Brazil ,  New Zealand  and  Australia  as raw materials weakened.  “The door opens to the potential of further policy
action” by the Fed, said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency
strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital in Toronto.
“The focus of late has shifted so much toward Europe that when
Mr. Bernanke speaks, it’s just a reminder to markets that there
are issues in the U.S. too. Markets are nervous, and the bias is
still toward  risk aversion .”  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.77 percent to C$1.0617
per  U.S. dollar  at 2:06 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0547
yesterday. It touched C$1.0589, the weakest level since
September 2010. One Canadian dollar buys 94.19 U.S. cents.  Sutton said it’s possible the loonie may fall to as low as
C$1.08 in the next few days, before rebounding toward parity by
the end of the year.  Crude oil for November delivery declined 1.3 percent to
$76.61 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil is Canada’s biggest export and largest source of
trade revenue with the U.S.  The Fed “will continue to closely monitor economic
developments and is prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context
of price stability,” Bernanke said today in testimony to
Congress’s Joint Economic Committee in  Washington .  European Crisis  European finance ministers meeting in  Luxembourg  today
pushed back a decision on the release of Greece’s next loan
installment until after Oct. 13. It was the second postponement
of a vote originally slated for yesterday as part of the 110
billion-euro lifeline granted to Greece last year.  “The answer to this risk aversion likely lies within
 Europe ,” said Sutton at Scotiabank. “That answer needs to be
fairly broad and include a plan for orderly defaults for Greece,
a plan for bank recapitalization and another on how contagion
will be ring-fenced.”  The U.S. dollar traded at 77.7 on a 14-day relative
strength index against the Canadian dollar, registering the most
“overbought” reading since it hit 83.3 on Oct. 27, 2008. A
reading above 70 signals that an asset may be due to reverse
direction.  Yield Outlook  In a September Bloomberg survey released today, economists
cut forecasts for Canadian government bond yields and the policy
lending rate on the worsening outlook for the global economy.  Two-year yields will rise from 1.15 percent at the end of
the year to 2 percent by the end of 2012, according to the
median forecast of 1,031 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers. In the August survey, the two-year yield
was projected to rise to 2.35 percent from 1.20 percent during
the same period.  The two-year yield rose one basis point to 0.85 percent. It
dropped to a record low 0.76 percent on Sept. 12.  The median forecast for the Bank of  Canada ’s target rate
for overnight loans was cut 25 basis points in the second, third
and fourth quarters of 2012, bringing it to 1.5 percent by the
end of next year, the survey showed. Policy makers have held the
rate steady at 1 percent since September 2010.  ‘Tough Outlook’  “We’re pinning a lot of our hopes on the early November
period, where we think that there’s a strong chance of a
coordinated Group-of-20 action, or Federal Reserve quantitative
easing, or some sort of euro-zone package,” Tom Levinson, a
currency strategist at ING Groep NV, said by phone today from
 London . “That’s what’s needed to gain any sort of stability if
not improvement in these commodity currencies. If you don’t get
that, then it’s a particularly tough outlook.”  The loonie has weakened 2.7 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The
greenback has gained 8.6 percent, and the yen has gained about
16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  