-- 
Canada’s Dollar Rises as U.S. Stocks Rebound on European Banks Outlook

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-10-04T21:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/canada-s-dollar-rises-as-u-s-stocks-rebound-on-european-banks-outlook.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against its U.S.
counterpart as stocks rallied in late afternoon amid speculation
European Union officials are examining how to recapitalize the
region’s banks.  Equities prices rebounded after the Financial Times quoted
 Olli Rehn , European commissioner for economic affairs, as saying
there is an “increasingly shared view” that the region needs a
coordinated approach to halt the sovereign debt crisis. The
loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, weakened earlier on
concern the global economy is weakening after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank stands ready
to take additional steps to boost growth.  “There was a bullish close on the U.S. and that helped the
loonie,” said Martin Autotte, managing director and head of
capital markets for  Quebec  at  CIBC World Markets  in  Montreal .
“Volatility has been very high.”  The Canadian currency rose 0.3 percent to C$1.0513 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0547 yesterday. Earlier it
fell as much as 1.1 percent to C$1.0658, its lowest level since
September 2010.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 2.3 percent by 4
p.m. New York time, while Canada’s benchmark Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index, which fell as much as 3.6 percent
earlier, closed down 0.7 percent.  Italy  Cut  The Canadian currency briefly gave up gains after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Italy’s bond rating cut to A2 from Aa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service. The outlook is negative.  “This is more of a cut than the market was considering,”
said C.J. Gavsie, managing director for  currency trading  at Bank
of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “It comes at a time when
liquidity in the market is very poor. All the equities have
closed and investors are no longer there.”  In a September Bloomberg survey released today, economists
cut forecasts for Canadian government bond yields and the policy
lending rate on the worsening outlook for the global economy.  Two-year yields will rise from 1.15 percent at the end of
the year to 2 percent by the end of 2012, according to the
median forecast of 1,031 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers. In the August survey, the two-year yield
was projected to rise to 2.35 percent from 1.20 percent during
the same period.  The two-year yield rose five basis points to 0.88 percent
today. It dropped to a record low 0.76 percent on Sept. 12.  BOC Rate  The median forecast for the Bank of Canada’s target rate
for overnight loans was cut 25 basis points in the second, third
and fourth quarters of 2012, bringing it to 1.5 percent by the
end of next year, the survey showed. Policy makers have held the
rate steady at 1 percent since September 2010.  “We’re pinning a lot of our hopes on the early November
period, where we think that there’s a strong chance of a
coordinated Group-of-20 action, or Federal Reserve quantitative
easing, or some sort of euro-zone package,” Tom Levinson, a
currency strategist at ING Groep NV, said by phone today from
 London . “That’s what’s needed to gain any sort of stability if
not improvement in these commodity currencies. If you don’t get
that, then it’s a particularly tough outlook.”  The loonie has weakened 2.8 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The
greenback has gained 7.3 percent, and the yen has gained about
13.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  