-- 
Carillion Says Full-Year Earnings in Line With Consensus

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-10-04T15:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/carillion-says-full-year-earnings-in-line-with-consensus-1-.html
Carillion Plc (CLLN) , a U.K. construction
and services provider, said it expects full-year earnings to
meet management forecasts, with underlying growth of 10 percent.  Revenue will increase on the acquisition of Carillion
Energy Services and international business, the Wolverhampton,
England-based company said in a statement today. Net debt will
be less than 125 million pounds ($193 million), compared with
its 150 million-pound year-end debt target after the energy
services acquisition, according to the statement.  “We’re on track to deliver strong earnings growth in line
with market expectations, which is around underlying growth of
about 10 percent,” Chief Executive Officer John McDonough said
in a phone interview. The board will increase dividends to
shareholders in line with earnings growth if it meets consensus,
he said.  Carillion is looking to boost international sales and scale
back its U.K. construction business from around 1.8 billion
pounds in 2009 to 1.2 billion pounds by the end of 2012,
anticipating reduced  government spending . Full-year operating
profit in construction services is expected to increase, with
public private partnerships in  Canada  a key growth driver.  The company’s interim statement “confirms trading in line
with a strong cash performance,” Andrew Nussey, a London-based
analyst at Peel Hunt, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
today, re-iterating his “buy” rating on the stock. “We
maintain estimates.”  Carillion has a strong balance sheet, and will be
“opportunistic” about acquisitions in U.K. and Canada support
services, particularly in energy, technical and local government
services, McDonough said.  Shares Fall  Carillion fell 4.6 pence, or 1.4 percent, to 323.7 pence at
the 4.30 p.m. close in London trading, giving the company a
market value of 1.39 billion pounds.  Operating margin in the  Middle East  will decline from more
than 9 percent to around 6 percent in the next two to three
years, although operating profit will increase this year, the
company said. Revenue from the Middle East will be more than 500
million pounds this year, McDonough said. Canada has seen
“modest growth” over the 700 million pounds reported last
year, he said.  Carillion is “well-positioned” to double revenue in the
Middle East and Canada to about 1 billion pounds in each market
over three to five years, as per its 2010 plan, the company
said.  Support services, which account for 50 percent of
underlying operating profit, will see “substantial growth”
from 2012 onwards, the company said. Carillion seeks to benefit
as the U.K. government plans to cut public services costs by
outsourcing. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
yesterday he will stick to his deficit-reduction plan, which
hinges on the deepest public spending cuts since World War II.  David Maloney, chairman of the company’s audit committee
and a non-executive director, has stepped down and will be
succeeded by Andrew Dougal, according to the statement.
McDonough will quit at the end of the year, to be succeeded by
Chief Operating Officer Richard Howson, the company said in
August.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at  njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  