-- 
CBS Says New ‘Two And a Half Men’ Lifts Network to New Season Ratings Win

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-10-04T17:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/cbs-says-new-two-and-a-half-men-lifts-network-to-new-season-ratings-win.html
CBS, the most-watched U.S. television
network, gained viewers in the new season’s second week on the
strength of the retooled “Two and a Half Men,” now featuring
 Ashton Kutcher , and its mainstay dramas.  The network drew 3.1 percent more viewers last week than a
year earlier and increased 1 percent in the 18-to-49-year-old
audience, a group targeted by advertisers, according to data
released today by Nielsen.  “Week two is when people decide if they’re going to stick
with a new show,” David Poltrack, New York-based CBS’s chief
research officer, said in an interview yesterday.  The CBS first-season drama “Person of Interest,” was the
highest-rated new show, according to the network, with 12.5
million viewers in the second week. Among viewers ages 18 to 49,
Poltrack said CBS has five of the top 10 shows: “Two and a Half
Men,” “Big Bang Theory,” newcomer “Two Broke Girls,” “Mike
& Molly” and “How I Met Your Mother.”  “Two and a Half Men” was the most-watched show for the
second week, with 20.5 million viewers, a drop from 28.7 million
last week, when Kutcher made his debut. The program was retooled
with Kutcher in the lead  Charlie Sheen  criticized the producers
and left the series. It should be considered a new show,
Poltrack said. The network also has the most-watched drama in
“NCIS.”  “Two and a Half Men” came in second in the 18-to-49-year-
old demographic, behind NBC’s Sunday Night Football, according
to Nielsen data. NBC is controlled by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Fox Ratings  Two weeks into the TV season, News Corp.’s Fox is also
drawing more total viewers, up 15 percent from a year earlier.
Fox’s audience is up 11 percent in the 18-to-49-year-old
demographic, according to Nielsen data.  “The X Factor,” starring former “American Idol” judges
 Simon Cowell  and  Paula Abdul , is lifting Los Angeles-based Fox,
according to the network. For the week, Fox rose 3.7 percent in
total viewers and fell 4.3 percent in 18-to-49, according to the
latest Nielsen data.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC is down 1.2 percent in total viewers
through week two, and is off 6.8 percent in the demographic
group. NBC is down 11 percent in total audience and 12 percent
in the 18-to-49-year-old group.  CBS Corp., controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , gained 4
cents to $18.99 at 1:11 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Before today, the shares were little changed
this year.  News Corp. (NWSA) , controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Murdoch, gained 15 cents to $15.16 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. The Class A share had gained 3.1 percent
before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  