-- 
Cemex Bonds Fall Most on Record on Debt Covenant Concerns

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-10-04T20:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/cemex-bonds-sink-below-60-cents-on-concern-debt-covenants-will-be-missed.html
Bonds sold by Cemex SAB, the largest
cement maker in the Americas, fell the most on record as concern
mounted that the company will fail to meet debt covenants.  Yields on the bonds due in 2020 jumped 392 basis points, or
3.92 percentage points, to 21.39 percent at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, the biggest increase since the securities were issued in
April 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds’
price sank 10.96 cents to 53.09 cents on the dollar.  The global economic slump is fueling concern that Cemex’s
sales will slow in the U.S. and  Europe  while an 11 percent
plunge in the peso in the past month drives up the cost of
servicing its dollar-denominated debt. Cemex would seek to
renegotiate year-end covenants that apply to $15 billion of bank
loans if it weren’t able to comply with the rules, said Maher Al-Haffar, chief of communications and investor relations.  “We would have to do what we need to do to continue our
businesses,” Al-Haffar said. “It’s very difficult for us to
assume that, if need be, our bankers would not be supportive of
Cemex.”  The company’s total funded debt relative to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose to 7.16
times at the end of June. A covenant under Cemex’s bank
agreement calls for the ratio to be 7 times or less at the end
of December.  If the covenant isn’t met, the banks could force Cemex into
default.  Seventh Loss  Cemex, which reported a net loss of $294 million in the
second quarter, the seventh straight quarter of losses, obtained
a $15 billion bank loan in 2009 to head of default. The company
doesn’t have any large maturities until the end of 2013, Al-
Haffar said, giving it two years to sell assets, reduce costs
and wait for demand to recover.  “They don’t have another option” except to renegotiate
the covenants, said  Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage about
$1.5 billion of debt at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico
City. “For now I don’t think the company will go bust, but
obviously it looks delicate.”  Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Zambrano said during a
Sept. 29 meeting with analysts and investors in New York that
the company would meet the covenant through cost cuts, asset
sales and lower fuel prices. Al-Haffar said analysts are over-
estimating the impact of the weaker peso on the debt-to-Ebitda
ratio.  More than 70 percent of Cemex’s $18.4 billion of total debt
plus perpetual notes was denominated in dollars at the end of
June.  Shares Gain  Shares climbed 6.5 percent to 3.96 pesos in Mexico City
trading after earlier dropping as much as 12.6 percent. They
fell 16.2 percent yesterday and are down 69 percent this year,
the worst performer on the benchmark IPC index of 35 Mexican
stocks.  Cemex will work with banks to make sure it meets covenants
and can refinance debt maturing in 2014, said Al-Haffar.  “At the end of the day, we’re going to work through these
challenges,” he said. “Nobody wins if we don’t and everybody
gains if we do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  