-- 
Chevys, Acapulco Restaurants Owner Files for Bankruptcy Court Protection

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S c i n t a   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-10-04T13:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/chevys-acapulco-restaurants-owner-files-for-bankruptcy-court-protection.html
RM Restaurant Holding Corp., owner of
the Mexican  restaurant chains   Chevys , El Torito and Acapulco,
sought bankruptcy protection from creditors saying the U.S.
economic slowdown led to a decline in sales.  The Cypress, California-based company, with 178
restaurants, listed assets of $272.2 million and debt of $249.9
million in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
Delaware. Sun Capital Partners Inc. and Farallon Capital
Management LLC own stakes in the company, according to court
papers.  “Coinciding with the broader economic downturn in the
U.S.” the restaurants “have experienced fewer dining guests,”
Chief Financial Officer Richard P. Dutkiewicz, representing
affiliates including Real Mex Restaurants Inc., said in a
filing. Sales fell to $478 million in 2010 from about $553
million in 2008, he said.  A $34.6 million loan represents the largest unsecured claim
against the company, according to court papers. Wilmington Trust
NA is the administrative agent for the loan. Blue Cross of
 California  is listed as the largest trade creditor, with a $1.1
million claim.  Real Mex sold $130 million of senior secured notes on July
1 that priced at a discount of 90 cents on the dollar to yield
18 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  RM Restaurant hired law firms Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy
LLP and Pachulsky Stang Ziehl & Jones and financial adviser
Imperial Capital LLC. The company has restaurants in a dozen
states from  New York  to California, as well as Japan and Turkey.  The cases are In re RM Restaurant Holding Corp., 11-bk-
13123, and Real Mex Restaurants Inc., 11-bk-13122, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta in  London  at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ,
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 