-- 
Chile Government Sees Growth of 5%, Warns of Global Impact

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-10-04T17:25:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/chile-government-sees-growth-of-5-warns-of-global-impact-1-.html
Chile ’s government forecast the
economy will grow 5 percent next year, while warning that the
mounting global crisis may push expansion closer to more
pessimistic analyst estimates.  Growth will slow from about 6.5 percent this year, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain told lawmakers in Valparaiso today in a
speech on his proposed 2012 budget. The median forecast of nine
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for growth of 4.5 percent
next year.  “Undoubtedly, within the context of a more complex
external environment than we see today, it becomes harder to
meet this forecast,” Larrain said. “In other words, if the
external situation deteriorates, growing at 5 percent becomes a
more demanding challenge.”  The Andean nation’s economy grew at its fastest pace in
more than a decade in the first half of this year at a time when
much of the world was struggling with a widening European debt
crisis and slower global expansion. Growth began to ease in the
second half, and the peso and copper prices have slumped since
the ministry wrote today’s forecasts, Larrain said.  Chile probably will have a fiscal surplus this year
equivalent to 1.2 percent of gross domestic product, Larrain
said, estimating a deficit next year of 0.4 percent of GDP.  Wealth Funds  Chile, the world’s biggest copper-producing nation, had
more than $18 billion in offshore savings in August, which are
turning a “good” profit, Larrain said. Chile has net credit of
about 7.5 percent of GDP and inflation will fall to 2.9 percent
in December 2012 from 3.2 percent in August this year, he said.  The peso, which fell 1.8 percent against the dollar today
to 534.80, will average 472 next year, Larrain said today. The
peso was trading at about 460 per dollar when the ministry made
today´s forecasts, he said.  “Of course, things are different” Larrain said. “This
isn’t a budget written for a crisis, I want to make that clear.
This is a budget written for conditions of a deceleration in the
global economy.”  The price of copper has tumbled 26 percent since the end of
August to $3.11 a pound as of 12:22 p.m. New York time amid
concern that demand will drop because of the European debt
crisis. Chile’s government estimates copper will average $3.70 a
pound in 2012.  “Our economy has the strengths to be able to respond, but
undoubtedly will be impacted in a more adverse scenario,”
Larrain said. “We’re already being impacted because we´re
already seeing an impact in the copper market and stock
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 