-- 
U.S. Legislation Targeting China Yuan Hits Republican Opposition

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-10-05T01:13:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/china-currency-bill-runs-into-republican-opposition-in-congress.html
U.S. Senate legislation that would
punish China for an undervalued currency ran into opposition
from senators and a roadblock by House Speaker  John Boehner , who
said the bill was “pretty dangerous.”  Boehner’s opposition may derail a bill backed by 225 House
members, including 61 Republicans. The bill is aimed at forcing
China to address what Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
yesterday called a currency policy that’s “blocking what might
be a more normal recovery process in the global economy.”  In the Senate, Republicans sought an amendment yesterday to
make it harder for unilateral U.S. action, something China’s
government said this week would risk triggering a trade war and
affecting how it overhauls exchange-rate policy. The Obama
administration has said it’s reviewing the bill, citing the need
to comply with global trade obligations.  “It seems like they have some extreme reservations on the
bill,” said Erin Ennis, vice president of the U.S.-China
Business Council, referring to Boehner and the group of
Republican senators. “It doesn’t achieve the goals of what the
sponsors say it would by creating jobs in the U.S. or reducing
the trade deficit.”  The bill mandates that the  Treasury Department  identify
misaligned currencies, instead of finding that a currency was
manipulated, as is currently required. Governments that
undervalue their currencies and don’t take corrective action
would face penalties, including increased dumping duties, a ban
on federal procurement in the U.S. and ineligibility to receive
financing form the  Overseas Private Investment Corporation .  Control of Vote  “This is well beyond, I think, what the Congress ought to
be doing,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told reporters
yesterday. “While I’ve got concerns about how the Chinese have
dealt with their currency, I’m not sure this is the way to fix
it.” The speaker would decide whether to allow a vote on the
bill, which also lets American companies seek duties on Chinese
imports to make up for the weak currency.  The People’s Bank of China said it “regrets” the Senate’s
vote yesterday to advance the bill, and the Foreign Ministry
said the measure would violate World Trade Organization rules,
in statements on their websites.  Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, proposed amending
the bill to require that the U.S. work with the World Trade
Organization and International Monetary Fund to persuade nations
to eliminate misaligned currencies. Were that approach to fail,
the U.S. should work with allies to deal with the adverse
effects of a nation’s weak currency, Hatch said.  Schumer Aghast  Bill supporters led by Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, criticized Boehner for saying the legislation exceeded
Congress’s role.  “I’m aghast at that notion,” Schumer said on the Senate
floor. “There is nothing else Congress should be doing except
rising to defend American jobs.”  Bernanke, asked at a hearing whether the Fed has calculated
the number of U.S. jobs lost due to an undervalued yuan, said
it’s “difficult to estimate.” He told the Joint Economic
Committee that “a more normal recovery, more balanced recovery
would have some more demand being shifted away from the emerging
markets toward the industrial economies. The Chinese currency
policy is blocking that process” and is “certainly a negative.”  Representative Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said
Boehner should let members vote on the legislation. Leadership
“should not get in the way” of efforts to produce U.S. jobs,
he said.  Trade Conflicts  Opponents said the bill may lead to trade conflicts that
might stall a global economic recovery already weighed down by
the slumping U.S. housing market and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis. Global stocks began October by extending a third-quarter
slump that was the biggest since the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “This is a lot of posturing, and I don’t know why,” Doug Guthrie, dean of the George Washington University School of
Business, said in an interview. “Rather than dealing with our
own problems with  job creation , we can just say there is another
problem; we can say the economic pain is because China
manipulates its currency.”  With U.S. companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  investing
in China, levying duties or pushing to increase the value of the
yuan would raise prices for consumers, Guthrie said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is reviewing the
legislation, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters aboard Air Force One yesterday.  White House  “We share the concern of members about the valuation of
the Chinese currency,” Carney said. “We also are concerned
that any action that might be taken would be effective and
consistent with our international obligations.”  The yuan has appreciated 5.1 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year and 24 percent in the past five years,
the steepest advance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. China limits currency conversions for investment
purposes and buys dollars to slow the yuan’s advance and
preserve the competitiveness of China’s exports.  The yuan will appreciate by 4 percent to 5 percent against
the U.S. dollar this year,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the  China 
central bank, said yesterday at a conference in Santiago.  In addition to letting U.S. companies seek tariffs on
Chinese imports, U.S. exporters would benefit from an
appreciation in the yuan because it would make American goods
less expensive relative to Chinese goods.  The U.S. needs “to have rules in place and then to have
tough consequences,” Senator Robert Casey, a Pennsylvania
Democrat and a bill sponsor, said on the Senate floor.  The future of the bill depends on what is passed by the
Senate, Ennis of the U.S.-China Business Council said.  “I hope
it is dead on arrival in the House,” Ennis said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is a member of
the U.S.-China Business Council.  The bill is S. 1619.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  