-- 
China’s Fall, Not Rise, Is the Real Global Threat: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-04T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/china-s-fall-not-its-rise-is-the-real-threat-to-the-global-economy-view.html
China ’s rise to global prominence has
long preoccupied the leaders of the developed world. They should
be more concerned about what happens if the country’s growth
falters.  With its combination of cheap labor, easy money,
undervalued currency, heavy investment in manufacturing and
focus on exports, the nation of 1.3 billion has built an
impressive economic engine. From 2008 through 2010, China
contributed more than 40 percent of the world’s growth.  But the Chinese model has its limits, and that has far-
reaching consequences for the U.S. and  Europe , both of which are
increasingly dependent on China. The country’s share of global
exports already exceeds 10 percent, larger than that of  Japan  at
its peak in 1986. Barring some miracle, Chinese exporters can’t
expand their market share much further without lowering prices
and wiping out their own profits,  research  by economists at the
 International Monetary Fund  suggests. China’s dependence on
exports also makes it highly vulnerable to slowing growth in the
developed world, and to rising trade tensions: The U.S. Senate
today began debating a bill that could ultimately lead to
punitive tariffs on Chinese imports in retaliation for
undervaluing its currency.  Meanwhile, economic stress is mounting at home. Labor costs
are surging as the supply of young, capable factory workers
wanes and  living conditions  rise along with expectations of
better wages. Cheap and abundant credit has driven over-
investment and pushed up real-estate prices to levels many
families can’t afford, adding to social tensions and possibly
setting the country up for a bust. China’s approach to managing
its  exchange rate  is fueling inflation, which government figures
put at 6.2 percent in August.  Well Aware  Chinese officials are well aware of the problems their
country faces. As Premier  Wen Jiabao  famously put it back in
2007, the country’s growth is “unstable, unbalanced,
uncoordinated and unsustainable.”  The government’s aim, as laid out in its latest five-year
plan, is to move away from reliance on exports and spur Chinese
consumers to spend more -- an outcome that would benefit the
entire global economy by boosting China’s demand for other
countries’ goods and easing the trade imbalances that have
contributed to the developed world’s debt troubles.  The implementation will be tricky. Getting people to spend
requires the Chinese government to eliminate many of the
subsidies -- including cheap labor, low  interest rates  and an
undervalued currency -- that have fueled growth so far.
Consumers need more income, so companies will have to pay their
workers more. Consumers also need a stronger currency to boost
their buying power, so exporters will lose some of their
competitive edge. Savers need to earn a high enough return to
guarantee their retirements, so banks’ and companies’ borrowing
costs will rise.  Unprofitable Industry  As a result, vast swaths of Chinese industry could be
rendered unprofitable. Bad loans could force the government to
step in and recapitalize banks. Fixed investment, which makes up
46 percent of the Chinese economy compared with only 12 percent
in the U.S., could fall sharply, undermining the employment
growth needed to boost spending.  In short, China’s export-driven model could fall apart
before consumers are able to pick up the slack.  In such a crisis, China’s economic weight would become a
liability. The IMF  estimates  that the impact of Chinese demand
on the world’s largest economies has more than doubled over the
past decade. A deteriorating outlook for Chinese imports could
send commodity prices plummeting, precipitating heavy losses for
investors and risking financial contagion.  China’s Fate  There is very little the leaders of the developed world can
do to influence China’s fate. Trade wars, such as the one the
 U.S. Senate  may be on the verge of launching, will only make the
situation worse. Instead, Europe and the U.S. need to focus on
limiting their own vulnerability: The longer they keep growing
at rates not far above zero, the more likely it is that an
unexpected shock -- such as a Chinese crisis -- will tip them
back into a recession.  In Europe, leaders must move quickly to solve a deepening
debt crisis and deal with insolvent banks. In the U.S., they
need to take radical measures, including pumping more federal
stimulus money into a stalled economy and providing debt relief
to underwater homeowners, to clear the way for renewed growth.
Over the long term, leaders on both continents need credible
plans to stop debt from growing faster than the underlying
economies.  Prudence requires being prepared for contingencies such as
a bad outcome for China. If we don’t solve our own problems
soon, we won’t be ready.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 