-- 
Chinese Bidders Boost $83 Million Auction as Zao Reaches Record

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-10-04T00:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/chinese-bidders-zao-record-boost-83-million-sotheby-s-hong-kong-auction.html
An abstract painting by Zao Wou-ki
fetched an auction record price last night, pushing  Sotheby’s (BID) 
sales of modern and contemporary Asian art to HK$647 million
($83 million), as Chinese buyers battled for the artist’s work.  An unidentified woman in a black lace dress calmly placed
the winning bid of HK$68.98 million in the saleroom in Hong Kong.
The 1968 work, “10.1.68,” led 18 lots by the painter that drew
strong bidding as offerings from other artists went unsold.  Bidders also vied for contemporary names such as  Zhang Xiaogang  and Zeng Fanzhi on the day that the Hang Seng stocks
index in the city tumbled 4.4 percent amid signs that  China ’s
economic growth is slowing. The buildup in the country’s wealth
will help keep prices rising, said Pascal de Sarthe, a gallery
owner who has been selling Zao’s works for 20 years.  “The Chinese have financial power and are buying their own
artists first,” said de Sarthe, who forecasts that Zao’s works
will sell for as much as $50 million in 10 years. “Money
follows art, and art follows money.”  The effect of the current stock market turbulence was felt
more strongly during the weekend’s wine sales, when collectors
passed on oversized bottles of Chateau  Lafite  Rothschild, the
first time in the past 17 wine auctions in  Hong Kong  that the
auction house failed to sell every bottle.  Sotheby’s autumn sale began on Oct. 1 after the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index had its worst quarter since the end of 2008.
The top lot in the two days of wine purchases, worth a total of
HK$99.1 million, was the sale of a 12-bottle case of 1988
Domaine de la Romanee-Conti Burgundy for HK$907,500.  ‘Cheap Prices’  “There weren’t so many buyers,” said Liu Dan, a Beijing-
based collector who picked up six cases of Chateau Mouton
Rothschild 1996 vintage for $HK48,400 each. “Prices were
cheap.”  Sotheby’s has raised HK$879 million during the first three
days of its Hong Kong Autumn sales that included the wine and
modern and contemporary Asian art. The six days of sales feature
3,400 lots of porcelain, art and jewels that New York-based
Sotheby’s forecast will raise more than HK$2.7 billion.  Sunday’s wine sale suggests that the steady climb in first
growth Bordeaux is finally leveling out, dealers said.  “Before prices were getting pretty insane,” said Serena Sutcliff, head of International Wine for Sotheby’s who noted
that Burgundy prices keep climbing. “Today there was some good
value,” she said on Sunday.  Zeng’s Art  On Oct. 2, the top lot of a contemporary Chinese art sale
was a painting by  Zeng Fanzhi , which sold for $HK20.3 million,
compared with a high estimate of HK$20 million that doesn’t
include the buyer’s premium. The evening sale of 90 works
amassed by Guy Ullens, founder of Beijing’s largest private art
museum, raised HK$132.4 million, with 93 percent of the lots
sold.  Yesterday, an oil by Zhang Xiaogang from his Bloodline
series sold for HK$65.6 million, close to the HK$65 million high
estimate. At Sotheby’s April sale in the city, Zhang’s triptych
“Forever Lasting Love” fetched HK$79 million with fees, more
than double the HK$30 million top estimate.  Sotheby’s autumn sale series has 200 fewer lots than its
April auction in Hong Kong, which took a record HK$3.49 billion,
compared with an estimate of HK$2.7 billion, the auction house
said. The star lot in the spring sale, an 18th-century Chinese
vase worth more than $23 million, failed to find a buyer.  Sotheby’s is offering 36 works by  Zhang Daqian  today,
followed by rare porcelains from the Meiyintang collection
tomorrow. Watches and jewelry from the estate of Hong Kong
singer and actress Anita Mui also go on sale the same day.  Buyer’s premium, the commission added to the hammer price
of works sold, is 25 percent for the first HK$400,000, 20
percent for lots fetching as much as HK$8 million, and 12
percent above that. The wine premium is a flat 21 percent.
Estimates reflect the hammer price, before premium.  Potential buyers who aren’t represented at the  Hong Kong
Convention and Exhibition Centre  sale can bid via Sotheby’s
 online bidding system .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  