-- 
China to Meet Carbon Goals as Total Emissions Rise, Report Says

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-10-04T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/china-to-meet-carbon-intensity-goals-as-total-emissions-rise-report-says.html
China  is meeting a pledge to lower
its greenhouse-gas emissions relative to its economic growth
even as total pollution rises faster than forecast, according to
a report from climate researchers.  The world’s largest greenhouse-gas emitter is reducing the
the amount of carbon dioxide generated per unit of economic
growth, according to a report today from Utrecht, Netherlands-
based  Ecofys , a renewable energy consultant. China, the world’s
third-largest economy, pledged last year to lower its so-called
carbon intensity 40 percent to 45 percent by 2020 from 2005
levels.  Faster-than-forecast economic expansion in China will push
total emissions by 2020 higher than estimated, according to the
report, prepared in coordination with the Potsdam Institute for
Climate Impact Research and Climate Analytics, a research group
hosted by the institute. China’s President Hu Jintao first
offered to link his country’s greenhouse-gas emissions to
economic growth in a 2010 speech to the  United Nations .  “The overall picture shows us that a higher than expected
economic growth rate brings with it higher emissions,” Bill
Hare, a senior scientist with Climate Analytics, said in a
statement. “The sooner the switch is made to cleaner energy
sources, the better.”  The report was released today at UN climate talks in Panama
City where negotiators from almost 200 countries are discussing
a global treaty to limit  greenhouse gases , which scientists link
to  climate change . The meeting, which continues until Oct. 7, is
the last formal negotiating session before the annual UN climate
conference, being held this year in Durban.  China, U.S.  China offered the pledge to lower its greenhouse-gas
intensity at talks last year in Cancun,  Mexico . While the U.S.
offered to cut emissions 17 percent from 2005 levels, President
 Barack Obama  has experienced “difficulties” in advancing
policies to contribute to the goal, according to the report.  If the U.S. fails to advance policies to lower emissions
before 2015, larger and most costly annual reductions will be
needed to meet the target, according to the report.  “Higher annual reduction rates are more expensive to
achieve,” according to the report. “The technical feasibility
of actually achieving reductions decreases with higher reduction
rates, and the costs tend to increase rapidly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in Panama City at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  