-- 
Christie Late President Bid Would Create Money, Staff Crunch

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-10-04T14:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/christie-late-entry-into-presidential-race-would-mean-money-staff-crunch.html
As  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
deliberates whether to plunge into the presidential race, he is
rapidly running out of time to mount an effective campaign, say
Republican strategists and fundraisers.  “It’s a big job,” said John Catsimatidis, the billionaire
supermarket tycoon who has raised tens of thousands of dollars
for Christie. “And he’s only concentrated on New Jersey, so he
doesn’t have the national contacts.”  Christie has scheduled a 1 p.m. news conference in Trenton.  To undertake a national campaign, Christie and his team
would need to hire scores of staff, recruit teams of volunteers
in crucial early voting states and embark upon a fast-paced
travel schedule of fundraisers and campaign events.  That requires raising a lot of money quickly. Yesterday,
the  South Carolina   Republican Party  announced it would hold its
primary on Jan. 21, a shift that probably will bump the Iowa
caucuses to just after New Year’s Day. The accelerated primary
calendar leaves Christie with less than 90 days before the first
round of voting.  “You need at least $50 million to mount a campaign between
now and Jan. 31,” said Steve Duprey, a  New Hampshire  Republican
Party committeeman who was a top adviser to Arizona Senator  John McCain ’s 2008 president bid. “That means raising half a million
a day -- starting last Friday.”  There are also significant organization challenges:
Republican strategists in New Hampshire, Iowa and South Carolina
say they have seen no signs that Christie is laying the
foundation for a run.  Hiring Staff  “It’s pretty radio silent around here,” said Tim
Albrecht, an aide to  Iowa  Governor Terry Branstad, who worked on
Republican Mitt Romney’s 2008 campaign in the state. “To my
knowledge he has not reached out to a single person in New
Hampshire,” said Republican strategist Mike Dennehy, who isn’t
affiliated with any campaign.  And there is the challenge of framing his record in a
positive way before his adversaries do otherwise. Christie’s
positions on issues such as illegal immigration, civil unions
for same-sex couples and gun-owners’ rights could alienate key
portions of the Republican base.  “People know about him, but they don’t know him and there
is a huge difference,” said Jim Dyke, a South Carolina-based
Republican strategist.  Policy Record  Already, Democrats have begun questioning whether he has
the policy record to be a credible candidate.  “Christie, if he enters the race, will be an
embarrassment,” said former Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Arthur Levitt , in an interview on Bloomberg Television
yesterday. “I simply think his record won’t stand up to
national scrutiny.”  Christie aides are confident they could get a campaign up
and running quickly. A Republican close to the Christie camp,
who declined to be identified because he isn’t authorized to
speak for him publicly, said logistics about staff and
fundraising are driving Christie’s deliberations. The governor
hasn’t made up his mind about whether he wants to run, he said.  At the swearing-in of a New Jersey Superior Court judge
yesterday, Christie avoided questions about his plans. He
arrived at the ceremony in Paterson with a group of black SUVs
and entered through a back door as crowds of local and national
media swarmed in front of the courthouse.  Corzine Defeated  Christie took office last year after defeating incumbent
Democrat  Jon Corzine  amid voter dissatisfaction over the highest
property taxes in the U.S. and a sluggish economy. He cut $10
billion in projected spending on schools, pensions and towns and
required public workers to pay more for health care.  The state’s bond ratings have been downgraded.  Fitch
Ratings  on Aug. 18 lowered the  credit rating  on New Jersey’s
general-obligation bonds by one step to AA-, the fourth-highest
grade, citing “mounting budgetary pressure” from pension and
employee-benefit deficits. Moody’s Investors Service lowered it
by one level to Aa3 in April, and  Standard & Poor’s  reduced its
grade to AA- in February -- both fourth-highest.  Still, party fundraisers across the country, including
Kenneth Langone, co-founder of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ; hedge-fund
manager  Paul Singer  and industrialist  David Koch , have urged
Christie to get into the presidential race.  Christie has tapped out-of-state support to raise funds for
the New Jersey Republican Party. Individuals, corporations and
political action committees outside New Jersey gave at least
$529,000 to the Republican State Committee in the first half of
2011 out of $1.7 million raised, according to campaign finance
records.  Fundraising Challenge  That support may not be enough to raise the level of money
needed to mount a presidential campaign, say donors. Federal
campaign finance rules limit donors to giving $2,500 at a time.  “It takes not just having a few wealthy Wall Streeters
backing you,” said Peter Leidel, a Romney donor and co-founder
of Yorktown Partners, a New York-based private equity firm.
“You need to have an organization in place to raise millions
because at $2,500 a crack it takes a lot of people.”  Beyond the organizational challenges he would face in
running for president, there are policy positions that Christie
has embraced in the past that could become instant fodder for
his opponents.  In 2008 while serving as U.S. attorney, he said, “Being in
this country without proper documentation is not a crime,” a
statement at odds with some Republican primary voters’
opposition to illegal immigration and support for punishing
foreigners who entered the U.S. without authorization.  Appropriate Channels  His office clarified his words with a statement that
Christie “did not say, nor did he mean, that entering this
country through any means other than the appropriate immigration
channels is a legal act.”  Christie also supports the federal ban on assault weapons.
In addition, when asked his position this year on a law that
would allow New Jersey residents to legally carry a concealed
weapon, he wouldn’t state his view.  He opposes gay marriage yet supports New Jersey’s civil
union law. He told  CNN ’s Piers Morgan that, while he is Catholic
and his church believes homosexuality is a sin, he doesn’t share
the view. “I think if someone is born that way, it’s very
difficult to say then that that’s a sin,” Christie said.  In August, he defended his pick of a Muslim for a state
judgeship, saying critics of Sohail Mohammed, who represented
suspects after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, were “ignorant”
and “crazies.”  Shariah Law  Some political columnists and bloggers accused Mohammed of
having links to terrorism and said he would be more likely to
follow Shariah law, religious standards based on the Koran,
instead of state or federal statutes.  “This Shariah law business is crap,” Christie said.
“It’s just crazy, and I’m tired of dealing with the crazies.”  Christie will have to explain those positions under a
degree of national scrutiny that is far more intense than
anything he experienced on the state or local level.  “The swimming pool looks a lot better until you jump right
in,” McCain said two days ago on CBS’s “Face The Nation.”
“The water may not be quite as warm as you think.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net  and
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  