-- 
Chris Christie Says He Won’t Seek 2012 Republican Presidential Nomination

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-10-04T17:54:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/chris-christie-says-he-won-t-seek-2012-republican-presidential-nomination.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
who spent more than a year denying he’d run for president in
2012, put an end to renewed speculation of a bid and said he
won’t join the race to challenge President  Barack Obama .  The 49-year-old Republican, who has been reconsidering in
recent days, announced the decision during a news conference
today at the state capitol in Trenton.  “My commitment to the state is what overrode everything
else,” Christie said. “New Jersey, whether you like it or not,
you’re stuck with me.”  Christie has said repeatedly that he would have to “commit
suicide” to convince people that he wouldn’t run, and that he
didn’t feel ready to be president. Still, talk of a bid swirled
after the governor used a Sept. 27 speech at the Ronald Reagan
Presidential Library in Simi Valley,  California , to comment on
foreign policy and defense, while attacking both Obama and
Congress over what he called gridlock in  Washington .  Republican leaders and business executives stepped up calls
for the first-term governor to enter the primary field following
stumbles by Rick Perry in a nationally televised debate on Sept.
22, according to a party member close to Christie who declined
to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak for him
publicly.  Quinnipiac Poll  Christie “had a serious chance to win it all,” Peter Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut , said in a statement.  Quinnipiac released a  poll  of 2,118 American registered
voters today which had Christie with 45 percent to Obama’s 42
percent in a 2012 general election match-up. In a hypothetical
Republican primary, Christie and former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney led the field with 17 percent. The poll, conducted
by telephone Sept. 27 to Oct. 3, had a margin of error of plus
or minus 2.1 percentage points.  Christie rose to prominence as the U.S. Attorney for  New
Jersey , where as the state’s top federal prosecutor he racked up
more than 130 convictions and guilty pleas against corrupt
politicians from both parties. He beat incumbent Governor  Jon Corzine  in 2009, becoming the first in his party to win the
office since 1997 in a state where registered Democrats
outnumber Republicans by almost 700,000.  Consumer Confidence  The governor’s standing in national Republican circles grew
after he cut $10 billion in projected spending on schools,
public pensions and aid to cities in his first budget.  Christie’s message of lean government and tax cutting
resonated with voters at a time when consumer confidence was
near record lows, said  Brigid Harrison , a professor of law and
politics at  Montclair State University . No sitting president or
nominee of the same party since 1972 has won election to the
White House when the consumer confidence number was below 90,
she said.  The index produced by the business-backed Conference Board
in  New York  increased to 45.4 in September from a revised 45.2
in August that was a two-year low. The reading has been less
than 90 since December 2007, at the start of the longest
recession since the Great Depression.  ‘Party Establishment’  “He’s missing an opportunity,” Harrison said by telephone
before Christie’s announcement. “It’s an opportunity that may
not come along again and in my opinion won’t.”  “We don’t know what’s going to happen in 2016, but he
won’t be the cool new kid in school -- he’ll be part of the
party establishment, and there will be a new rising star,”
Harrison said.  Since taking office in Trenton, Christie has raised money
for Republicans in states including New York and  Pennsylvania ,
and built up a base of support through appearances for
candidates from  Massachusetts  to  New Mexico . Last week he
attended local campaign fundraisers in California, Missouri and
 Louisiana .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  