-- 
Codelco Says Price at 14-Month Low May Lure China to Rebuild Copper Supply

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-10-04T14:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/codelco-says-price-slump-may-lure-chinese-buyers-to-rebuild-copper-supply.html
Codelco, the world’s largest producer
of copper, said buyers in  China  should take advantage of a 14-
month low in prices to boost imports of the metal.  “I hope that they will start restocking again,”  Diego Hernandez , chief executive officer of Santiago-based Codelco,
said today in an interview in London. “They should, because
when you look at next year’s supply-and-demand equation it’s
very tight.”  China, the biggest consumer of copper, has de-stocked more
than 500,000 tons of copper cathode, scrap and concentrate this
year, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. The price of the metal
used in pipes and wires has slumped 27 percent this half and
fell to a 14-month low yesterday on speculation slowing growth
in Europe and the U.S. will curb demand for industrial metals.  Customer orders from Asia look “quite strong” for next
year, Hernandez said, adding that Codelco has started talks with
buyers for 2012 sales and expects them to match this year’s
number. Clients in  Europe  are “cautious” on requirements and
the company has had some cancellations, Hernandez said. Other
customers have sought to bring forward deliveries, he said.  Copper prices may be supported by Chinese purchases in the
coming months after de-stocking earlier this year, Macquarie
said in a Sept. 26 note.  Volumes Are ‘Key’  “What we see in principle is similar quantities required
by the clients,” Hernandez said of the outlook for next year’s
sales. “In this current scenario, what is key in our
negotiations is to secure volumes.” Early indications from
customers are “good,” he said.  Hernandez’s view on the European copper market echoes that
of Bern Drouven, CEO of Aurubis AG, Europe’s largest copper
smelter. Buyers are “cautious” about placing orders because of
the movement in prices, he said yesterday.  Still, commodity prices may advance 20 percent in the next
year as growth in emerging markets softens the impact of the
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and a slowdown in developed
economies, according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. report today.
The bank reiterated its “overweight” recommendation on
commodities over the next 12 months.  Goldman Sachs lowered its 2012 estimate for three-month
copper on the  London  Metal Exchange to $9,200 a metric ton from
$10,790. The price fell $171.25, or 2.5 percent, to $6,818.75 a
ton at 2:44 p.m. in London. China’s Shanghai Futures Exchange is
closed this week for the National Day holidays.  Chinese Buyers  “I’m very interested to see what the reaction will be with
current prices in a week’s time when they will be back to
trading,” said Hernandez, a former  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  executive
who took the helm of the Chilean state-owned company last year.  Codelco is moving ahead with plans to invest almost $20
billion over five years to expand its mines, betting that
Chinese demand will help drive up prices amid a shortage of
global supply. China consumes about 35 percent of Codelco’s
output, according to the company’s website.  Codelco and other mining companies in  Chile , which supplies
a third of the world’s copper, are struggling to raise output
this year as strikes and bad weather in the Atacama Desert
curtail operations.  Codelco’s production should remain stable through to the
end of next year at about 1.7 million tons of copper annually,
Hernandez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  