-- 
Commodities Extend Slump to 10-Month Low, Led by Metals, on Europe’s Woes

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-04T20:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/commodities-decline-to-10-month-low-as-europe-debt-crisis-may-hurt-demand.html
Commodities declined, extending a
slump to a 10-month low, on concern that demand for energy,
metals and crops will decline as Europe’s escalating debt woes
choke the global economy.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its global growth forecasts
and predicted recessions in Germany and  France . European
governments hinted that bondholders may be saddled with bigger
losses on Greek debt. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of raw
materials has dropped 24 percent from a 32-month high in April.  “We are seeing continuing pressure across the commodities
complex from these concerns about the global growth prospects,”
said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets
Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. in Sydney. “The markets are universally
bearish.”  The GSCI measure of 24 components fell 1.6 percent to
settle at 576.01 at 3:47 p.m. New York time. Earlier, the gauge
touched 572.92, the lowest since Nov. 26. Metals led the decline
with silver closing at the lowest price since February and
copper at the cheapest settlement in 14 months.  The turmoil in  Europe  will take away “some of the upside”
to commodity prices, not reverse prospects, Goldman Sachs said.
The bank lowered its 12-month forecasts for the prices of
copper, crude oil and grains.  Last week, the Department of Agriculture said that U.S.
grain inventories were bigger than analysts expected. Yesterday,
wheat touched a three-month low, and corn was the cheapest since
December after the price in September posted the biggest monthly
plunge since at least 1959.  “Agricultural commodities are suffering from the ‘risk-
off’ flows,” Nic Johnson, who helps manage about $30 billion in
commodities at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport
Beach ,  California , said in a telephone interview. “They’re
really being hurt because of the increase in ending stocks that
the USDA updated last week. That really changed fundamentals.”  U.S. equities rallied in the final 50 minutes of trading on
speculation that European Union officials are examining how to
recapitalize the region’s banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  