-- 
Contraceptive Injections Double HIV Infection Risk in Study

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-04T15:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/contraception-doubles-a-woman-s-chance-of-catching-hiv-in-study.html
Using contraceptive injections such
as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Depo Provera doubles the chance women will
catch HIV and transmit it to a male partner, a study found.  Researchers from the  University of Washington  in  Seattle 
followed 3,790 African couples in which one partner was infected
with the AIDS-causing virus. Women who used hormone-based
contraceptive injections were twice as likely to acquire and
pass on HIV as those who didn’t, the researchers wrote today in
the journal  The Lancet Infectious Diseases . A higher risk was
also observed for birth-control pills, but that finding wasn’t
statistically significant, the researchers said.  The findings contradict those of previous studies, which
have had inconsistent results, and suggest the active promotion
of injectable contraception in  Africa  may be fueling the spread
of the world’s biggest infectious killer, said Charles S.
Morrison and Kavita Nanda, researchers at  FHI 360 , a nonprofit
organization in Durham,  North Carolina , that works on
reproductive health projects.  “Conversely, limiting one of the most highly used
effective methods of contraception in sub-Saharan Africa would
probably contribute to increased maternal mortality and
morbidity and more low birthweight babies and orphans -- an
equally tragic result,” the pair wrote in an editorial
accompanying the paper. They weren’t involved in the study.  Because the results came from a secondary analysis of an
HIV prevention trial that wasn’t designed to examine the
relationship between contraception and viral transmission, a
further study crafted specifically to settle the question should
now be done, Morrison and Nanda said.  “We’d prefer not to comment at this point, as we’re
currently reviewing the study,” Joan Campion, a Pfizer
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  More than 140 million women worldwide use hormonal
contraception, including pills and long-acting injections, which
are the most popular form of birth control in Africa, the
researchers wrote. The trial was funded by the U.S. National
Institutes of Health and the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  