-- 
Court Can’t Kill Health Reform Without Collateral Damage: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-04T00:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/court-can-t-kill-health-reform-without-collateral-damage-view.html
The commentariat can’t decide whether
to give the Obama administration points for audacity, or to
question its sanity. The  Justice Department  has asked the
Supreme Court to rule on the constitutionality of its health-
care reform sooner rather than later.  If the court takes up the challenge, it could deliver a
decision before the end of its current term in June. That would
be just in time to assure that health care will be a major issue
in the presidential campaign.  Should the Supreme Court take up health-care reform this
year? So far, only one appeals court has ruled that the
“individual mandate” in Obamacare -- the requirement that
virtually everybody must buy insurance, with government
assistance if needed -- overreaches the federal government’s
powers under the commerce clause of the Constitution. It’s not a
trivial argument. But an affirmative ruling would be a huge
departure from our understanding of the commerce clause going
back to the New Deal.  If the health-care law’s individual mandate is
unconstitutional, so is much of what the government has been
doing for 80 years or so, and it will be the duty of the  Supreme
Court  to sort through the ruins of the federal government as we
know it and find a few shards to start building again. We can’t
help suspecting that the court will choose to avoid this
opportunity, by not taking the case, by finding some other
grounds for ruling, or by upholding Obamacare.  Ever since it passed in 2010, Obamacare has been attacked
as a costly and possibly unconstitutional intrusion of the
federal government into people’s lives. Almost the central issue
in the campaign for the Republican presidential nomination has
been the resemblance between Obamacare and the state health-care
plan enacted in  Massachusetts  under then-Governor  Mitt Romney .
Today, most Democrats feel the less said the better. But if the
new law loses in the Supreme Court, the political ramifications
may look very different.  If the Supreme Court kills health-care reform, it will stay
dead a long time. It took 17 years before anybody felt like
scaling that mountain again after  Hillary Clinton ’s failure two
administrations ago. The Republican who was president for almost
half that time made no effort. No prominent Republican
presidential candidate made it an issue, nor did Republican
leaders in Congress push legislation.  If we wake up one day in June with no health-care reform
and no prospect of getting it, who will cheer? Not the 40
million or so Americans who don’t have insurance now. Not the
millions more with pre-existing conditions that leave them
jobless or clinging to jobs they may not like. Not many of the
doctors and nurses who labor in the current mess of a health-
care system. Obama may figure that he’s going to pay for the
real and imaginary burdens his major legislative accomplishment
will impose. He might as well start people thinking about the
benefits.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 