-- 
Cricket, Archery Seek to Engage New Markets With 2012 Olympics at Lord’s

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-04T23:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/cricket-archery-seek-to-engage-new-markets-with-2012-olympics-at-lord-s.html
Cricket and archery are looking to
the 2012  London  Olympics to help expand participation in both
sports.  Archers are taking part in a test event this week at  Lord’s 
in London, which hosted its first match in 1814 and where the
Marylebone Cricket Club helped develop the sport’s rules. South
Korean archer  Im Dong-Hyun , ranked fifth in the world, yesterday
beat his own 72-arrow world record by two points after scoring
693 out of a maximum of 720.  It was the first time Lord’s hosted a sport other than
cricket since the first World War. In 1917, a baseball game
between Canadian and American teams was staged there to help the
widows and orphans of Canadian servicemen.  “There was only one option, and that was to be involved
with the  London Olympics ,”  John Stephenson , head of cricket at
the MCC, said in an interview at Lord’s. Showcasing an Olympic
event at the ground may have “a significant impact” on the
sport’s profile around the world, he added.  “Cricket is growing globally, and we’d like to engage with
smaller nations,” he said. “A lot of the smaller nations will
be watching London 2012 and will hopefully be stirred by the
fact there is an event going on at the home of cricket. They
might look it up and find out. The impact is not to be
underestimated.”  Thomas Lord helped found the MCC in 1787, when he bought a
piece of land in northwest London for a private cricket pitch on
what’s now known as Lord’s Old Ground. Within a year, the club
set the rules of the game, which were adopted worldwide. Lord’s
has since hosted numerous Test matches and one-day
internationals.  ‘Enormous Impact’  Archery is also hoping for an Olympic boost.  “The Games always have an enormous impact, particularly if
the host nation has a successful archery tournament,” Tom
Dielen, secretary general of the  World Archery Federation , said
in an interview. “The fact that Lord’s is such an iconic venue
helps boost our profile.”  After  France  won a gold medal at the 1992 Barcelona
Olympics, membership of French archery clubs almost doubled to
50,000, Dielen said. It then increased to 67,000 after the
French women took home a bronze from Beijing three years ago.  Archery GB, which governs the sport in Britain, currently
has 33,000 members.  “If Team GB won an archery gold medal, then 50,000 members
is a possibility,” Dielen said. “The potential for archery in
the U.K. is huge.” He said a survey of British school children
found archery was the Olympic sport they’d most like to try.  300 Arrows  Naomi Folkard, one of 100 archers participating this week,
trains up to six hours a day, shooting as many as 300 arrows as
she works toward being selected for the British Olympic team
next April.  “Winning a gold medal would be everything, it would be so
good,” said Folkard, who also competed in  Athens  in 2004 and
Beijing, said on the practice range at Lord’s.  Archery is practiced in 140 countries. It was dropped from
the Olympic program after the 1908 London Games, returned for a
single appearance in 1920 and was reinstated in Munich in 1972.  A lot has changed in the sport since then, said Juan Carlos Holgado, who won a gold medal for  Spain  in 1992 and is now event
director for the World Archery Federation.  “I remember in 1992, our sport used to be very much
focused on archers, it was not fun to see or easy to
understand,” Holgado said in an interview. “We were the only
consumers of our sport.”  Famous Landmarks  Now, archery events are often held at famous landmarks in
large cities, with music and commentary for the crowd. Last
week, the  World Cup  final was held at the Kucuksu Palace in
Istanbul, on the banks of the Bosphorus Strait. The historic
Panathinaiko Stadium, site of the first Olympics, hosted the
sport in Athens.  During London 2012, the archery tournament will be using a
new scoring format of head-to-head matches with sets, similar to
tennis. Cameras will be placed on the bows and arrows so
television viewers will get an idea of the speed and 70-meter
(77-yard) distance to the target.  “It’s much more enjoyable now,” Holgado said. “The sport
itself is very quiet, slow and boring if you don’t understand.
And that’s changed completely.”  Stephenson of the MCC said he’s been watching some of the
matches from his office at Lord’s and has become “hooked.” He
said the ground may stage another archery event after the London
Games, but won’t branch out into any other sport.  “It’s too difficult with the grass and the local
residents,” he said. “We certainly don’t want anything that’s
at all noisy. Olympic archery isn’t too noisy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Lord’s through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  