-- 
Crosslink Ventures Turn Into Hedge Fund Bet as Hybrid Firm: Tech

-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/crosslink-ventures-turn-into-hedge-fund-bet-as-hybrid-firm-tech.html
On the eve of its Aug. 11 initial
public offering, Carbonite Inc., a Boston-based firm that
provides online data backup, cut its offering price to $10 a
share from a range of $15 to $17.  Presentations to attract investors had collided with a
2,000-point plunge in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  during
the previous 14 trading days. Carbonite was determined to go
public, even though 10 other companies had postponed their
debuts, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its November
issue.  Michael Stark, who runs San Francisco-based Crosslink
Capital Inc., knew Carbonite. He’d invested $12 million in
January as part of a venture-capital deal.  After Carbonite lowered its price, Stark placed an order of
1 million shares at the IPO, doubling his stake to 8.3 percent,
split between hedge and venture investments. By the closing
bell, Carbonite had gained 24 percent to $12.35. The stock
climbed further, giving Crosslink a 28 percent return in a
month, trouncing the 3.3 percent gain for the Nasdaq Computer
Index. On Oct. 3, the shares traded at $12.  Stark’s Carbonite investment is quintessential Crosslink.
The firm, with $2.15 billion under management, tries to make
money from a hybrid strategy of providing venture funding for
private companies and hedge-fund investments to profit from
public ones. The setup lets the firm double its bets when it
perceives good opportunities.  ‘Full Picture’  In September 2005, Crosslink made a $13.3 million
investment in Provo, Utah-based  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) , a Web-based
genealogy company, in return for 2.4 million shares valued at
$5.60 each.  When Ancestry.com went public, Stark bought an additional
200,000 shares. He controlled 7.3 percent of the company by May
2010, reducing that stake to 3.7 percent as of the end of June.
On Oct. 3, Ancestry.com was trading at $21.98.  “We look at growth companies and don’t limit ourselves to
whether a company is public or private,” he says.  From his 22nd-floor Embarcadero Center office in  San
Francisco ’s financial district, Stark expands on that thought.
He points toward San Francisco Bay from one window and then
motions toward another set of windows, where his gaze drifts
over the city to the iconic Coit Tower.  “I can see what’s going on by looking both ways,” he
says. “I can see the full picture and not a half picture.”  ‘Looking for an Education’  Crosslink’s full-picture approach has largely paid off.
Stark’s venture funds have $1 billion under management.
Crosslink Ventures IV, which started investing in 2000, has
returned an average of 28 percent a year since then.  The $510 million Crosslink Emerging Growth Fund, the
flagship hedge fund, has returned an average of 13.4 percent
after fees annually from September 1999 through August,
according to an investor.  Crosslink’s crossover funds put about 40 percent of assets
into venture deals and the rest into hedge-fund investments.
Crosslink Crossover III, which started in September 1999, has
returned an average of 13.6 percent a year through June, the
investor says.  Crosslink’s strategy of getting an early peek at promising
technologies gives it an edge, says Michael Weisberg, a
Crosslink investor who runs Crestwood Capital Management LP, a
$1 billion hedge fund in  New York .  “Stark is looking for an education, to get a sense of
where the technology is going,” Weisberg says.  Subprime Miss  Stark has barriers between his funds to avoid any
regulatory headaches. He doesn’t trade in a company at which
Crosslink has a board seat, which could provide access to
insider information.  Although venture firms aren’t required to register with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Crosslink has
registered as an investment adviser and has passed SEC audits,
partner Isabelle Fymat says. The firm tracks stock trades of
employees and their household members.  Stark has had his failures. His immersion in the world of
technology trends meant he didn’t see the subprime crisis until
it was too late. The Emerging Growth Fund lost 29 percent in
2008, even as it held onto  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)  It still beat the 38.5 percent tumble in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index that year.  “We like to make long-term bets, but sometimes events
surprise us,” he says.  Vulnerable  Stark’s faith in technology growth companies makes
Crosslink vulnerable when a boom he expects doesn’t pan out. The
hedge fund bought a stake in Sunnyvale, California-based network
security company  Fortinet Inc. (FTNT)  in August 2010 for about $8 a
share. On July 6, the shares closed at a 52-week high of $28.17.
Then, on July 19, Fortinet reported earnings that disappointed
analysts. The stock fell 19 percent to $21.61 the next day.
“Volatility in growth companies can be brutal,” Stark says.  Supporters say Stark has a rare talent: He unearths
companies that may pay off in a few years while managing the
daily ups and downs of his hedge fund.  “It’s hard to find someone who’s good at picking stocks,
who can also pick stocks to short and understands industry
trends to select startups for the venture side,” says Robert
Manilla, chief investment officer at the $3.2 billion  Kresge
Foundation  in Troy,  Michigan . Manilla has invested in Crosslink
since 2003.  Tech IPOs  “Stark and his team are thoughtful investors with a vision
of where the world is going,” he says.  Stark’s skills are in demand as more technology startups
plan initial public offerings. Groupon Inc., a Chicago-based
discount coupon seller, and Zynga Inc., a San Francisco social-
gaming company, have filed for IPOs. Crosslink’s marquee name,
online radio service Pandora Media Inc., started trading shares
on June 15. Overall, 135 U.S. companies had IPOs this year
through the end of August, 21 percent more than at that point
last year, according to Bloomberg data.  “Year to date, 2011 was the strongest year for tech IPOs
since 2007,” says Kathleen Smith, a principal at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital LLC, an IPO investment
advisory firm.  Market turmoil since the end of July has made some
investors pause. The average technology IPO fell 18 percent this
year through the end of September, according to Renaissance
Capital.  “The recent volatility has taken the wind out of companies
that were not ready for prime time,” says Lise Buyer, an IPO
consultant and founder of Class V Group LLC in Portola Valley,
 California .  ‘Wealth Building’  Still, with more than 300 offerings lined up, the pipeline
is strong. “There’s definitely a sense of renewed IPO
optimism,” she says.  Stark is enthusiastic about social networking, Chinese
Internet firms and infrastructure companies active in cloud
computing -- using remote computers to store and retrieve
information.  “You can have dramatic wealth building in a relatively
short period of time, and that’s what we are trying to
capture,” he says.  Beijing-based Baidu Inc.,  China ’s largest Internet company,
went public in August 2005. Its shares have soared an average 50
percent a year, rewarding Stark with more than 20 times his
investments in the company started by Robin Li and Eric Xu.  “We like Chinese nationals educated in the U.S. who are
entrepreneurs and go back home to set up their own companies,”
he says.  Intel Analyst  Stark grew up in Quincy, Illinois, with old-school
technology in his blood: His father was a technician for phone
company Illinois Bell. His mother was a secretary. An only
child, he arrived at Northwestern University as the first member
of his family to attend college. After getting a civil
engineering degree, he earned an MBA with honors from the
University of Michigan.  Stark headed west in 1980 to join chipmaker  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
just as the computer and semiconductor industries were on the
cusp of exponential growth. He worked as a financial analyst and
on special projects, studying potential equipment suppliers for
Intel.  In 1983, that background helped him land an analyst
position covering the semiconductor industry at what was to
become Robertson Stephens & Co., the San Francisco investment
bank that specialized in tech companies. In 1989, he was on a
team that created Omega Funds, a venture fund within the bank.  Cold Calls  The group later started a crossover fund to invest in
public and private companies. BankAmerica Corp., now  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , acquired Robertson Stephens and then sold it off.  Stark and Seymour Kaufman, an investment banker who co-
managed Omega Funds, bought out the fund, with its $300 million
in assets, in 1999. They changed the name to Crosslink Capital.
Kaufman, a mentor to the firm, isn’t involved in the running of
the company.  Crosslink offices, with prospectuses, annual reports and
offering documents strewn across every working space, are far
from the fabled VC mecca of Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, south
of San Francisco. Crosslink’s location makes its 37-person team
work harder, says Jim Feuille, who heads venture operations.  Feuille’s group ferreted out Pandora only after spending a
year making cold calls. The venture fund’s initial $33 million
investment was valued at $500 million at the end of September,
even after Pandora shares declined 8.4 percent since the IPO.  Genesis of Pandora  The idea that led to Crosslink’s investment in Pandora came
from an unexpected quarter. In October 2003, Steve Jobs, then
Apple’s CEO, said the company’s iTunes service would be
available for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating system.  Feuille predicted that digital music would take off because
more than 90 percent of the world’s PCs ran on Windows. Stark
bought Apple shares for the hedge fund, making almost 50 times
his investment when he closed the position in February. Feuille
later bet on Ecast Inc., a San Francisco startup that offered
digital jukeboxes, for the venture fund.  “You see an idea and want to figure out what’s the next
evolution,” Feuille says.  To sniff out more digital music opportunities, Feuille had
an associate call dozens of companies before Crosslink spotted
Savage Beast Technologies in 2005. The startup had developed a
database and algorithms that let users customize music searches.
If a listener liked  Pink Floyd,  the software would suggest other
bands he might enjoy.  Going Free  Savage Beast changed its name to Pandora in 2005 and
embarked on a business to stream music over the Internet.
Trouble was, it had begun a subscription model, offering members
10 hours of free music and then charging a $3-per-month fee.  “I told Pandora’s board there is too much free music out
there,” recalls Feuille, wearing a blue shirt under a black
sleeveless fleece with Crosslink’s logo of two interlocking Cs.
The subscription strategy was unlikely to make much headway, he
says.  “Good-enough free music will always beat a little bit
better,” he says.  Feuille offered to fund the venture if Pandora’s board
switched to a free radio service backed by ads. The board
eventually agreed.  “Crosslink was pivotal to our success,” says  Tim Westergren , Pandora’s co-founder and chief strategy officer. He
says Feuille saw Pandora’s potential before its board could.  “Jim advocated for a free service, which at the time was
far from obvious,” Westergren says.  Home Runs  Today, Pandora has more than 100 million registered users.
Revenue for the quarter ended on July 31 doubled to $67 million.
About half came from mobile devices, CEO Joseph Kennedy says.
The company lost $3.2 million as it paid half of the revenue in
royalties to record companies. Pandora makes 87 percent of its
sales from ads on listener devices and the rest from
subscriptions.  Stark has made other bets against prevailing wisdom.
 Equinix Inc. (EQIX) , a Redwood City, California-based provider of data
centers, had to restructure its debt and raise money in 2003.
Managers held more than 80 meetings with private-equity, VC and
 hedge funds , Chairman Peter Van Camp says.  Crosslink was the only U.S. company that offered anything:
a $10 million investment from the venture fund, which it
exchanged for shares valued at about $3.34 each. On Oct. 3,
Equinix shares traded at $84.27, producing a 25-fold return.  “They looked beyond the immediate economics of the company
and could see where the technology was heading,” Van Camp says.  Solar Bets  Stark figured that  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s biggest
maker of thin-film solar panels, would eventually find its
technology overtaken.  “We knew technologies would emerge to make First Solar
obsolete, but that would not happen in 2006,” he says.  Crosslink started buying after First Solar’s IPO that
November, snapping up shares at $24 each. At the end of 2007,
shares of the Tempe, Arizona, company were trading at $267.14.  “We got a 10 bagger because we understood the technology,
we understood the situation,” he says, meaning he made 10 times
his investment.  First Solar traded at $57.90 on Oct. 3; three other U.S.
solar companies have filed for bankruptcy protection since
August.  Stark is scouting for the next tech trend. On a whiteboard
in his office, he reviews computer infrastructure companies he
says are likely to succeed if cloud computing takes off.  Among them are private firms including Sunnyvale-based
IronKey Inc., which makes data storage components. He’s also
enthusiastic about such public companies as San Francisco-based
 Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD) , which makes computer-networking
products, and Houston-based  BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , which sells
software to manage data storage.  “There’s a short cycle to technology investing,” Stark
says. “We have to constantly reinvent ourselves.”  If Stark can do that, Crosslink’s hybrid strategy may be
able to keep investors a step ahead of the technology curve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 