-- 
Oil Gains First Day in Four After Surprise Drop in U.S. Supplies

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-10-05T07:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/crude-rises-first-day-in-four-on-bets-europe-plans-bank-recapitalization.html
Oil gained for the first day in four
in  New York  after a surprise drop in U.S. crude stockpiles led
investors to reduce bets that prices will decline.  Futures rose as much as 3.7 percent after sliding 8 percent
in the past three days. Crude inventories dropped 3.1 million
barrels last week, the  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday. An Energy Department report today is forecast to show
a gain of 1.5 million barrels. Traders holding short positions
in oil futures, or bets that prices will fall, can’t book
profits until they buy back contracts.  “With so many short positions around anything can spark a
violent rally,” said  Michael McCarthy , chief market strategist
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “We’ve seen positions by the more
nimble groups taking shorts and it’s those people buying back.”  Crude for November delivery rose as much as $2.79 to $78.46
a barrel and was at $78.01 at 2:43 p.m. Singapore time. Futures
yesterday slid 2.5 percent to $75.67, the lowest settlement
since Sept. 23, 2010. Oil is down 15 percent this year.  Brent oil for November gained $1.88, or 1.9 percent, to
$101.67 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $23.47 to
U.S. futures, compared with a record close of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Hedge Funds , Stocks  Hedge funds cut their bullish bets, or long positions, on
oil by the most in almost two months in the week ended Sept. 27,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Concern
that economic growth will falter sent crude to the biggest
quarterly drop since 2008 in the three months ended Sept. 30.  Futures also gained after U.S. stocks surged. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rallied 4.1 percent in the final 50 minutes
of trading in New York on speculation Europe may recapitalize
its banks to tame its debt crisis. The  S&P 500  and Nymex oil
have moved in the same direction 89 percent of the time since
Sept. 27, up from 67 percent in the 10 days before.  “We saw a natural rebound in the market coming from the
European situation and the better stock market and that just
followed through to the crude market,” said  Ken Hasegawa ,
energy trading manager at broker Newedge in  Japan , who says New
York oil won’t rise above $90 a barrel for the rest of this year.
“It was good timing for the rebound when the API data was
published. It accelerated the gains in crude oil.”  OPEC Outlook  U.S. gasoline supplies dropped 5 million barrels last week,
according to the industry-funded API. The Energy Department
report was forecast to show a gain of 1.5 million. The API said
supplies of distillates, a category that includes heating oil,
slid 2 million barrels.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey. The API and Energy Department
data have moved in the same direction 71 percent of the time
over the past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OPEC may cut production after its basket of crudes fell
below $100 a barrel for the first time since February and Libyan
output starts to rise. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ benchmark fell to $99.65 on Oct. 3, down 18 percent
from its highest level this year and within 2 percentage points
of the 20 percent drop that’s deemed a  bear market .  Saudi Spending  Ministers will hold their second meeting of the year on Dec.
14 in Vienna to decide how much of their oil the world will need
in 2012. The group will reduce output to prevent Brent falling
below $90 because Middle East members are increasing spending,
according to Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, vowed to use “an
iron fist” after 11 members of the security forces were injured
by attackers during unrest in a Shiite Muslim town in the east,
the official Saudi Press Agency said.  The government accused an unnamed “foreign country” of
seeking to undermine the stability of the kingdom as a result of
the violence in Awwamiya, in which the assailants, some on
motorcycles, used machine guns and Molotov cocktails, the
Riyadh-based news service  reported late yesterday. A man and
two women were also injured, the news service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net . 