-- 
Czech Yield at 6-Week High on Europe Risk Before 2021 Sale

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-10-04T15:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/czech-yield-hits-6-week-high-on-europe-risk-before-2021-auction.html
Czech bond yields climbed to a six-
week high before a sale of government debt tomorrow as the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis threatens to curb growth across the
continent and hurt demand for Czech exports.  The European Union member is offering 7 billion koruna
($373 million) more of its September 2021 notes, according to a
prospectus on the central bank’s website. The yield on the
secondary market climbed seven basis points to 3.24 percent
yesterday, the highest since Aug. 24, before slipping to 3.21
percent today. The bond was last sold on May 11 at an average
yield of 3.84 percent.  European stocks and commodities fell and the cost of
insuring German bonds rose to a record as concern mounted about
the euro area’s debt and economy. Fiscal-austerity measures
abroad may curb Czech exports and hinder growth, the central
bank said on Sept. 30.  “Investors are dumping riskier assets and Czech bonds are
hit despite the recent credit-rating upgrade,” said Dalimil Vyskovsky, head of fixed-income trading at Komercni Banka AS in
 Prague . “Also, a hard landing for the Czech economy would be a
major drag on  tax revenue , threatening to widen the budget gap,
which could in turn force the government to issue more bonds.”  Ten-year yields slumped to a record-low 2.92 percent four
weeks ago after  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 24 lifted Czech debt
two notches to AA-, citing changes to its rating criteria and
the government’s low debt. Premier Petr Necas’s administration
two weeks ago approved a 2012 draft budget that narrows the
public-finance deficit to 3.5 percent of GDP from 4.2 percent
this year. The bill is now before parliament.  ‘Very Hard’  Czech manufacturing rose at the slowest pace in 21 months
in September, an index of purchasing managers showed yesterday.
The HSBC  Czech Republic  Manufacturing PMI fell to 52.3 from 53.4
in August, the bank said in a report. Exports account for almost
80 percent of Czech gross domestic product, with neighboring
 Germany  being the biggest trading partner.  “The Czech Republic is strongly affected by problems in
the EU, the main market for our goods,” David Sykora, head of
 currency trading  at CSOB AS in Prague, said yesterday. “If
demand declines, especially in Germany, Czech exporters’ sales
will rapidly drop and this will hit the economy very hard.”  The koruna slid for a fifth day, weakening 0.1 percent to
24.867 per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  