-- 
DBS Investment Officer Lim Sees Greek Default, Bets on Cash

-- B y   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-10-04T02:16:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/dbs-investment-officer-lim-sees-greek-default-bets-on-cash.html
Lim Say Boon, chief investment
officer of DBS Group Holding Ltd.’s wealth management business,
said Greece is going to default and only cash and volatility
work in the current environment.  He was speaking in an Bloomberg Television interview in
 Singapore .  On European crisis:  “The Europeans have to get their act together really
quickly and I don’t think there’s a lot of time left. They’ve
been dragging their feet for way too long.  “They need to do two things really urgently. The first is
obvious, which is to leverage the European Financial Stability
Facility, to leverage that up from 440 billion euros ($581
billion) to something over 2 trillion euros, which will be more
sizeable to deal with the sort of problems they have on hand.  “The next thing they have to do urgently is to
recapitalize those banks which marginally passed the stress
tests of not so long ago. They have to recapitalize banks
urgently because  Greece  is going to default.”  On orderly Greek default:  “It matters a great deal. If they organize themselves
properly, that is they get recapitalization in place, if they
get the financial stability facility well funded, then you have
a half decent chance of surviving the fallout from Greece. It
has to be controlled.”  On cash and volatility:  “Bonds in Asia ex-Japan have been hurt by the  risk
aversion  that’s going on. Really right now, there are only two
things that work: cash and buying into volatility. Even gold
hasn’t worked that well over the last few weeks.”  On  asset allocation :  “About two months ago, we cut our weighting in equity to
underweight in our tactical asset allocation. And we went
seriously overweight in bonds, and raised cash.”  On U.S. recession:  “The risk of a recession in the U.S. has risen
significantly. Never mind the economic data. What is more
important now is that the markets are challenging the limits of
government intervention in the U.S. and particularly in the euro
area where they don’t seem to be able to contain the broadening
of the sovereign debt crisis spreading from Greece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  