-- 
Don't Bet Against the Euro Surviving Debt Crisis

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-10-04T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/death-of-euro-seen-exaggerated-amid-non-pimco-political-will.html
Investors betting against the euro-
area surviving its debt crisis in one piece may be overlooking
one thing: the will of politicians to hold it together.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is intensifying her defense
of the currency. French President Nicolas Sarkozy says there’s
no alternative to channeling aid to Greece without risking the
kind of cataclysm set off by the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Greek Premier  George Papandreou  this week
proposed 6.6 billion euros ($8.7 billion) of fresh austerity
measures in a recession headed into a fourth year.  The euro is “a political project,” said  Erik Nielsen ,
global chief economist at UniCredit Group in  London . “The
market may not have believed them, but leaders have repeatedly
said they will do whatever it takes to keep it together.”  Keeping the 17-nation region together means politics will
have to remain the glue, challenging the argument of investors
including Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief Executive
Officer Mohamed El-Erian. He says the euro area may need to
shrink to survive. That concern is highlighted by the swelling
gap between the 10-year interest rates of Germany and  Italy .  In a sign investors are questioning the longevity of the
euro, the spread between German and Italian benchmark bonds
reached almost 400 basis points, having held below 50 basis
points for most of the last decade. Four in 10 respondents to
the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll said last month they expect
a nation to leave the euro within a year and a further 32
percent said a member would exit in two to five years.  ‘Big Italy’  “Many global investors see Greece as a precedent for big
Italy,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London. “The test of whether
European defenses are strong enough to prevent contagion from
Greece to Italy could be made soon.”  It may come in the weeks before a Nov. 3-4 summit of Group
of 20 leaders in Cannes, France, which international finance
chiefs see as the deadline for European governments to devise
fixes for turmoil.  That meeting “is likely to be a major point of inflection,
which will either resurrect life or leave us in deep hibernation
through the winter,” said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management in London.  Economists at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  yesterday revised
their outlook to show the euro-area economy will expand 0.1
percent next year rather than the 1.3 percent previously
anticipated with Germany and France suffering mild recessions.  ‘Too Much to Lose’  Some investors still bet on euro-area leaders avoiding the
worst case scenario. Kathleen Gaffney, co-manager of the $19.4
billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund, says she continues to hold
Greek debt and is buying sovereign securities from other
European countries.  The European Union has “too much to lose” if Greece were
to exit the euro, Gaffney said in a Sept. 28 interview with Lisa
Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s “Fast Forward.”  The euro is also trading above its average since it was
born almost 12 years ago, another sign that investors see little
chance of a collapse as officials take on the crisis.  “Too much political and ideological capital has been
invested into making the euro project work and bringing the
continent of  Europe  closer together since the end of World War
II to allow it to unravel now,” Thanos Papasavvas, the head of
currency management in London at Investec Asset Management Ltd.,
which invests about $95 billion, said in a Sept. 20 interview.  Merkel’s Shift  Having once held out on aiding  Greece , demanded investors
play a greater role in bailouts and flatly rejected initiatives
such as joint euro-area bonds, Merkel is changing gears to
stress governments must hold the euro area together.  Deeper integration “is the only way forward for Europe,”
she said. Sept 9. On Aug. 21 she even agreed that sharing debt
in the form of joint bonds might be possible in the “distant
future.”  Sarkozy and Merkel will meet Oct. 9 to discuss speeding the
euro area’s economic integration. Among the options: enacting a
permanent rescue fund next July, a year earlier than planned.
That would provide a 500 billion-euro war chest and provisions
for sharing costs with bondholders for countries with
“unsustainable” debt. Governments may also unpick a second
Greek rescue agreed in July to increase the financial industry’s
contribution and create a safety net for banks.  There’s “no credible alternative” to aiding Greece,
Sarkozy said Sept. 30. “The failure of Greece would be the
failure of all of Europe.”  Greek Cuts  Greece itself is trying to counter criticism over its
failure to satisfy the terms of an international bailout.
Papandreou pushed new cuts through his Cabinet this week and his
finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, rejected making his
country a scapegoat for Europe’s policy failures.  Other governments are also taking steps to fortify their
finances. France, Italy and  Spain  have entered German-style
budget deficit limits into their constitutions. Italy last month
introduced a 54 billion-euro package of austerity measures that
included cuts in central and regional spending and a higher
 sales tax .  Politicians are likely realizing failure to keep the euro
area together risks “threatening another Great Depression,”
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  economists  Stephen King  and  Janet Henry  said
in a Sept. 30 report. They see the evolution of a “fiscal
club” in which troubled countries get aid from neighbors, yet
are required to temporarily sacrifice their fiscal sovereignty.  ‘Costs of Failure’  “Ultimately the costs involved in fixing the euro’s
manifest weaknesses are far lower than the costs of failure,”
said King and Henry.  Politics as much as economics have lain at the heart of the
euro project, born in part by the desire to avoid another war by
bonding nations together. It is the offspring of an integration
which began in 1951 with the establishment of the European Coal
and Steel Community.  Former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl told Bild newspaper in
2010 that “there’s no alternative to Europe, especially in the
question of war and peace.” It was Kohl who helped turn the
euro from an economic tool into a political one as he pushed for
the inclusion of “the greatest possible number of countries”
rather than just those with the strongest economies.  Jacques Delors, a former president of the European
Commission, once said “people forget too often about the
political objective of European construction. The argument in
favor of the single currency should be based on the desire to
live together in peace.”  Flouting Rules  Still, as union grew from the six founders to 27 members
today, it never had the political will to enforce its own
economic rules and no plan for dealing with countries, like
Greece, that threatened default. No nation was ever punished for
violating deficit limits and in 2005, Germany and  France  led the
push to water them down.  Some are questioning its ability to stick together.  Nouriel Roubini , chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said in an
Oct. 2 interview in Dubai that Greece would be better off
outside the euro and that in three to five years, there’s a
“good probability that the  euro zone  is smaller than” now. El-
Erian, who helps manage the world’s biggest bond fund at Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, says there is the potential for a
“smaller, much better integrated, fiscally strong euro zone.”  El-Erian nevertheless sees hope that European policy makers
“finally” understand the severity of their crisis. After four
days of meetings in  Washington , El-Erian said in Sept. 27 radio
interview on Bloomberg Surveillance with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt that “they recognize they have deep problems, and they
recognize they need to do something about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  