-- 
Democrats Cite White House Solyndra Concerns to Rebut Critics

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-04T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/democrats-cite-white-house-solyndra-concerns-to-rebut-critics.html
Democratic lawmakers sought to refute
Republican criticism of the Obama administration for backing
Solyndra LLC, disclosing e-mails showing the White House budget
office disagreed with the Energy Department’s positive
assessment of the failed solar-panel maker.  The Office of Management and Budget expressed frustration
last year with the Energy Department’s oversight of Solyndra,
particularly after an auditor said the company’s financial woes
cast doubt on its future, according to a memo yesterday from
Democratic staff on the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
citing administration documents.  An Energy Department official dismissed the auditor’s
warning at the time, saying such a finding was typical for
companies planning to sell shares, as Solyndra was, according to
the Democrats’ report. E-mails and other documents show a
“vigorous internal debate” about the loan guarantee, according
to the report.  “The assumption being made here is there was no untoward
White House influence,” Salo Zelermyer, an attorney with
Bracewell & Giuliani LLP who worked in the Energy Department
loan office under President  George W. Bush , said in an
interview. “This does seem to be an effort by Democrats to
insulate officials within the White House from having had any
involvement or decision-making responsibility for the loan
guarantee.”  Republicans Report  The Democrats’ report includes excerpts from e-mails
President  Barack Obama ’s administration sent the committee on
Sept 30. The Republican-led panel has been investigating the
loan since February, and in a Sept. 14 report said political
pressure may have led to a fast decision on the loan guarantee.  Solyndra fired 1,100 workers, and FBI agents raided its
offices two days after it filed for  bankruptcy protection  on
Sept. 6. The company is under investigation for possible
accounting fraud, an FBI official who declined to be named said
on Sept. 29.  The company’s failure raised the level of congressional
scrutiny of the loan-guarantee program and why Solyndra won its
award.  “Political pressure to approve the Solyndra deal appears
to have caused” the Energy Department and budget office “to
miss or disregard numerous shortcomings regarding Solyndra’s
‘financial viability,” according to the Republicans’ report.
That analysis is based on previously released documents from the
administration.  Obama said yesterday he doesn’t regret giving the loan
guarantee to Solyndra and that the administration “always
understood” some clean-energy companies might not succeed.  20-20 Hindsight  “Hindsight is always 20/20,” Obama said in an interview
with ABC News. Solyndra “went through the regular review
process, and people felt like this was a good bet.”  Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and
chairman of the House Energy investigations subcommittee, has
raised questions about connections between Solyndra and George Kaiser, an Obama fund-raiser based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , whose
family foundation invested in the solar-panel maker.  Decisions on the guarantee “were made solely on the merits
of the project,”  Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  The loan-guarantee program was established by Congress to
support projects that “by their nature carry a degree of
risk,” while the U.S. solar industry faces Chinese competitors
that won $30 billion in financing from their government in 2010,
he said.  The documents don’t show political favoritism playing a
role in the award, according to the Democratic staff report.  Heightened Concerns  Concern within OMB was heightened by the March 2010 warning
from Solyndra’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, saying the
company might not survive, according to the Democratic staff
memo. The auditor’s filing was prepared in advance of a planned
initial public offering the company abandoned in June.  The Energy Department “has one loan to monitor and they
seem completely oblivious” to the auditor’s report, a budget-
office official who wasn’t identified wrote to another on April
2, 2010, according to the Democrats’ memo.  The Energy Department had authority over the loan guarantee
program, funded with $2.4 billion from the Obama stimulus
program. Officials at the Office of Management and Budget helped
weigh the risks of the loan.  A budget official wrote in a different April 2 e-mail that
problems at the Energy Department may be broader than Solyndra:
“What’s terrifying is that after looking at some of the ones
that came next, this one started to look better … Bad days are
coming.”  ‘Doesn’t Default’  White House officials were aware that Solyndra was in
trouble before Obama’s May 2010 visit, according to the
Democratic memo.  Upon hearing the plans, one OMB official wrote, “Hope
doesn’t default before then,” according to the Democrats’
report.  Concerns about Obama’s visit were raised by  Steve Westly ,
managing parter of the Westly Group, who contacted  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to Obama, two days before the May 26
trip to the factory, according to the Democrats’ report. Westly
urged Jarrett to check with the Energy Department to “make sure
they’re comfortable” with Solyndra.  “The president should be careful about
unrealistic/optimistic forecasts that could haunt him in the
next 18 months if Solyndra hits the wall, files for bankruptcy,
etc.,” Westly wrote, according to the Democrats’ report.  Solyndra Investor, Summers  Matt Rogers , then a senior adviser to Energy Secretary
Steven Chu, wrote to  Ron Klain , at the time Vice President  Joe Biden ’s chief of staff, that the auditor’s advisory was
“standard for companies pre-IPO,” according to the memo. Klain
is now a columnist for Bloomberg View.  “The company should be strong going into the fall with
their new facilities on line,” Rogers wrote, according to the
report.  The Obama visit went ahead as planned.  Energy Department officials disagreed with OMB’s critical
assessment, saying the new manufacturing plant, paid for in part
with U.S. money, was on time and budget, according to the
Democrats’ memo.  “In hindsight, it is apparent that the predictions of
officials at OMB about Solyndra were right and those of the
officials at DOE were wrong,” according to the Democratic memo.  Other officials questioned the efficacy of the overall loan
program.  Summers’ E-Mail  Lawrence Summers , a top economic adviser to Obama, agreed
with a Solyndra investor in December 2009 that the U.S.
government made a less than ideal venture capitalist.  Summers, director of the National Economic Council until
last year, sent an e-mail in response to comments by  Brad Jones 
of Redpoint Ventures, an investor in the company, who said
government isn’t “well-equipped” to make such decisions,
according to the Democrats’ memo.  “I relate well to your view that gov is a crappy vc and if
u were closer to it you’d feel more strongly,” Summers said in
his e-mail to Jones, according to the Democrats’ memo.  In his e-mail to Summers, Jones wrote that allocation of
clean-energy spending is haphazard.  “One of our solar companies with revenues of less than
$100 million (and not yet profitable) received a government loan
of $580 million; while that is good for us, I can’t imagine it’s
a good way for the government to use taxpayer money,” Jones
wrote, according to the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  