-- 
Deutsche Bank Scraps Profit Goal, Will Cut 500 Jobs on ‘Unabated’ Slowdown

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-10-04T14:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/deutsche-bank-abandons-13-2-billion-full-year-operating-profit-forecast.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  scrapped its profit
forecast and announced 500 job cuts and further writedowns of
Greek bond holdings amid a “significant and unabated slowdown
in client activity” in the wake of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The bank also said “costs relating to an indirect tax
position” weighed on third-quarter results. Deutsche Bank,
which had targeted 10 billion euros ($13.2 billion) in operating
pretax earnings this year, still expects a profit for the
quarter ended Sept. 30 and “robust” earnings for the full
year, according to a statement today.  Deutsche Bank joins competitors UBS AG and Barclays Plc in
cutting  investment-banking  jobs to help weather a slowdown as
Europe’s debt woes roil markets. Greece’s fiscal crisis has
spread to other countries in the region and reduced earnings and
constrained funding for banks including Dexia SA, which received
pledges of support from  France  and Belgium today.  “Market conditions simply didn’t allow them to reach the
target,” said Konrad Becker, a Munich-based analyst at Merck
Finck & Co. “If market conditions deteriorate further, more
reductions could follow.”  Deutsche Bank shares slid as much as 9.1 percent, the most
since July 2009. The stock was down 7.4 percent to 23.85 euros
at 4 p.m. in Frankfurt, where the bank is based.  “We have a strong and diverse client focus franchise, but
it’s relatively exposed to a slowdown in Europe,”  Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said today at a conference in
 London . “Europe was, of course, not particularly successful in
the last few months.”  Greece , Tax Expense  About 42 percent of revenue from the bank’s sales and
trading operations came from Europe last year, Ackermann said.  The bank will write down its Greek sovereign-debt holdings
by about 250 million euros for the third quarter after a 155-
million-euro value reduction at the end of the second quarter,
according to the statement. That reduces Deutsche Bank’s net
risks related to Greek sovereign debt to about 900 million
euros, Ackermann said.  Company spokesman Armin Niedermeier declined to elaborate
on the so-called indirect tax position. Deutsche Bank is
scheduled to publish third-quarter earnings on Oct. 25 and the
lender will detail the item on that date, he said.  Job Cuts  Deutsche Bank will cut about 500 jobs at its corporate
banking and securities unit in the fourth quarter and the first
three months of next year, mostly outside  Germany . Headcount
will be 11 percent lower in 2012 than in 2010, Ackermann said at
the conference, broadcast via the company’s website.  Stefan Krause, Deutsche Bank’s chief financial officer,
told reporters in  Frankfurt  last month that the company was
“fighting” for its profit goal.  The lender today predicted the “best pretax profit ever”
for its so-called classic banking business with private clients,
asset management and global transaction banking.  Ackermann, 63, is set to replace Clemens Boersig as
chairman of Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board next year, when
 Anshu Jain , the head of investment banking, and  Juergen
Fitschen , who steers the Frankfurt-based lender’s domestic
business, move up to share the CEO role.  Deutsche Bank’s shares have dropped 65 percent since May
23, 2002, when Ackermann became CEO. That’s less than the 67
percent decline in the same period for the 49-company Stoxx 600
Banks Index, and the 89 percent slump by Commerzbank AG, the
second-largest German bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  