-- 
Dexia Breakup May Bring Takeover Prospects for RBC, Aiken Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-04T17:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/dexia-breakup-may-bring-takeover-prospects-for-rbc-aiken-says.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s planned breakup raises the
prospect of a takeover of some businesses by  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , Barclays Capital analyst  John Aiken  said.  “With Royal actively pursuing a strategy of global
expansion in  wealth management , Dexia’s operations might be
attractive under certain conditions,” Aiken said today in a
note to clients.  Dexia,  Belgium ’s biggest bank by assets, said its board
asked Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani to take steps to
fix the company’s “structural problems” after  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis worsened. The board met yesterday to
discuss the possible breakup of the company after the debt
crisis reduced its ability to obtain funding, according to
people with knowledge of the talks.  Royal Bank is the “likely bidder” for Dexia’s half of RBC
Dexia Investor Services global custody partnership if the
business were sold, Aiken said today in a note. The cost for
 Canada ’s largest lender to buy the other half of the venture may
be C$300 million ($283 million) to C$400 million, Aiken
estimated.  Canada’s biggest bank may alleviate risks of losing
potential European mandates in a RBC Dexia takeover by also
buying Dexia’s asset management operations, Aiken said. That
business may cost between C$1 billion and C$1.5 billion, he said.  Asset Management  “The potential acquisition of Dexia’s asset management
operations would fit well with Royal’s stated strategy and would
protect much of the global custody’s business,” Aiken said.
“However, it is unlikely that Royal would be the only
interested party.”  A Dexia restructuring is unlikely to have an impact on the
operations of RBC Dexia, Aiken said.  Last month, Royal Bank CEO Gordon Nixon said in an
interview that he’s “very committed” to the RBC Dexia
partnership, calling it “a very complimentary strategic
business” for the Toronto-based bank.  “The joint venture that we have with Dexia is a strong and
growing business, and we remain committed to growing it
further,” Royal Bank spokeswoman Katherine Gay said today in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  