-- 
Dexia Gets Pledge From France, Belgium as Possible Breakup Hammers Shares

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-10-04T16:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/dexia-board-asks-chief-to-resolve-structural-problems-as-crisis-worsens.html
The French and Belgian governments
pledged to support  Dexia SA (DEXB)  as shares of the lender plunged in
Brussels on concern it will require a second government bailout.  France and Belgium will take “all necessary measures” to
protect clients and will guarantee all Dexia’s loans, French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  and Belgian Finance Minister
 Didier Reynders  said in a statement today. Belgium’s cabinet
will meet in Brussels tonight to review the options for the
lender. Both governments have stakes in the bank following its
bailout in 2008.  Dexia’s board met yesterday to discuss a possible breakup
of the lender after the sovereign-debt crisis reduced its
ability to obtain funding, said three people with knowledge of
the talks, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations are private. The lender may create a “bad bank”
for its troubled assets, one of the people said. A breakup would
mark the clearest evidence yet that the banking crisis spurred
by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt woes is spreading to the core of the
euro-area from the periphery.  “The expected restructuring will probably not allow
minority shareholders to benefit from the fundamental value of
healthy activities,” Jean Sassus, an analyst at Oddo
Securities, said in an e-mailed note. “A valuation of the whole
group has now become unrealistic.”  The shares slid 22 percent, the steepest decline since
September 2008. The stock slid 29 cents to 1.01 euros in
Brussels, cutting Dexia’s market value to 1.96 billion euros
($2.6 billion).  ‘We Will Act’  “If it is needed, we will act,” Belgium’s Reynders told
reporters today in Luxembourg. “We need to read all the
proposals coming from the bank.”  The lender may hive off its French municipal loan book into
a venture funded by state-owned La Banque Postale and Caisse des
Depots et Consignations, and seek buyers for its Belgian bank,
 Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in  Turkey  and its asset-management division, one of
the people with knowledge of the talks said.  “In the current environment, the size of the non-strategic
asset portfolio impacts the group structurally,” Dexia said in
a statement today. “This is why the board of directors asked
the CEO, in consultation with the relevant governments and the
supervisory authorities, to prepare the necessary measures to
resolve the structural problems.” The bank didn’t elaborate.  Contagion Warning  State shareholders will support Dexia to allow it to roll
out measures “in an orderly manner and under the best
conditions,” Dexia said, without elaborating.  Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  and the vice prime
ministers of his caretaker government will hold a meeting
starting at 8 p.m. to discuss options for the lender, Jerome Hardy, a spokesman for Leterme, said by phone today.  The European Banking Authority will review Dexia at a
private meeting tomorrow, chairman Andrea Enria said at the
European Parliament in Brussels. It’s important that Dexia’s
funding woes are fixed as soon as possible otherwise they “could
spread to other banks,” he said.  Dexia posted a 4 billion-euro loss for the second quarter,
the biggest in its history, after writing down the value of its
Greek debt. Once the world’s biggest lender to municipalities,
it received a 6 billion-euro bailout from Belgium,  France  and
its largest shareholders in September 2008 following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Moody’s Review  “Dexia is an extremely complicated file,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets
with a “hold” rating on the shares. “The fact that two
countries are involved, both under pressure from rating
agencies, makes it even more difficult. We are not in 2008
anymore, when you could just inject multibillions of cash.”  Moody’s Investors Service put Dexia’s three main operating
units on review for a downgrade yesterday on concern the lender
was struggling to fund itself.  “Dexia has experienced further tightening in its access
to market funding,” Moody’s said in a statement. “Dexia’s
collateral postings have increased due to substantial market
volatility.”  Dexia emerged from the 1996 merger of Credit Local de
France and Credit Communal de Belgique SA, the biggest municipal
lenders in their respective countries. Unlike Credit Local de
France, which relied exclusively on wholesale funding for its
lending, the Belgian firm also operated a retail bank in  Belgium 
and a private bank in Luxembourg.  First Bailout  That reliance on wholesale funding hobbled the bank as
money markets seized up after Lehman collapsed, and Dexia turned
to emergency funding from central banks. It was the biggest
euro-area user of emergency loans from the U.S. Federal Reserve,
borrowing a $58.5 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008, according to a
Bloomberg News compilation of data obtained through Freedom of
Information Act requests, months of litigation and an act of
Congress.  In September 2008, France and Belgium led the first rescue
of Dexia, buying a combined 3 billion euros of stock. The bank’s
existing shareholders, which include Caisse des Depots et
Consignations and Belgium’s Holding Communal SA, provided an
additional 3 billion euros.  Less than a month later, Dexia also obtained as much as 150
billion euros of debt guarantees from France, Belgium and
Luxembourg, of which it tapped a maximum of about 96 billion
euros in May 2009. The bank stopped issuing government-backed
debt in June 2010. It still had 29 billion euros outstanding at
the end of last month.  Stress Test  Passed  Dexia had sought to reduce its reliance on short-term
funding following its rescue. Borrowings due in less than a year
declined to 96 billion euros, or about 19 percent of total
assets, at the end of the second quarter from as much as 250
billion euros at the end of 2008, according to company filings.  The bank also reduced lending to municipalities as funding
dried up. Dexia’s French unit cut municipal lending to 1.26
billion euros in the first half, a 54 percent decrease from the
same period a year earlier, according to its semi-annual report.
It also stopped lending in  Italy  after halting loans to
municipalities in the U.S, Germany and Britain. In July, the
lender passed European regulators’ stress tests saying it didn’t
need to raise  capital .  As markets froze again during the sovereign crisis, the
lender turned to the  European Central Bank , using emergency
funding proceeds to buy dollars. The lender said on Aug. 4 that
central-bank borrowings had doubled to 34 billion euros in the
second quarter. Dexia has about 20 billion euros of assets left
it could use as collateral to obtain additional loans from the
ECB.  Sovereign Debt  Dexia’s largest shareholder following the 2008 rescue was
Caisse des Depots with a 17.6 percent stake. Holding Communal, a
municipal holding company that was Credit Communal de Belgique
SA’s main investor before the 1996 merger, and Arcofin CVBA each
own about 14 percent. Belgium’s federal and local governments
own about 11 percent in total while the French government owns a
5.7 percent stake directly.  After taking a 377 million-euro pretax writedown on its
Greek bond holdings maturing before the end of 2020, Dexia still
faced 3.02 billion euros of potential markdowns on its holdings
of Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Irish  government
bonds  on June 30.  The bank’s holdings of sovereign debt in those five
countries total 21 billion euros. That compares with regulatory
Tier 1 capital of 14.4 billion euros, equal to 11.4 percent of
risk-weighted assets.  Dexia trimmed its bond portfolio, which it was seeking to
reduce, to 95.3 billion euros at the end of June from 111.7
billion euros at the end of 2010, according to its website. The
bond portfolio includes 7.7 billion euros of non-investment
grade notes, mostly to sovereign and public borrowers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  