-- 
Dexia, BNP Resist Greek Losses Three Times Worse Than Booked

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-10-04T17:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/dexia-joins-bnp-resisting-losses-on-greece-three-times-worse-than-booked.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , BNP Paribas SA and Societe
Generale SA are resisting pressure from regulators to accept
more losses on their holdings of Greek government debt amid
criticism they haven’t written down the bonds sufficiently.  While most banks have marked their Hellenic debt to market
prices, a decline of as much as 51 percent, France’s two biggest
lenders and Belgium’s largest cut the value of some holdings by
21 percent. The practice, which doesn’t violate accounting
rules, may leave them vulnerable to bigger impairments in the
event of a default, or if European governments force banks to
accept bigger losses than signaled in July. The three would have
about 3 billion euros ($4 billion) of extra losses if they took
writedowns of 50 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The three are some of the top foreign holders of Greek
 government bonds . They were also among the worst performers in
the 46-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services
Index yesterday. Europe’s markets regulator last week likened
the inconsistency and lack of transparency about the banks’
holdings to subprime mortgages that triggered the credit crisis.
French and Belgian financial regulators say they are
scrutinizing the practice. European finance ministers are
weighing forcing creditors to take bigger losses than the 21
percent proposed in July under a second aid plan for  Greece .  “It’s no coincidence that the banks with some of the
biggest holdings of Greek debt took the smallest writedowns,”
said  Peter Hahn , a professor of finance at  London ’s Cass
Business School and a former managing director of New York-based
Citigroup Inc. “You’ve got banks, which are supposedly
comparable, putting different values on their assets. That
destroys the credibility of the banking system, and is one of
the reasons why the shares are being hit so badly.”  Dexia Drops  Further writedowns of Greek sovereign debt would add
pressure on the banks to raise capital to meet regulations set
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  Societe Generale (GLE) 
may need to raise 5.5 billion euros of additional capital to
comply with the Basel III rules by the end of 2012,  Kian Abouhossein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, wrote in a Sept. 26
report. BNP Paribas may need 600 million euros, the report said.  At the same time, the sovereign debt crisis is driving down
banks’ shares and raising the cost of insuring their bonds
against default, making any fundraising costlier.  BNP, SocGen  Dexia, the municipal lender rescued by France and Belgium
in 2008, tumbled 22 percent in Brussels trading today as the
lender weighs a possible breakup. The lender may create a “bad
bank” for its troubled assets, according to a person with
knowledge of the talks who declined to be identified.  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  and Societe Generale both fell about 5 percent in Paris
trading.  The Bloomberg European banks index has dropped 36 percent
this year as policy makers have failed to stem concern that they
can stop the crisis from spreading beyond Greece to Italy and
Spain, triggering losses for the region’s lenders.  Societe Generale, based in Paris, has fallen 55 percent
this year, while BNP Paribas has sunk 43 percent.  The cost of insuring the debt of the three banks against
default has jumped over the past four weeks, Bloomberg data
show. Credit-default swaps on BNP Paribas’s borrowings jumped to
286 basis points today, up from 263 basis points yesterday. CDS
on Societe Generale rose to 384 basis points from 352. CDS on
Dexia slipped to 737 basis points from 806 basis points
yesterday after the French and Belgian governments said they
will take “all necessary measures” to protect clients and will
guarantee all Dexia’s loans. A basis point is one-hundredth of a
percent.  Fair Value  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of CDS on the senior debt
of 25 European banks and insurers was at 289 basis points
yesterday, according to JPMorgan, down from its 315-basis-point
record in September.  Under International Financial Reporting Standards, banks
are required to write down to fair value securities they hold in
their available-for-sale portfolio if a default becomes likely.  Greek 10-year government bonds have tumbled to 41.5 cents
on the euro, from 66.2 cents at the start of the year, as the
crisis worsened, Bloomberg data show. Greek 5-year debt was
trading at 42.7 cents on the euro, from 62.8 cents on Jan. 3,
the data show. The price of the Greek 30-year bond slid to 32
cents, from 54.1 cents.  Credit-default swaps signal the likelihood of Greece
defaulting in the next five years at about 91 percent.  Twenty-two European banks, including Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , wrote down
their holdings to market value at the end of July, triggering
losses of as much as 51 percent, according to a Sept. 8 report
by Sarah Deans, a Citigroup analyst, who studied the Greek
holdings of 28 European banks at the end of the second quarter.  Rescue Package  As European leaders sought to provide a rescue package for
Greece in July, the International Institute of Finance, which
lobbies for financial firms, agreed that lenders would
participate in an exchange and debt-buyback program. As part of
the deal, they would voluntarily write off the value of their
Greek government bonds that mature before the end of 2020 by
about 21 percent. The German parliament voted to support the
plan last week.  Dexia, BNP Paribas and Societe Generale are among the four
biggest foreign holders of Greek sovereign bonds, according to
Citigroup. Together with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , Paris-based  Natixis (KN) 
SA and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest lender, they say the IIF
agreement justifies reducing the value of their Greek bonds
maturing by only 21 percent. Dexia and BNP also have said
there’s no liquid market for the securities.  Additional Writedowns  Dexia, which in August posted its biggest quarterly loss
ever, has written down the 1.6 billion euros of Greek bonds it
holds that expire before 2020 by about 340 million euros,
according to Citigroup. The bank would need to take an
additional 1.5 billion-euro writedown to mark down all 3.6
billion euros of Greek bonds available for sale, company filings
show. That’s more than half its market value.  Executives at Dexia didn’t return calls for comment about
the bond holdings yesterday.  BNP Paribas wrote down 2.3 billion euros of Greek bonds
maturing before 2020 by 534 million euros in the second quarter.
The bank would have an additional pretax writedown of 1.7
billion euros if it took a 55 percent writedown on the 3.5
billion euros of debt on its banking book, it said on its
website Sept. 14. It said the losses would be “manageable.”  “Our residual exposure of 3.5 billion euros is smaller
than first-quarter pretax earnings,” Carine Lauru, a Paris-
based spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  ‘Played the Rules’  Societe Generale had marked down the 1.8 billion euros in
its available-for-sale portfolio by 395 million euros as of June
30, according to the lender. A writedown of 50 percent would
result in an additional net loss of about 100 million euros to
150 million euros, Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea , 48,
said Sept. 12. Laetitia Maurel, a spokeswoman for the bank, said
Societe Generale has already marked down its Greek bonds by an
average of 35 percent and reduced its “residual exposure” to
about 900 million euros.  “The French banks ultimately took a view that suited their
own interests, and while it may seem pretty extraordinary, they
have followed the letter of the law,” said Richard Murphy, an
accountant and director of Ely, England-based Tax Research LLP.
“They’ve played the rules to their advantage.”  UniCredit posted an impairment of 79 million euros on all
Greek bonds it recorded as available-for-sale at the end of the
second quarter, equivalent to about 27 percent of the total,
company filings show. A 50 percent writedown would cost the bank
an additional 69 million euros. Andrea Morawski, a spokesman for
the Milan-based firm, declined to comment.  ‘Not Feasible’  Some European leaders, particularly in  Germany , are now
pushing banks and insurers to accept bigger losses than the 21
percent proposed in July to reflect the worsening of the crisis.
 Otmar Issing , a former European Central Bank chief economist, is
calling for a 50 percent write-off. Patrick Armstrong, managing
partner at Armstrong Investment in London, which oversees $345
million, said he expects it to be about 40 percent.  “As far as private sector involvement is concerned, we
have to take into account that we have experienced changes since
the decision we have taken on July 21,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters early today after
chairing a meeting of euro finance chiefs in Luxembourg. “These
are technical revisions we are discussing.”  IIF Lobbying  Banks are lobbying against potentially bigger losses
through the IIF.  Josef Ackermann , 63, the IIF’s chairman and CEO
of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said in a Sept. 25 speech that
it’s “not feasible” to revise the agreement.  The banks that have already written down their holdings to
market prices are less vulnerable to further impairments if the
bond-exchange program is redrawn. RBS, the U.K.’s biggest
government-controlled bank, has marked down the relevant bonds
by 50 percent, HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by market value, by
51 percent, and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest
lender, by 40 percent, according to Citigroup.  Greece “is not an issue” for Societe Generale, CEO Oudea
said on a conference call Sept. 12. The bank said it has “low,
declining and manageable sovereign exposure” of 4.3 billion
euros to Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece.  BNP Paribas’s holdings of Greek, Irish and Portuguese
sovereign debt are “manageable,” the bank said in a
presentation on its website. Any writedowns on Greek bonds in
the bank’s third-quarter earnings report will depend on how the
IIF’s July proposals are implemented, the company said Sept. 26.  ‘Consistent’ Valuations  Dexia CEO Pierre Mariani, 55, said at a Paris press
briefing three weeks ago that any further provisions will depend
on the outcome of the Greek bailout package agreed to in July.  The European Securities and Markets Authority, the umbrella
group for European financial regulators set up in 2010, and the
 International Accounting Standards Board  are pressuring national
regulators to force banks to mark holdings to market.  “It’s very important for ESMA that financial institutions
apply IFRS correctly and are consistent in their valuations of
sovereign debt exposures,” Steven Maijoor, the group’s
chairman, said in a Sept. 29 speech in Vienna. “Lack of
transparency regarding exposures to subprime mortgages created a
situation of uncertainty about the financial positions of banks.
A lack of transparency from banks on their exposures to
sovereign debt and related instruments is generating new
suspicions.”  Reemt Seibel, a spokesman for the group, said members
discussed the question at a meeting two weeks ago and that it
was now up to national regulators to enforce the standards.  Enforcing Standards  “In a very stressed context, the issue of the valuation of
sovereign debt is complex,” France’s financial markets
regulator, the AMF, said in an e-mailed statement. “The AMF is
working on this issue, which requires gathering data and
explanations from issuers and their auditors and assessing the
situation with our own market experts.”  The regulator said it’s important for regulators to provide
guidance to banks on “how this issue should be dealt with” by
the end of the financial year.  “The application of IFRS is in the first instance the
responsibility of listed companies and their auditors,” Jim
Lannoo, a spokesman for the Belgian financial regulator, said in
an e-mail. “As a national supervisory authority, we are of
course closely following these issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  