-- 
Dexia Moves Bank Crisis From Europe’s Periphery to Its Core

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-10-05T10:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/dexia-rescue-moves-bank-crisis-from-europe-s-periphery-to-core.html
Less than three months after  Dexia SA (DEXB) 
got a clean bill of health in European Union stress tests,
France and Belgium are considering a second bailout, moving the
banking crisis from the continent’s periphery to its heartland.  “We’re seeing a practical example of contagion playing
out,” said Jean-Pierre Lambert, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette &
Woods in London, referring to Dexia’s “material exposure” to
the debt of countries on the EU’s rim. “Investors aren’t quite
sure what the sovereign debt losses will be, nor where the share
price should be. They are concerned about the risks and reduce
their funding.”  Dexia rose 6.7 percent to 1.08 euros by 12:15 p.m. in
Brussels trading as European stocks advanced on speculation
policy makers are examining measures to shield banks from the
sovereign debt crisis. Dexia dropped 22 percent yesterday even
after both the French and Belgian governments, which bailed out
Dexia in 2008, pledged to support the bank.  Belgium ’s biggest bank plans to pool its troubled assets
into a “bad bank” with Belgian and French government
guarantees to protect depositors and its municipal-lending
business,  Yves Leterme , Belgium’s prime minister, said
yesterday.  Caisse des Depots  The lender may hive off its French municipal loan book into
a venture funded by state-owned La Banque Postale and Caisse des
Depots et Consignations, and seek buyers for its Belgian bank,
Denizbank AS in Turkey and its asset-management division, one of
the people with knowledge of the talks said.  The board of the Paris- and Brussels-based municipal lender
met Oct. 3 to discuss a breakup of the bank after the sovereign
debt crisis reduced its ability to obtain funding, said three
people with knowledge of the talks.  Dexia won’t go bankrupt and  France  will guarantee deposits,
French European Affairs Minister Jean Leonetti said in an
interview on Canal Plus television today.  “Coming to the
rescue of a bank is not necessarily a bad deal,” he said.  French central bank governor  Christian Noyer  said that he
has no concerns over the country’s AAA credit rating in the
light of the decision to restructure Dexia.  There’s no threat
to any other of the French banks, which remain solid, he said in
an interview on Europe1 radio station.  Investors are shunning European lenders, whose shares are
down 36 percent this year, on concern that the sovereign debt
crisis has undermined their ability to fund themselves. U.S.
money-market funds cut their holdings of commercial paper sold
by foreign financial firms, mostly European, by 31 percent in
the third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB Support  The  European Central Bank  has been providing banks with as
much short-term euro funding as they need at its benchmark rate
against eligible collateral since October 2008, after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a global
recession. It has been forced by the debt crisis, spreading
beyond  Greece  to Italy and Spain, to extend those measures and
in August reintroduced longer-duration, six-month euro loans.  The ECB also joined with the U.S. Federal Reserve and other
central banks on Sept. 15 to lend dollars to euro-area banks
with three-month loans to ensure lenders have enough of the
currency through the end of the year.  Europe ’s banks are paying close to the highest premium to
borrow in dollars in the swaps market since December 2008, with
the three-month, cross-currency  basis swap  falling to 106.5
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate.  French Banks  French banks including Paris-based  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are particularly vulnerable to deterioration
in market confidence as they have large balance sheets,
significant wholesale liquidity needs across different
currencies and reduced prospects to rebuild capital, Jean- Francois Neuez, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst in London,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  The cost of insuring the debt of France’s three biggest
banks rose yesterday, with Societe Generale up 32 basis points
to 384, Credit Agricole 24 basis points higher at 287 and BNP
Paribas SA up 23 basis points to 286, according to CMA prices.
An increase signals deteriorating perceptions of  credit quality .  “Dexia is by no means alone in terms of being at risk
here,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at MF
Global Ltd. in  London . “There are plenty of other banks out
there that have grown their assets way in excess of their
deposit base like Dexia. That makes them massively exposed. It
feels like the capitulation has started, and people are saying
we’ve had enough of this state of affairs and something concrete
needs to be done.”  Dexia Credit Rating  Moody’s Investors Service put Dexia’s three main operating
units on review for a downgrade on Oct. 3 on concern that the
lender was struggling to fund itself. The rating company also
expressed concern that the bank didn’t have sufficient
collateral at its disposal, “potentially resulting in a further
squeeze in its available liquidity reserves.” The bank’s shares
are down 59 percent this year.  Moody’s also cut Italy’s credit rating yesterday on concern
that the government will struggle to reduce the region’s second-
largest debt.  Federal Reserve Loans  Dexia emerged from the 1996 merger of Credit Local de
France and Credit Communal de Belgique SA, the biggest municipal
lenders in their respective countries. Unlike Credit Local de
France, which relied exclusively on wholesale funding for its
lending, the Belgian firm also operated a retail bank in Belgium
and a private bank in Luxembourg.  Over the past decade, the Franco-Belgian bank sought to
combine with another retail bank in France and elsewhere in
Europe to reduce its reliance on wholesale funding. It failed to
merge with Italian lender Sanpaolo IMI SpA in 2004.  That dependence on wholesale funding hobbled Dexia as money
markets seized up after Lehman collapsed, and the lender turned
to emergency funding from central banks. It was one of the
largest euro-area users of emergency loans from the Fed,
borrowing $58.5 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dexia posted a 4 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) loss for the
second quarter, the biggest in its history, after writing down
the value of its Greek debt. Once the world’s largest lender to
municipalities, it received a 6 billion-euro bailout from
Belgium, France and its major shareholders in September 2008.  ‘A Bit Late’  “Dexia’s model is vulnerable because it is dependent on
short-term funding,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “But the bank could have
sold its legacy sovereign bonds portfolio over time and earlier.
It didn’t want to take the losses. Now it’s a bit late.”  The bank, which marked down some of its Greek debt by 21
percent, may have to take additional losses if it writes down
those loans to market prices.  “Dexia is a very specific case,” said  Francois Chaulet ,
who helps manage about 250 million euros at Montsegur Finance in
Paris, including shares in  BNP Paribas (BNP)  and Societe Generale.
“You can’t compare it to BNP Paribas or Societe Generale. It
faces huge exposures after selling toxic products to local
regions, and it’s very highly leveraged.”  Chaulet said he wouldn’t be selling his holdings in other
European banks in response.  Allied Irish  Dexia passed the EU stress tests in July with regulators
saying it had sufficient capital to withstand a recession and
losses on its sovereign debt. The lender’s core Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of financial strength, was 10.4 percent in the
test’s adverse scenario, surpassing the 5 percent minimum
required by the European Banking Authority.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland Plc passed the
EU’s examinations in 2010, while Anglo Irish Bank Corp. wasn’t
tested. Later that year, a liquidity shortfall caused when
depositors withdrew funds from Irish lenders helped prompt EU
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  to agree on an
85 billion-euro bailout for the country.  “The European stress tests lacked a critical element,
which is full harmonization of capital,” KBW’s Lambert said.
“In the case of Dexia, because it’s a Belgian bank, it was able
to exclude the paper losses on its sovereign bonds to calculate
its  capital ratios . Basel III is going to help harmonize the
accounting method.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 