-- 
Dow Sticks to $10 Billion Profit Target as Economies Slow

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   J u l i e   H y m a n
-- 
2011-10-04T20:25:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/dow-sticks-to-10-billion-profit-target-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the biggest U.S.
chemical maker, said slowing economies in Western Europe and the
U.S. won’t prevent earnings from rising about 16 percent to the
company’s near-term goal.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will climb to $10 billion in the next one to two
years, from $8.6 billion in the 12 months ended June 30, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said today in New York. The
forecast assumes zero to 1 percent economic growth in developed
Western economies and continued “robust” growth in  China  and
other developing countries, he said.  Liveris, who advises President  Barack Obama  as co-chair of
the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership and a member of the
President’s Export Council, said Western European economies may
not grow for one or two quarters. U.S. expansion also may falter
while global growth will continue, he said. Midland, Michigan-
based Dow will enact $475 million of cost cuts next year that
don’t involve firings to bolster earnings, he said.  “The U.S. and  Europe  together growing slowly and
potentially going to zero growth, I think there is a decent
chance of that,” Liveris said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. Continued growth in emerging markets would make
Europe’s economic decline “shallow,” and passing Obama’s jobs
bill would help maintain some growth in the U.S., he said.  Dow said in November it had a target of $10 billion Ebitda
in the “near term.”  ‘Recession-Resistant’  Selling assets, acquisitions and the availability of
cheaper U.S. natural gas has made Dow better able to cope with a
recession as severe as the one sparked by the 2008 financial
crisis, Liveris said. While Dow doesn’t expect such a
contraction to recur, if there was one, the company’s Ebitda
would be $2 billion more than the $5.5 billion seen in the last
recession, he said.  “We are much more recession-resistant than before,”
Liveris said in the interview.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists Jan Hatzius and  Dominic Wilson  wrote in a report yesterday that there will be recessions
in  France  and  Germany .  “The pace of economic recovery will continue to be
jagged,” Liveris said.  Demand continues to grow in agriculture, food and health-
care markets globally, while electronics,  consumer goods  and
industrial markets are scarcely growing anywhere except China,
Liveris said. Transportation growth is almost flat globally, and
construction in Western Europe is contracting, according to a
presentation Dow provided to investors.  U.S. Expansion  Dow will continue to fund its expansion on the U.S. Gulf
Coast and its Sadara project in  Saudi Arabia  even in an economic
decline, he said. The Gulf Coast investments will create
production capacity for ethylene and propylene and low-cost raw
materials derived from shale gas, adding at least $2 billion a
year to Ebitda by 2017, the company said.  Dow isn’t pursuing any major acquisitions, Liveris said.
The company will use excess cash to pay down debt, remunerate
shareholders, and invest in growth projects, he said. Dow
directors plan to raise the dividend from 25 cents a quarter as
earnings increase, the CEO said.  Dow rose $1.29, or 6 percent, to $22.80 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined
33 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hyman in New York at 
 jhyman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 