-- 
The College SAT: Higher Costs, Lower Relevance

-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-04T14:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/the-college-sat-less-relevant-and-cruelly-expensive.html
Paying someone to take the SAT test on your behalf -- as six
Long Island students were recently charged with doing -- is
illegal. If convicted, the students could face jail time for
their offense. That's justice, however sad.  The episode points up the absurdities that have grown up
like ivy around the long revered -- and increasingly
criticized -- SAT. Many parents spend vast amounts of
money, from SAT prep courses to private tutoring, for a test
that, according to some college officials, isn't that
predictive of how well students will perform in college. You
might ask yourself, 'Isn't that the point of the SAT'? But
shaky justification has done nothing to slow the flow of money
into everything and anything related to the test.  Gaming The System  The alleged cheating scandal is "part and parcel of the
test score arms race out there now," says Robert
Schaeffer, public education director at FairTest, a nonprofit
that monitors the testing industry. "Kids believe they need to
raise scores by any means possible." Says Elizabeth
Wissner-Gross, an international educational strategist hired
to help students prepare for college: “People are desperate to
get their kids into certain colleges.”  In the get-into-college game, desperation quickly converts
into cash. The smallest alleged payment to the test
taker, $1,500, wouldn't cover one of the most basic SAT prep
courses. The small-group SAT review course given by the
Princeton Review consists of 24 hours of instruction and costs
$1,600. The company's priciest one-on-one tutoring package in
 New York  costs $8,400, and some professional tutors charge up
to $800 an hour.  If students such as the alleged cheaters are cynical about
college  admissions, it’s because “students understand it’s a
system they can  game,” says  Wake Forest University  Professor
Joseph Soares. A critic of  universities’ reliance on test
scores, Soares is the editor of the book  “SAT Wars: The Case
for Test-Optional College Admissions,” released Sept. 30.  Investments in test prep can pay off, to a point. According
to FairTest, it boosts SAT scores an average of 100 to 120
points. Yet if the point of using the SAT is to determine how
well a student will do in college, they're not that
valuable, say critics. A study in Soares’ book shows that a
200-point difference in SAT scores makes virtually no
difference in the grades college students get. High school
grades, meanwhile, provide valuable information on how likely
a student is to get good grades and complete a bachelor’s
degree, he says.  Kathleen Steinberg, spokesperson for the  College
Board , which administers the SAT, strongly disagrees. She says
research, including a 2008 College Board study, shows that
standardized test scores do help predict success in the first
year of college. As well, “the SAT helps admission officers
put high school grades in perspective,” she says.  Colleges are casting their own vote and increasingly it's
thumbs down. The number of accredited colleges that don't
require all or most applicants to submit SAT or ACT scores has
grown to about a third, according to FairTest. That includes
prominent New England liberal arts schools such as  Smith
College ,  Bowdoin College, and Bates College, as well as Wake
Forest University.  The College Board cites its own statistics. Steinberg says
that of the 1,500 most selective four-year not-for-profit
colleges in the U.S. about 5% do not require standardized test
scores "for the main body of students." Many test-optional
schools still receive test scores  from most applicants, she
adds, and use them in admissions decisions.  Doubters Abound  DePaul University, a 25,000-student school, will convert to
a test-optional policy starting with next year's class.
Chicago-based DePaul made the decision after four years of
comparing incoming student test scores with later academic
performance. Other criteria, such as grades in
college-preparation courses and involvement in extracurricular
activities, were much better markers of future success, says
Father Dennis Holtschneider, the university's president. Only
some students can afford test prep courses and take tests
multiple times, he says. “We’re trying to level the playing
field a little bit by using something that’s a much better
predictor.”  Standardized test scores are also losing importance at
Fairfield University. Starting with 2010's incoming class, it
made test scores optional. For years before that, "test scores
were becoming less and less a factor for us," says director of
undergraduate admission Karen Pellegrino. "The hardest thing
is making students believe that we're really not looking at
them."  Where the SAT's value soars is when it is used to get
money. Standardized test scores remain very important in
getting scholarships, including the National Merit
Scholarship. “It is a smart economic decision to purchase
[test] coaching for that reason,” says FairTest's Schaeffer. A
small increase in scores can make a student eligible for
thousands of dollars in extra scholarship money.  That means many students are at a disadvantage in getting
that money. On the SAT, men score higher than women, whites
higher than blacks, and students with upper middle class
backgrounds higher than working-class students, according to
Soares. Says Schaeffer: "The thing that SATs measure best is
socioeconomic status.”  To contact the writer on this story: Ben Steverman at
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story: Suzanne Woolley at
 swoolley2@bloomberg.net  