-- 
LME Received ‘Many’ Expressions of Interest as It Clears Gold

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-04T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/lme-received-many-expressions-of-interest-as-it-clears-gold.html
The London Metal Exchange said it
received “many” expressions of interest the past 10 days in a
possible takeover of the 134-year-old bourse that handles 80
percent of global trade in metals.  The LME, which counts  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  among its biggest investors, will need “a
compelling reason why shareholders should sell,” Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said at a dinner in London
today, according to an e-mailed copy of his speech. The exchange
matched and cleared its first gold trade today, he said.  Metals prices more than tripled in the past decade as
demand from emerging markets overwhelmed supplies from mines,
attracting a surge of interest from investors. The LME operates
London’s last open-outcry transactions through a 6-meter-wide
(20-foot) ring in which traders shout out orders, and handled a
record $11.6 trillion of contracts in copper and other
industrial metals in 2010, compared with $2.5 trillion in 1999.  “I am not surprised that we should be the subject of so
much attention,” Abbott said at the dinner. “The LME occupies
the number one slot in the world of metals trading; its volumes
are rising, its capacity for growth is spectacular.”  The exchange told members in a notice Sept. 23 that it
would begin a process that may lead to “an acceptable offer for
the company being received.” The bourse got more than 10
“expressions of interest” by Sept. 28, Abbott said at the
time. The board next meets Nov. 17, he said yesterday.  Silver Clearing  The LME intends to extend its over-the-counter bullion
clearing service to silver next year, Abbott said at the dinner.  The exchange, which is examining the possibility of self
clearing, launched its gold clearing service with LCH.Clearnet
Ltd. last year. Growing “uncertainty” in financial markets may
lead to more usage of exchange trading, valuations and
independent clearing for LME products, Abbott said today.  “Anybody bidding for the LME is doing so because the LME
is good at what it does, and because efforts to do it
differently have not worked,” Abbott said, according to the
speech. Opening bids will probably be made “early” next year,
he said.  The LME has 94 members, and there are other enquiries
about membership ``in the works,'' Abbott said.    To contact the reporter for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  