-- 
LME to Study Alleviating Backlog of Industrial Metals in Stocks

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-04T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/lme-to-study-alleviating-backlog-of-industrial-metals-in-stocks.html
The  London  Metal Exchange will study
ways to alleviate a backlog of industrial metals alongside
aluminum that’s building at warehouses and taking longer for
customers to retrieve.  The LME in July said it would double the amount of metal
required to be delivered from the biggest stocks from April to
ease a backlog. Warehouse line-ups are a “symptom of a market
condition” and the bourse’s measures won’t make them go away,
LME Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said at a dinner in
London today, according to an e-mailed copy of his speech.  “While this issue is centered on aluminum, there are other
metals caught in the queues, and we have undertaken to study
ways in which that situation can be alleviated,” Abbott said at
the dinner. “There is no simple answer, but we are working on
it.”  The new rules on so-called load-out rates may help to
remove metal faster from warehouses holding the biggest
stockpiles. Withdrawing metal from warehouses in  Detroit  can
take as long as seven months, Laredo, Texas-based researcher
 Harbor Intelligence  estimated in July. LME-monitored warehouses
contain 6.7 million metric tons of metal, exchange data show.  Abbott was speaking at the annual LME Week dinner as the
134-year old bourse that handles 80 percent of global trade in
metals faces a possible takeover.  The load-out rate will increase to a daily minimum of 3,000
tons for a warehouse company storing more than 900,000 tons at a
single location, under the new rules. That falls short of the
1,500 tons per 300,000 tons of stock recommended by Europe
Economics, which the LME commissioned to study the issue.  Financing Deals  Metal has been backing up because financing deals have
become a more significant factor in the market in part due to
low  interest rates , Abbott said. Societe Generale SA has
estimated that as much as 70 percent of aluminum inventory may
be tied up in financing arrangements.  “Those queues are not the result of a broken warehouse
system, they are in fact the result of an extraordinary macro-
economic situation,” Abbott said at the dinner. Raising load-
out rates even higher may exacerbate the situation and “could
have the perverse effect of making the finance deals even
bigger, because faster access to the metal would make deals more
profitable.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  