-- 
Heart Stent Patients Don’t Need Overnight Stay in Move Seen to Save Costs

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-10-04T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/heart-stent-patients-don-t-need-overnight-stay-in-move-seen-to-save-costs.html
Patients with clogged arteries who
get a heart  stent  implanted to hold open the vessels may safely
be released from the hospital the same day as the procedure,
potentially reducing health-care costs, a study found.  Those sent home the day they received a stent were just as
healthy as patients hospitalized overnight for observation,
according to research today in the  Journal of the  American
Medical Association . No difference between the groups was seen
in the rates of death and readmission to the hospital at two
days or 30 days after the procedure, the study found.  Doctors are leery about sending patients home the same day
as a stent procedure because complications may arise including
heart attack, blood clots and bleeding,  Sunil Rao , the lead
study author, said. The number of complications are small and
declining and, based on these results, doctors and hospitals may
want to allow low-risk patients to go home the same day they
receive the device, he said.  “As long as you select the patients very carefully,
sending them home the same day seems to be safe or just as safe
as observing them overnight,” said Rao, an associate professor
of medicine at Duke University Medical Center in Durham,  North
Carolina , and director of the Cardiac Catheterization Lab at the
 Durham VA Medical Center , in a Sept. 30 telephone interview.  More same-day discharges would provide hospitals with more
space for sicker patients needing overnight stays and reduce
health-care costs, Rao and his colleagues wrote.  Stent Procedure  Stents are tiny mesh tubes used to prop open arteries after
they’ve been cleared of fat clogging the flow of blood. The
devices are inserted with a catheter in a patient’s groin and
threaded through the circulatory system to the artery.  Abbott Laboratories, Boston Scientific Corp. and Medtronic
Inc. are the leading U.S. makers of drug-coated heart stents in
the $4 billion a year global market.  Among the considerations for doctors and hospitals before
deciding whether a patient should be sent home or kept overnight
are the results of the surgery, the patient’s support network at
home and whether there is access to emergency care if necessary.  About 1.2 million inpatient stent procedures, called
 Percutaneous Coronary Intervention  or PCI, were performed in
2007, according to a December study in Circulation, Journal of
the  American Heart Association . It is one of the most commonly
performed heart procedures among Medicare patients, the authors
said.  Medicare Recipients  Researchers in the study looked at data from the  American
College of Cardiology  on 107,018 patients ages 65 and older on
Medicare who had elective coronary stent procedures from
November 2004 to December 2008. Medicare is the U.S. health
program for the elderly and disabled.  They found that only 1,339, or 1.25 percent, of patients
were sent home the same day as their procedure.  No difference was seen between those sent home the same day
and those observed overnight in the rates of general
complications and bleeding issues, the study showed.  The study shows that what was once a three-day admission
for patients can now be finished safely in a few hours, said
 William O’Neill , chief medical officer for the University of
Miami Health System.  “Now that it appears to be safe in a large group of
patients, there’s going to be a push to send people home the
same day,” he said in a Sept. 30 telephone interview. “This is
going to be more convenient for patients.”  Today’s study was funded by the American College of
Cardiology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  