-- 
Drug Abusers Get Narcotics Through Medicare

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-04T18:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/elderly-drug-abusers-may-cost-medicare-150-million-a-year-senators-say.html
Disabled and elderly drug abusers may
be costing taxpayer-funded Medicare almost $150 million a year
by convincing doctors to write prescriptions for oxycodone and
other narcotics, a government report found.  About 170,000 patients in Medicare, the federal health
program for the elderly and disabled, acquired often-abused
drugs from at least five doctors each in 2008, according to a
 report  issued today by Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental
Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, and
the panel’s senior Republican,  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts .  Taxpayers subsidized multiple prescriptions of hydrocodone,
fentanyl, oxycodone and other narcotics at a cost of $148
million in 2007, according to the report. The senators said the
U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services should restrict
seniors shown to “doctor shop” for prescriptions from
accessing such drugs.  “Beyond the fraud and abuse, taxpayer dollars are
potentially being used to fuel the illicit prescription drug
trade,” Brown said in a statement. Some Medicare patients got
prescriptions from more than 80 different providers, he said.  Carper’s panel held a  hearing  on the issue today.  Brian Cook, a spokesman for the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Jonathan Blum , CMS deputy administrator and
director of the Center for Medicare, will testify at the
hearing.  ‘Not Necessarily’ Abuse  The Medicare agency told the Government Accountability
Office, which prepared the  report  for Carper and Brown, that
“high utilization of pain medications is not necessarily an
indication of abuse.” The findings might instead be evidence of
“poorly coordinated care in the treatment of pain symptoms,”
the agency said.  Medicare administrators disagreed with a recommendation in
the report that some patients be restricted from accessing
drugs. Instead, analysis of drug utilization could be used to
curb abuse, the agency said.  “We support solutions that will retain beneficiary access
to care,” the agency wrote in a response to the findings.  About 120,000 of the drug abusers were eligible for
Medicare because of a disability, rather than their age,
according to the report.  People who qualify for Social Security disability benefits
for two years or more become  eligible  for Medicare. Victims of
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig’s Disease, or
permanent  kidney failure  are also eligible for the program.  Expanding Medicare  About 19 percent of people enrolled in Medicare’s drug
benefit are eligible because of disabilities, the report found.  The government said yesterday in a  regulatory filing  that
it would expand Medicare’s $62 billion drug program to cover
benzodiazepines for mental illness and barbiturates used as
sedatives. Both are commonly abused, regulators said.  Private insurers who provide drug coverage under Medicare,
such as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in Minnetonka, Minnesota,
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  of Louisville, Kentucky, and  Coventry Health Care
Inc. (CVH)  in Bethesda,  Maryland , should try to “identify and prevent
waste and clinical abuses/misuses” of the drugs, the government
said in its filing.  Coverage for the two classes of drugs will cost taxpayers
about $1.9 billion from 2013 to 2018, according to the filing.
The coverage is required by a law passed in 2008 and signed by
former President  George W. Bush .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 