-- 
Elektra’s Debt Is a Buy to Invesco After Rout: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-10-04T21:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/elektra-s-debt-is-a-buy-to-invesco-after-rout-mexico-credit.html
Grupo Elektra SA, the Mexican
retailer owned by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , is posting bond
losses that are double those of peers in the region, a sign to
Invesco Inc. and Precise Securities the debt is a bargain.  Yields on Elektra’s dollar bonds due in 2018 jumped 377
basis points, or 3.77 percentage points, since they were issued
on July 28 to 11.38 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield on securities sold by
Latin American retailers rose 171 basis points during the same
period to 7.91 percent, Credit Suisse Group AG data show.  Elektra’s underperformance is unwarranted because the
Mexico City-based company has posted four straight quarters of
profits and weathered Mexico’s recession in 2009, said Jack Deino, who oversees about $1.8 billion in emerging-market debt
at Invesco. While Elektra has been a laggard in the  bond market ,
the company’s stock is the best performer in the country’s
benchmark index this year.  “Elektra is a true and tested business,” Deino, who holds
Elektra bonds, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“It’s been through several crises unscathed and grown
successfully.”  Elektra’s bonds yielded 760 basis points more than similar-
maturity Mexican government dollar bonds yesterday, compared
with 515 a month earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fraud Settlement  Some investors demand a higher yield premium on the
company’s bonds because it’s owned by Salinas, said Gaston Guerrero, who helps manage about $300 million of emerging-market
debt at Precise Securities. Guerrero, who said he’s considering
buying Elektra’s bonds, attributed the slump in the securities
to  Europe ’s debt crisis, which is prompting investors to dump
higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  Salinas, whose father founded Elektra, ranked No. 112 on
the latest  Forbes magazine  list of the world’s richest people
with a net worth of $8.2 billion and also owns broadcaster TV
Azteca SAB. He agreed to pay a fine to settle charges he reaped
improper profits from undisclosed loan deals, according to a
September 2006 statement from the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Salinas, 55, didn’t admit or deny the allegations when he
agreed to their settlements, according to the SEC.  “The Salinas complex has always traded wide because of
management issues,” Guerrero said in a telephone interview from
 San Diego . “We’re evaluating the possibility of establishing a
position at the current levels.”  Yield Gap  Dan McCosh, a spokesman for Salinas and Elektra, declined
to comment, citing a policy of not making remarks about market
performance.  Debt due in 2018 sold by TV Azteca yields 8.47 percent, or
290 basis points less than that on Elektra’s securities. The
companies share a BB- from  Fitch Ratings  that’s three levels
below investment grade.  The yield gap between the companies should be no more than
80 basis points, Invesco’s Deino said. Investors may demand a
bigger premium from Elektra because they are unable to evaluate
the retailer’s earnings on a stand-alone basis, he said. Elektra
consolidates its results with those of the company’s consumer
credit lender, Banco Azteca.  Elektra’s revenue climbed 25 percent to 14.2 billion pesos
($1 billion) in the second quarter. It had about 13.7 billion
pesos in cash.  Default Swaps  Elektra’s stock soared 87 percent this year, compared with
a decline of 14 percent for  Mexico ’s benchmark IPC Index.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points to
278 at 5:26 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The peso rose 2.1 percent to 13.7439 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose five basis points to 220, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in January 2012 fell eight basis points to 4.69
percent.  The yield on Elektra’s bonds may rise further if European
leaders are unable to ease the region’s sovereign debt crisis,
deepening the global sell-off in emerging-market assets, said
 Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage about $1.5 billion of debt
at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA.  ‘Fall More’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  opposed moves to
increase the scale of the euro rescue fund, damping speculation
of a breakthrough in Luxembourg talks to quell the debt crisis.  “Everything is subject to Europe -- that we don’t see a
catastrophic event,” Hernandez said in a telephone interview
from Mexico City.  Elektra, which targets low-income consumers, posted a 4.9
billion peso profit in 2009 during Mexico’s recession, when
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy shrank 6.1 percent.  “At the end of the day, it’s a good business,” Invesco’s
Deino said. “They just have tons of cash on their balance sheet
and they’re a retailer. At these levels, that’s been the baby
being thrown out with the bath water.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  