-- 
New York City Helicopter Crash in East River Kills Tourist, Injures Three

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-10-05T02:06:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/helicopter-crashes-in-new-york-s-east-river-four-of-five-taken-from-water.html
A helicopter carrying tourists
crashed in  New York ’s East River, killing a woman and injuring
three other passengers, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The crash occurred just after takeoff from the 34th Street
heliport at about 3:30 p.m. yesterday, Bloomberg said. At least
some of the five people aboard were related to each other, he
said. Two were taken to Bellevue Hospital and were in critical
condition while the third was in serious condition at New York
University Hospital, the mayor said.  The dead woman was trapped in the inverted helicopter as it
sank in the river, Bloomberg said. The pilot survived and was
treated at the scene, he said.  “The pilot reported having trouble keeping aloft, and he
tried to turn back but crashed into the water just north of the
landing pad,” Bloomberg told reporters at the scene. “Four out
of the five got out on their own, the fifth got trapped.”  Police officers and emergency services personnel nearby
rushed to the river and some jumped in and rescued three of the
passengers, Bloomberg said. A police scuba team and fire
department emergency medical technicians arrived at the scene
within minutes of the crash, the mayor said. Divers later
recovered the trapped woman’s body.  The passengers may have included two from Britain and two
from  Australia , the mayor said. The New York Times, citing an
unnamed city official, identified three of the passengers as
Paul Nicholson, believed to be 71; his wife, Harriett Nicholson,
believed to be 60, and her daughter, Sonia Marra, 40. The
Nicholson were said to live in  Portugal . Marra and a fourth
passenger, identified as a friend about 40, were from Australia,
the newspaper said. It wasn’t immediately known which passenger
died.  International Tourists  The response from police, firefighters and emergency
workers “was everything you could ask for,” Bloomberg said.  The helicopter was a Bell 206B, according to U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration records. The owner is listed as Paul P.
Dudley of Linden,  New Jersey , according to the records.  The  National Transportation Safety Board , which
investigates aircraft accidents, has sent a team to the scene,
the mayor said.  Crashes involving helicopters killed an average of 53
people a year in the U.S. from 2005 through 2010, according to
safety board records.  The most recent accident before today in New York involved
a police chopper that crashed in Jamaica Bay near  Brooklyn  on
Sept. 22, 2010, after a mechanical failure, according to federal
records. None of the six occupants suffered serious injuries.  A helicopter carrying five Italian tourists crashed into
the  Hudson River  on Aug. 8, 2009, after it collided with a small
plane. That incident left nine people dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 