-- 
Emirates Prods Boeing to Keep ‘Head of Steam’ on 777 Jet Upgrade

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-10-04T02:18:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/emirates-prods-boeing-to-keep-head-of-steam-on-improvements-to-777-jet.html
Emirates, the world’s biggest
international airline, is pushing  Boeing Co. (BA)  to press ahead with
improvements to its 777, even as it finishes work on an all-new
airplane and updated designs for two others.  The planemaker needs to come up with a better version of
the 777 in the next six months and have it ready to enter
service by 2018, Emirates President  Tim Clark  said yesterday in
an interview after two days of meetings with Boeing executives
in Seattle.  He said he’s been asking for two years for a twin-aisle
plane that will fly more passengers and freight greater
distances and be at least 10 percent cheaper to operate. Those
savings would be similar to what Boeing is promising for two
smaller planes: the 787, entering service this month more than
three years late and billions of dollars over budget, and the
737 MAX, scheduled to be ready in 2017.  “There’s no doubt that the 787 program has caused them a
certain amount of angst,” Clark said. “They have other
programs that need to be pushed out -- the 747-8, and they’ve
got the 737 MAX now. So I was concerned that the head of steam
we’d been building might be lost as they deal with the problems
with the other ones.”  Boeing has introduced about one new jet a decade since the
1960s, along with derivatives of the models that improve
performance. New planes cost more than $10 billion to develop,
even without the problems the 787 has faced with its new
composite materials and manufacturing processes.  Double Duty  Boeing has said it won’t run two major programs
concurrently again, after swallowing billions of dollars in
charges for costs related to the 787 Dreamliner and the 747-8,
the newest jumbo jet that’s two years behind schedule.  “We’re confident that when the market demands it, we’ll
develop and deliver a plane that provides what our customers
require,” said Karen Crabtree, a Boeing spokeswoman. “We feel
comfortable with where we are in that process.”  With about a hundred 777s in the Emirates fleet now and
about 40 still to come, Clark is the model’s biggest airline
customer. Retirements are scheduled to start in 2017, so he’s
asking for a replacement that can carry 60 tons of payload from
 Los Angeles  to Dubai. That’s about 7,230 nautical miles (8,320
statute miles or 13,390 kilometers), and would have to factor in
hot weather that hurts performance.  The 365-seat 777-300ER, which entered service in 2004, can
carry roughly that same payload up to about 6,800 nautical
miles, according to Boeing. The 777-200LR, the world’s longest-
range commercial airliner, can fly farther. It’s smaller,
though, so it carries fewer passengers and less cargo.  More Work Needed  Clark said he may be asking for too much, and he’s not yet
sure whether Boeing will be able to meet his deadlines, because
there’s more work to be done on propulsion and some other items.  “But I’m sure it’ll be a very attractive option,” he
said. “They are making good progress.”  Boeing brought Lars Andersen, the former 777 program
manager, out of retirement last year to lead a team to work on a
replacement plane. Clark said Andersen knows what customers like
Emirates need and will build on technological advances made with
the 787 Dreamliner, the world’s first airliner made out of
carbon-fiber-reinforced plastic composites.  “The composites, the wing, the flight deck, the question
of the whole materials structure, aerodynamics of the airplane,
a lot of that will be learned from the 787 and will cross
over,” Clark said. The same will be true for Airbus SAS and its
planned rival to the Dreamliner, the A350, he said.  “The eye came off the ball, because they had to get the
787 out, and that really did drain them psychologically and
materially,” Clark said of Boeing management. As for the 777,
“Believe me, they’re working it, they’ve got a full team of
people working on this airplane, and they’ll be going as fast as
they can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  