-- 
Emirates NBD Says Small, Medium Business Lending Growing by 30%

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-04T09:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/emirates-nbd-says-small-medium-business-lending-growing-by-30-.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets, said its lending to small and
medium-sized companies has grown 30 percent this year and it
plans to double that business over the next three years.  The Dubai government-controlled lender is boosting loans to
small companies in the tourism, logistics, transportation,
trading, food and beverage and services industries as economic
growth rebounds in the second-biggest Arab economy, Vikas
Thapar, Emirates NBD’s general manager for consumer finance and
head of business banking, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “Dubai historically has been a haven for small and medium
enterprises,” Thapar said. “SMEs were never over-leveraged, so
they never had that kind of a negative impact from the crisis.
Their cost-structures are low and decision-making is fast.”  Dubai, the second-biggest state in the U.A.E., was hit by
the global credit crisis as property prices crashed, trading and
tourism dropped and bank lending slowed. Economic growth in the
emirate may accelerate to 3.5 percent to 4 percent this year
from 2.8 percent in 2010, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Emirates NBD, which reported a 2 percent decline in lending
in the first half, expects its loan book to expand by 1 percent
to 2 percent over 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Rick Pudner  said
July 25. Overall lending by U.A.E. banks has increased by 2
percent in the eight months through August.  Emirates NBD has doubled the number of its small- and
medium-sized business customers in the past three years to
50,000, and offers them loans ranging from 100,000 dirhams
($27,229) to 50 million dirhams, Thapar said. The interest
margin, a measure of profitability, from the SME business
exceeds that of the bank as a whole because of much lower loan-
loss charges, he said.  Lending to small and medium-sized companies makes up 4
percent of overall industry loans, Thapar said, citing a World
Bank investment study.  U.A.E. banks had 1.06 trillion dirhams of loans outstanding
at the end of August, according to central bank data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  