-- 
Tepco to Sell 2.4 Trillion Yen Bonds to Pay Debt Due by 2021

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-10-04T10:11:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/tepco-to-sell-2-4-trillion-yen-bonds-to-repay-debt-due-by-2021.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. plans to
raise as much as 2.4 trillion yen ($31 billion) selling bonds to
repay debt securities due by March 2021, according to a
government panel investigating the utility’s finances.  Tepco, as the company is called, aims to raise the funds to
cover bonds maturing after April in either 2015 or 2016 through
the year ending March 2021, the panel said in a report released
yesterday.  The utility hasn’t been able to sell bonds since the March
11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out its Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant, causing the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years and exposing
the company to at least 5.7 trillion yen in compensation
payments and decommissioning costs. The company may have a
funding shortfall of 8.6 trillion yen during the next ten years
because of higher costs to generate power from fossil fuel, the
panel said.  “Investors won’t buy Tepco’s bond unless the utility
clearly shows it can survive on its own without strong support
from the government,” said Toshihiro Uomoto, chief credit
analyst at Nomura Securities Co.  Tepco had 4.7 trillion yen of domestic and foreign currency
bonds outstanding at the end of July, the report said.  “We will issue new bonds after improving our finances
through restructuring and resolving the nuclear accident,”
Tepco spokesman Naoyuki Matsumoto said by phone today. He
declined to comment on the details of bond sales.  Emergency Loan  The company may use a 2 trillion yen emergency loan it
received from banks in April to cover payments on bonds due
before the end of March 2015, Matsumoto said. Tepco plans to
repay the loan by March 2021, though the company may ask banks
to roll over payment depending on its finances, according to the
report. Matsumoto declined to comment on terms of the emergency
loan.  For bonds maturing after April 2015 the company plans to
sell new securities to cover repayments, according to the
oversight panel. Tepco has 2.4 trillion yen of bonds due in the
five years after April 2015, the report said.  Tepco plans to ask banks to maintain the loan balance of 2
trillion yen that it had at end of March for 10 years, according
to the report. The company has made a commitment to creditors
not to seek interest-rate relief or debt forgiveness.  Disaster Costs  The panel headed by Kazuhiko Shimokobe, a bankruptcy
lawyer, provided the first official estimate of the costs of the
disaster after scouring Tepco’s books for almost four months.  Tepco may have to pay 4.5 trillion yen by March 2013 in
compensation to those affected by the disaster, according to the
report. The company had paid 117.2 billion yen in provisional
compensation by Sept. 7, it said.  Decommissioning four damaged reactors at the plant, located
about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo, will cost at
least 1.15 trillion yen.  Tepco can raise 707.4 billion yen through asset sales
within three years to generate funds for compensation payments,
the panel said. The report estimates the company can raise 247.2
billion yen by selling properties, while it has 330.1 billion
yen of shares in other listed companies to sell.  Tepco can also reap 130.1 billion yen selling affiliated
companies. Earlier, the utility said it would sell assets worth
600 billion yen.  Government Support  The panel’s findings will form the basis of a plan to be
drafted by Tepco and the Nuclear Damage Compensation
Facilitation Corp., which was established to cover payments to
those affected by the disaster.  “It will pave the way for financing help from the
compensation body once Tepco’s special management plan gets
approved and the company follows up on restructuring measures
and asset sales included in the report,” Shimokobe said
yesterday when releasing the report.  A funding shortages during the next decade arises if none
of its nuclear  power plants  come back online and electricity
prices are not increased, the report said.  As well as Fukushima Dai-Ichi, the company’s nearby
Fukushima Dai-Ni plant was shut down after the quake and five
out of seven reactors at its Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant on the
other coast of  Japan  are idled.  The compensation body was created by an act of parliament
in August with 2 trillion yen of funds. The government is
considering increasing the amount to 5 trillion yen, according
to the panel’s report.  Trade and industry minister  Yukio Edano  will need to
approve the restructuring plan for Tepco after it’s compiled by
late October. It will also set the stage for the government to
beef up Tepco’s finances by issuing  government bonds  the company
can immediately redeem or through capital injections.  “The report made a lot of suggestions including capital
injections and electricity price increases to keep Tepco
running,” said Akihito Murata, a Tokyo-based credit analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. “But if Tepco issues bonds with terms the
same as those before the crisis, the market would have to say
‘No.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  