-- 
Mercuria Sees Brent Oil Staying Above $100 on ‘Lean’ Supply

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-10-04T11:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/mercuria-sees-brent-oil-staying-above-100-on-lean-supply-1-.html
Mercuria Energy Trading SA, a Geneva-
based independent energy trader, expects  Brent crude  to stay
above $100 a barrel amid declining global inventories and rising
consumption, the company’s chief executive officer said.  Crude stockpiles are about 100 million barrels less than
last year in member countries of the Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development, Marco Dunand, the company’s chief
executive and co-founder, said in an interview Sept. 28.
Meanwhile, global oil demand will increase by about 1 million
barrels a day next year, even if use drops in the U.S. and
Europe, he said.  Mercuria is looking to buy energy assets at the end of this
year or early next year, Dunand said. The company owns North
American  oil fields  and coal mines in Asia and  Africa , and is
boosting its trading of natural gas, power and carbon. Energy
trading companies buy and sell crude and refined fuels, trying
to profit from short-term fluctuations in prices and mismatches
in supply and demand. Owning oil fields or  storage tanks  give
traders an asset base from which to sell.  “The market is still strong for energy, especially for
oil,” Dunand said. “The economic cycle is such that better
opportunities will come up at the end of this year and at the
beginning of next year.”  $600 Million Spending  Mercuria’s 2011 turnover is projected to rise to $75
billion, from $50 billion last year. The company may spend as
much as $600 million on assets, Dunand said in March.  Falling crude inventories and constrained production will
keep Brent futures in backwardation, a market structure where
near-term deliveries are more expensive than future contracts.  “There’s a big risk of a spike on the upside,” Dunand
said. “Oil stocks around the world are much leaner than they
were two years ago, and potentially at the end of this year they
will be at the lowest level they’ve been for 10 years.”  Brent oil for November settlement fell 0.8 percent to
$100.86 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange
today. The front-month contract was trading at a $2.03 premium
to the second month futures.  Mercuria may invest in crude production in West Africa,
Dunand said, without specifying which countries. It already has
upstream oil assets in  North Dakota ’s Bakken shale area, Canada
and  California . The company is also developing South African and
Indonesian coal mines, and has a German biofuel plant, which it
hopes to link to a project in  China .  Structured Trade Finance  The trader has expanded in the U.S. in the past year,
adding 40 people in its Houston office to focus on gas and power
markets. Closely held Mercuria employs 890 people globally.  Mercuria also created a group to carry out structured trade
finance for its customers, led by Guillaume Leenhardt, formerly
at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA.  “We’re actually helping people to, when and if they feel
like it, take exposure off their books,” Dunand said.  Vesta, Mercuria’s logistics unit, added 1 million barrels
of oil storage capacity this year, for a total of 40 million
barrels. Mercuria is constructing tanks at Cushing,  Oklahoma ,
the delivery point for Nymex crude futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  