-- 
Merkel Says Those Demanding Endgame to Europe’s Debt Crisis Have ‘No Clue’

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-10-04T22:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/merkel-says-she-remains-opposed-to-joint-euro-area-bonds.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
stiffened her resistance to joint euro-area bond sales, saying
that investors yearning for a single gesture that can end
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis now will be disappointed.  The euro area has to resolve “that the time of living
above our means is over once and for all” and pursue debt
reduction that will stretch over “many years,” Merkel said in
a speech to members of her  Christian Democratic Union  late
yesterday in Magdeburg, eastern  Germany .  While stepping up her rejection of a Greek default, she
said that issuance of shared debt by euro countries isn’t the
solution to the problem spilling from  Greece , even though some
may long for the “big bang” to end the debt crisis. “Whoever
believes that has no clue about the economy,” she said.  Merkel stuck to her positions as she prepares for talks in
Brussels today with European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
before hosting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in Berlin on
Oct. 9. The leaders of Europe’s two biggest economies will get
together after the region’s finance ministers failed to quell
market jitters that a second aid package for Greece aimed at
stemming the crisis might unravel.  A Greek default would have unpredictable consequences, lead
to speculative attacks on other highly indebted euro countries
and risk sending German economic growth into reverse, Merkel
said. Letting Greece default would trigger “a gigantic loss of
confidence” in euro-area sovereign bonds.  No ‘Adventure’  “No one can say with certainty” what would happen if
Greece defaults, she said. “Before I make a nifty step into an
adventure, I have to ask whether we can really handle this and
can we oversee what we are doing?”  Merkel said that her “entire council” of economic
advisers says Greek debt should be restructured, advice that she
is not prepared to take.  “If we tell a country ‘We cancel half of your debt,’
that’s a great deal,” she said. “Then the next guy will
immediately show up and say he wants the same.”  “You can open any newspaper and see there’s a broad
international debate,” she said. “I’m not an economist or a
theorist. I and the German government have to consider the
consequences of what we do.”  Merkel, speaking to the last of six regional conferences of
her Christian Democrats before the party holds a national
convention next month, said that she was “deeply convinced”
that  Europe ’s problems can only be solved jointly.  “Solidarity is always cheaper than if we were to go it
alone and wind up with the problem  Switzerland  has -- that the
currency level is so high that you can’t export any products
anymore. Today, going it alone is no path to a better future.”  “We must press ahead with the task” begun by former
Chancellor Helmut Kohl when he made the political decision in
favor of the euro after German reunification in 1990, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  