-- 
MERS Wins Dismissal of 72 Lawsuits Challenging Mortgage Registry System

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-10-04T20:42:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/mers-wins-dismissal-of-72-lawsuits-challenging-mortgage-registry.html
Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc. won dismissal of 72 lawsuits questioning the
legality of its system for allowing banks to use it to register
home loans.  U.S. District Judge James A. Teilborg in Phoenix, where the
cases have been centralized, dismissed the litigation in an
order yesterday. Teilborg rejected the homeowners’ claims that
MERS is a “sham beneficiary” and that foreclosures based on MERS
documents are invalid. The decision echoed a federal appeals
court ruling last month that upheld an earlier holding of his.  “MERS serves as the beneficiary on plaintiffs’ deeds of
trust, as the nominee or agent for ‘any valid note holder,’”
Teilborg wrote.  MERS, a unit of Reston, Virginia-based Merscorp Inc., bills
itself as a provider of “support services to the mortgage
industry,” specifically tracking the servicing rights and
ownership interests in  mortgage loans . The company lets banks
electronically register their sales of home loans so they can
avoid trudging down to the county records office.  “The master complaint has been dismissed and we’ll be
appealing that decision,” Robert Hager, a Reno, Nevada-based
lawyer for the borrowers, said in a phone interview.  Teilborg said the borrowers failed to show that MERS isn’t
a beneficiary on the deed of trust, that the MERS deeds are
invalid or that MERS’s assignments of the deeds were defective
because it didn’t have the right to make the transfers.  Appeals Court  The federal appeals court in  San Francisco  ruled Sept. 7
that Teilborg properly threw out a lawsuit against MERS in 2009
by three borrowers alleging conspiracy and fraud in lending and
foreclosure procedures.  “The plaintiffs’ claims that focus on the operation of the
MERS system ultimately fail because the plaintiffs have not
shown that the alleged illegalities associated with the MERS
system injured them or violated state law,” the three-judge
appeals panel  said .  In September 2010, Teilborg rejected six proposed class
actions, or group lawsuits, against the MERS system that were
part of the consolidated litigation.  The case is In re Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems
(MERS) Litigation, 09-md-2119, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix); the appeal is Cervantes v. Countrywide, 09-
17364,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter about this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  