-- 
Essar Group Said to Contemplate $750 Million Infrastructure IPO in London

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-10-04T08:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/essar-weighs-750m-infrastructure-ipo-in-london.html
Essar Group , the Indian company whose
businesses range from shipping to power, is considering listing
infrastructure assets in London to raise about $750 million,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are working
with Essar on the initial public offering, which may take place
as early as next year, the people said, declining to be named
because the process is private. The listing may include ports
and other infrastructure assets, one person said.  The deal may mark the biggest overseas IPO by an Indian
company since May 2010, when another Essar unit,  Essar Energy
Plc (ESSR) , raised 1.27 billion pounds ($2 billion). The value of
overseas stock sales by Indian companies fell to $274 million
this year from $2.2 billion for all of 2010, as Europe’s debt
crisis caused a global stock selloff.  “Every day we hear bad news from  Europe , but I think
things will start looking up after six months, and that may be a
good time for a London listing,” said Alex Mathews, head of
research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. “Essar
should benefit from huge demand in the infrastructure space in
 India .”  India plans to double spending on roads, ports and power
projects to $1 trillion for the five years through March 2017.
The nation’s central bank last month eased overseas borrowing
rules for infrastructure companies to attract investors.  Stocks Tumble  Essar Group’s units include Mumbai-listed Essar Ports Ltd.,
which develops and operates port terminals, and Essar Projects,
a construction company. Started as a construction firm in 1969,
the company now employs 75,000 people in 25 countries, according
to its  website .  Essar Ports fell as much as 4 percent today, touching its
lowest level in a year. The shares traded at 55 rupees as of
2:50 p.m. in Mumbai, down 66 percent so far this year.   Essar Energy, made up of several Essar Group entities that
were brought together before the  London  listing, has tumbled 58
percent in 2011.  “The group is always looking at various options available
to it for raising capital, given its significant growth
trajectory,” Essar Group said in an e-mailed statement in
response to questions from Bloomberg News. “As of now there is
no specific transaction proposed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  