-- 
EU Makes Derivatives Deal That Osborne Says Benefits U.K.

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-04T17:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/eu-makes-deal-on-derivatives-proposal-to-bridge-gap-with-u-k-.html
European Union finance ministers
reached an agreement on how to move forward with derivatives
legislation in a way that satisfies the concerns of the U.K.  “We came here in a minority, somewhat outnumbered, but
through some hard negotiating we have very much improved the
directive in the direction that the  United Kingdom  wanted to
see,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told
reporters after the meeting in Luxembourg today.  The agreement doesn’t widen the scope of the current
derivatives legislation, as the U.K. had sought. Instead, it
provides for an EU declaration that forthcoming financial market
legislation will cover any derivatives that are not forced into
central clearing by the proposal.  Finance ministers agreed to restore a provision that would
allow “open access” to clearinghouses for all trades, which
had been removed from earlier drafts. Blocking an action by an
EU country would require the support of the other 26 member
states.  The Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of
central clearing in a bid to cut some of the risks attached to
derivatives trading. The Financial Stability Board has said that
clearinghouses should in turn face  tougher regulation  because a
crisis at one of them could threaten the global financial
system.  ‘Robust Market Infrastructure’  If the derivatives legislation moves forward as planned,
“there will be sound, robust market infrastructure,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner, told
reporters. “These clearinghouses need to be robust; they have
to be carefully supervised.”  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  The agreement “is important to the United Kingdom as the
home to 75 percent of derivatives trading in the EU and almost
50 percent of the world’s derivatives trading,” Osborne said.
“Our objective throughout has been to implement the G-20
agreement on derivatives and to make sure the single market is
respected.”  The EU’s draft rules will mandate what types of derivatives
should be centrally cleared. The final version of the law will
need to be completed in the negotiations with the European
Parliament.  Polish Compromise  Discussions with EU officials and legislators are slated to
start on Oct. 10. The goal is to finish the legislation by the
end of the year so it can start coming into force next year, EU
officials said.  Heading into today’s meetings, a majority of states backed
a compromise text put forward by  Poland , which holds the
rotating presidency of the EU, that would have mandated central
clearing only for over-the-counter derivatives. Britain
resisted, agreeing with the U.S. that all derivatives, including
those traded on exchanges, should be subject to the clearing
mandates.  Today’s agreement means the current legislation will cover
a broad swath of over-the-counter derivatives, which the EU
estimates includes 90 percent of all derivatives trades.
Derivatives that don’t meet that definition -- and which aren’t
covered by specific exemptions -- will face a central clearing
requirement in future legislation. Osborne said the EU will
commit to this in a “strongly worded” declaration.  ‘Technical Solutions’  The draft legislation introduces a three-year temporary
exemption for pension funds that can be extended by another two
years. This transition period is designed so that funds can find
“technical solutions” to protect pensioners.  Companies like Airbus SAS would be exempt from the clearing
requirements for derivatives they use to hedge business risks.
The legislation also includes an exemption for trades between
corporate affiliates within the EU and with affiliates in other
jurisdictions as long as the transactions meet certain
conditions and take place in areas where there are central-
clearing mandates.  In order to coordinate with laws in other areas, such as
the U.S.’s Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, the EU’s bill includes
a new clause for international coordination. This clause creates
a mechanism for resolving differences with international rules,
so that the EU would not have to reopen the whole law to make
changes, EU officials said.  ‘Significant Improvement’  Today’s deal also addresses negotiations on the role of
national supervisors under the new regime. Osborne said today’s
talks yielded a “significant improvement” in the draft
derivatives legislation.  Osborne said the draft has been adjusted to take into
account U.K. concerns about different regulatory treatment for
clearinghouses in different jurisdictions. He noted that the
U.K. is in the midst of a related legal dispute with the
 European Central Bank .  “We have inserted into the article of the draft directive
an explicit reference to non-discrimination against any member
state in any currency,” Osborne said. “Of course we still have
our legal action with the ECB, but in terms of the draft
directive here on derivatives we have the clearest possible
statement of a non-discriminatory location policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at  Rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in Luxembourg at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  