-- 
Eugenides Follows Pulitzer With Ivy League Love Triangle: Books

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/eugenides-follows-pulitzer-with-ivy-league-love-triangle-jeffrey-burke.html
Graduation Day at  Brown University  in
1982 finds three seniors disengaged from the milestone.
Madeleine skips the ceremony to visit her hospitalized manic-
depressive boyfriend, Leonard, while Mitchell, the fellow she
has frustrated for four years, gets stoned.  Eighteen years after his widely praised debut with “ The
Virgin Suicides ” and nine years after his Pulitzer Prize-
winning “ Middlesex ,” novelist Jeffrey Eugenides has ended
another long gestation with the “ The Marriage Plot .” It’s a
comic, rueful, compelling dissection of a young  love triangle 
and the hard lessons of that “last period of total freedom,”
the college years.  “To start with,” he writes in the opening line, “look at
all the books.” The immediate reference is to those in
Madeleine’s room. Yet books are a kind of subplot and season the
novel like a soundtrack.  Madeleine is an English major whose senior thesis analyzes
“the marriage plot” of 19th-century novels, “when success in
life had depended on marriage, and marriage had depended on
money.” Her shelves carry Dickens, Trollope, Austen, James.  Leonard impresses her during a semiotics seminar, where the
reading includes Derrida and Barthes, and a student argues that
“books aren’t about ‘real life.’ Books are about other books.”
The subplot thickens.  Sex and Pizza  The two soon embark on a relationship via three days of
“having sex and eating pizza.” They banter about the
adjectival forms of Joyce, Mann, Pynchon and Gaddis. They break
up when Leonard mocks Madeleine with a Barthes quote. She has a
fling with a semiotics fan after a party where “the bookshelves
held the usual Kafka, the obligatory Borges, the point-scoring
Musil.”  Mitchell is the unrequited swain whom Madeleine met and
unwittingly mesmerized at a toga party during freshman
orientation. They come close to consummation after a train ride
to her New Jersey home, during which he reads “ Finnegans Wake ”
and she volume one of “ A Dance to the Music of Time .” Even as
she links up again with Leonard, Madeleine gives Mitchell reason
to refuel the torch he has long carried.  After graduation, she and Leonard head to Cape Cod where he
has a research fellowship. But his mental state has worsened,
his lithium dose has risen. When Madeleine’s mother and sister
visit, the secret of Leonard’s manic depression emerges, to the
consternation of parents who had raised Madeleine as “a
positive, privileged, sheltered, exemplary person.”  Traveling in India  Around the same time, Mitchell and his roommate, Larry,
head off to travel on the cheap in  Europe  and India. A
religious-studies major, Mitchell packs Thomas a Kempis, Merton,
Tolstoy and Pynchon. In Paris, he offends Larry’s feminist
girlfriend, who is capable of sentences like: “’She’s basically
a Lacanian, except she doesn’t agree that signification and
language come from castration fears.’”  The travelers split up when Larry discovers his inner
homosexual in  Greece . Mitchell spends several weeks working at a
Mother Teresa Home for Dying Destitutes in Calcutta.  Eugenides  brings the trio together in the  New York  area for
an ending that doesn’t quite confirm or deny a Trollope quote
Madeleine used for her thesis: “’There is no happiness in love,
except at the end of an English novel.’”  The plot shifts smoothly among the main characters as
Eugenides regularly isolates one of the lovers to fill in
biographical details and tellingly change the point of view on a
narrative section previously rendered. These mini-Rashomons are
fun and poignant reminders that our perceptions can play as many
tricks on us as memory does.  Eugenides’s Life  There are other memories at work. Eugenides graduated from
Brown in 1983 and worked in a Mother Teresa shelter in  India . He
roomed at Brown with novelist  Rick Moody , who later wrote of his
struggles with depression. Leonard also resembles the late
writer  David Foster Wallace , who suffered from clinical
depression.  Needless to say, Madeleine is the biscuit that sends Proust
in search of lost time. And did I mention that Madeleine’s
childhood room is wallpapered with scenes from the “Madeline”
books, that Leonard is described as a Sendak creature, that
architectural elements near Brown recall “a Lovecraft story”?  Read “The Marriage Plot” as contemporary love fable, as
elegiac nostalgia, as a writer’s celebration of writers and his
own roots -- or just read it because you too still carry a torch
first kindled by all those fine books you fell for in college.  “The Marriage Plot” is published by Farrar, Straus and
Giroux (406 pages, $28). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 