-- 
Euro Rises on Bank Recapitalization Talks, Bernanke’s Economic Aid Pledge

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-04T21:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/euro-rises-versus-yen-dollar-on-bets-two-day-drop-was-overdone-bernanke.html
The euro rose from a eight-month low
versus the dollar after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled he may take additional easing steps and on bets
European leaders are discussing how to aid the region’s banks.  The 17-nation currency strengthened for the first time in
three days against the greenback on speculation that the U.S.
central bank may implement a third round of quantitative easing,
which would debase its currency. The shared currency extended
its gains and higher-yielding currencies rose on speculation
European Union officials are examining how to recapitalize
banks, boosting optimism the region’s debt crisis can be
contained.  “Bernanke was very supportive of the markets, saying that
the Fed is prepared to take further steps to help the economy,”
said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales
desk at Societe Generale SA in New York.  The euro appreciated 1.3 percent to $1.3349 at 5 p.m. in
New York, from $1.3176, after touching $1.3146, the weakest
since Jan. 13. It rose 1.6 percent to 102.54 yen from 100.97 yen
yesterday. It touched 100.76, the least since June 2001. The
dollar rose 0.2 percent to 76.81 yen.  EU Talks  The Financial Times quoted  Olli Rehn , European Commissioner
for economic affairs, as saying there is an “increasingly
shared view” that the region needs a coordinated approach to
halt the sovereign debt crisis.  “You had a tired market that was constantly pushing
lower,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Whether it
was that article of other developments in the marketplace, it
seemed like there was a squeeze into the close.”  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index rallied 2.3 percent after
earlier dropping of as much as 2.2 percent.  Mexico ’s peso rose 2.1 percent to 13.7439 against the
dollar. It has fallen 11.5 percent so far this year.  The euro traded at 27.9 on its 14-day relative strength
index against the dollar, falling below 30 for a second day. It
was at 29 on a similar index versus the yen. A reading below 30
signals that an asset may be due to reverse direction.  Italy ’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service
for the first time in almost two decades on concern the
government will struggle to reduce the region’s second-largest
debt amid chronically weak growth.  Italy Rating  Moody’s lowered Italy’s rating three levels to A2 from Aa2,
with a negative outlook, the New York-based company said in a
statement today. The action comes after Standard & Poor’s
downgraded Italy on Sept. 20 for the first time in five years.
Italy was last cut by Moody’s in May 1993.  The franc fell against the euro amid speculation that the
 Swiss National Bank  may adjust the cap set last month to further
weaken the currency.  “There is unsubstantiated talk in the market that the
level may be changed to further limit gains in the franc,” said
 Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in  London .
“People seem to be wary of pushing the franc higher.”  The franc depreciated 0.7 percent to 1.2231 per euro. SNB
spokeswoman Silvia Oppliger declined to comment on the
currency’s movements.  European finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg considered
“technical revisions” to a July deal that foresaw investors
contributing 50 billion euros ($67 billion) to a 159 billion-
euro rescue. That “private sector involvement” includes debt
swaps and rollovers.  Greek Aid  The ministers also pushed back a decision on the release of
 Greece ’s next loan installment until after Oct. 13. It was the
second postponement of a vote originally slated for yesterday as
part of the 110 billion-euro lifeline granted to Greece last
year.  “Markets are taking a pause after very strong euro selling
in the last two days,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas
G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in  New York .
“It’s not to suggest that the fundamental news has improved to
push up the euro. Peripheral European concerns will continue to
garner market attention.”  Bernanke’s remarks today in a testimony to Congress’ Joint
Economic Committee signal he may not be finished after attempts
in August and September to strengthen record monetary stimulus
with unconventional tools. The central bank’s near-zero
benchmark interest rate and $2.3 trillion of housing and
government-debt purchases since 2008 have failed to produce
self-sustaining growth in the economy and employment.  The Fed chief said  China ’s currency is significantly
undervalued and its exchange-rate policies are impeding a global
economic recovery. He said China’s yuan policy is “certainly a
negative.”  The yuan has appreciated 5.2 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year and 24 percent in the past five years,
the steepest advance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. China limits currency conversions for investment
purposes and buys dollars to slow the yuan’s advance and
preserve the competitiveness of China’s exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  