-- 
European Stocks Slide for Third Day; Dexia, Air France Tumble

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-04T16:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/european-stock-index-futures-decline-dexia-airlines-may-move.html
European stocks dropped for a third
day, the longest losing streak in four weeks, as policy makers
signaled they may renegotiate terms of Greece’s bailout,
deepening concern about the impact of the debt crisis.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  tumbled to a record low as the board asked
Belgium’s biggest bank by assets to solve its “structural
problems.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  slid 4.3 percent after abandoning
its 2011 earnings forecast.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  sank to
the lowest since 1996.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group retreated to a 20-
year low after the head of the IATA industry association said
profit projections may be unsustainable.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 2.8 percent to
217.46 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the lowest level in a
week. European finance chiefs meeting yesterday considered
“technical revisions” to the second Greek bailout, Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said today, fueling concern
bondholders may have to take bigger losses on the nation’s debt.  “Any uncertainty or delay is unwelcome, as fear breeds
fear and market trends are not easily reverted,” said Emmanuel Hauptmann, senior equity fund manager and partner at Reyl Asset
Management SA in Geneva. Ministers considering a higher
contribution by private investors to the Greek rescue “creates
uncertainty as to how high the bill for European banks in
particular may be, explaining the ever-increasing volatility of
the sector.”  25% Drop  The Stoxx 600 has fallen 25 percent from this year’s peak
on Feb. 17 as European and U.S. economic reports trailed
forecasts, adding to concern that the global economic recovery
is at risk. The decline has left the measure trading at 9.1
times estimated earnings, near the cheapest since March 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  National benchmark indexes retreated in all 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX slumped 3 percent, while
France’s CAC 40 and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 2.6 percent.
 Greece ’s ASE sank 6.3 percent to the lowest level since 1993.  Finance ministers meeting yesterday considered reshaping a
July rescue deal for Greece that foresaw investors contributing
50 billion euros ($66 billion) to a 159 billion-euro bailout.
That private sector involvement, or PSI, includes debt exchanges
and rollovers.  “As far as PSI is concerned, we have to take into account
that we have experienced changes since the decision we have
taken on July 21,” Juncker told reporters early today after
chairing a meeting of euro finance chiefs in Luxembourg. “These
are technical revisions we are discussing.”  ‘Knock-On Effects’  “The worse things get in Greece, the more pressure there
is to further ‘bail in’ private creditors and the greater the
perceived knock-on effects of a Greek default across the rest of
the euro zone’s periphery and throughout  Europe ’s banking
system,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director at Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in London, wrote in an e-mail. “Sentiment is bearish,
euro zone-driven and hyper-sensitive to developments in
Greece.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its global growth forecast for
this year and next, predicting recessions in Germany and France
as the European economy stalls and the risk of a contraction in
the U.S. grows. The world economy will probably expand 3.8
percent this year and 3.5 percent in 2012, compared with earlier
predictions of 3.9 percent for 2011 and 4.2 percent for next
year, Goldman Sachs economists Jan Hatzius and  Dominic Wilson 
wrote in an Oct. 3 report.  ‘Further Action’  Stocks pared their losses as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank stands ready to take
additional steps to boost growth and cautioned lawmakers against
budget moves that would harm a “sluggish” recovery.  The Fed “will continue to closely monitor economic
developments and is prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context
of  price stability ,” Bernanke said in testimony to Congress’s
Joint Economic Committee in  Washington .  Dexia plunged 23 percent to 1.01 euros, the lowest since it
started trading in 1996. The board asked Chief Executive Officer
Pierre Mariani to prepare “necessary measures” to fix the
company’s “structural problems” after Europe’s government-debt
crisis worsened.  The shares rebounded from a 38 percent drop as the French
and Belgian governments pledged to support the bank.  Dexia Support  France and Belgium will take “all necessary measures” to
protect clients and will guarantee all Dexia’s loans, French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  and Belgian Finance Minister
Didier Reynders said. Belgium’s cabinet will meet in Brussels
tonight to review the options for the lender. Both governments
have stakes in the bank following its bailout in 2008.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest bank, declined 5.2 percent
to 27.18 euros and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA retreated 4.9 percent to
18.04 euros.  Dexia, BNP Paribas and Societe Generale are resisting
pressure from regulators to accept more losses on their holdings
of Greek government debt amid criticism they haven’t written
down the bonds sufficiently.  While most banks have marked their Hellenic debt to market
prices, a decline of as much as 51 percent, Dexia, BNP and
Societe Generale cut the value of some holdings by 21 percent.
The practice, which doesn’t violate accounting rules, may leave
them vulnerable to bigger impairments in the event of a default.  Deutsche Bank Slides  Deutsche Bank slipped 4.3 percent to 24.64 euros. Germany’s
largest lender dropped its 2011 profit forecast and announced
plans to cut 500 jobs as market volatility and unexpected costs
on an indirect tax position weighed on third-quarter earnings.  National Bank of Greece, the nation’s biggest lender,
plunged 14 percent to 2.19 euros, the lowest in 15 years. Alpha
Bank SA and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  fell 9.8 percent to 1.10 euros and
18 percent to 36 euro cents, respectively.  Air France sank 9.1 percent to 4.83 euros, its lowest price
since at least December 1991. International Consolidated
Airlines Group, the parent of British Airways, declined 3.4
percent to 149.3 pence while European Aeronautic, Defence and
Space Co., the maker of Airbus SAS aircraft, slid 5.2 percent to
19.83 euros.  Tony Tyler , chief executive officer of the  International
Air Transport Association  since July 1, said profits forecast to
total $28 billion in the three years through 2012 may be
unsustainable as over-capacity and looming regulatory costs
weigh on margins.  Automakers Drop  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, lost 7.1 percent
to 88.54 euros, leading a gauge of auto-industry shares in the
Stoxx 600 to the lowest since May 2010.  Renault SA (RNO) , France’s
second-largest automaker, sank 8.2 percent to 22.34 euros and
Fiat Industrial SpA, the truck and tractor unit spun off from
Italian carmaker Fiat SpA, fell 8.5 percent to 4.89 euros, the
lowest in nine months.  Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest cement maker, dropped 8.5
percent to 23.96 euros, the most since January 2009, as a gauge
construction companies was among the worst performers of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  retreated
9 percent to 24.57 euros, its lowest price in more than two
years, while  Vinci SA (DG)  slipped 3.8 percent to 30.58 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 