-- 
European Nations Face Downgrade, Moody’s Says

-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-05T09:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/euro-area-nations-below-aaa-may-see-ratings-cut-moody-s-says.html
Moody’s Investors Service followed
its three-level downgrade of  Italy  by warning that euro-area
nations rated below the top Aaa level may see their rankings cut
amid contagion from the region’s debt crisis.  “All but the strongest euro-area sovereigns are likely to
face sustained negative pressure on their ratings,” Moody’s
said in a statement late yesterday in  London . “Consequently,
Moody’s expects fewer countries below Aaa to retain high
ratings.” It added that “there are no immediate pressures that
could cause downgrades for Aaa-rated countries.”  The statement came after the company cut Italy’s rating for
the first time since 1993 on concern the government will
struggle to reduce the region’s second-largest debt amid
chronically weak growth. Italy was lowered to A2 from Aa2.
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Italy on Sept. 20 for the first
time in five years.  “Italy is being punished not because its finances suddenly
deteriorated, but because investors have become more sensitive
to its long-standing weaknesses,” Nicholas Spiro, managing
director at Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, wrote in an e-
mail. “Depending on one’s view, Italy is just as safe, or just
as risky, as it was before it was dragged into the crisis.”  The Moody’s warning underscores the deterioration in euro-
region sovereign finances as growth slows and debt piles up.
Eleven of the 17 nations that share the single currency have
ratings below Aaa. The top ranking is held by  Austria ,  Finland ,
 France ,  Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands.  Spread Widens  The yield spread on 10-year Italian bonds and similar
German securities rose widened to 379 basis points at 11:20 a.m.
in Rome. “Italian spreads are already implying a BBB credit
rating and we don’t expect huge reaction from the market to this
Moody’s action,” Alessandro Giansanti, a strategist at ING Bank
NV in Amsterdam, wrote in a note to investors.  European stocks climbed, snapping a three-day decline amid
speculation policy makers are examining measures to shield banks
from the sovereign-debt crisis. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index jumped 1.6 percent as of 10:28 a.m. in Rome.  Today’s rebound comes after European stocks registered the
longest losing streak in four weeks as policy makers signaled
they may renegotiate terms of  Greece ’s bailout, deepening
concern about the impact of the debt crisis.  European finance chiefs meeting this week considered
“technical revisions” to the second Greek bailout, Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said yesterday, fueling
concern bondholders may have to take bigger losses on the
nation’s debt.  ‘Profound Loss’  “There has been a profound loss of confidence in certain
European sovereign debt markets, and Moody’s considers that this
extremely weak  market sentiment  will likely persist,” the
ratings company said in yesterday’s statement. “It is no longer
a temporary problem that might be addressed through liquidity
support, and several euro-area governments are increasingly
affected by the loss of confidence.”  In the absence of a rapid return to growth and market
confidence, euro-area nations “will at some point have to
choose between increasing the level of mutual support and
managing further defaults,” Moody’s said. “The former option
is the one that euro-area policy makers are more likely to
adopt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 