-- 
Euro Declines on Region’s Debt Crisis Concern Before Central Bank Meeting

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-05T17:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/euro-slips-versus-dollar-yen-before-retail-sales-data-ecb-policy-meeting.html
The euro fell against most of its
major counterparts as concern the region’s debt crisis may
spread led investors to shun the currency before a European
 Central Bank  meeting tomorrow.  The 17-nation euro weakened to almost a decade low against
the yen as speculation increased the ECB may introduce measures
to shore up the region’s economy. The pound declined against the
dollar and euro after a report showed U.K. economic growth
slowed during the second quarter. The dollar rose briefly
against the yen after a report showed U.S. service industries
expanded last month at a slower pace.  “It’s being priced into the market that a rate cut could
be forthcoming,” said Greg Salvaggio, senior vice president of
capital markets in Washington at the currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc.  The euro depreciated 0.2 percent to 102.35 yen at 1:29 p.m.
in New York, after dropping to 100.76 yen yesterday, the weakest
level since June 2001. The currency declined 0.2 percent to
$1.3326, after falling as much as 0.7 percent. The dollar was
little changed at 76.83 yen.  Economic Move  The euro briefly pared its losses and the dollar
strengthened against the yen after a report showed U.S. service
industries expanded in September by more than forecast. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index fell
to 53 from 53.3 in August, higher than the 52.8 forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The ISM numbers are consistent with slow growth and not a
recession in the U.S. and I think that’s the view that the
market has been shifting to,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “Some of
the fears of renewed recession have eased over the past couple
of weeks.”  The U.K. economy expanded 0.1 percent from the first
quarter, lower than the 0.2 percent previously published, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in  London .  Consumer
spending  plunged 0.8 percent, the most since the first quarter
of 2009. The slow growth is adding pressure on the central bank
to keep  interest rates  low. The  Bank of England  meets tomorrow.  The pound dropped 0.4 percent to $1.5429.  Export Gains  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries rose as the
Standard & Poor’s Index advanced 0.7 percent, increasing demand
for assets linked to growth.  Brazil ’s real increased 1.4 percent to 1.8319 per dollar
for the best performance against the greenback among the major
currencies.  Turkey’s and  Russia ’s central banks separately intervened
in the currency market in an effort to prop up their currencies.  Turkey’s central bank sold $750 million of liras in a daily
auction, its biggest such sale on record. The lira rose 0.7
percent to 1.8742 per dollar, after falling to a record low of
1.9096 yesterday.  Bank Rossii sold about $8 billion to shore up the ruble
last month, the most since it arrested the currency’s
devaluation in January 2009, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said. The
central bank intensified sales yesterday, selling $1.15 billion
in the  currency market , after the ruble plunged to the weakest
level against the dollar in more than two years yesterday.  The ruble rose 0.5 percent to 32.5538 per dollar after
touching 32.8935 yesterday, the weakest since August 2009.  Franc Falls  The Swiss franc dropped the most among the major
currencies, falling 0.7 percent to 92.31 centimes per dollar and
weakening 0.6 percent to 1.2301 per euro. The  Swiss National
Bank  last month imposed a ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro to
curb the franc’s appreciation.  The Swedish krona weakened 0.6 percent to 6.8810 per
dollar.  Traders increased bets the ECB will lower borrowing costs
tomorrow to fuel growth as the region’s debt crisis rattles
markets. Eleven of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
the central bank will cut its benchmark rate by at least a
quarter-percentage point from the current rate of 1.5 percent.
The others expect no change.  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Italy ’s rating three levels
to A2 from Aa2, citing concern the government will struggle to
reduce the region’s second-largest debt amid weak growth.
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Italy on Sept. 20 for the first
time in five years.  Euro Moves  The euro erased earlier declines as European stocks rose
amid speculation policy makers are looking at measures to shield
banks from the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The Financial Times quoted European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn as saying there’s an
“increasingly shared view” the region needs a coordinated
approach to halt the debt crisis. He said today that there’s no
concrete plan to recapitalize banks. Speculation about the
effect of euro area bank holdings of Greek debt has helped
weaken the euro 5.5 percent in the past month.  “We just need to know that there’s a bold policy response
that European policy makers are willing to take to avert a
meltdown,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York . “The euro has been whacked
so much lately that any accommodative policy from the ECB is
likely to bring down the  risk premium  and that might support the
euro.”  The euro is down 3.6 percent during the past year among the
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen is up 9.9 percent and the dollar has
added 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  