-- 
Eurotech May Post Fifth Consecutive Loss as Cloud Computing Demand Lags

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-10-04T10:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/eurotech-may-post-fifth-consecutive-loss-as-cloud-computing-demand-lags.html
Eurotech SpA (ETH) , whose miniature
computers are used by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , may post a
fifth consecutive annual loss as the economic slump cuts demand
for its offerings including a cloud-computing service.  “It’s difficult to say if we will have profit,” Chief
Financial Officer Sandro Barazza said in an interview in  London .
The uncertain outlook is also the result of the Japan earthquake
in March and the economic slowdown in Europe and the U.S. “No
one expected the situation in the U.S. or in Europe,” he said.  Eurotech, which introduced its Everyware Device Cloud
almost a year ago, had banked on the product, which allows
companies to access and share hardware, software, applications
and data on any device, to help the Amaro, Italy-based company
post net income for 2011. Eurotech is projected to have a profit
of 1 million euros ($1.3 million) this year, based on the
average estimate of 3 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We were ready to connect all our devices to the cloud,
but probably the customers decided to wait before investing,”
Barazza said. “We are working to do our best for this quarter
and after the last month we will see what will be our results.”  Eurotech, which first sold shares in November 2005, dropped
3.5 percent to 1.7 euros in Milan trading as of 11:17 a.m.,
giving the company a market value of 60.4 million euros. The
stock has declined 9.7 percent this year.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,
Italy’s biggest defense company, owns 11 percent of Eurotech.  Net Losses  Eurotech, whose clients include  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
 Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , also makes high-performance computers,
embedded boards and portable, nano devices such as  wrist-
wearable  computers. Its  mobile computers  are used in the
logistics, transportation, health-care and defense industries.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this week cut its global growth
forecast for this year and next, predicting recessions in
Germany and France as Europe’s economy stalls and the risk of a
contraction in the U.S. grows.  In 2010 Eurotech posted a net loss of 6.1 million euros
compared with a loss of 9.6 million euros a year earlier.
Revenue gained 19 percent to 99.3 million euros. The company had
its last annual profit in 2006.  Barazza says he continues to “see a good opportunity in
the cloud.” The global market for cloud services may surge to
$148.8 billion in 2014 from $68.3 billion in 2010, according to
researcher Gartner Inc.  Eurotech, which gets between 25 and 30 percent of its
revenue from  Japan  and has been operating in India for two
years, aims to further expand in Asia, Barazza said.  “ South Korea  could be a good market for industrial
contracts,” he said, adding that the company is also looking to
 China . The company has about 10 million euros in cash for
further acquisitions, Barazza said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  