-- 
Europe Producer-Price Inflation Slows on Energy

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-04T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/europe-producer-price-inflation-slows-as-energy-increases-ease.html
European producer-price inflation
weakened in August as energy-cost increases eased on slower
economic growth amid the sovereign-debt crisis.  Factory-gate prices  in the 17-nation euro region rose 5.9
percent from a year earlier after a 6.1 percent increase in
July, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said
today. Economists had projected a gain of 5.8 percent, according
to the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. August
producer prices declined 0.1 percent from July, when they gained
0.5 percent on the month.  Crude-oil prices have dropped 27 percent in the past six
months as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps economic growth. Economists
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Barclays Capital expect
the  European Central Bank  to reverse this year’s two interest-
rate increases to give the economy, already hobbled by austerity
measures and waning investor confidence, some breathing space.  “Producer-price inflation will continue to trend downward
as companies face increasing competition over dwindling
orders,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Joh. Berenberg
Gossler & Co. in  London . “It remains above its long-run
average, so the ECB may hesitate to cut rates immediately.”  Euro-area inflation at the consumer level unexpectedly
accelerated in September to the fastest in almost three years,
complicating the ECB’s task in fighting the fiscal crisis. The
Frankfurt-based central bank, which has increased its lending
rate by 0.5 percentage points twice this year in an effort to
curb inflation, holds its next rate-setting meeting on Oct. 6.  Economic confidence in Europe slumped more than economists
forecast last month and services and manufacturing industries
contracted for a second straight month.  Energy prices at the producer level rose 11.5 percent from
a year earlier in August, compared with a gain of 11.9 percent
in the prior month, today’s report showed. The cost of
intermediate goods such as  car engines  and steel advanced 5.7
percent, while capital goods including equipment and machinery
were 1.6 percent more expensive. Prices of durable  consumer
goods  rose 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  