-- 
Texas Rangers Defeat Tampa Bay 4-3 to Take 2-1 Lead in AL Playoff Series

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-04T05:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/texas-rangers-defeat-tampa-bay-4-3-to-take-2-1-lead-in-al-playoff-series.html
The  Detroit Tigers  won 5-4 to move
within one victory of ending the  New York  Yankees’ Major League
Baseball season.  Delmon Young hit a solo home run off Yankees reliever
Rafael Soriano in the bottom of the seventh inning to snap a 4-4
tie last night at Comerica Park in Detroit. Young’s homer came
after the Yankees scored two runs in the top of the inning
against  Justin Verlander .  Derek Jeter  struck out against Jose Valverde with the
potential tying run on second base to end the game. The Tigers
have won consecutive games in the best-of-five American League
Division Series after a 9-3 loss in Game 1.  “This team has a never-say-die attitude,” Verlander, who
had 11 strikeouts and threw 120 pitches over eight innings, said
in a televised interview. “We’ve done it all year.”  Detroit  hosts Game 4 today and with a victory would advance
to the AL Championship Series for the first time since 2006. A
win by the Yankees would force a decisive fifth game on Oct. 6
in New York.  The  Texas Rangers  beat the Tampa Bay Rays 4-3 yesterday to
take a 2-1 lead in their AL first-round series.  The Rangers trailed 1-0 before scoring all their runs in
the seventh inning at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg,
 Florida . Mike Napoli hit a two-run home run and Josh Hamilton
added a two-run single for Texas, which has also won two in a
row after losing its series opener.  Game 4 Matchups  Tampa Bay hosts Game 4 today, when pitcher Jeremy Hellickson starts for the Rays against the Rangers’ Matt Harrison.  Texas  would return to the AL Championship Series with
a victory, while a Rays victory sends the teams back to
Arlington, Texas, for a decider on Oct. 6.  The Yankees turn to pitcher A.J. Burnett today to keep
their season alive, while the Tigers will start Rick Porcello.  Both National League playoff series continue today, with
the  St. Louis Cardinals  hosting the  Philadelphia Phillies  and
the  Milwaukee Brewers  visiting the  Arizona Diamondbacks .  The Cardinals and Phillies split their first two games in
Philadelphia, while the Brewers are seeking a sweep after
winning the first two games in Milwaukee.  Pitcher Cole Hamels will start for the Phillies against the
Cardinals’ Jaime Garcia, who is 2-1 with a 1.20 earned run
average in six career starts against Philadelphia. Shaun Marcum
makes his first postseason start for the Brewers and will be
opposed by Arizona’s Josh Collmenter, who didn’t allow a run in
14 innings against  Milwaukee  this season.  Yankees’ Early Lead  The Yankees jumped out to a 2-0 first-inning lead against
Verlander last night as  Curtis Granderson  drove in Jeter with a
triple and scored on a groundout.  Verlander and the Yankees’ CC Sabathia started three days
after rain scrapped their Game 1 matchup after 1 1/2 innings.  Sabathia walked four of the first six batters he faced, yet
escaped trouble with double plays in both the first and second
innings. The Tigers tied the game in the third and took the lead
on Ramon Santiago’s run-scoring double in the fifth.  Jhonny Peralta drove in Detroit’s fourth run with a sixth-
inning double and was the next-to-last batter faced by Sabathia,
who allowed seven runs and a season-high six walks over 5 1/3
innings.  Yankees Tie  The Yankees pulled even in the seventh on  Brett Gardner ’s
two-out, two-run double. Soriano immediately gave the lead back,
allowing the go-ahead homer to Young, the second batter he faced
in the bottom of the inning.  Verlander was the winning pitcher, allowing six hits and
four runs over eight innings. Valverde closed out the Yankees in
the ninth to record the save, his 50th this year after leading
the majors with 49 in the regular season. After issuing two
walks, he struck out Jeter on a high fastball.  Jeter has six strikeouts in 15 at-bats this postseason,
while Mark Teixeira and  Alex Rodriguez  are a combined 1-for-21
in the series.  “We have to give A.J. some runs,” Yankees designated
hitter  Jorge Posada  told reporters. “We just have to stay
positive and grind some at-bats out. We’re looking forward to
it.”  The Rangers were held scoreless for six innings by Rays
starting pitcher David Price before Napoli, who had 30 homers
this season, put Texas ahead.  ‘Year of the Napoli’  “This is the year of the Napoli, man,” Rays manager Joe Maddon said. “He is just hot.”  Hamilton drove in two more runs for the AL West champions
in the inning with his single off reliever J.P. Howell. Colby Lewis was the winning pitcher for the Rangers after allowing one
hit -- a solo homer by Desmond Jennings -- in six innings.  The Rays scored single runs in the seventh and eighth
innings, with Desmond Jennings hitting his second homer of the
game to make it 4-3.  Tampa Bay  had runners on second and third
base in the eighth before Ben Zobrist struck out to end the
threat. Rangers reliever Neftali Feliz, who struck out Zobrist,
then got the final three outs, including a double-play groundout
to end the game.  “It was three of the toughest innings that we experienced
all year,” Rangers manager Ron Washington said. “You had two
ball clubs out there that never quit playing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  