-- 
Fannie Mae Delayed Acting on Loan-Paperwork Abuse, Watchdog Says

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-10-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/fannie-delayed-acting-on-mortgage-paperwork-woes-watchdog-says.html
Fannie Mae  waited for two years
before acting on a tip from one of its shareholders about abuses
by lawyers handling the mortgage firm’s foreclosures, a
government watchdog reported.  The inspector general of the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , which oversees Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , released a
report today on outside law firms hired by the government-
sponsored firm to handle mortgage defaults.  Among other things, the report said, Fannie Mae didn’t act
on the December 2003 allegation from an unidentified shareholder
until it hired a law firm two years later to look into the
matter. In May 2006, the law firm reported to Fannie Mae that
Florida-based foreclosure attorneys were “routinely filing
false pleadings and affidavits.” Fannie Mae didn’t notify its
regulator of the findings, according to the inspector general.  State attorneys general and federal regulators have been
investigating whether banks and mortgage servicers used false
documents and signatures, a practice known as robo-signing, to
justify foreclosures as they coped with millions of defaults in
the collapse of the subprime mortgage market in 2008. Settlement
talks among the states, the  Justice Department  and banks have
been under way for most of the year.  The inspector general’s report was prompted by a request
from Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
The inspector general found that the FHFA didn’t conduct a
review of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s legal vendors until
late last year. Cummings in a letter dated today called the
FHFA’s failure to oversee the law firms “a breach of the public
trust.”  The FHFA “needs to boost its capacity to identify new and
emerging areas of risk,” the inspector general concluded.  Fannie Mae spokeswoman  Amy Bonitatibus  declined to comment
on the IG report. She said that Fannie Mae’s internal 2006
report “identified a specific issue with the practice of filing
lost note affidavits, which was immediately addressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 