-- 
Gross Favors Safe Sovereigns With Risk of Recession Rising

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i s a   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-10-04T20:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/fearing-recession-gross-favors-safe-sovereigns.html
Bill Gross , the manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, said that he favors investing in so-
called safe sovereign debt of nations that have the ability to
raise monetary stimulus as the risk of recession increases.  Debt of the U.S.,  Germany , the U.K.,  Australia , France and
 Canada  are attractive, Gross, founder of Pacific Investment
Management Co., said today in a Bloomberg Television interview
with Lisa Murphy. The odds of recession in developed economies
is about 50 percent, with the U.S. on the “brink” and the
euro-region already experiencing negative growth, he said.  “Markets these days give mild signs of a collapse,” Gross
said. “This is one of those times where you are worried about
the return of your money.”  The global economy risks lapsing into recession with the
pace of growth falling below the “new normal” level the firm
has predicted since 2009, Gross said in a monthly outlook posted
on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s website yesterday.
Pimco predicted after 2008 market collapse that the  U.S. economy 
would grow at a below-average pace for several years as
unemployment stayed elevated and the “heavy hand of
government” would be evident in markets.  “You want to look for countries with relatively clean
balance sheets, with AAA types of ratings, and with the ability
importantly to print money,” Gross said.  ‘Few Options’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that
the central bank stands ready to take additional steps to boost
U.S. growth and cautioned lawmakers against budget moves that
would harm a “sluggish” recovery signaling the Fed may not be
finished after attempts in August and September to strengthen
record monetary stimulus with unconventional tools.  Bernanke “knows that there are very few options that he
has as Fed chairman going forward,” said Gross. The Fed and the
European  Central bank  should work to increase the amount of
credit available in the economy to go along with their efforts
to decrease the cost of credit, he said.  “The private sector is delevering and the Fed should match
that delevering with a check of their own,” Gross said.  After eliminating Treasuries from his $242 billion Total
Return Fund in February because they were too expensive, Gross
increased his holdings in U.S. government securities to 16
percent as the debt posted the highest quarterly returns in
almost three years. Treasuries gained 6.4 percent in the third
quarter as investors sought refuge amid slowing growth and
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show.  The Total Return Fund has returned 0.95 percent in the past
year, beating 18 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the fund has
returned 7.8 percent on average, topping 97 percent of rival
funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  