-- 
Finland Saves Face With Greek Collateral No One Else Wants

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-10-05T13:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/finland-saves-face-after-accepting-greek-collateral-deal-no-one-else-wants.html
Finland ’s victory in securing Greek
collateral saved the government’s face. It may fail to protect
Finnish taxpayers from the costs of funding the next bailout.  “The value of the deal is in the eye of the beholder,”
Ville Pernaa, head of the Center for Parliamentary Studies at
the University or Turku, west of Helsinki, said in an interview.
“But this isn’t really what Finland sought to begin with.”  The northernmost euro member’s insistence it get collateral
had threatened to derail  Europe ’s crisis-management efforts and
spread disgruntlement as other euro nations sought similar
terms. Finland, one of only six AAA rated euro members, was
forced to abandon a bilateral deal with  Greece  granting it cash
collateral, and has instead been cornered into accepting an
arrangement that renders its claims junior to a number of other
creditors.  The government’s failure to deliver a better deal to
Finland’s bailout-weary voters may fuel support for the
country’s euro-skeptic bloc, already the third-biggest in the
parliament.  “The Finns” party, whose leader  Timo Soini  says Greece
should be allowed to default and calls the euro a failed
experiment, is the country’s second-most popular after Prime
Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s National Coalition party, according to
a Sept. 8 poll by newspaper  Helsingin Sanomat .  ‘Incessant’ Rhetoric  The watered-down collateral arrangement “is an incessant
source of rhetoric for Soini,” Pernaa said. “It makes it easy
for him to keep delivering the message that the system doesn’t
work.”  Under the accord, Greek bonds will be transferred from
Greek banks to a trustee, which will sell them and invest the
proceeds in AAA rated bonds with maturities of 15 to 30 years.  “The arrangement is sufficiently unattractive to ensure
that none of the other AAA rated countries will follow
Finland,” Morten Hessner, a senior analyst at Nykredit A/S in
Copenhagen, said in a note.  Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said she navigated a
“jungle” of hurdles in achieving a collateral accord “that
would be acceptable to all euro countries and that would of
course first and foremost be good from Finland’s point of
view,” at a meeting of European finance ministers in  Luxembourg 
yesterday.  Limited Protection  In exchange for the special treatment, Finland will speed
its payments into a planned permanent rescue fund and forgo a
share of profits from loans granted by the European Financial
Stability Facility. Collateral wouldn’t cover its entire Greek
exposure. In the event of default, it couldn’t cash in on the
collateral until Greece’s official loans mature, a wait that
might last 30 years.  Finland won’t be protected from losses if Greek bonds
suffer a haircut bigger than 40 percent, said Pasi Kuoppamaeki,
chief economist at Sampo Bank, a unit of Danske Bank A/S, in
Helsinki. “A 40 percent haircut isn’t big enough to bring
Greece’s debt ratio to a level markets find credible,” he said.
“Greek bonds need a 50 percent haircut or more.”  The financial structure behind Finland’s collateral deal is
“complicated,” said EFSF Chief Executive Officer Klaus Regling, who brokered the arrangement. He and Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said Finland is the only country likely to
take advantage of it.  ‘No Clue’  The compromise shows “even the people with the money have
no clue what to do,” Peter Tchir, founder of hedge fund TF
Market Advisors in  New York , said by e-mail.  “Until Europe is willing to address the reality of the
situation and take some simple but painful steps rather than
complex, unworkable ones that sound good but do nothing, the
problems will increase,” Tchir said.  Finland’s 10-year bond yields jumped seven basis points,
the most in a week, to 2.26 percent today. Two-year yields
gained four basis points to 0.61 percent. The euro lost 0.3
percent to 1.3304 against the dollar as of 2:04 p.m. in  London .  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said the
Netherlands is unlikely to request any collateral. Austrian
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said the model isn’t “so
attractive” for her country.  “Over the summer and autumn, Finnish politicians have
gradually come to the conclusion that it’s not possible to hit
the jackpot at the expense of other euro countries,” Pernaa
said. “This is more of an escape clause.”  Finland’s Reputation  Katainen’s six-party government has had to balance Finnish
voter resentment over funding more bailouts against the risk of
damaging the Nordic country’s standing as a responsible member
of the euro area. The collateral spat “will leave a mark on
Finland’s reputation” in the union, Katainen said yesterday.  Finance Minister Urpilainen, whose Social Democrat Party
had pushed hardest for the collateral, said the episode won’t
“leave any permanent mark on Finland’s reputation,” at a press
briefing with reporters in Helsinki today. “Quite the opposite
in fact. Each country has its own important goals and defends
its national interests.”  The difference between Finland’s 10-year government bond
yield and yields on similar maturity German bunds was little
changed today at 47 basis points. That’s the second-narrowest
spread in the euro area after the Netherlands.  The country’s share of the second Greek rescue is 1.94
percent of the total estimated euro members’ contribution of 73
billion euros ($96 billion) to be made through the EFSF. The
Nordic nation gave Greece a 1.5 billion-euro bilateral loan in
the first bailout.  “Finland has spent a lot of political capital in pushing
this collateral deal,” Kuoppamaeki said. “That may make it
hard in the future for Finland to get what it wants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  