-- 
Canada’s Flaherty Says G-20 Not Planning Emergency Measures

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-10-04T14:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/flaherty-says-g-20-not-preparing-emergency-measures.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  said the Group of 20 countries aren’t preparing
emergency measures to deal with a European debt crisis that can
be tackled internally.  Flaherty, speaking to reporters in Ottawa, said European
countries need to get ahead of financial markets with a large
enough rescue fund for debt-saddled governments.  “We have advocated for flexibility with respect to the
size of the facility that the eurozone has agreed to create, and
we think that’s important in order to have the eurozone in a
position where it can overwhelm the situation,” Flaherty said.  Flaherty today introduced legislation to implement parts of
his 2011 budget that was approved by Parliament in June,
including measures that will give small businesses tax credits
for new hiring. The main opposition  New Democratic Party  has
called on Flaherty to take more steps to generate jobs.  Flaherty has said the government’s fiscal projections for
the current year remain consistent with forecasts even amid
indications the economy has slowed, pledging not to veer from
plans to balance  Canada ’s federal budget by 2014. The government
has benefited from higher revenue from personal income taxes and
a job market that is driving up employment insurance premium
receipts and reducing benefit payouts.  Flaherty said he expects the Canadian economy will grow
modestly, averting a recession.  “The lesson of  Greece  and some other countries in  Europe 
is that accumulating deficits and creating a large public debt
over time is the worst thing you can do to the economy and the
people of that country,” Flaherty said. “We have no intention
of going in that direction.”  Flaherty said it would take a “serious economic decline”
to trigger a change in Canadian fiscal policy.  “We have not seen that to date,” Flaherty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  