-- 
Flowserve Converges With McCormick as Buffett Targets: Real M&A

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-10-04T20:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/flowserve-converges-with-mccormick-as-targets-using-buffett-math-real-m-a.html
While Warren Buffett’s new favorite
investment is Berkshire Hathaway Inc., his almost $50 billion
pile of cash may be better spent buying companies from  Flowserve
Corp. (FLS)  to McCormick & Co.  Berkshire is generating more than $1 billion in free  cash
flow  a month, pushing reserves to a record, even as Buffett
invests more in equities than at any other time this year. With
near zero percent interest rates limiting returns in fixed-
income markets, Flowserve, the biggest maker of valves, pumps
and seals, McCormick, the largest U.S. spice seller, and 29
other companies are cheaper than Berkshire based on its discount
to net assets and meet the takeover criteria in Buffett’s annual
letter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 81-year-old chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
said last week he would repurchase stock for the first time in
four decades as long as it sold for less than 1.1 times book
value, 29 percent less than its decade-long average. While Oscar
Gruss & Son Inc. says the plan may have signaled the world’s
most successful investor is finding fewer takeover opportunities
after agreeing to spend $9 billion on Lubrizol Corp. in March,
the global stock selloff is now making it cheaper for Buffett to
find deals, according to Highmark Capital Management Inc.  “His gun is loaded,” Todd Lowenstein, who helps oversee
$17.2 billion at Highmark, said in a telephone interview from
 Los Angeles . Flowserve and McCormick are “extremely well
positioned. He would be attracted to their competitive
positioning and market share. So this is the time when I’d
expect him to put money to work,” he said.  Buyback Plan  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Berkshire has preferred to use its profits to buy companies
and securities issued by others. Since Buffett took control of
the failing textile manufacturer in 1965, “not a dime of cash”
has been spent on buybacks or dividends, the billionaire told
investors in his annual  letter  published in February.  While Buffett began buying his own stock and plowing $4
billion into common shares of other companies last quarter,
Berkshire may still need acquisitions to help reduce the record
$47.9 billion in cash it held at the end of June, according to
 Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at Security Global
Investors in Irvington, New York.  “It definitely makes sense to expect a firm like Berkshire
to make acquisitions,” he said in a telephone interview.  Buffett Criteria  Buffett prefers “simple” businesses with pretax profit
exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power and “good”
returns on equity while employing little or no debt, according
to his report. He has shifted his takeover strategy as Berkshire
has grown to focus on “capital intensive businesses,” such as
power producers and railroads, which require consistent
investment in infrastructure and equipment.  There are 31 companies in developed and emerging markets
with equity values from $3 billion to $20 billion that trade at
a discount of more than 30 percent to their 10-year average
price-book ratios; averaged a return on invested capital in the
past five years that exceeds 10 percent; had capital expenses
accounting for at least 10 percent of their net fixed assets;
generated profit growth in the past five years that ranked in
the top 50 percent; and sold for a lower price-earnings ratio
over that span than the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index or MSCI Emerging
Markets Index median, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  So-called value investors such as Buffett also purchase
companies when their stock prices are low by historical
standards when compared with earnings.  Empire Building  Berkshire, which had a market value of $174 billion
yesterday, fell to $100,000 a share for the first time in almost
two years on Sept. 22. Four days later, it announced the
buyback. Today, shares of Berkshire jumped 4.3 percent to
$110,300 in New York.  The company, which employs more than 250,000 people, owns
insurers including Geico and  General Re , as well as more than 60
other companies ranging from food distributor McLane Co. and
clothing-maker Fruit of the Loom to toolmaker Iscar Metalworking
Cos. and utility MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.  Last month, Berkshire also completed its purchase of
Lubrizol, the company’s second-largest since 2006. Wickliffe,
Ohio-based Lubrizol, the world’s largest producer of lubricant
additives, was one of the American companies that met the
acquisition criteria when its takeover was announced, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This time around, U.S. companies accounted for almost half
the total that passed, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Flowserve of Irving,  Texas , is valued at 1.66 times its
assets minus liabilities, versus its average multiple of 2.64
times its book value in the past decade.  Valves, Pumps and Seals  Net income has climbed 87 percent in the past five years
and analysts estimate earnings will jump to a record next year,
the data show. The stock has slumped 41 percent this year,
leaving it with a market value of less than $4 billion.
Flowserve’s shares advanced 5 percent to $73.47 today.  While Flowserve faces competition from other makers of
valves, pumps and seals, the company has an advantage because
it’s the only one that produces all three, said Hamzah Mazari, a
New York-based analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG. He estimates
Flowserve’s stock will more than double to $150 within a year.  Demand for water and petroleum-related products is unlikely
to diminish over time, which also benefits Flowserve because it
specializes in pumping and filtration services, according to
 Harry Rady , chief executive officer of Rady Asset Management
LLC, a  La Jolla , California-based hedge fund firm.  “It’s definitely a Buffett-type of stock,” Rady, who
oversees $260 million, said in a telephone interview.
“Buffett’s looking for long-term secular trends in a business
that’s got a defensible position. Anything related to water has
long-term secular trends at its back basically forever.”  Allspice to Turmeric  Steve Boone, a spokesman at Flowserve, didn’t respond to
telephone or e-mail messages seeking comment.  McCormick , which sells everything from allspice to marjoram
leaves and turmeric, is the largest seller of spices in the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which has boosted per-share earnings for nine
straight years and beaten analysts’ estimates in the past six,
has a “dominant brand” of spices that is more appealing to
chefs than those of its store-brand competitors, according to
Tim Ghriskey, who oversees $2 billion as chief investment
officer of Solaris Group LLC in  Bedford Hills ,  New York .  Annual sales at Sparks, Maryland-based McCormick, which
trades at a 36 percent discount to its average price-book ratio
over the past decade, have only declined twice since 1988,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘High Barriers’  “Buffett loves market leaders and often somewhat simple
businesses,” Ghriskey said in a telephone interview. McCormick
has a “high barrier to entry. The stock is particularly
inexpensive. It would certainly, at least on the surface, seem
to make a lot of sense for Buffett,” he said.  Lori Robinson, a spokeswoman for McCormick, said it doesn’t
comment on takeover speculation. Shares of McCormick gained 2.7
percent to $46.14 today.  Joy Global Inc. (JOYG)  is another industrial company that Buffett
may find attractive as he bets that the  U.S. economy  will skirt
a recession, according to  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at
 Fort Lee , New Jersey-based Palisade Capital Management LLC,
which manages $3.4 billion.  Milwaukee-based  Joy Global , which slumped 30 percent this
year through yesterday as concern over a global slowdown pushed
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to within 1 percent of a so-
called  bear market , trades at 11.2 times earnings. That’s 24
percent lower than its five-year average of 14.8 times.  The company, which competes mainly with  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
for sales in mining equipment, makes sense for Buffett because
he usually favors industries with only two or three major
competitors, according to Highmark’s Lowenstein.  Buying Opportunity  As one of the largest independent makers of underground
mining equipment, Joy Global had an average return on invested
capital approaching 50 percent over the past five years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the highest among companies
in the industrialized world that met Buffett’s criteria.  Joy Global’s stock rose 1.9 percent to $61.66 today.  Sandy McKenzie of Joy Global’s investor relations
department said that no one was available to comment.  “He’s really playing on a global recovery and certainly
Joy Global would be one of the names that would fit,” Palisade
Capital’s Veru said in a telephone interview. “Buffett likes to
be opportunistic. A guy like Buffett is going to take advantage
of that fear” of a slowdown in economic growth, he said.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 