-- 
Ford Adds 12,000 Hourly Jobs in U.S. Plants Under UAW Accord

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-10-04T14:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/ford-reaches-tentative-accord-with-union-on-contract-briefings-scheduled.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it has committed
to add 12,000 hourly jobs in its U.S. manufacturing plants by
2015 as part of a four-year tentative agreement with the  United
Auto Workers .  The figure includes 5,750 more UAW jobs than a previously
announced 6,250 hourly positions to be added by the end of 2012,
Executive Vice President  John Fleming  said at a news conference
in Dearborn, Michigan. Ford will be “in-sourcing” jobs from
Mexico,  China  and  Japan , the company said in a statement. The
union said it will release details later today.  The agreement is subject to a ratification vote by Ford’s
41,000 U.S. hourly workers.  General Motors Co. (GM)  workers approved
a new contract, the union said Sept. 28. The UAW said it’s still
negotiating with Chrysler Group LLC, which has extended the
deadline to reach a deal to Oct. 19.  “Ford wanted an agreement that gave them parity with GM
and Chrysler,” said Kristin Dziczek, a labor analyst with the
Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor,  Michigan . “This is
still a pretty sluggish recovery. Ford is doing financially well
now, but fortunes change very quickly in this industry.”  The UAW is negotiating contracts for 113,000 workers at
U.S. automakers for the first time since GM and Chrysler went
bankrupt in 2009. Workers at Ford, the only company to avoid
Chapter 11, have said they are seeking more from the automaker
they helped save. Only Ford workers can go on strike in these
negotiations because GM and Chrysler employees agreed not to
walk out as part of their U.S.-backed reorganizations.  Credit Rating  “This agreement recognizes that Ford would not have turned
the corner had it not been for the commitment and dedication of
its workers,” Jimmy Settles, the UAW vice president who
oversees the union’s Ford department, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services may raise Ford’s debt
ratings, depending on details of its UAW agreement. Ford’s
corporate credit rating is now BB-. It may be upgraded to BB+,
the highest non-investment grade, if the labor accord is
ratified and it “does not place Ford at a significant
disadvantage” to GM, the ratings company said Sept. 29. S&P
raised GM to BB+ from BB- because of its new contract.  The majority of the 12,000 jobs Ford is adding will be
workers making entry-level wages, said  Marcey Evans , a Ford
spokeswoman. Wages for those so-called Tier-2 workers have
started at about $14 an hour, half of what senior workers make.
Ford has said it has fewer than 100 UAW-represented workers
receiving the lower wage rate.  Labor Costs  “It’s our opportunity for bringing in new people,” said
Fleming, Ford’s manufacturing and labor chief. The jobs “will
help us with our overall labor costs by hiring in Tier-2
people.”  Ford had discussed adding as many as 10,000 jobs in the
U.S. as part of the talks, according to three people familiar
with the negotiations. As many as 4,000 of those jobs would be
related to making the Fusion midsize sedan, which is currently
made in Hermosillo,  Mexico , in the U.S., one of the people has
said.  “One of the areas we really concentrated on was jobs,”
said Marty Mulloy, Ford’s vice president of labor affairs, who
added that bargainers for both sides worked through the night to
complete details on the new hires.  Ford said it pledged to invest $16 billion in the U.S.,
including $6.2 billion for its plants in the country. Of the
amount going to U.S. factories, $1.4 billion was previously
announced for assembly plants in Missouri and  Kentucky , and two
factories that make batteries and transmissions in Michigan.  The company said it would defer to the UAW for the release
of additional details about new investments.  Mulally’s Role  UAW President  Bob King  has said a pay package Ford awarded
to Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  this year makes it more
difficult to get member support for a deal. Ford has said it
must lower hourly labor costs that are higher than those at GM
and Chrysler.  Mulally’s 2010 compensation rose 48 percent to $26.5
million. In addition, Ford rewarded Mulally in March with $56.6
million in stock for leading the automaker’s turnaround. King
called Mulally’s compensation “excessive” and “outrageous”
in a July interview with Bloomberg Television.  Mulally was involved in the talks “every day, often two
and three times a day,” while in Russia and  Asia  the past week
working on the company’s expansion plans there, Fleming said.  Workers at Ford also have filed an “equality of
sacrifice” grievance against the automaker after salaried
workers received raises, tuition assistance and 401(k) matches
last year. The two sides met with an arbitrator Sept. 15.  Ford’s Wages  Ford shares fell 22 cents, or 2.4 percent to $9.15 at 10:15
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Ford, based in Dearborn, has said it has the highest labor
costs of the three union-organized U.S. automakers, at $58 an
hour including benefits. Detroit-based GM’s labor costs are $56
an hour, according to the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann
Arbor . Chrysler has said its labor costs are about $50 an hour.  The second-largest U.S. automaker earned $4.95 billion in
the first half of the year, as fuel-efficient models like the
Fiesta subcompact attracted buyers. Ford’s U.S. light-vehicle
sales are up 11 percent this year through September, ahead of
the industrywide gain of 10 percent.  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two calendar years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The
automaker borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all
major assets including its blue oval logo as collateral. That
helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the
predecessors of GM and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.  Strike Allowed  The union agreed not to strike Chrysler or GM as part of
their U.S. government-backed bankruptcy reorganizations,
allowing unresolved differences to be settled in binding
arbitration. UAW members at Ford, which didn’t receive a U.S.
bailout, rejected a strike ban.  “Ford’s membership has proven they’ll turn an agreement
down, so they’ve got a track record,” Dziczek said today in a
phone interview. “There’s been a lot of talk and
dissatisfaction among the membership in public, but I think the
UAW leadership has a good read on what the membership wants, and
what they’ll accept and what they won’t.”  The new GM contract calls for boosting starting pay of
entry-level workers to at least $14.78 an hour from $14. That
wage rises to as much as $19.28 an hour by 2015 from a previous
maximum of $16.23.  GM’s labor costs will rise 1 percent a year under its new
contract, the smallest increase in four decades, GM said Sept.
28.  Signing Bonuses  GM agreed to pay a signing bonus of $5,000 for each union
member. Chrysler had balked at signing bonuses that high,
wanting its bonus to be about $3,500, according to two people
familiar with the discussions, who asked not to be identified
because the negotiations are private.  A raise for entry-level workers would be more costly at
Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler compared with GM or Ford. Chrysler,
with about 25,500 UAW-represented employees, has said it has at
least 12 percent of its workers at the entry-level rate while
the rest are senior workers who are paid about twice as much.  About 4 percent of GM’s U.S. hourly workers are paid the
entry-level wage, the UAW has said.  GM will offer buyout packages worth as much as $75,000 to
its roughly 10,000 skilled-trades workers, the UAW said in a
Sept. 20 briefing with reporters. Other employees eligible to
retire can take $10,000 to stop working within two years so that
GM can replace them with new hires at the lower wage rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  