-- 
Ford-UAW Deal Pays Hourly Workers $10,000 in 2011 Bonuses

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-10-04T20:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/ford-said-to-pay-uaw-members-9-700-in-bonuses-this-year-in-proposed-pact.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  will pay most of its
United Auto Workers-represented employees a $6,000 signing
bonus, $3,752 in profit sharing and a $250 “competitive bonus”
this year under a new four-year tentative agreement, the union
said in summaries today.  Workers with a year or less of service will get a $5,000
signing bonus, the union said in highlights of the agreement.
Ford will also make annual $1,500 payments to its UAW workers,
which replace cost-of-living adjustments. If Ford earned $5
billion annually, workers could receive $20,000 in profit
sharing payments during the term of the contract, the UAW said.  Ford committed to adding 12,000 hourly jobs in its U.S.
manufacturing plants by 2015 as part of the agreement, the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company said today in a statement. The
figure includes 5,750 more than the 6,250 hourly positions
previously announced to be added by the end of 2012, Executive
Vice President  John Fleming  said at a news conference.  “What they did at Ford is pattern plus,” said Kristin Dziczek, a labor analyst with the Center for Automotive
Research. “A lot of the core economic structure of the
agreement is the same” as the union’s accord with  General
Motors Co. (GM) , including the forgoing of raises for senior workers,
higher-pay for entry-level employees and annual checks in lieu
of cost-of-living adjustments.  Buyout Offers  Ford will offer buyouts of $100,000 for skilled-trades
employees and $50,000 for production workers, the union said. GM
offered as much as $75,000 for skilled-trades workers and
$10,000 to production employees. GM is giving a $5,000 signing
bonus and it isn’t pulling ahead the first-half profit sharing
payment as Ford is.  “When you don’t lead, you’re able to pick up some icing on
the cake in the contract,” UAW President  Bob King  told
reporters today of Ford following GM’s lead in negotiations.
“There’s a significant amount of icing” in the Ford agreement.  The tentative deal is subject to a ratification vote by
Ford’s 41,000 U.S. hourly workers, which the union said it plans
to complete by Oct. 16. The UAW said the national council’s vote
in favor of recommending the accord to locals wasn’t unanimous.  “I strongly believe we negotiated a contract the members
will be happy with,” King said. “Would they like fixed rate
increases? Sure they would. I’d like to give it to them, but
they know the competitive structure as well as I do.”  Fusion Plans  The automaker plans to invest $555 million to assemble the
Fusion midsize sedan at a plant in Flat Rock,  Michigan ,
according to the UAW. The factory will add a shift of workers
and make 175,000 to 200,000 Fusions each year, Jimmy Settles,
the UAW vice president who oversees the union’s Ford department,
said at the union’s news conference. The car will continue to be
made in Mexico, too, the UAW said.  The UAW is negotiating contracts for 113,000 workers at
U.S. automakers for the first time since GM and Chrysler Group
LLC went bankrupt in 2009. Workers at Ford, which avoided
Chapter 11, have said they are seeking more from the automaker
they helped save. Only Ford workers can go on strike in these
negotiations because GM and Chrysler UAW-represented employees
agreed not to walk out as part of their U.S.-backed
reorganizations.  “This agreement recognizes that Ford would not have turned
the corner had it not been for the commitment and dedication of
its workers,” Settles said today in an e-mailed statement.  Entry-Level Wage  The majority of the 12,000 jobs Ford is adding will be
workers making entry-level wages,  Marcey Evans , a Ford
spokeswoman, said today. Wages for those so-called Tier-2
workers have started at about $14 an hour, half of what senior
workers make. Ford has said it has fewer than 100 UAW-
represented workers receiving the lower wages.  “It’s our opportunity for bringing in new people,” said
Fleming, Ford’s manufacturing and labor chief. The jobs “will
help us with our overall labor costs by hiring in Tier-2
people.”  The entry-level wage will increase to as much as $19.28 an
hour by the end of the agreement and no more than 20 percent of
the workforce will be subject to those pay rates, the UAW said.
That matches the limit in GM’s agreement.  More Work  Ford will be “in-sourcing” jobs from  Mexico ,  China  and
 Japan , the company said today in a statement. In addition to the
Flat Rock plant, the company will add production of the Transit
commercial van in Claycomo,  Missouri ; the C-Max hybrid wagon and
plug-in in Wayne, Michigan; a medium-sized truck in Avon Lake,
 Ohio ; and an unnamed vehicle in Louisville,  Kentucky , according
to the UAW.  “One of the areas we really concentrated on was jobs,”
said Marty Mulloy, Ford’s vice president of labor affairs, who
added that bargainers for both sides worked through the night to
complete details on the new hires.  Ten engine and transmission factories and three stamping
plants also will receive investments, the union said today.  Ford shares rose 71 cents, or 7.6 percent, to $10.08 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services may raise Ford’s debt
ratings. Ford’s corporate credit rating is now BB-, and it may
be upgraded to BB+, the highest non-investment grade, if the
labor accord is ratified and it “does not place Ford at a
significant disadvantage” to GM, the ratings company said Sept.
29. S&P raised GM to BB+ from BB- because of its new contract.  Ford Investments  Ford said it pledged to invest $16 billion in the U.S.,
including $6.2 billion for its plants. Of the amount going to
factories, $1.4 billion was previously announced for assembly
plants in Missouri and Kentucky, and two factories that make
batteries and transmissions in Michigan.  King has said a pay package Ford awarded to Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  this year makes it more difficult to get
member support for a deal. Ford has said it must lower hourly
labor costs that are higher than those at GM and Chrysler.  Mulally’s 2010 compensation rose 48 percent to $26.5
million. In addition, Ford rewarded Mulally in March with $56.6
million in stock for leading the automaker’s turnaround. King
called Mulally’s compensation “excessive” and “outrageous”
in a July interview with Bloomberg Television.  Mulally was involved in the talks “every day, often two
and three times a day,” while in Russia and  Asia  the past week
working on the company’s expansion plans there, Fleming said.  UAW Grievance  Workers at Ford also have filed an “equality of
sacrifice” grievance against the automaker after salaried
workers received raises, tuition assistance and 401(k) matches
last year. The two sides met with an arbitrator Sept. 15, and
the UAW said today a hearing is scheduled Nov. 17 and Nov. 18.  Ford has said it has the highest labor costs of the three
union-organized U.S. automakers, at $58 an hour including
benefits. Detroit-based GM’s labor costs are $56 an hour,
according to the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan. Chrysler has said its labor costs are about $50 an
hour.  The UAW said it will be moving “quickly” to Chrysler,
which is majority-owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)  King would not say if he
expected to have a deal by Oct. 19, a deadline set by Chrysler
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne .  “I didn’t put any deadlines on us,” King said. “I’m
confident we can get a good deal with Chrysler.”  King on Marchionne  King disagreed with Marchionne’s contention that Chrysler
can’t follow the pattern of wages and benefits set by GM and
Ford.  “I respectfully believe that you can” follow the pattern
at Chrysler, King said. “We did not do everything lockstep at
GM and Ford because there are some differences. We’ll look at
the Chrysler situation. They’ve got some differences from Ford
and from General Motors in terms of demographics of the
membership. And we’ll figure out creative solutions together.”  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, earned $4.95
billion in the first half of the year, as fuel-efficient models
like the Fiesta subcompact attracted buyers. Ford’s U.S. light-
vehicle sales are up 11 percent this year through September,
ahead of the industrywide gain of 10 percent.  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two calendar years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The
automaker borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all
major assets including its blue oval logo as collateral. That
helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the
predecessors of GM and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.  Ford’s UAW Membership  UAW members at Ford rejected a strike ban and additional
concessions in November 2009.  “Ford’s membership has proven they’ll turn an agreement
down, so they’ve got a track record,” said Dziczek. “There’s
been a lot of talk and dissatisfaction among the membership in
public, but I think the UAW leadership has a good read on what
the membership wants, and what they’ll accept and what they
won’t.”  GM’s labor costs will rise 1 percent a year under its new
contract, the smallest increase in four decades, GM said Sept.
28. Ford’s Fleming and Mulloy declined to give details today
about their tentative agreement’s affect on the company’s costs.  King said the deal does not raise fixed costs at Ford.  “We believe that raising the fixed costs would be unfair
and uncompetitive for Ford, General Motors and Chrysler,” King
said. “If we’re going to succeed in the long run and really be
able to have long-run security and decent income for our
membership, we can’t put Ford, GM and Chrysler at a competitive
disadvantage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  