-- 
Hungary Forint Falls to 2 1/2-Year Low on Europe, Debt Concern

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-04T16:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/forint-falls-to-2-1-2-year-low-stocks-drop-on-euro-area-concern.html
The forint weakened for a fifth day
against the euro to its lowest since April 2009 and  Hungary ’s
credit risk rose on concern the European credit crisis will
worsen, hampering government efforts to reduce its debt.  The forint fell as much as 1.1 percent to 300.15 per euro
and depreciated 1 percent by 5:45 p.m. in Budapest, extending
losses in the second half of the year to 11 percent, the most
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The cost of insuring against a default by Hungary
climbed to the highest since March 2009.  European finance ministers meeting yesterday considered
“technical revisions” to a July deal for a second Greek
bailout, fueling concern bondholders may have to take bigger
losses on the nation’s debt. Borrowing costs for Hungary, the
most-indebted eastern member of the European Union, rose to the
highest in two years at a Treasury-bill auction today.  “The euro area remains at the center of worries after
leaders didn’t make much progress in controlling the worsening
debt crisis at yesterday’s summit,” Zoltan Reczey and Zsigmond
Gelencser, analysts at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt. in Budapest,
wrote in a research report today.  Hungary today sold a planned 30 billion forint ($133
million) of three-month Treasury bills today at an average yield
of 6.04 percent, the highest cost for that maturity since
October 2009, according to the state’s Debt Management Agency.  Default Risk  Five-year credit-default swaps jumped 25 basis points to
575, according to data provider CMA. Credit swaps rise as
perceptions of creditworthiness worsen.  Hungary, the first European Union country to get a bailout
led by the  International Monetary Fund  in 2008, said yesterday
it wants to restructure the 180 billion forint of debt amassed
by the nation’s 19 counties.  The restructuring may be classified as a default which
“might carry a negative message for creditors and credit
rating” companies when assessing Hungary’s sovereign debt,
Janos Samu, an analyst at Concorde Securities in Budapest, wrote
in a note to clients today.  Hungary, which is rated at the lowest investment-grade
ranking by  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings, had public debt of 80 percent of gross domestic
product at the end of 2010. Moody’s said last week that
Hungary’s passage in September of a law allowing repayment of
foreign-currency mortgages at fixed exchange rates, with banks
absorbing losses, set “a worrying precedent” and is “credit
negative.”  “These measures are of course an additional negative for
the forint in a world that is already plagued by  risk aversion 
hitting emerging markets in general,”  Elisabeth Andreew , a
Copenhagen-based strategist at Nordea Bank AB, wrote in an e-
mail to clients today.  Hungary’s BUX index rose 0.4 percent to 15,574.59,
rebounding from a 2.4 percent decline, after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank stands ready
to take additional steps to boost growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  