-- 
Fortune Brands Home Tumbles on First Trading Day After Spinoff

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-10-04T15:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/fortune-brands-home-tumbles-on-first-trading-day-after-spinoff.html
Fortune Brands Home & Security Inc.,
the maker of Moen faucets and Master Lock padlocks, fell as much
as 10 percent on its first trading day following its spinoff by
Fortune Brands Inc.  The shares declined 57 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $11.73 at
11:33 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after
earlier dropping as much as $1.25. The stock now trades under
the symbol FBHS.  The separation of Fortune’s home business comes after
purchases of new houses sank in August to a six-month low. The
company can operate profitably in this environment after cutting
costs and introducing new products such as  Martha Stewart  Living
kitchen cabinets at  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , Chief Executive Officer
Chris Klein said yesterday in an interview.  “Some look at us and say there is huge upside in the
business,” Klein, 48, said by telephone. “Others might say now
is not the time.”  U.S. housing starts will fall below 600,000 in 2011 for the
third straight year, compared with a 50-year average of 1.5
million starts, Klein said. Spending on home repair and
renovation is growing about 2 percent a year, or less than half
of historic levels, he said.  “Eventually we will return to a market that looks
robust,” Klein said. “We’ve been in this kind of market for
three years.”  Analyst Coverage  Fortune announced last year that it would split into
separate businesses and focus on distilled spirits after
activist investor  William Ackman  acquired a stake. The
Deerfield, Illinois-based company sold its Titleist golf unit
for $1.23 billion earlier this year.  Peter Lisnic, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in
 Chicago , initiated coverage of Fortune Brands today with a
“neutral” rating. Expansion into new businesses that may
generate $200 million to $300 million is slowed by “the slope
of the recovery in the company’s primary end markets,” Lisnic
wrote in a note to investors today.  Beam Inc., which also became a separately traded company,
advanced $1.51, or 3.6 percent, to $43.41 on the New York Stock
Exchange. Its ticker is BEAM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  