-- 
Fossil-Fuel Subsidies May Rise to $660 Billion, IEA Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-10-04T10:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/fossil-fuel-subsidies-may-rise-to-660-billion-iea-says-1-.html
Fossil-fuel subsidies may rise to
$660 billion in 2020 from $409 billion in 2010, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  The biggest payers of subsidies are energy producers Iran,
Saudi Arabia and  Russia , the IEA and Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said today at a presentation of a
joint study. The report recommends changing the subsidies to
curb  government spending  and reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.  “Making energy cheap means we use fuel in a wasteful
manner,”  Fatih Birol , the IEA’s chief economist, said in Paris.
“Without reforms, subsidies will increase to about 0.7 percent
of global gross domestic product.”  The poorest 20 percent of the population got 8 percent of
the $409 billion last year, Birol said. More than 1 billion
people in the world have no access to power and these subsidies
aren’t getting to them, he said.  “The subsidies are going to the middle and upper
classes,” OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria said. “This
analysis is shouting that change is needed.”  The support compares with $57 billion in 2009 for renewable
sources, including  wind turbines , wave machines and solar
panels, rising to $110 billion in 2015, according to IEA figures
published last year. Higher subsidies for fossil fuels that emit
carbon dioxide may undermine efforts to deal with climate
change.  “If there is a well-executed phase-out it will induce more
efficient consumption,” Maria van der Hoeven, IEA executive
director, said in Paris. “The time of cheap energy is over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  