-- 
France Makes Two Changes, Samoa Center Gets Rugby Ban: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-04T04:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/france-makes-two-changes-samoa-center-gets-rugby-ban-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of stories
from the 2011  Rugby World Cup  in  New Zealand .  France  Changes Two  France made two changes for its quarterfinal against
England on Oct. 8 in Auckland, retaining 13 players who started
the upset loss to Tonga three days ago.  Nicolas Mas returns from injury to replace Luc Ducalcon at
tighthead prop and Imanol Harinordoquy comes in at No. 8 for
Raphael Lakafia. Morgan Parra, who plays his club rugby at
scrum-half, was again selected at fly-half ahead of specialist
No. 10 Francois Trinh-Duc.  France, which lost to England in the semifinals of the 2003
and 2007 World Cups, takes a two-game losing run into the last
eight after also getting beaten by the All Blacks in pool play.  “I am the first to have regrets, but now we are in this
difficult situation we have to react,” France coach Marc
Lievremont said in comments distributed by tournament organizers.
“The essential thing is that the players must take
responsibility.”  Samoan Suspended  Samoa center Eliota Fuimaono Sapolu was suspended from all
rugby after failing to appear at a misconduct hearing for
criticizing a referee on Twitter, tournament organizer Rugby
 World Cup  Ltd. said.  Fuimaono Sapolu was ordered to appear at a hearing today
for alleged breaches of the Rugby World Cup code of conduct
after labeling Welsh referee Nigel Owens “biased” following
Samoa’s 13-5 loss to  South Africa  on Sept. 30. He had already
been warned about remarks posted on his  Twitter account  earlier
in the tournament.  “The judicial officer determined that, due to the player’s
failure to attend the hearing, he would adjourn the case to an
appropriate time when he would face the charges against him,”
Rugby World Cup Ltd. said in a statement. “Pending the holding
of such hearing he ordered that Fuimaono Sapolu be provisionally
suspended from all participation in the game of rugby union.”  Mouthguard Fine  England  center Manu Tuilagi was fined NZ$10,000 ($7,541) by
the International Rugby Board for wearing a branded mouthguard,
the  Guardian newspaper  reported, citing a Rugby Football Union
spokesman it didn’t identify.  Tuilagi, whose older brother Alesana was sanctioned last
week for the same offense, wore a guard bearing a sponsor’s name
during England’s pool games against Argentina and  Georgia  in
Dunedin, the newspaper said.  Manu Tuilagi, 20, denied the incident was part of an
orchestrated ambush marketing campaign.  “We always wear the same mouthguard,” the Guardian cited
him as saying. “There is branding on the front of it. Before
the Romania game I colored it in with permanent marker. I also
wore it in the Argentina game but they didn’t know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  