-- 
France to Keep Fracking Ban to Protect Environment, Sarkozy Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-10-04T14:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/france-to-press-ahead-with-shale-research-after-fracking-ban.html
France  will maintain a ban on
fracking until there is proof that shale gas exploration won’t
harm the environment or “massacre” the landscape, President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  “Development of hydrocarbon resources underground is
strategic for our country but not at any price,” Sarkozy said
during a visit to Ales in southern France. “This won’t be done
until it has been shown that technologies used for development
respect the environment, the complex nature of soil and water
networks.”  The French government plans to revoke shale permits,
including one held by  Total SA (FP) , because of concerns over the
environmental repercussions of hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, which was made illegal in July. This process, widely
used in  North America , involves pumping water and chemicals into
rock to release gas.  The government is in the process of canceling the
Montelimar permit held by Total and the Nant and Villeneuve-de-
Berg licenses granted to Schuepbach Energy LLC, according to a
statement yesterday from the environment and industry
ministries. Lawmakers voted to make fracking illegal last June,
making France the first country in the world with such a ban.  ‘Massacre’ of Mountains  Development of shale gas reserves in these regions could
come “at the price of fragmenting the soil that would massacre
the almost spiritual scenery” of the Causses and Cevennes
mountain landscape, which was added as a UNESCO’s world heritage
site in June, Sarkozy said today.  Ales, where Sarkozy made his speech, is at the foot of the
Cevennes mountains in the Gard department, which borders
Aveyron, where European Green party lawmaker and prominent anti-
fracking campaigner Jose Bove is based.  “We had to cancel the permits but research must
continue,” Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said earlier on
iTele television. “All big developed countries are trying to
find non-polluting technologies to develop this incredible
resource.”  Describing fracking as “potentially toxic,” she said
France needs “alternative energies and shale gas is one of
them.”  Total,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil company, had urged the
government to allow it to push ahead with exploring Montelimar
without using fracking. The company said it would use
conventional exploration methods to evaluate the potential of
the permit and did “not envisage the use of the hydraulic
fracturing technique.”  Awaiting Notification  “We have had no official notification about the future of
this permit,” Total spokeswoman Sandra Dante said by telephone.
“We are waiting for this information to see the legal basis of
the decision to revoke the permit.”  Total’s report to the French administration on exploration
plans for the permit “contained no ambiguity” that the company
would not use fracking, she said.  Schuepbach’s press service didn’t immediately respond to a
message requesting comment left on its answering machine.  Total is producing natural gas from U.S. shale. The French
company entered the business last year when it agreed to pay
$800 million for 25 percent of Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s assets
in the Barnett Shale field in  Texas . Total also plans to develop
unconventional gas in Algeria, Argentina,  Australia ,  Canada ,
 China , Denmark and Poland, company executives have said. Total
is now readying to start drilling in Argentina.  Conventional Deposits  In addition to Total and Schuepbach, companies including
 Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET)  and  Toreador Resources Corp. (TRGL)  hold permits
in the Paris Basin where they planned to explore for shale oil.
Vermilion had already drilled a well using fracking technology.  Out of a total of 64 exploration permits in France, the
holders of 61 have now said they won’t look for shale oil and
gas or will limit their operations to conventional deposits, the
government said yesterday. Anyone caught using hydraulic
fracturing in France faces fines and prison under the ban.  The world will need to move beyond traditional fields to
ensure energy security, the  International Energy Agency  said.  “Development of unconventional gas is welcome,” IEA Chief
Economist  Fatih Birol  said today at a press conference in Paris.
“Shale gas can be produced in a sustainable way without harming
the environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  