-- 
French Government Urges Renault to Intervene in Supplier Strike

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-10-04T17:24:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/french-government-urges-renault-to-intervene-in-supplier-strike.html
The French government,  Renault SA (RNO) ’s
biggest shareholder, urged the carmaker to intervene in a strike
at engine-parts supplier Montupet which may curb production.  “We have asked that Renault invite its supplier to show
more responsibility,” Industry Minister Eric Besson said today
in the National Assembly, the French parliament’s lower house.
“We won’t be letting Renault turn a blind eye.”  Workers at Montupet, which provides more than 70 percent of
cylinder heads for Renault’s engines and also supplies PSA
Peugeot Citroen, are staging a five-week strike at the Ingrandes
plant in western  France  in protest at plans to cut wages.  Renault expects no impact on output “in the short term,” a
spokesman said by phone. Both it and Peugeot suffered severe
disruption from April’s Japanese earthquake and tsunami, and
several Peugeot plants lost additional days of production
because of a logistics problem at Agrati, a key supplier.  Renault has stockpiles of cylinder heads and can push sales
of unaffected engine models to make the inventory last longer,
the spokesman said, declining to elaborate on stock levels.  With President  Nicolas Sarkozy  trailing Socialist rivals in
opinion polls six months before elections, his center-right
government is keen to avoid plant closures and layoffs. The
state has a 15 percent stake in Renault and two board seats.  The carmaker sold off most French foundries more than a
decade ago before repurchasing two of them to improve quality
and secure supplies against industrial action. The CGT union,
which backs the strike, wants it to buy the Ingrandes plant.  “For the moment it’s unclear whether Renault already has
plans to shift production overseas or whether they will be
forced to intervene,” CGT spokesman Fabien Gache said by
telephone. “We know Renault will be experiencing parts
shortages, and some will begin to run out this week.”  The Ingrandes strike intensified after Oct. 30 talks in
which  Montupet (MON)  reiterated plans to cut basic pay by 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  