-- 
Federal Reserve Audit by GAO Finds Problems in Some Borrowers’ Collateral

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-10-04T16:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/gao-found-problems-in-some-fed-pledged-collateral-brown-says.html
An audit of the  Federal Reserve ’s
emergency lending programs found discrepancies in 2 percent of
the collateral pledged by borrowing institutions, an official
with the U.S. Government Accountability Office said today.  “Some of it was MBS,” or mortgage-backed securities,
Orice Williams Brown, managing director of financial markets and
community investment for the office, told a House subcommittee.
Still, “it cut across a wide variety of assets” and raised
questions about whether borrowers had appropriately priced the
collateral, she said.  The financial crisis, which began with the collapse of the
subprime mortgage market in 2007, exposed a lack of transparency
at the central bank that’s being mistaken for a need to remain
independent, the subcommittee’s chairman, Republican
presidential candidate  Ron Paul  of  Texas , said in opening
remarks. Today’s hearing focused on whether the Fed should still
be audited and the lessons learned from the GAO’s report.  “More people now are starting to realize the Fed is truly
not independent from influence,” the congressman said. “The
Federal Reserve has said that independence must be protected at
all costs. I usually think once there’s an emphasis on
independence, it means secrecy for the Fed.”  The GAO report, released in July, made seven
recommendations to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  for improving
central bank policies in areas that include conflicts of
interest, risk management, and transparency.  The audit “was a fairly big undertaking,” Brown told
lawmakers. While no “major concern” was found among the Fed’s
loans, the GAO “did point out some of the loans being made
raised issues about the collateral around the loans,” she said.  Paul, an advocate of limited government, has written a book
titled “End the Fed.” In 2010, the House passed his
legislation requiring audits of central bank interest-rate
decisions. The Senate rejected the measure, and Congress ended
up approving a compromise that required the disclosure of
details of the Fed’s emergency lending and monetary-policy
actions during the financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  