-- 
Geithner Says Banks Are Trying to Weaken Financial Overhaul

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-04T23:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/geithner-blames-banks-for-trying-to-weaken-financial-overhaul.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said banks are trying to weaken efforts to overhaul
financial regulation, and “we’re going to push back harder.”  “There’s nothing strange about the fact that the banks are
resisting it” Geithner said in an interview today on CNN
television. “In the end we’re going to prevail because what
we’re doing is a reasonable, sensible thing, which is to make
sure the economy is never again vulnerable to this degree of
basic abuse, mistakes, excessive risk taking.”  Geithner said bankers are “blaming reforms and the
government for everything” including the problems they
themselves were “essential to causing.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  joined rivals including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in
rolling out new charges for debit-card users as Dodd-Frank Act
rules imposed by the  Federal Reserve  take effect this month. The
limits may reduce annual revenue at the biggest U.S. banks by $8
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg Government show.  Geithner did not mention any banks by name in the excerpt
broadcast as a preview this afternoon.  The new rules cap the debit card fees banks charge
merchants at 21 cents, plus 5 basis points of the total and a
conditional 1 cent for fraud-prevention, replacing a formula
that averaged 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or about 44
cents.  Recession Odds  Geithner also said the possibility of a renewed recession
depends on how effective Europeans are in dealing with their
sovereign-debt crisis and Congress acting to improve growth.  Europe ’s “caused a lot of damage already, not just in
Europe, but around the world,” Geithner said. “And it could do
a lot more damage, if they don’t act effectively. But they’ve
effectively decided the key things, they’re not going to let the
euro break up.”  He added that what Europe hasn’t done yet is “put in place
the financial capacity to make that work.” Geithner said Europe
is going to move more quickly and with more force.  “They’re going do what they need to do to get their arms
around this,” Geithner said. “They haven’t done it yet.”  European finance ministers yesterday delayed a decision to
release  Greece ’s next loan installment until after Oct. 13. It
was the second postponement of a vote originally slated for
yesterday as part of the 110 billion-euro ($146 billion)
lifeline granted to Greece last year.  Growing Risk  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that
the U.S. faces growing risk from the European debt crisis and he
is concerned about the impact on American financial institutions
and the economy. He added that the direct risk to U.S. banks is
“not large” with somewhat larger exposures in money market
mutual funds.  “Market uncertainty about the resolution of the Greek
situation, about the broader resolution of both sovereign debt
issues and the European banking issues has created an enormous
amount of uncertainty and volatility in financial markets,”
Bernanke said at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee.
“And it’s through that volatility and indirect effects, I
think, that we’re being affected now.”  Geithner also urged passage of President Barack Obama’s
$447 billion American Jobs Act. He said there is “no credible
argument” the plan wouldn’t create jobs.  “People may have better ideas, but we have not seen a plan
that would do nearly as much for the economy and be as effective
in strengthening the economy, getting more Americans back to
work, that has any chance of passing,” he said.  Obama Speech  In  Texas  today, Obama made his sixth speech in less than a
month on the jobs package. Republicans have resisted the
president’s jobs deal, and some Democrats are concerned about
its viability. Senate Majority Whip  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois  has
said that there may not be enough votes in his chamber to pass
the legislation.  The administration says the plan would reduce payroll taxes
for employees and employers, extend jobless benefits, provide
$35 billion in aid to states to prevent as many as 280,000
teacher and first responder layoffs, add $30 billion for high
school and community college modernization and boost spending on
public works projects such as roads and bridges. It also would
provide tax breaks for new employers to hire the unemployed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  