-- 
Gene-Altered Foods Need Mandatory Labels, Coalition Tells FDA

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-04T21:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/gene-altered-foods-need-mandatory-labels-coalition-tells-fda.html
Genetically engineered corn, soy and
plant oil should be disclosed on mandatory food labels, a
coalition of more than 350 producers, trade groups and consumers
said in a petition to U.S. regulators.  The U.S. should require added disclosure even when a
product containing a gene-altered organism is similar to foods
that aren’t bioengineered, the groups said today in the  petition 
to the  Food and Drug Administration . Stonyfield Farm, the
organic-yogurt maker owned by  Danone (BN)  SA, and  Dean Foods Co. (DF) ’s
Horizon Organic are among the coalition members.  Petitioners, led by the Washington-based  Center for Food
Safety , want to reverse a 1992 Food and Drug Administration
 policy  that doesn’t require different labeling. Gene-altered
seeds are used for almost 90 percent of U.S.-grown corn, 94
percent of soy and 90 percent of cottonseed, an oil-producing
plant, the coalition said.  “Consumers ought to have the right to choose whether to be
buying these foods,” said Gary Hirshberg, chief executive
officer of Londonderry, New Hampshire-based Stonyfield Farm, in
an interview. “Polls show a vast majority of Americans say they
don’t want to eat genetically engineered foods.”  Stonyfield’s organic yogurt isn’t made with genetically
modified components, Hirshberg said. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture bars foods it certifies as organic from containing
such ingredients.  Voluntary Disclosure  Under current rules, foodmakers may voluntarily disclose
whether a product has gene-altered ingredients, as long as the
information is “truthful and not misleading,” said Siobhan DeLancey, an FDA spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Mandatory labels for gene-altered products would mislead
consumers “by falsely implying differences where none exist,”
said Jim Greenwood, president and CEO of the  Biotechnology
Industry Organization , a Washington trade group.  “Consumers don’t want confusing debates about food
politics,” said Greenwood in an e-mail. “Consumers want
wholesome food at an affordable price. Agricultural
biotechnology is one of the tools that ensures our  food supply 
is affordable, reliable and safe.”  Mandatory disclosure of bioengineered ingredients may
prompt consumers to choose traditionally made products, said
Molly Keveney, a spokeswoman for Broomfield, Colorado-based
Horizon Organic.  “The whole point of this campaign is to say this is about
consumer choice,” Keveney said in an interview. “This fits
very nicely with what our brand is all about.”  The Organic Trade Association in Brattleboro,  Vermont , the
National Cooperative Grocers Association in Iowa City,  Iowa , and
Washington-based Food & Water Watch are among other groups that
signed the petition to the FDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  