-- 
General Atlantic Studying Four India Acquisitions, Pandit Says

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-04T04:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/general-atlantic-studying-four-india-acquisitions-pandit-says.html
General Atlantic LLC, the U.S.
private equity firm that manages $17 billion, is studying four
acquisitions in  India  of as much as $200 million each, according
to Ranjit Pandit, its head of investments in the country.  The planned deals are in the Internet, logistics, financial
and infrastructure industries and will be “in the $100 million
to $200 million range,” Pandit said in an interview in  Mumbai 
yesterday.  General Atlantic, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , plans to
step up investment in India after a stock market rout reduced
valuations. The firm, which has typically spent about $50
million to $75 million per deal, will also look at acquisitions
of privately held companies, said Pandit.  “We are looking at actively pushing a lot of money into
India,” said Pandit. “We are looking to do fewer transactions
but bigger transactions.” He called deal sizes of $100 million
to $200 million the “sweet spot” for General Atlantic.  India’s private-equity market heated up this year as the
stocks slump shuttered the market for public equity and loans
got pricier, prompting companies to look for other sources of
capital. Private-equity firms have announced $5.52 billion of
deals in the country so far this year, up from $3.79 billion for
all of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  General Atlantic has invested about $900 million in India
since 2002. It owns stakes worth a combined $1.7 billion in
eight Indian companies, according to Pandit.  Deals Closing  Pandit said he expects two of the four deals the firm is
working on in the country will close this year, while the other
two will likely be completed in early 2012. The executive said
he may also consider deals of as much as $400 million in the
South Asian nation.  General Atlantic paid about $90 million for about 3.7
percent stake in  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB) , a privately owned lender
based in Mumbai. The stock is down 4.1 percent so far in 2011,
the third-best performance among 14 companies on the BSE Bankex
Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The private-equity firm’s total investment in IndusInd Bank
may reach  $100 million to $200 million, according to Pandit.  Pandit said General Atlantic may sell stakes in information
technology companies, without naming any of them. The firm owns
shares in companies including  Genpact Ltd. (G) ,  Hexaware
Technologies Ltd. (HEXW)  and  Infotech Enterprises Ltd. (INFTC)  General Atlantic
hasn’t decided whether to sell the holdings in public markets or
to other companies, said Pandit.  “If we look at our information technology portfolio in
India, without commenting on any specific company, it’s a group
of companies which we held for some time,” Pandit said. “We
may be reaching a point of diminishing return from them.”  He said Hexaware “has a lot of options and General
Atlantic will look at all those options,” without elaborating.  General Atlantic, founded in 1980, is setting up a
Singapore office, and is considering investing in  Vietnam ,
 Malaysia ,  Indonesia  and Taiwan, Pandit said. Abhay Havaldar, who
has been with the firm since 2002, will lead the Singapore
office, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  