-- 
AstraZeneca’s Brilique Had Added Benefit, German Agency Says

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-10-04T15:21:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/germany-says-astrazeneca-s-brilique-had-added-benefit-for-some.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Brilique blood
thinner helped patients with mild heart attacks or chest pain
more than older drugs did, a German regulator said in a step
toward setting the medicine’s price in  Europe ’s biggest market.  The drug provided an “important additional benefit” for
such patients, the Cologne-based Institute for Quality and
Efficiency in Health Care said in a  report  posted today on its
website. Brilique didn’t have an added benefit for patients who
had experienced a more serious type of heart attack known as
STEMI, the agency said.  Brilique is the first medicine tested under a drug pricing
law that Germany’s government passed last year. In order to
charge more for a new drug than for older therapies, companies
must prove the new product works better than the older
medicines. The law could save 2 billion euros ($2.65 billion) a
year, regulators have estimated.  AstraZeneca is “pleased with this preliminary
assessment,” and will respond to the Federal Joint Committee,
the German body that makes drug reimbursement decisions, in
coming weeks, the London-based manufacturer said in a  statement .  About 72 percent of acute coronary syndrome patients in
 Germany  have the types of conditions for which Brilique was
found to be more helpful than existing drugs, AstraZeneca said.  Once the committee makes a decision about Brilique’s
benefit, negotiations can begin with the Federal Association of
Statutory Health Insurance Funds, an umbrella organization of
German statutory insurers.  German law allows drugmakers to set an initial price for
their new medicines. AstraZeneca started selling Brilique, known
as Brilinta in the U.S., in Germany in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Vienna via 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  