-- 
Commodities May Rally 20% on Emerging-Markets Growth, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-10-04T08:22:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/goldman-says-european-debt-crisis-won-t-reverse-upside-to-commodity-prices.html
Commodity prices may advance 20
percent over the next year as growth in emerging markets offsets
the impact of the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and a slowdown
in developed economies, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The bank reiterated an “overweight” recommendation on
commodities over the next 12 months, while remaining “neutral”
in the near term, analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a
report today. Oil and copper forecasts for 2012 were reduced.  Commodities in the three months to Sept. 30 had the worst
quarter since 2008 on concern that there may be another global
recession as the European debt crisis escalated. The world
economy will probably expand 3.5 percent in 2012, compared with
an earlier prediction of 4.2 percent, Goldman’s economists Jan Hatzius and  Dominic Wilson  wrote in an Oct. 3 report.  “With recent GDP revisions by our economists falling
hardest on  Europe  but emerging market growth expectations still
relatively solid, we continue to believe that demand growth in
2012 will be sufficient to tighten major commodity markets,”
Currie wrote. “We now see a flatter upward trajectory for
commodity prices.”  Brent oil traded in London may average $120 per barrel next
year, down from an earlier call of $130, Goldman said. The
bank’s 2012 estimate for three-month copper on the London Metal
Exchange was lowered to $9,200 per metric ton from $10,790.  Cutting Calls  Goldman joins BNP Paribas SA and Commerzbank AG in cutting
calls for the metal that some investors see as a barometer for
economic activity. The bank also trimmed the 12-month target for
copper to $9,500 per ton from $11,000, while zinc’s target was
reduced to $2,400 per ton from $2,700.  “Sentiment regarding the economic outlook and the European
sovereign-debt problems are likely to remain poor in the near
term, presenting further downside risk to prices as well as our
forecasts,” Currie wrote. Still, the lower prices should lure
buyers from China, the world’s largest copper consumer, back
into the market, he wrote.  Copper for three-month delivery declined for a fifth day in
 London , falling as much as 4 percent to $6,712 per ton, before
trading at $6,935 at 2:58 p.m. in  Singapore .  Brent crude , which
sank 11 percent last month, traded at $101.36 per barrel.  No Recession  Barclays Capital  also said the world economy may avoid a
recession as emerging markets expand, which should limit further
losses for commodities, according to a report today from
analysts including  Kevin Norrish .  “A steep rise in production costs over the past few years,
plus a much greater degree of supply risk due to geopolitical
and weather shocks, all suggest there should be a much greater
degree of fundamentals-driven price resilience in many commodity
markets,” Norrish wrote.  Weather disappointments should keep risks for soybeans
“skewed to the upside,” according to the Goldman report, which
expects them to trade at $13 per bushel in 12 months. The
November-delivery contract last traded at $11.70 per bushel.  As soybean demand has become more sensitive to consumption
in  China , the commodity should be more resilient to a slowdown
in developed markets as long as Chinese income growth remains
robust, Currie wrote.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  