-- 
Goldman Cuts Global GDP Growth Estimate

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-10-04T05:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/goldman-cuts-global-gdp-estimate-sees-german-french-recessions.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
global growth forecast for this year and next, predicting
recessions in Germany and  France  as the European economy stalls
and the risk of a contraction in the U.S. grows.  The world economy will probably expand 3.8 percent this
year and 3.5 percent in 2012, compared with earlier predictions
of 3.9 percent for 2011 and 4.2 percent for next year, Goldman
Sachs economists Jan Hatzius and  Dominic Wilson  wrote in an Oct.
3 report. The company lowered its forecast for earnings growth
in Asia excluding  Japan  in a separate report today.  Europe ’s worsening sovereign debt woes and the threat of a
U.S. recession have roiled global stock markets, erasing about
$13 trillion from equities since May. The debt crisis has
infected the European banking system, making financial
institutions wary of lending to each other and pushing overnight
deposits with the  European Central Bank  last week to the highest
in more than a year.  “The further deterioration in the economic and financial
situation in the Euro area has led us to downgrade our global
GDP forecast significantly,” the economists said. “Over the
next few quarters, we now expect a mild recession in Germany and
France, and a deeper downturn in the Euro periphery.”  Euro Region  Goldman Sachs predicts the Euro region will expand 0.1
percent in 2012, down from an earlier forecast of 1.3 percent.
It expects growth of 1.6 percent for this year. Goldman also
lowered its end-2011 forecast for the euro to $1.38 per dollar
from an earlier projection for it to trade at $1.40.  The ECB has been forced to purchase sovereign bonds to
prevent the crisis from spreading to larger euro nations, and is
providing banks with unlimited liquidity for up to six months
against eligible collateral as governments struggle to restore
investor confidence in the 17-member region.  The Frankfurt-based central bank is likely to ease its
liquidity policies further this month as a result of an increase
in financial risk, Hatzius and Wilson said. The ECB will also
probably cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 50 basis points to 1
percent by December, they said.  “The increase in spillovers from the Euro area, primarily
via tighter financial conditions, is the primary reason why we
have also downgraded our forecasts for the U.S. further,” the
economists said. “We now see the risk of a renewed U.S.
recession at around 40 percent.”  Flagging U.S.  The U.S. economy will expand 1.7 percent this year and 1.4
percent in 2012, Goldman Sachs predicts. It had earlier
estimated a 2 percent growth rate for the world’s largest
economy next year.  The  Federal Reserve  announced last month that it would
replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries, a so-called Operation Twist, in an
effort to further reduce borrowing costs and strengthen the
flagging  U.S. economy .  “We expect additional easing of monetary policy beyond the
‘Operation Twist’ announced recently, although this may not come
until sometime in the first half of 2012,” Hatzius and Wilson
said. “In addition, the market’s focus on changes in the Fed’s
guidance on future policies -- including a greater emphasis on
the employment part of the ‘dual mandate’ and/or a temporarily
higher inflation target -- is likely to intensify.”  ‘Downside Risk’  Asia excluding Japan stocks faces a “downside risk” of 10
percent to 15 percent, Goldman Sachs analysts led by Timothy Moe
wrote in a report today.  Earnings per share may grow 10 percent this year and
increase 7 percent next year, lower than an earlier prediction
of 11 percent growth for both years, according to the analysts.
They also cut their 12-month forecast for the MSCI  Asia  Pacific
excluding Japan Index to 480 from 530.  Goldman Sachs analysts also lowered their forecasts for 2011
and 2012 oil prices. Crude prices will end this year at $112.50
a barrel, compared with a previous estimate of $119.50. It will
be $122.50 a barrel at the end of 2012, compared with an earlier
forecast of $138.50, according to the report.  “The oil market continues to destock as prices anticipate
a potential crisis,” the economists said. “If the crisis does
not occur, the oil market risks running into pressing supply
constraints, requiring sharply higher prices than we currently
forecast to force demand in line with supplies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  