-- 
Google, Nokia, Easyjet, Yahoo!, UMG: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-04T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/google-nokia-easyjet-yahoo-umg-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
said the $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. may spur competition among phone makers using its Android
software, and the company won’t play favorites with its
partners.  “The Android ecosystem is the No. 1 priority, and we won’t
do anything with Motorola, or anybody else by the way, that
would screw up the dynamics of that industry,” Schmidt said in
an Oct. 1 interview with Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker
in Nantucket, Massachusetts.  Schmidt also said the 17,000 patents Google is gaining in
the Motorola deal will “bulk up” its intellectual property and
ultimately end legal battles among competitors in the
$207 billion mobile-phone market. His comments come after
analysts raised concerns that the  Mountain View , California-
based company’s August announcement of its biggest acquisition
had made it a competitor to its own handset partners.  Research firm Gartner Inc.’s  Michael Gartenberg  said the
purchase was a “nightmare scenario” for handset manufacturers
using the Android platform. Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC
Corp. (2498)  have phones running on Android.  Handset makers, which have been building devices with
Google’s operating system since 2008, may have a harder time
cranking out bestselling devices because Motorola Mobility may
get earlier access to the newest technology, said Gartenberg,
based in  San Jose ,  California .  Schmidt is looking to Android to help the owner of the
world’s most-popular search engine challenge Apple Inc. and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as more users access the Internet from mobile
devices.  In August, Google accused Microsoft, based in Redmond,
 Washington , and Oracle Corp., based in Redwood City, California,
of waging a “hostile, organized campaign” against its Android
mobile software. Apple, Microsoft and Google have ramped up
spending on patent portfolios in recent months to gain exclusive
rights to a broadening array of technology, much of it used in
smartphones.  As bidding intensifies, prices for patents are surging,
fueling concerns that portfolios are overvalued. Oracle sued
Google last year, accusing it of patent infringement over the
use of Java technology used in Android.  “From our perspective, we will end up having enough
patents that we can end up with a rough truce with everybody
else, which is how it’s done,” Schmidt said of Google’s plan to
“bulk up” on patents. “That’s been the pattern in all other
industries, and I’d expect something similar in ours.”  It’s “hard to know” when a truce might be reached,
Schmidt said. Motorola’s patent portfolio wasn’t the most
important factor in deciding to purchase the Libertyville,
Illinois-based company, he said.  A group that includes Cupertino, California-based Apple and
Microsoft beat out Google in June with a $4.5 billion bid for
patents previously owned by Nortel Networks Corp., based in
Mississauga,  Canada .  Rivals are “banding together” to purchase patents they
can use to charge fees that will make Android devices more
expensive, David Drummond, Google’s chief legal officer, said in
August.  “The majority of the reasoning had to do with the fact
that we benefit by having a hardware partner at Google who knows
how to build the next generation of tablets and phones,”
Schmidt said.  SEC Asked Apple for Information on Nokia Patent Settlement  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer for information
on the financial terms of a patent litigation settlement with
 Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   The SEC requested details of the settlement agreement
including any amounts accrued, the periods in which they were
recognized and the timeline of negotiations in a June 28 letter
to the company released in a regulatory filing yesterday. Apple
said “no aspects of the company’s discussions with Nokia were
material to the company’s consolidated financial statements” in
a July 12 letter to the SEC released in a separate filing today.  Nokia won an almost two-year patent dispute with Apple, in
a settlement that awards a one-time payment and royalties to the
Finnish handset maker, Nokia said in June. Details of the
contract are confidential, Nokia said at the time.  Mark Durrant, a Nokia spokesman, Steve Dowling, an Apple
spokesman, and  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, all
declined to comment.  The two mobile-phone makers had been in litigation since
October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Cupertino,
California-based Apple of infringing patents. Nokia also
demanded royalties on the millions of Apple iPhones sold since
the device’s introduction in 2007. Nokia said in March it had 46
patents asserted against Apple in civil lawsuits and complaints
lodged with the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Nokia’s first claims covered technology for wireless data,
speech coding, security and encryption. Subsequent claims
asserted rights to wiping gestures on a touchscreen and on-
device application stores, both of which Nokia said it filed to
patent more than 10 years before the iPhone launch.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Easyjet Founder’s Name for New Airline Sought by Other Applicant  Easyjet Plc (EZJ) ’s founder Sir  Stelius Haji-Ioannou ’s plans to
start a rival airline may run into difficulty establishing its
brand identity, Marketing magazine reported.  The day after he said he would start a new airline to be
named “FastJet,” someone not connected to the venture applied
to register “Fast Jet Limited” as a trademark in the U.K.,
according to the magazine.  Haji-Ioannou has said he didn’t know who filed the
application and is discussing the issue with legal counsel, the
magazine reported.  He hasn’t himself filed a trademark application, although
Haji-Ioannou has set up the www.fastjet.com domain name,
according to Marketing Magazine.  Australian Showman Claims His ‘Snakeman’ Trademark Infringed  The operator of a traveling snake show has demanded that a
volunteer snake-catcher quit using “the snakeman” and has
demanded that local newspapers remove any references to the
snake-catcher under that name, the Linsmore,  Australia , Northern
Star newspaper  reported .  Raymond Hoser, of Australia’s state of Victoria, told the
Northern Star he registered “the snakeman” as a trademark and
has been using the name for 40 years.  He objected to the use of the name by George Ellis, who
helps residents of Northern Rivers deal with an annual snake
problem, the newspaper reported.  Ellis told the newspaper he uses “George the snakeman”
and he can’t see what the fuss is all about because he only does
his snake-removal work as an unpaid volunteer.  Progressive, Allstate Settle Trademark and Patent Dispute  Progressive Casualty Insurance Co. and  Allstate Corp. (ALL) ’s
Allstate Insurance Co. have settled a trademark and patent
infringement suit, according to a statement from Mayfield
Village, Ohio-based Progressive.  The Ohio company sued Allstate in federal court in
Cleveland, Ohio, Jan. 12. Progressive claimed Northbrook,
Illinois-based Allstate’s use of “Drive Wise” infringed its
“Drive” trademark.  Additionally, Progressive alleged that its patents
6,064,970, 7,124,088 and 7,077,269 were infringed. The first
patent -- 6,064,970 -- is related to the calculation of an
insurance rate based on data provided by an electronic device
plugged into a vehicle that reports speed, braking, mileage and
driving time of day. Progressive is presently offering
discounted insurance rates to drivers who attach a “ Snapshot ”
plug-in device to their vehicles.  Although most terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed,
Allstate has taken a license to Progressive’s “usage-based
insurance and policy-servicing patent portfolios,” and the two
companies have entered into a trademark co-existence agreement
with reference to the “Drive” and “Drive Wise” trademarks.  The case is Progressive Casualty Insurance Co. v. Allstate
Insurance Co., 1:11-cv-00082-BYP, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Ohio (Cleveland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Songwriters Rejected by U.S. High Court in Yahoo Royalty Fight  The U.S. Supreme Court let stand a ruling that limits the
royalties Internet companies including Yahoo! Inc. and
 RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK)  must pay to songwriters on downloaded music.  The justices yesterday turned away an appeal by the
American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, or ASCAP,
which licenses about 45 percent of the musical works played
online.  ASCAP sought to overturn a ruling that the group said in
court papers would cost its 295,000 members tens of millions of
dollars a year.  A federal appeals court in  New York  ruled that the
downloading of a musical work isn’t a “public performance”
covered under the U.S. copyright laws. That reasoning meant
ASCAP couldn’t seek compensation on behalf of its members for
the act of downloading, though copyright owners can still demand
royalties for the new copies of a song that are created.  The dispute landed in court after ASCAP couldn’t reach
licensing agreements with Yahoo and RealNetworks. ASCAP then
invoked a procedure set up decades ago under a settlement with
the  Justice Department , asking a federal judge in Manhattan to
determine what licensing fees would be reasonable.  The case is American Society of Composers, Authors and
Publishers v. United States, 10-1337.  UMG, ‘50 Cent’ Win Dismissal of ‘Before I Self Destruct’ Suit  Universal Music Group and Curtis Jackson -- the rap
performer known as “ 50 Cent ” -- didn’t infringe the copyright
to a book about gang life in  New Jersey , a federal judge has
ruled.  Shadrach Winstead  sued the music company and 50 Cent for
copyright infringement in federal court in Newark, New Jersey,
November 2010. He claimed his copyright for his book “The
Preachers Son - But the Streets Turned Me Into a Gangster” were
infringed by the  film  and  album  “Before I Self Destruct.”  He argued that the film and album had many similarities to
his book, and that the defendants had access to the book before
its publication.  U.S. District Judge Stanley R. Chesler said he failed to
see the connections. He noted that while Winstead’s book and the
film shared similar characters, themes and setting, “numerous”
movies and television programs have covered the same landscape.
He also noted that “a simple viewing of the two works reveals
that they are entirely different with respect to plot, mood and
sequence of events.”  The book covered a character’s “rise above a life of
violence to achieve redemption,” he said, while the film
portrayed its lead character’s “descent into moral apathy and
eventual death.”  Judge Chesler also rejected Winstead’s claim that the film
contained “direct phrases” from the book that were protected
under copyright law. In dismissing the case, he said the
language Winstead claimed was protected “merely amounts to
generic short words and phrases, common in gangster movies and
hip hop music.”  The case is Shadrach Winstead v. Curtis Jackson, 2:10-cv-
05783-SRC-MAS, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  For more copyright news, click here  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 