-- 
Grayson Perry Mixes Teddy Bear, Ancient Relics in London: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-10-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/grayson-perry-mixes-teddy-bear-relics-at-british-museum-martin-gayford.html
Once upon a time, an emissary from
 England  journeyed to the peoples of the East on a mission of
peace. With him he carried his totemic deity, a bear.  The time was 2010, the man was the artist Grayson Perry and
he traveled to Germany on a combined motorcycle and shrine (for
the god) entitled the “AM1.” It can be seen at the entrance to
Perry’s new exhibition, “The Tomb of the Unknown Craftsman,”
which opens tomorrow at the  British Museum  in  London .  The bear, a teddy named Alan Measles that has been
worshipped by Perry since the early 1960s, is too precious to
exhibit and is replaced by a replica. The journey, as Perry,
born in 1960, explains in the catalog, was undertaken because in
his childhood “the Germans were the default enemy, and so they
became a metaphor for all that was bad in my experience. Alan
and I needed to make peace with our old imagined adversary.”  If you think that’s unbearably twee, then the show isn’t
for you. Those prepared to suspend disbelief and briefly enter
Perry’s fantasy world, will have eye-opening fun. He is, of
course, well known for being both a transvestite and a
contemporary artist many of whose works take the form of
decorated pottery.  Some might say he is an extremely English phenomenon. I
remember on the night he won the  Turner Prize  in 2003, a fellow
guest at the award dinner -- who happened to be German -- leaned
across the table and whispered, “Only in Britain.” Perry,
dressed as his female alter ego Claire, was taking a photo call
along with his wife and daughter.  Bears and Shamans  In fact, there is a Teutonic aspect to him. You could say
Perry is a unique amalgam of bear-loving Christopher Robin,
Eddie Izzard and Joseph Beuys (1921-1986) of  Germany , who came
up with the notion of the artist as a latter-day shaman,
injecting magic and mysterious ritual into modern life.  Although there are some bears and a bear shrine on view,
and one female costume -- the “High Priestess Cape” (2007) --
it’s the third side that’s most evident: the artist as myth
maker and medicine man.  This is that usually horrible thing, an “intervention” --
a contemporary artist doing something, usually embarrassing, in
a museum. This one, perhaps because it was Perry’s idea not the
museum’s, is the exception. It works.  The exhibits are a mixture of items from the collection and
works by Perry. Unexpectedly, they enhance each other. The
museum pieces, some of them thousands of years old, look edgy
and contemporary; Perry’s own stuff looks timeworn and in
context. In other words, he does what artists often try to do:
He invents an artistic ancestry for himself.  Erotic Touch  His choice from the museum’s collection is highly personal.
There’s nothing grand and little classical, these are mainly
humble and vernacular objects, many from Africa and  Japan , all
the product of anonymous men and women, some rough, some
beautiful, a few highly sexual (a Perry touch).  He exhibits some of his own signature pots, and also a
large tapestry and several sculptures, including the
centerpiece, an iron boat festooned with casts of works from the
museum. Like the other Perry pieces, it looks antique and is
brand new.  At first glance, it’s often hard to tell whether you are
looking at a Grayson Perry or an artifact from an ancient
civilization. That’s a good sign. The show is one mammoth work
by Perry, and the most interesting he has created to date.  “The Tomb of the Unknown Craftsman” opens tomorrow and
runs through Feb. 19, 2012, at the  British Museum , London. The
show is supported by AlixPartners LLP and Louis Vuitton U.K.   Information:  http://www.britishmuseum.org .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 