-- 
Greece Bracing for 24-Hour Strike as 30,000 Jobs May Be Cut

-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-10-04T15:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/greece-bracing-for-24-hour-strike-as-30-000-workers-may-be-cut.html
Greece  will shut airports for a full
day for the first time this year as the union representing at
least 400,000 state workers plans a 24-hour strike to protest
austerity measures aimed at winning European Union rescue funds.  The country’s largest public-sector union, known as  ADEDY ,
called the strike for tomorrow to protest the government’s 6.6
billion euros ($8.7 billion) plan to put 30,000 public workers
on reduced pay, raise property taxes and cut pensions and wages.
The workers will either retire early or eventually be fired.  The strike, which will force cancellation of flights into
and out of the  Athens International Airport  and school closures,
comes after European leaders delayed a decision to release the
next 8 billion-euro loan installment in a 110 billion euro
bailout until after Oct. 13 as Greece struggles to avert
default. The economy contracted 4.5 percent in 2010 and will
shrink 5.5 percent this year,  Finance Ministry  forecasts show.  “We have workers who have had their wages cut by 40
percent and with the new measures it will surpass 50 percent,”
ADEDY Chairman Costas Tsikrikas said by phone from  Athens .
“These measures, and all the measures that have been passed so
far, are putting the heaviest weight on workers and pensioners,
not on those who earn the most and have sent their money outside
Greece to foreign banks.”  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said today that Greece
is and will remain a member of the euro area and that there was
no discussion of a default at a meeting of regional finance
ministers yesterday.  “There is no need for additional measures as long as we are
all consistent and organized,” Venizelos said. “If the
government mechanisms don’t work, then obviously we may have
problems achieving the real goal.”  Bonds Fall  Greece’s 10-year bonds fell today, pushing the yield up to
23.1 percent from 22.6 percent yesterday, according to generic
pricing for euro-denominated  government securities . The yield
has climbed from 16.4 percent on July 21. Greek stocks sank the
most since May 2010, as the ASE Index lost 6.3 percent and
National Bank of Greece SA dropped 14 percent. Global stocks and
commodities retreated as European leaders signaled they may
renegotiate terms of Greece’s bailout. The euro has lost about 8
percent since the end of August.  Greece’s government, which employs about 750,000, predicts
the nation’s debt load will reach 356.5 billion euros in 2011,
or the equivalent of 161.8 percent of gross domestic product,
the highest in the EU and three times the ratio of  Poland . Greece’s
average unemployment rate is expected to climb to 16.4 percent next
year from 15.2 percent in 2011, more than double  Germany ’s rate,
according to ministry forecasts.  Protests at Ministries  State workers staged protests at government buildings in
Athens today, including the finance, education, health and
culture ministries, in opposition to the government plans,
according to an e-mailed statement from ADEDY. Protests also
took place at hospitals, schools and city buildings across
Greece and demonstrations are planned for tomorrow in central
Athens, the statement said.  Air traffic controllers and employees at the  Hellenic Civil
Aviation Authority  will cease work for 24 hours tomorrow, the
first all-day work stoppage for aviation workers this year.  Aegean Airlines SA (AEGN)  canceled all its flights tomorrow and
Olympic Air canceled 89 flights, according to an e-mailed
statement from both Athens-based carriers. Schools also will
close.  The  General Confederation of Labor , or GSEE, the country’s
largest private sector union that represents workers at state-
run companies and utilities, also will participate in tomorrow’s
strike. The two unions have called a general strike for Oct. 19.  Rail Networks  Employees at  Hellenic Railways Organization , Greece’s
state-run rail company, and the suburban rail network
surrounding Athens will also take part. Dockworkers,
journalists, health-care and municipal workers plan to join the
strike.  Public transit employees will operate tomorrow in order to
help carry protesters to central Athens for midday
demonstrations and marches to parliament. Transit employees have
held a series of 24-hour strikes and work stoppages since Sept.
2 to protest involuntary transfers and wage cuts that were part
of an overhaul of the public transit industry adopted last year
by Greece’s parliament.  After inspectors from the  International Monetary Fund  and
EU halted a review on Sept. 1, Venizelos introduced measures to
plug the budget gap for 2011, including a new property tax
approved by parliament on Sept. 27 and further cuts to pensions
and wages for state workers.  Europe ’s financial leaders are fighting on multiple fronts,
trying to repair Greece’s economy while insulating Italy and
 Spain  and shoring up banks that the IMF says face as much as 300
billion euros in credit risks.  Finance ministers are considering reshaping the July deal
that foresaw investors contributing 50 billion euros to a 159
billion-euro rescue. That private sector involvement, or PSI,
includes debt exchanges and rollovers, targeting bondholder
losses of 21 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  