-- 
Greeks on Strike Against Papandreou Job Cuts as 20,000 March to Parliament

-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-10-05T14:44:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/greeks-strike-against-papandreou-job-cuts.html
Greeks walked off their jobs across
the nation and as many as 20,000 marched through Athens’ central
square to protest Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s 6.6
billion-euro ($8.7 billion) austerity plan, challenging a
government seeking European bailout funds to stave off default.  The 24-hour strike shut the Athens International Airport,
causing 448 flight cancelations, and shuttered schools and
archaeological sites to protest Papandreou’s plans to put 30,000
public workers on reduced pay, raise property taxes and cut
pensions and wages.  “They are blaming us, firing us with the result that we
won’t be able to live,” said Katerina Anastasopoulos, 53, who
has worked at the Greek Transport Ministry for 28 years and
joined the march on parliament. “They are taking away our
livelihood, our life. We are all scared.”  Police estimated about 20,000 people, carrying banners and
shouting slogans such as “Take Your Memorandum and Leave”
marched through Syntagma Square, which is bordered by the
parliament building on one side and  Finance Ministry  on the
other.  Police Scuffles  Scuffles between Greek police and youths continued for more
than two hours after protesters left and traffic resumed around
the square. Greek police used tear gas to disperse the youths
attacking officers with pieces of marble and plastic bottles.
Two police officers were injured during the scuffles and nine
people were arrested, according to a statement posted on the
police  website .  The country’s largest public-sector union, known as  ADEDY 
and representing at least 400,000 state workers, called the
walkout after European Union ministers signaled yesterday that
they may renegotiate terms of Greece’s latest rescue, sending
the nation’s stocks down the most in 17 months.  The demonstration defies calls by the government to show
unity in the struggle to avert a default.  “We are at the worst circumstances under the worst
conditions,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said at a
news conference in  Athens  yesterday. “We are dependent on the
aid and loans of our institutional partners. That is the
situation of the country. And we must make superhuman efforts to
win this wager of history.”  The ASE stock index rose 0.7 percent today in Athens after
tumbling 6.3 percent yesterday, the most since May 2010. The
yield on Greece’s 10-year bonds climbed 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 23.2 percent, more than double the rate on
July 21, generic pricing for euro-denominated securities shows.
The government’s 4.59 percent bond due in 2016 rose to 36.6
cents on the euro from 34.4, cutting the yield to 33.9 percent.  Outside Funding  The government is dependent on outside financing as the
economy contracts and the unemployment rate stands at more than
double  Germany ’s. The Greek state, which employs about 750,000,
carries a debt load that will reach 356.5 billion euros in 2011,
or the equivalent of 161.8 percent of gross domestic product,
the highest in the EU and three times the ratio of  Poland .  The strike followed a decision by euro area finance
ministers to delay the release of the next 8 billion-euro loan
installment under a 110 billion euro bailout approved in May
2010 until after Oct. 13. The government has enough cash to
operate until mid-November, Venizelos said.  Violence during strikes in June caused 800,000 euros in
damage to state property in Athens over two days as Papandreou
battled for political survival in parliament.  The 59-year-old premier then won a confidence vote and
backing for a new five-year package of budget cuts and state
asset sales to secure further international aid by stemming
defections from members of his Pasok party.  Budget Deficit  Venizelos introduced measures to plug the budget gap for
2011 and 2012, including a property tax approved by parliament
on Sept. 27 and further cuts to pensions and wages for state
workers, after inspectors from the  International Monetary Fund 
and EU halted a review of  Greece  on Sept. 1.  Strikes and protests are common in Greece, and investors
are likely to take notice only if participation is high, said
Antonio Garcia Pascual, the chief southern European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London .  “It’s important to understand the degree of participation
in these strikes,” he said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Air traffic controllers and employees at the  Hellenic Civil
Aviation Authority  were on strike, the first all-day work
stoppage for aviation workers this year.  General Strike  The  General Confederation of Labor , or GSEE, the country’s
largest private sector union that represents workers at state-
run companies and utilities, also participated in the walkout
and called a general strike for Oct. 19. Employees at  Hellenic
Railways Organization , Greece’s state-run rail company, and the
suburban rail network surrounding Athens also took part in the
strike, along with dockworkers, journalists, health-care and
municipal workers.  Greece’s average  unemployment rate  is expected to climb to
16.4 percent next year from 15.2 percent in 2011, according to
ministry forecasts. Germany’s jobless rate was 6.9 percent in
September. The economy contracted 4.5 percent in 2010 and will
shrink 5.5 percent this year,  Finance Ministry  forecasts show.  “We have taken decisions as a government and as a
parliament but as a society we have not taken a clear
decision,” Venizelos said yesterday. “Unfortunately our
society, our country, is hostage to great contradictions.”  Europe ’s financial leaders are fighting on multiple fronts,
trying to repair Greece’s economy while insulating Italy and
 Spain  and shoring up banks that the IMF says face as much as 300
billion euros in credit risks.  Ministers are considering reshaping a July 21 agreement
that foresaw investors contributing 50 billion euros to a second
rescue package totaling 159 billion euros. The original accord
calls for debt exchanges and rollovers, with private investors
facing losses of 21 percent, according to the International
Institute of Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  