-- 
Greece Has Cash to Meet Needs Until Mid-November, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 
2011-10-04T14:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/greece-has-cash-to-cover-needs-until-mid-november-finance-minister-says.html
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
said  Greece  has enough cash to operate until mid-November, after
euro-region finance ministers delayed a decision on the nation’s
next emergency-loan payment.  With cash needs covered until then, Greece has time to
carry out reforms demanded in return for a new bailout plan,
Venizelos told reporters in  Athens  today after returning from
the ministers’ meeting in Luxembourg. The new package “will
give a more radical and more complete answer to our problems,”
Venizelos said.  The ministers, who yesterday discussed re-crafting a July
deal on private-investor participation in a new Greek rescue,
pushed back a decision on the release of the country’s next 8
billion-euro ($10.6 billion) loan installment until after Oct.
13. It was the second postponement of a vote originally slated
for yesterday as part of the 110 billion-euro lifeline granted
to Greece last year. The decision on the payment may come at an
Oct. 17-18 European summit.  “In reality, the issue is not the disbursement of the
sixth tranche, it is to convince the markets that here we have
an overall sustainable solution” based on the July 21 accord on
a second bailout worth 109 billion euros, Venizelos said today.  Greece faces a “critical” final quarter of the year to
meet its targeted budget deficit of 8.5 percent of economic
output, a goal included in the 2012 budget submitted to
Parliament for approval before the end of the month, the finance
minister said.  Possible Slippage  He said the budget, which was approved by inspectors from
the European Union, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
 European Central Bank , allows for the deficit to slip to 9
percent if the target is missed, with the difference to be
covered in 2012.  “There’s no need for additional measures as long as we are
all consistent and organized,” Venizelos said. “If the
government mechanisms don’t work, then obviously we may have
problems achieving the real goal.”  Yesterday’s meeting did not discuss a Greek default or exit
from the euro, Venizelos said, adding that the talks focused on
the implementation of austerity measures and structural reforms.  Responses to a letter of inquiry to bondholders regarding a
planned voluntary debt swap were being assessed and the terms of
the July plan for the swap are being examined, he added.  The Luxembourg meeting also reached an agreement on demands
by  Finland  for collateral in exchange for its participation in
the second Greek bailout. The accord involves Greece issuing 880
million euros of bonds to Greek banks, which will provide
securities for use as collateral, the finance minister said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  