-- 
Greece Turmoil Investor Burden May Be Rising Already, IIF’s Dallara Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-05T09:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/greece-s-debt-crisis-has-boosted-investor-burden-on-rescue-costs-iif-says.html
Investors may be taking on a bigger
share of  Greece ’s rescue costs as market conditions worsen even
without changing the terms of the debt swap agreed to in July,
the  Institute of International Finance  said.  “The implied subsidy granted by the private creditors is
much larger today, given that market rates are much higher,”
 Charles Dallara , managing director of the Washington-based trade
group, said in a telephone interview yesterday. IIF represents
more than 450 banks and took part in the July 21 negotiations
that led to a second rescue package for Greece.  When the bailout was announced, banks and other bondholders
were expected to contribute about 50 billion euros ($66 billion)
alongside 109 billion euros in public funds and a proposed 20
billion-euro debt buyback. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters in Luxembourg yesterday that the deal
may require “adjustments” depending on whether Greece has met
its commitments and other developments.  Dallara said it would be “counterproductive” to reopen
the Greek deal now that investors have signaled support and the
euro area’s 17 parliaments are close to ratifying other elements
of the July 21 agreements. The IIF hasn’t been formally
consulted and isn’t clear on the nature of the “technical
adjustments” suggested this week by Schaeuble and Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro
area finance ministers.  Debt Burden  Over the next nine years, the swap is expected to reduce
Greece’s debt burden by about 60 billion euros because of lower
interest costs, Dallara said. He said Greece also would benefit
from the long-term financing, which extends up to 30 years.  “We are on the verge of providing assured financing over
this 9-year period of 130 billion euros,” Dallara said.  When the deal was first proposed, IIF said investors would
absorb 21 percent losses in net present value terms. Dallara,
without providing a new estimate, said changing market
conditions mean bondholders would be foregoing even more.  Greek 10-year bonds trade for about 39 cents on the euro
and two-year notes for about 43 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Creditors “expect  Europe  to follow through” on the July
21 agreement, Dallara said. “This deal was done at the head of
state level. We remain committed to the deal.”  Greek authorities are ready to move forward with the debt
swap as soon as euro-area parliaments finish ratification.  “They are prepared,” Dallara said. “I would not think it
would take a great deal of time at all.”  When the debt swap takes place, Greece is expected to enter
a temporary period of default, now widely anticipated by
European authorities and market participants. The proposed
buyback is intended to take place at the same time, the IIF
said, to minimize the amount of time Greece spends in this
selective default state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  