-- 
IBM Targets Mid-Sized Acquisitions to Fuel Growth in Software

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-10-04T13:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/ibm-is-planning-mid-sized-acquisitions-to-fuel-growth-in-software-business.html
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
is planning more acquisitions to fuel growth in its $22.5
billion software business, Senior Vice President  Steve Mills 
said in an interview.  IBM, which last week surpassed  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to become
the world’s second-most valuable technology company, after  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , may spend $100 million to $300 million on targets, the
Armonk, New York-based company said.  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  has said he’s seeking
$20 billion in additional annual revenue by 2015. The company
aims to double or triple the pace of sales growth at companies
it acquires and looks for deals that will add to earnings within
two or three years, Mills said.  “Everything’s got to fit,” he said. “No spurious, off-
to-the-side, unrelated things.”  IBM generated $99.9 billion in sales last year. Software,
which had gross margins of 86.9 percent last year, is key to
IBM’s growth plans.  The company has made almost 50 software acquisitions since
2006 in such areas as data analysis, e-commerce, supply-chain
management and computer security, Mills said. More than half of
those have been in business-data analysis, where IBM says it has
spent $14 billion. The company expects those business-analytics
products to yield $16 billion in sales by 2015.  ‘Hell of a Job’  “They’ve done a hell of a job,” said Joel Achramowicz, an
analyst at Blaylock Robert Van LLC, an investment bank in
Oakland,  California . IBM is “making the right acquisitions at
the right time.”  The company today said it agreed to buy closely held Q1
Labs, a Waltham, Massachusetts-based provider of security
intelligence software, for undisclosed terms. It also created a
new security systems division, to target the $94 billion market
for security software and services.  IBM fell $1.30 to $171.99 at 9:38 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares had gained 18 percent
this year before today.  The company is unlikely to make large acquisitions, worth
$10 billion or more, Achramowicz said. He said he dropped
coverage of IBM in April partly because of the company’s
unwillingness to take on a very large deal.  “That’s one of the reasons we got kind of bored with the
stock,” he said. “There are some big software companies out
there, which could augment IBM’s position.”  In terms of the existing business, “IBM’s done about
everything it can to maximize their operating model,” he said.  SPSS, Cognos  Mills said the company looks for deals that can augment
products it already owns. For example, the statistical-analysis
software company SPSS Inc., which IBM bought in 2009 for about
$1.2 billion, complements the company’s 2007 acquisition of
Cognos Inc., whose software creates executive “dashboards” for
quickly perusing business data.  SPSS lends Cognos more robust statistics capabilities, and
Cognos helps SPSS users visually depict their data, he said.
That’s accelerated SPPS’s growth since IBM bought it, Mills
said.  “When you do that, you know you’re going to get a lift,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  