-- 
Libyan Jew Wages Own Revolution to Clean Up Tripoli Synagogue

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-10-04T11:24:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/libyan-jew-wages-own-revolution-to-clean-up-tripoli-synagogue.html
David Gerbi, a member of the Libyan
Jewish diaspora who was driven from the only remaining synagogue
in Tripoli earlier this week, says he may soon be permitted to
return and finish his cleanup efforts.  Wearing an “I Love  Libya ” T-shirt and a necklace with a
Star of David pendant, Gerbi said he is working with local
officials to get authorization to return to the Dar Bishi
synagogue. He was advised to leave the religious site earlier
this week, a day after opening it for the first time in years.  “What I am asking is to just take the garbage out,” Gerbi
said in an interview in the capital late yesterday. “I cannot
see the name of God with garbage.”  The National Transitional Council, which is trying to unite
the factions that overthrew  Muammar Qaddafi  and restore
stability in Libya after eight months of fighting, has vowed to
forge a democratic, moderate Muslim nation that respects human
rights. Its handling of the synagogue cleanup will test these
promises, said Gerbi, a 57-year-old psychoanalyst.  Jalal Galal, a spokesman for the NTC in Tripoli, said he
couldn’t predict whether Gerbi would be permitted to return.  “The fact that he can move around freely is an indication
of how Libya has changed,” Galal said. “The NTC is a temporary
body and isn’t prepared to deal with this sensitive issue right
now.”  Safety Risk  Gerbi, whose family fled the country for  Italy  during the
1967 Arab-Israeli war, said he arrived in Tripoli with rebel
forces at the end of August, shortly after Qaddafi’s rule in the
city collapsed.  Two days ago, he visited Dar Bishi with cash to pay a
cleanup crew and managed to get some work done at the rubble-
filled synagogue before being advised to leave by a group of
people who previously blessed his efforts, including a local
Islamic sheikh. He said he was told his presence was a sensitive
issue and that his safety was at risk.  The 200-year-old crumbling synagogue was abandoned when
Qaddafi came to power in 1969, according to Gerbi. Two other
synagogues in the city were turned into mosques, he said.  Gerbi said he flew to Benghazi in May to support the revolt
against Qaddafi that broke out in February. He stayed for eight
days, working in a hospital, before flying back to Italy after
being told Qaddafi loyalists threatened his life.  His return to Libya this year wasn’t his first. He traveled
to the North African country in 2002 to retrieve his aunt, the
last Jew still living in Libya, he said. He returned in 2007 to
restore the synagogue, only to be interrogated and deported a
few days after arriving.  The 2,000-year-old Jewish community in Tripoli numbered
about 38,000 before Israel was established in 1948, he said.
About 7,000 Libyan Jews remained in 1967 when his family fled,
leaving a business and home.  “It’s a revolution to get Qaddafi out of people’s minds,”
Gerbi said. “This time, I am not running away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Tripoli, Libya, at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  