-- 
Michelin Awards Three Stars to Booze-Free Brooklyn Fare

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-04T21:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/michelin-gives-booze-free-brooklyn-fare-eleven-madison-park-three-stars.html
Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare is in
the annex of a supermarket. It lacks seat cushions, tablecloths
and a liquor license, none of which prevented it from becoming,
today, one of just seven New York City restaurants awarded three
Michelin stars.  Chef Cesar Ramirez’s venue is the only Brooklyn
establishment to earn the highest honor of the “Guide Rouge.”
Guests bring their own alcohol and often swap wines with
strangers during meals that can last more than three hours.  “Cesar Ramirez is an extremely talented and meticulous
chef,” said the editor-in-chief of  North America ’s Michelin
Guides. She declined to give her name, citing her
responsibilities as one of the guide’s anonymous inspectors.  “What he does there night after night is very impressive,
given that his audience is sitting right in front of him and
there’s very little room for error.”  Danny Meyer’s Eleven Madison Park also jumped in the
rankings, from one star to three after the restaurant overhauled
itself last fall, moving to a prix-fixe-only format of $125 or
$195 per person at dinner.  “It’s very rare that you see a restaurant reinvent itself
so completely and in such a short amount of time,” the editor
said.  Brooklyn Fare, with a set menu of $185, made its debut on
the list with two stars last year. Ramirez serves a 25-to-35
course feast to 18 guests every night. He specializes in small,
composed bites of raw fish, perhaps scrambled eggs with sea
urchin and caviar or a tiny cube of bluefin tuna.  Contrary Positions  Michelin often takes positions opposite that of local food
critics. The New York Times awarded Eleven Madison Park four
stars in 2009; Michelin countered with just a single star that
autumn. Torrisi Italian Specialties is a high-end red-sauce spot
that frequently tops local “best of” lists. Michelin
disagrees, withholding a star for a second straight year.  SHO Shaun Hergatt, the recipient of somewhat uneven reviews
by Bloomberg News and the  New York Times , is a new entrant to
the two-star category. Earlier in September, the Australian-born
Hergatt raised his dinner price by $10 to $85; diners now
receive five courses instead of three. L’Atelier de  Joel
Robuchon  was also promoted to two stars.  No Inconsistencies  Terrance Brennan’s Picholine, which recently raised the
price of its most expensive tasting menu by $20 to $185, was
demoted from two stars to one.  “What we’re always looking for is consistency,” the guide’s
editor said, “and in the last few years we haven’t seen that at
Picholine.”  David Chang ’s Momofuku Ssam Bar and Noodle Bar continued
their Michelin deficits, while Korean newcomer Danji was awarded
a star.  Michelin’s New York guide, which didn’t award any stars to
Indian restaurants last year, now cites three: Junoon, Tamarind
Tribeca and Tulsi. Kaiseki cuisine, which involves long and
often complex Japanese tasting menus, received two new entrants
from Tribeca:  David Bouley ’s Brushstroke, where meals cost $85
to $135, and Rosanjin, where guests can spend as much as $200 on
dinner.  Michael White ’s Ai Fiori, the chef’s first foray into
French cuisine, earned him a star; he kept his coveted two-spot
for Marea, a popular Italian seafood place on Central Park
South.  Other new entrants to the one-star category include
Heartbreak, a European restaurant in the East Village, and Tori
Shin, a yakitori spot on the Upper East Side.  Three stars means exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie. is the world’s second-biggest tire maker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free (until 1920) and intended for chauffeurs.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 