-- 
Higher Borrowing Means RBI to Buy First Bonds in Nine Months: India Credit

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-10-04T06:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/higher-borrowing-means-rbi-to-buy-first-bonds-in-nine-months-india-credit.html
India ’s central bank may buy bonds
for the first time in nine months to cap rising yields as
outflows from national savings accounts forced the government to
increase debt sales.  The  Reserve Bank of India  will probably acquire 500 billion
rupees ($10.2 billion) of notes, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc. and Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. Benchmark 10-year yields were
steady at 8.54 percent, the highest level since 2008, after the
 Finance Ministry  said last week it would borrow 32 percent more
than its 1.67 trillion rupee target in the six months to March.
Yields have climbed 60 basis points in 2011, the most in  Asia 
after  Vietnam , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  is struggling to trim the
budget deficit to a targeted four-year low of 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product as  India’s economy  slows. Further
deterioration in the government’s finances may “weigh” on the
nation’s BBB- debt rating, already the lowest among the world’s
largest emerging economies, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “The additional borrowing was quite a shock and the RBI
will consider buying bonds to support liquidity in the system,”
Vivek Rajpal, a fixed-income strategist at Nomura,  Japan ’s
biggest brokerage, said in an interview yesterday. “The end
game will be to cap yields.”  Savings Plans  The government will sell 2.2 trillion rupees of bonds in
the six months ending March after having raised 2.5 trillion
rupees in the first half of the fiscal year, R. Gopalan,
secretary at the Department of Economic Affairs, told reporters
in  New Delhi  on Sept. 29.  Individual investors withdrew 61.9 billion rupees between
April and August from small-savings deposit plans such as those
run by post offices, after adding 238.56 billion rupees in the
year-earlier period,  official data show . The state-run savings
programs offer a return of 8 percent, while  State Bank  of India,
the nation’s biggest lender, offers 9.25 percent interest on
one-year deposits, according to its website.  “The government-run savings plans have lost their
attractiveness due to lower returns and that’s the reason there
is a huge shortfall,”  Anoop Verma , a Mumbai-based fixed-income
trader at Development Credit Bank Ltd., said in an interview
yesterday. “Drying up of financing sources is forcing the
government to turn to market borrowings.”  Debt Supply  India’s bonds fell for a sixth straight day yesterday,
after the yield on benchmark 10-year debt concluded a fifth
quarterly increase on Sept. 29. The  Reserve Bank  bought 75
billion rupees of government debt in January in auctions as part
of a program to purchase 480 billion rupees of securities,
according to its website. Alpana Killawala, a spokeswoman for
the Reserve Bank, declined to comment on bond repurchases.  “The RBI will have to come back and buy bonds from the
open market,” Prasanna Patankar, the Mumbai-based head of
fixed-income trading at primary dealer Securities Trading Corp.
of India Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. “The supply of
bonds is already quite daunting and with more supplies coming,
we think the yield on the 10-year bonds will move to as high as
8.65 percent this month.”  The cost of insuring the debt of  State Bank of India 
against default has more than doubled in 2011. Five-year credit-
default swaps on the lender, viewed as a proxy for the nation,
were at a two-and-a-half-year high of 363 basis points today,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets.  Deficit, Rupee  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  India’s  budget deficit  may widen to 5.5 percent of GDP in
the year ending March from 4.7 percent in the previous 12
months,  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of Asia-Pacific
sovereign ratings at Fitch, said in an interview.  The decision to issue more debt is “within the scope of
expectations,”  Takahira Ogawa , Singapore-based director of
sovereign and international public finance ratings at  Standard &
Poor’s , said in an e-mail yesterday.  The outlook for the deficit may drive the rupee lower,
according to Standard Chartered Plc. The currency weakened for a
third day today, dropping 0.2 percent to 49.25 per dollar.  “Investors will definitely be worried about the government
missing its deficit target,” Priyanka Kishore, a Mumbai-based
currency strategist at  Standard Chartered , said in an interview
yesterday. “If there are concerns about the rating outlook, it
would be negative for the currency.”  Kishore predicts the rupee will drop to 49.80 by March.  ‘Much Larger’  India’s bond market can absorb the increase in the
borrowing plan, according to Pramerica Asset Managers, a unit of
 Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc. The economy
expanded 7.7 percent in the three months ended June, the least
in six quarters, according to government data. The size of the
economy has grown 62 percent since 2008 to 73 trillion rupees in
the year ended March, according to official data.  “The economy today is much larger than it used to be, say,
three years ago,” Mahendra Jajoo, the Mumbai-based head of
fixed-income investments at Pramerica Asset, said in an
interview yesterday. “There may be some problems, but the
system can absorb this kind of borrowing program.”  Higher Yields  The difference in yields between Indian notes due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was 674 basis
points, or 6.74 percentage points, today, the highest since
April 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds of
the South Asian nation have returned 3.7 percent so far this
year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc., which tracks 10 local-
currency debt markets in the region. Indonesian securities
earned the most at 14.4 percent.  Investors will show their disapproval of the higher
borrowing program by selling Indian debt during the rest of
2011, according to Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd.  “There will be pressure on the bond yields due to much
larger supply of paper than expected,” Shubhada Rao, the
Mumbai-based chief economist at Yes Bank, said in an interview
yesterday. “The yield on the 10-year bond may reach 8.6 percent
soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  