-- 
Dubai Developer Limitless Said to Get Sixth Extension on $1.2 Billion Loan

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-04T06:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/limitless-said-to-get-sixth-extension-on-1-2-billion-loan.html
Limitless LLC received a sixth
extension on a $1.2 billion loan as the real-estate developer
controlled by state-owned Dubai World works on a restructuring
plan, two bankers familiar with the plan said.  The extension is conditional on talks between Limitless and
creditors making sufficient progress, with Jan. 31 set as a
deadline for a deal to be reached, one of the bankers said,
declining to be identified because the information is private.
The last extension on the syndicated loan expired on Sept. 30.  “Private discussions continue with our lenders,”
Limitless said in an e-mailed response to questions. The Islamic
loan, originally maturing in March last year, got two three-
month, one six-month, one four-month and one two-month
extensions.  Limitless, whose projects include the mixed-use Downtown
Jebel Ali development in Dubai and another development in
 Riyadh , Saudi Arabia, raised the loan in dollars and United Arab
Emirates dirhams in 2008 from a group of 18 banks, according to
a company statement at the time.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and  National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  helped raise the loan, while  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  was among the lenders.  A spokesman for Emirates NBD, the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by
assets, declined to comment as did a spokeswoman for Royal Bank
of  Scotland . An official at National Bank of  Abu Dhabi , the
U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank, couldn’t immediately be reached.  Limitless is seeking to extend the tenor of the loan by
four to five years and plans to pay no interest over that
period, two bankers familiar with the deal said on Aug. 8.
Interest on the loan will accrue and be repaid along with
principal when the loan matures, they said at the time.  The developer has cash that it plans to use to fund
property developments in Dubai and  Saudi Arabia , one of the
bankers said, without providing a specific amount. The lenders
are seeking to use the funds to pay interest, the banker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  