-- 
Investment in Local Government at Year High

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/investment-in-local-government-funds-surging-to-one-year-high-muni-credit.html
Investors seeking higher yields are
pouring the most money into U.S. municipal-bond mutual funds in
a year, signaling growing demand for the estimated $75 billion
that states and cities may borrow by year-end.  Yields on tax-exempt bonds maturing in 10 years have
surpassed rates on similarly maturing Treasuries for five
consecutive weeks, the longest stretch since April 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Individuals put $1.9 billion into tax-exempt funds in
September, the biggest monthly inflow since September 2010 when
$2.6 billion was added, according to Lipper US Fund Flows.
Investors withdrew about $4 billion from stock mutual funds in
the first three weeks of September after a $29.3 billion outflow
in August, according to the  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based trade group. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lost 7.2 percent in September.  “After an exhausting month of stock-market volatility,
people turned to municipals,” Tom Dalpiaz, who oversees $280
million as senior vice president at Monument, Colorado-based
Advisors Assets Management Inc, said in a telephone interview.  Municipal yields on top-rated 10-year bonds were 2.27
percent yesterday, compared with 1.76 percent on Treasuries.
They have been at or above 100 percent of 10-year federal bond
yields since Aug. 29.  Fund investors are also being attracted by a decline in
municipal defaults this year to about $1.1 billion, a quarter of
last year’s total, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  ‘Armageddon’ Didn’t Happen  “They realized that the armageddon of hundreds of billions
of defaults wasn’t happening,” Dalpiaz said. “They also did
the math and checked the yields and said, ‘I think I can be
here,’” he said.  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst who correctly
predicted Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut in 2008, told the CBS
“60 Minutes” show in December that the next 12 months would
see “hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults.  Municipalities refinancing securities will help drive
monthly tax-exempt sales to about $25 billion for the rest of
2011, the most since July and up from an earlier projection of
$20 billion, Chris Mauro, a municipal-debt investment strategist
for  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York , wrote in a report last
month.  Issuance averaged $34 billion a month in 2010, paced by the
expiring Build America Bond program with its 35 percent federal
interest subsidy, according to Bloomberg data.  “It’s certainly helpful that we’re getting inflows back
into the muni market at the same time we’re getting an uptick in
issuance,” Mauro said in a telephone interview.  States and municipalities are set to borrow $12 billion
during the next 30 days, almost the highest level of future
sales since December, according to Bloomberg data.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  PALM BEACH COUNTY SOLID WASTE AUTHORITY, which provides
solid waste and recycling services to 1.4 million residents and
businesses in the county, plans to sell $600 million of revenue
bonds as soon as Oct. 6 to refund debt. The bonds are rated AA+,
 Standard & Poor’s  second-highest grade. Citigroup will lead a
syndicate of banks on the transaction. (Updated Oct. 4)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  