-- 
Investigators Open ‘Hooliganism’ Case on Billionaire Lebedev

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-10-04T18:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/investigators-start-hooliganism-probe-on-billionaire-lebedev.html
Russian investigators opened a
criminal case against billionaire  Alexander Lebedev  after a
physical altercation on property developer Sergey Polonsky
during a television show last month.  Investigators accuse Lebedev, who is the owner of The
Independent and the  London  Evening Standard newspapers in the
U.K., of “hooliganism,” the Investigative Committee said in a
statement posted on its website today. Lebedev wasn’t
immediately available for comment when contacted on his mobile
phone. He posted a link to the committee statement on his blog
titled “no comment.”  Polonsky, 38, speaking at a pre-recorded show that aired on
Sept. 16 on the global economic crisis, pointed at other guests
including Lebedev saying that he “felt like punching somebody
in the face.” Lebedev sprung to his feet first asking Polonsky
whether “he was off his mind” and then hit him three times
knocking the former property tycoon off a stool.  The Lebedev-Polonsky spat drew attention from Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin , who branded it as “hooliganism” at a
meeting with his All-Russia People’s Front on Sept. 21, RIA
Novosti reported. Putin who said Sept. 24 he will run for
president next year, has remained at the center of power since
relinquishing the top job to his protégé  Dmitry Medvedev  in
2008.  “They hit each other in the ear,” Putin said. “Imagine
how they fight for money, they would go at each other’s
throats.”  Lebedev, 51, a former lawmaker in Russia’s lower house of
parliament and a KGB officer who worked at the Soviet Embassy in
London during the  Cold War , now has a fortune valued by Forbes
magazine at $2.1 billion. His National Reserve Corp.’s holdings
include a stake in  Russia ’s flagship airline OAO Aeroflot and in
banking, construction, property, agriculture and media
companies.  Polonsky, ranked Russia’s 40th richest man with a fortune
of $4.35 billion by Forbes magazine in 2008, said in March he
was quitting business after his property developer went
bankrupt. Polonsky’s Mirax Group was most known for starting
construction on a 506-meter (1,660-foot) Federation Tower in
Moscow’s new financial district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Denis Maternovsky at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net  