-- 
Lions Gate Said to Delay Sale of Icahn-Owned Shares as Market in Flux

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-04T20:44:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/lions-gate-said-to-push-back-share-sale-on-stock-market-slump.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , the
independent film and TV studio, put an offering of shares owned
by  Carl Icahn  on hold, a day after stocks dipped to a one-year
low, a person with knowledge of the transaction said.  The company, creator of the “Mad Men” television drama,
had intended to price a planned secondary offering of 19.2
million shares yesterday and hasn’t set a new date for the
offering, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
information is private.  Lions Gate  agreed to sell the shares for $7 each as part of
a settlement of lawsuits filed during Icahn’s hostile bid for
the company, according to a Sept. 16 prospectus. Vancouver-based
Lions Gate, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , rose 24 cents, or
3.5 percent, to $7.08 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Lions Gate spokesman Peter Wilkes declined to comment.  Companies have postponed or withdrawn plans for 18
additional share sales in the U.S. this year worth a total of
$1.6 billion as an ongoing European debt crisis and faltering
economic recovery caused stocks to dip and volatility to surge.
The pulled share sales in 2011 have eclipsed the $1.4 billion
worth of scrapped additional sales in the U.S. in all of 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.3 percent as of 4:34
p.m. New York time, after falling yesterday to its lowest level
since September 2010. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, known as the VIX, surged as high as 48 on Aug.
8, compared with the average level of 18 in the first half.  Piper Jaffray Cos. in Minneapolis is leading the Lions Gate
offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  