-- 
Irish Central Bank Cuts 2012 Growth Forecast as Spending Falls

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-10-04T10:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/irish-central-bank-cuts-2012-growth-forecast-as-spending-falls.html
Ireland’s central bank lowered its
economic growth forecast for next year, as export growth slows
and  consumer spending  falls.  Gross domestic product will rise 1.8 percent next year, the
Dublin-based central bank said in its quarterly bulletin on its
website today. The bank in July forecast growth of 2.1 percent.
The bank raised its forecast for this year to 1 percent, from
its 0.8 percent estimate three months ago, after second-quarter
growth beat analysts’ estimates.  “Consumption is likely to weaken in the second half of
this year and fall back further during next year,” the central
the bank said. A “more muted outlook” for exports in the
second half of this year is expected to be “sustained through
much of next year.”  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said last month that
slowing growth in Ireland’s trading partners may hamper the
economy even as he tries to cut the fiscal deficit. The
government has pledged to reduce the deficit about 3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015 from about 10 percent this year.  The central bank said today there are arguments to be made
in favor of speeding up the process, though “it would not be
advisable to frontload the adjustment in a dramatic manner.”  Personal expenditure is forecast to decline 2.6 percent
this year and 0.8 percent next year, the central bank said.
Exports will rise 5.3 percent and 5.2 percent, it said.  Ireland’s 10-year borrowing cost, which reached 14.22
percent in July, has dropped to 7.68 percent.  “Yields, though they have fallen, remain at levels that
are inconsistent with a return to market funding,” the central
bank said. “Further very significant progress has to be made in
convincing market participants of the country’s
creditworthiness. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  