-- 
IRS Stingy With Whistleblower Payouts, Slow to Follow Up on Tips

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/irs-stingy-with-whistleblower-payouts-slow-to-follow-up-on-tips.html
The IRS took more than four years to
reward a whistleblower through a new program to encourage
tipsters and has drawn criticism from the Government
Accountability Office for failing to move faster.  A recent  GAO study  found that the program, which has
attracted tips from more than 1,300 whistleblowers, doesn’t
collect data that could speed up evaluation of information that
started to pour in after Congress authorized the  Internal
Revenue Service  to establish the office in late 2006.  “Five years later, they have to start paying rewards,”
Stephen Kohn, executive director of the  National Whistleblower
Center , a Washington-based non-profit group that advocates for
government informants, told Bloomberg Government.  The 2006 law was designed to help the IRS narrow the tax
gap, which is the difference between taxes owed and taxes paid.
The gross amount of the gap is estimated to be $345 billion.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who pushed for
the law, noted that by comparison the U.S. Justice Department
has collected more than $27 billion under the False Claims Act,
the law upon which the IRS whistleblower statute is modeled. The
figure cited by Grassley reflects recoveries since 1986 changes
to the law and includes at least $7.8 billion collected since
2009, according to  Justice Department  figures.  ‘Opportunity’ for IRS  “Here’s an opportunity for the IRS to get the help of a
lot of non-IRS employees, the same way the Justice Department is
getting the help of a lot of non-Justice employees,” Grassley
said in a telephone interview.  He recently  asked  the IRS to address issues identified by
the GAO report and by whistleblower advocates. Grassley, who
said he knows of only one IRS whistleblower award, said the
agency is slow to pursue tips because of concerns that the
information could reflect negatively on its enforcement.  Tax attorney Christopher Rizek, who has represented
whistleblowers and companies facing their claims, said the lack
of IRS rewards so far is to be expected because of the potential
stakes, especially for businesses.  “The big money is in whistleblowing on big corporations
with big tax liabilities,” Rizek, an attorney with  Caplin &
Drysdale Chartered  in  Washington , said in a telephone interview.
“Those big corporations have lawyers and accountants on staff
who scour the issues and may have a reasonable dispute.”  Complex Cases  Other tax lawyers see more than the complexity of cases
behind the dearth of whistleblower payouts.  “The IRS really has difficulty, culturally, dealing with
people who aren’t clean as an angel,” said Dean Zerbe, national
managing director of AlliantGroup, a Houston-based tax
consulting firm.  Zerbe, who helped write the 2006 IRS whistleblower law as
an aide to Grassley and now represents whistleblowers, said the
IRS must signal that it is serious about rewarding informants.  “The best thing they could do is have the Ed McMahon
moment -- give somebody the big check,” he said.  The IRS declined to comment directly on questions about the
whistleblower program and steered inquiries to its letter of
response to the GAO report.  The time it takes to process claims “is due to a number of
issues, most notably the requirement to allow taxpayers the
appeals and litigation rights that the law affords,” Steven T.
Miller, IRS deputy commissioner for services and enforcement,
said in the Aug. 3 letter.  Years-Long Wait  In its 2010 report to Congress on the program, the IRS said
whistleblowers are told that completing a claim could take five
to seven years and sometimes longer.  Before the law, the IRS could issue rewards at its
discretion and collect tips about alleged tax underpayment in
any amount.  The  2006 measure  mandates rewards of up to 30 percent of
proceeds recovered and targets cases where the amount in dispute
exceeds $2 million. If the claim is against a person, he or she
must have an annual income of more than $200,000 a year.  The current program has attracted tips from almost 1,400
whistleblowers, who have provided information on more than 9,500
individual and business taxpayers, according to the GAO report.
The report said the IRS has paid “a small number of awards”
through May 12, and didn’t disclose how many. The agency
declined to say how many awards it has made.  In April, the IRS  settled  for the first time with a
whistleblower under the 2006 law, according to attorneys Eric
Young and Brandon Lauria of  Egan Young  in Blue Bell,
 Pennsylvania , who handled the case.  Financial Services Firm  Their client reaped $4.5 million for reporting a tax
liability of more than $20 million at a “large national
financial services firm,” Young said in a phone interview. He
declined to identify his client.  IRS spokeswoman Julianne Breitbeil declined to confirm the
settlement, citing an obligation to protect taxpayer privacy.  The whistleblower, an in-house accountant and auditor, went
to the IRS after complaining to managers that the company had
underpaid its taxes, according to Young. Two years after giving
this information to the IRS, the whistleblower hired Young’s law
firm.  “After his initial interview, the IRS pretty much went
radio silent,” Young said. “He became concerned that there was
some disconnect.”  False Claims Act   By contrast, whistleblowers and their lawyers often consult
with Justice Department lawyers as they investigate  False Claims
Act  lawsuits filed under seal, Young said.  The whistleblower’s experience mirrors findings in the GAO
report, which examined the IRS’s eight-step process for
evaluating claims. Government reviewers found that IRS didn’t
track the time it took to complete each step or collect other
information that would shed light on streamlining the process.  The lack of information limits the whistleblower office’s
ability to update “Congress and the whistleblower community,
which may erode confidence in the program,” the report said.  Kohn, of the whistleblowers center, said the IRS’s wariness
is frustrating because “there’s hundreds of billions of dollars
in unpaid taxes and there are whistleblowers that have the
information” needed to recover the uncollected levies.  Kohn noted that there’s no mention of a whistleblowing
program on the home page of the  IRS web site . By comparison,
Kohn said, the Securities and Exchange Commission extends an
invitation to whistleblowers in the upper right-hand corner of
its  home page .  “There’s a big difference,” Kohn said. “They’re still
keeping it pretty secret.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  