-- 
Israel Benchmark Bond Rises to 6-Month High on Global Economy

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-10-04T15:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/israel-benchmark-bond-rises-to-six-month-high-on-greek-debt-woes.html
Israel ’s benchmark bond climbed to
the highest level in six months and stocks fell as investors
sought the relative safety of government debt amid concern about
global economic growth.  The yield on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit government
notes due January 2022 slid six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 4.54 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The
rate on the 10-year bonds was at the lowest since November,
according to generic-yield data compiled by Bloomberg. The TA-25
benchmark  stock index  slid 3.8 percent to 1,020.92, the lowest
since Sept. 13.  “People are lowering their risk in shares and turning to
government shekel bonds,” said Effi Cohen, a Tel Aviv-based
trader at Leader Capital Markets Ltd. “As long as the crisis in
 Europe  continues, it appears we will see a lowering of  interest
rates  here in Israel and this will cause yields to fall.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its global growth forecast for
this year and next, predicting recessions in Germany and  France .
Europe’s worsening sovereign debt woes and the threat of a U.S.
recession have roiled global stock markets, erasing about $13
trillion from equities since May.  Two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, dropped four basis
points to 2.72 percent, the lowest since September 2010.  Bank of
Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer cut the benchmark interest rate
last month by a quarter point to 3 percent as inflation slowed,
growth eased and Europe, one of the country’s key export
markets, grappled with its debt crisis.  ‘Room to Ease’  The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects market
expectations for inflation over the period, retreated four basis
points to 174, implying an average annual inflation rate of 1.74
percent. Consumer prices may rise 2.3 percent in the next 12
months, according to the average of forecasters surveyed by the
Bank of Israel, the bank said Sept. 20.  The Bank of Israel “has room to ease policy considerably
going forward” based on inflation expectations, David Hauner
head of Eastern Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa  economics at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  London , wrote in a report today.  Market inflation expectations have been “the best guide”
to the Bank of Israel’s rate setting in recent years, Hauner
wrote. These measures suggest room for 50 basis points to 100
basis points in further cuts, according to Hauner. Goldman Sachs
said Sept. 27 the benchmark lending rate may decline to 2.5
percent by year end, while Citigroup Inc. forecast another
quarter-point cut this year.  Shekel Climbs  Inflation-linked bonds due June 2013 dropped for a third
day, lifting the yield two basis points to 1.19 percent. The
Tel-Bond 40 index of corporate bonds lost 0.6 percent.  The shekel strengthened for the first time in five days,
gaining 0.3 percent, to 3.7494 per dollar at 5:32 p.m. in  Tel
Aviv , after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank stands ready to take additional steps to boost U.S.
growth. The Israeli currency earlier touched 3.7730, the lowest
in more than a year. While the shekel has lost 3.3 percent in
the past 12 months, it’s still the second-best performer among
10 emerging markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  