-- 
J&J Directors Win Dismissal of Investor ‘Red Flags’ Suit

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-10-04T20:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/j-j-directors-win-dismissal-of-suit-over-company-red-flags-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  directors won
dismissal of a shareholder lawsuit accusing them of ignoring
“red flags” foreshadowing product recalls and government
probes of manufacturing defects and marketing practices.  Investors filed complaints claiming that leadership at J&J,
the world’s second-largest health-care products company, missed
a series of signs about quality problems, as well as kickbacks,
illegal marketing of drugs and bribes paid to doctors outside
the U.S.  U.S. District Judge Freda Wolfson dismissed an amended
complaint, ruling that investors failed to allege directors
acted in bad faith in neglecting to properly oversee the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based company. She said investors hadn’t
shown directors deliberately ignored various illegal activities
at J&J.  “The court does not find a sufficient basis for inferring
that a majority of the directors faced a substantial likelihood
of personal liability in connection with what appears to be
serious misconduct on J&J’s part,” Wolfson ruled Sept. 29 in
federal court in Trenton, New Jersey.  Wolfson said investors described the red flags to 10
directors as U.S. Food and Drug Administration warning letters,
an FDA report, state attorney general subpoenas, whistleblower
lawsuits, a criminal guilty plea, a settlement with the Justice
Department, and a Justice Department subpoena.  “We are pleased Judge Wolfson granted our motion to
dismiss the consolidated shareholder derivative lawsuit,” J&J
spokesman  William Price  said in an e-mail. “We do not agree
with the allegations in the complaint and will dispute them in
court if and when the case moves forward.”  Recalls  Recalls have dogged J&J the past two years, led by the
withdrawal of more than 40 brands of children’s Tylenol, Motrin
and other medicines with foul odors or faulty ingredients. J&J
shut one factory for an overhaul last year and signed a consent
decree in March expanding U.S. oversight at three plants.  J&J argued in court papers that its flood of product
recalls last year stemmed from poor management, staffing cuts
and breakdowns in integrating the consumer unit it bought from
Pfizer Inc. It said top executives aren’t to blame.  A report by a special committee of J&J board members, filed
in response to investor lawsuits, said the company’s McNeil unit
suffered from “an adversarial relationship” between some
quality-control and production staff as well as “an emphasis on
production volume” over compliance. The panel urged J&J’s board
to create a new regulatory and compliance panel.  In January 2010, the  Justice Department  sued J&J, claiming
the company paid kickbacks to influence sales of its
antipsychotic drug Risperdal to nursing home patients. J&J
claims that payments it made to Omnicare Inc., the largest U.S.
pharmacy for nursing home patients, were allowable rebates and
not illegal kickbacks.  Omnicare  In her 67-page opinion, Wolfson said that while the company
got a federal subpoena over Omnicare in September 2005,
investors couldn’t show that three directors who sat on the
board’s Public Policy Committee knew of the probe or discussed
it with other directors.  While all the board members on the committee were named as
defendants, investors offered “no allegations regarding meeting
dates, who was actually present at the meetings, or what
subjects were discussed,” Wolfson wrote. “Without this sort of
factual detail, the court cannot infer that a majority of the
board knew about the substance of the 2005 subpoenas.”  The “pertinent question is not whether the board knew
about the subpoena but whether the subpoena is a determination
of wrongdoing,” Wolfson wrote.  The judge ruled that the shareholders could file an amended
version of the complaint with greater detail.  The suing shareholders include the Minneapolis
Firefighters’ Relief Association and the Hawaii Laborers Pension
Fund. They asked Wolfson to order top executives and directors
to pay damages to the company for mismanagement and to adopt new
corporate governance procedures.  The case is In Re Johnson & Johnson Derivative Litigation,
10-cv-2033, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey 
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net . 