-- 
India-Afghanistan Troop-Training Pact May Increase Tensions With Pakistan

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-10-05T10:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/karzai-to-hold-afghanistan-india-talks-that-may-increase-pakistan-tensions.html
India  and Afghanistan signed a
strategic partnership agreement that officials of their
governments say will allow for Indian training of Afghan troops
in coming years, a step that may exacerbate the two countries’
tensions with Pakistan.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and India’s Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  signed the accord yesterday in New Delhi, a day
after Karzai accused Pakistan in a televised speech of foiling
his attempts to make peace with Taliban insurgents by secretly
backing their war effort. The agreement is not directed at
Pakistan, Karzai said today, without giving details on the type
or scale of training being discussed.  After years in which Karzai kept India at arm’s length on
security issues, his willingness to seek military training “is
a joint message he and the Americans are sending to Pakistan
that, if you don’t come on board and stop supporting these
guerrillas, we have an option to strengthen ties with India,”
Amin Saikal, an Afghan political scientist at  Australian
National University , said yesterday in a phone interview.  Saikal and other analysts say the growing strains are part
of an “end-game” in which Pakistan is seeking to keep or
increase its influence in  Afghanistan  as the U.S. tries to
reduce its commitment to the decade-long war, the longest-ever
conflict for the U.S. military. While India has drawn closer to
Afghanistan with promises of new aid and an offer to invest
billions of dollars in mining a large iron deposit, Pakistani
leaders have traded top-level visits with  China ’s leaders,
seeking closer ties.  Proxy Forces  As President  Barack Obama  tries to withdraw the bulk of
America’s 98,000 troops in Afghanistan within three years, the
U.S. and Karzai have publicly increased pressure on Pakistan to
end what they and independent analysts say is its policy of
quietly backing the Taliban insurgents in Afghanistan.  Pakistan’s army for years has denied  reports by scholars  --
and last month by the top U.S. military commander -- that it
supports Islamic guerrillas as proxy forces for attacks on
Afghanistan and India.  Pakistan  has fought three wars with India
and its officials say the army would regard any Indian security
presence in Afghanistan as a threat to Pakistan.  While “Pakistan won’t object to any Indian role in helping
the development” of Afghanistan, “any military or intelligence
role for India will not be tolerable for Pakistan,” Pakistani
foreign policy analyst and former ambassador Maleeha Lodi said
in an interview in July. Pakistan’s security policies are set by
its politically powerful army, which Lodi said retains “its
desire to prevent any kind of strategic encirclement” through
an Indian-Afghan security relationship.  Embassy Attack  The new Indian-Afghan agreement largely enshrines joint
projects already underway, Karzai said today in a speech
sponsored by a New Delhi think tank, the  Observer Research
Foundation . It envisions Indian help “to train our police for
us, to train our army for us, to train thousands of Afghan youth
who are right now studying in India,” he said.  While U.S.-led forces currently train Afghan troops, their
main combat force is scheduled to withdraw by 2014.  Strains between Pakistan and both Karzai’s government and
the U.S. have increased following guerrilla attacks in the
Afghan capital last month that officials in Kabul and  Washington 
say were sponsored by Pakistan. On Sept. 13, Taliban fighters
fired rocket-propelled grenades into the U.S. Embassy compound,
and a week later a suicide bomber killed Karzai’s chief envoy
for talks with the Taliban, Burhanuddin Rabbani.  Iron Deposit  Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said before retiring at the end of September that
Pakistan’s main spy agency, the  Inter-Services Intelligence
Directorate , or ISI, for years has supported “proxy terrorist
organizations,” including the Haqqani guerrillas and Lashkar-e-
Taiba. Karzai’s office said last week it has proof that
Pakistan-based Taliban sent the bomber that killed Rabbani.
Pakistan denied both accusations and last week summoned a
conference of all political parties to denounce them.  As the U.S. and Afghan tensions with Pakistan have grown
this year, India’s Singh visited in May to offer an additional
$500 million in development aid, following more than $1 billion
it has spent since 2002.  India’s government encouraged a group of its steel and
mining companies to bid for the estimated 1.8 billion metric
tons of ore at Hajigak, 100 kilometers (60 miles) west of Kabul.
The tender is the biggest on offer in a country that the U.S.
government estimated last year holds $1 trillion in untapped
minerals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  