-- 
Kenya May Raise Key Rate to Boost Worst-Performing Currency

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-05T07:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/kenya-may-raise-interest-rate-to-boost-worst-performing-currency.html
Kenya ’s central bank may raise its
benchmark interest rate for the second time in a month to help
bolster the world’s worst-performing currency.  Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, who chairs the monetary policy
committee, will raise the central  bank rate  to 7.75 percent
today, according to the median estimate of nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The forecasts ranged from 7.5 percent to
10 percent.  The shilling lost a fifth of its value against the dollar
this year, the most of more than 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, hitting a record low of 104.2 on Sept. 27. That’s
adding to price pressures after the worst regional drought in 60
years boosted inflation to 17.3 percent in September, more than
triple the central bank’s 5 percent target.  “Further tightening is required to curb inflation,
strengthen the shilling and restore faith in the central bank,”
Celeste Fauconnier, an Africa analyst at Johannesburg-based Rand
Merchant Bank, said in an e-mailed note to clients. “Inflation
is expected to remain elevated throughout the rest of the
year.”  The MPC will publish its decision in an e-mailed statement,
expected later today. The shilling strengthened for the first
day in four, adding 0.4 percent to 101.57 per dollar by 9:05
a.m. in Nairobi today.  Neighbor Raises Rates  In neighboring  Uganda , central bank Governor Emmanuel
Tumusiime-Mutebile boosted the benchmark interest rate by 4
percentage points to 20 percent yesterday, to help bring down
inflation that soared to 28.3 percent in September.  Kenya’s central bank has been slow to respond to rising
prices this year, lowering its key rate to a record in January,
then reversing the decision two months later. Ndung’u, who has
blamed commercial banks for speculating in the  currency market ,
wants to keep borrowing rates low enough to support  consumer
spending  in East Africa’s biggest economy.  The central bank last raised its key lending rate by 0.75
percentage points, the steepest increase since the rate was
introduced in June 2006, on Sept. 14 at a special meeting to
review efforts to contain inflation and stabilize the shilling.  ‘Self-Defeating’  “Inflation pressures point to a need for monetary
tightening,” Phumelele Mbiyo, head of economic research for
 East Africa  at CFC Stanbic Holdings Ltd., said in a note to
clients. Keeping  interest rates  low to spur growth “will prove
self-defeating if it is at the cost of macroeconomic stability
and thus investment confidence.” Mbiyo forecast a 1 percentage
point increase today.  Kenya’s economy contracted in the second quarter by a
seasonally adjusted 4.6 percent as dry weather crimped
agricultural production, which makes up a quarter of output in
the world’s largest grower of black tea. That compares with an
expansion of 2 percent between January and March, the Nairobi-
based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said on Sept. 29. The
government expects growth of 5.3 percent this year, compared
with 5.6 percent in 2010.  Inflation pressures are spreading in the economy.  Safaricom
Ltd. (SAFCOM) , East Africa’s biggest mobile phone operator, raised its
calling rates for the first time in 11 years on Oct. 1, citing a
weaker currency and rising business costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  