-- 
Amanda Knox Leaves Italy as Acquittal Ends Four Years in Prison for Murder

-- B y   J e r r o l d   C o l t e n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-04T12:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/knox-leaves-italy-as-murder-acquittal-ends-four-years-in-prison.html
Amanda Knox left  Rome  for the U.S.
today after the 24-year-old American was acquitted by an Italian
appeals court for her British housemate’s murder, ending almost
four years in prison.  Knox departed on a British Airways flight via  London  for
her native  Seattle , Italian media including Sky TG24 television
reported. Judge Claudio Pratillo Hellman ruled late yesterday
that she be freed after a jury found Knox and her Italian
boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, innocent in the killing of
Meredith Kercher. The ruling overturned convictions for the pair
in 2009.  Perugia, a central Italian city of 170,000 that was
inundated with reporters and onlookers for the appeals case and
the original murder trial, was returning to normal today, after
crowds outside the courthouse last night chanted “shame,
shame” on hearing the verdict.  Residents said they were happy the ordeal was over, though
they’ll miss the business brought in by hundreds of journalists
and onlookers.  “As far as work is concerned, it was like the hand of
God,” said Matteo Piselli, 28, who works at a bar near the
courthouse. “There weren’t even this many people out in the
square when Italy won the  World Cup .”  Knox, who came to Perugia as an exchange student, left the
city after being freed and spent last night in “a protected
place” in Rome, Ansa news agency reported, citing family
members. “I’ll always be grateful, I love you,” Knox said in a
letter to Italians who supported her, Ansa said.  Fast-Track Trial  Knox and Sollecito, 27, were convicted of the killing in
December 2009 and sentenced to 26 years and 25 years in prison,
respectively. Both were jailed shortly after the crime and
denied bail. Rudy Guede, an Ivorian-born Italian citizen, was
also found guilty in a separate “fast-track” trial in 2008 and
sentenced to 30 years. Guede, 24, had his sentence reduced to 16
years in a 2009 appeal.  Kercher, a 21-year-old student, was found dead in her
bedroom, half-naked and strangled with her throat slashed, on
Nov. 2, 2007, at the house she shared with Knox and two other
women. Prosecutor Giuliano Mignini said at the original trial
that Knox had masterminded a drug-fueled sex game involving
Sollecito and Guede that turned violent, leading to the murder.
Mignini told reporters today that he would appeal the latest
verdict to  Italy ’s highest court.  ‘Paying With My Life’  “The perversion, the violence and the disrespect for life
and for people, that’s not me, I didn’t do the things they said
I did,” Knox said in a final statement to the court yesterday,
speaking in Italian. “I didn’t kill, I didn’t rape, I didn’t
rob, I wasn’t there.” Knox said she had been “paying with my
life for things I didn’t do.”  More than a dozen of Knox’s friends and family members
yesterday packed a hotel suite in downtown Seattle to watch the
verdict. The supporters clapped, cheered and embraced after Knox
was freed.  “I’m delighted, elated, relieved, very, very happy,” said
family friend Karen Pruett, 55.  The State Department also weighed in, saying the U.S.
“appreciates the careful consideration of this matter within
the Italian judicial system,” according to a statement by
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland .  DNA Evidence  During the appeals trial, court-commissioned experts cast
doubt on techniques police used to collect DNA evidence linking
the two to the murder. A former cellmate of Guede also testified
that he said Knox and Sollecito had nothing to do with the
crime, Italian newspapers reported.  Francesco Maresca, the Kercher family’s lawyer, told
reporters in Perugia today that he believed the DNA had been
just one “of many” elements and the overall weight of the
evidence “was sufficient to confirm the original sentence.”  In arguments to the court, Sollecito’s attorney Giulia Bongiorno, a member of the Italian parliament, compared Knox to
Jessica Rabbit, saying the American had been unfairly portrayed
in the media as a savvy, sex-obsessed manipulator. Like the
cartoon-film character, Knox “isn’t bad, she’s just drawn that
way,” Bongiorno said.  “If Amanda and Raffaele were freed yesterday, today we’re
wondering who it was that collaborated with Rudy Guede in
killing Meredith,” Lyle Kercher, Meredith Kercher’s brother,
told a news conference in Perugia today. “Our search for the
truth continues.”  Altered Story  Knox was convicted in 2009 after first telling police she
was at the villa at the time of the killing and heard screaming
from Kercher’s room. Knox later altered her story and her lawyer
said her original account had been coerced by the police.  “If I had been there that night, I would be dead like
her,” Knox told the court yesterday. “Only I wasn’t there, I
was at Raffaele’s.”  Knox also initially named the owner of a bar where she had
worked as the possible killer. The man, Patrick Diya Lumumba,
was arrested and later released after a witness confirmed his
alibi. Lumumba sued Knox for damages and the appeals court
yesterday upheld her conviction for slandering him and her
three-year sentence, which she has already served.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerrold Colten in Milan at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net . 