-- 
Najib May Unveil ‘Goodies’ in Malaysian Budget Aimed at Vote

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-10-05T03:21:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/najib-may-unveil-goodies-in-malaysian-budget-aimed-at-election.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
may give handouts to the poor and increase civil servant
salaries as he seeks to bolster support before elections that
some economists predict may take place as soon as this year.  The prime minister, due to unveil the country’s 2012
spending plan on Oct. 7, may forecast a  budget deficit  of 5.1
percent of gross domestic product next year, from the
government’s current estimate of 5.4 percent in 2011, according
to the median prediction of six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Najib, who must seek a fresh mandate by early 2013,
probably wants to go to the polls before a weakening global
economy hurts Malaysian growth further, according to  Barclays
Capital . The leader has pledged to transform the Southeast Asian
nation’s economy by improving efficiency and spurring investment
as he tries to shore up support after the ruling coalition in
2008 had its narrowest election victory in half a century.  “We are expecting a people’s budget as the government may
push for elections as early as November” amid slower global
expansion, said Yong Yin Ng, a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc. “We expect personal ‘goodies’ like higher
personal relief, higher personal deductions, slightly lower
personal income tax, affordable housing, civil servant bonus,
and moderate increases in sin taxes.”  Currency Catalyst  Barclays predicts polls will be held this year, and said
that would be a “catalyst” for a strengthening in the
Malaysian ringgit to 2.9 per dollar in six months. The currency
rose 0.4 percent to 3.1895 as of 11:17 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur 
today. The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index of stocks
added 0.3 percent, set for its first day of gains in four.  “An improving investment climate, a solid fiscal position
and strong domestic demand are likely to support the Malaysian
ringgit,” said  Rahul Bajoria , an economist at Barclays in
Singapore. “Deteriorating external conditions are another
reason for Najib to call an election soon, rather than risk the
economic climate turning much worse.”  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and the threat of a U.S.
recession have roiled global stock markets, erasing almost $10
trillion from equities last quarter. Exports have fallen or
slowed from the  Philippines  to Malaysia in recent months,
damping growth in a region that led the recovery from the 2009
global recession.  Growth Slows  Malaysia ’s economy grew at the slowest pace since 2009 in
the second quarter, climbing 4 percent from a year earlier. The
government will give updated forecasts for 2011 and 2012 when
the budget is unveiled. GDP will probably expand 4.8 percent
this year and 5 percent in 2012, according to the median
estimates of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Malaysia’s inflation has probably peaked and price
pressures may ease as the global economy deteriorates, central
bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said Sept. 25.  Bank Negara
Malaysia  kept borrowing costs unchanged at 3 percent for a
second straight meeting in September after four increases from
early March 2010 to May this year.  Najib, 58, said last month he will abolish laws allowing
the government to detain citizens without trial and ease media
rules as he moves to repair his public image. The announcement
came two months after street protests that led to the arrest of
more than 1,600 people and a 13 percentage-point drop in his
public approval from last year.  Minimum Wage   The prime minister may reiterate this week the government’s
plan to introduce minimum wages and announce a salary increase
for civil servants, particularly those earning less than 3,000
ringgit ($937) a month, according to Suhaimi Ilias, an economist
at Maybank Investment Bank. Maybank also predicts higher
allocations for social welfare programs and some personal
income-tax reliefs.  Department-store operator  Parkson Holdings Bhd. (PKS)  and
automaker  UMW Holdings Bhd. (UMWH)  are among consumer stocks that
investors seeking to profit from the budget may want to look at,
Citigroup said, even as it advised them not to “aggressively
trade” the event.  “Consumption plays come to mind as the government dishes
out goodies to individuals and households,” Citigroup’s Ng
said. “There could be some spark of life for cyclical sectors
like construction and oil and gas as the government reiterates
its commitments to major projects and investments.”  The government last year unveiled a so-called economic
transformation program under which it identified $444 billion of
projects from mass rail to nuclear power that it would promote
in the current decade. It has also trimmed subsidies this year
for sugar and fuel to lower government expenditure.  “While fiscal discipline should remain the guiding
principle in order to maintain macroeconomic stability, we
believe that the government will draw up a sensible and
realistic budget since excessive tightening of the purse strings
in the short term would only add to the headwinds for the
economy,” said Lee Heng Guie, chief economist at CIMB
Investment Bank in Kuala Lumpur. “The government needs to
strike a fine balance between its twin goals of reducing the
budget deficit and ensuring economic expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  