-- 
NBA Cancels Rest of Preseason, Says First Two Weeks of Season Next to Go

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T05:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/nba-cancels-rest-of-preseason-says-first-two-weeks-of-season-next-to-go.html
The  National Basketball Association 
canceled its preseason schedule and will vacate the first two
weeks of the regular season if the league doesn’t reach a new
labor agreement with its players by Oct. 10.  Yesterday’s four-hour negotiations at a Manhattan hotel
collapsed when the players rejected the idea of a 50/50 split of
basketball-related income, or BRI, NBA Commissioner  David Stern 
said at a news conference.  “We weren’t able to make the progress that we’d hoped we’d
be able to make and we weren’t able to continue the
negotiations,” Stern said.  The league told the players that if an agreement in
principle isn’t reached by Oct. 10 it would have “no choice but
to cancel the first two weeks of the season,” Stern said.  “There’s no meetings scheduled,” he said. “We were told
that it’s not to be.”  As things stand, an agreement by that date is unlikely,
National Basketball Players Association President  Derek Fisher 
said at a news conference, standing in front of players
including All-Stars  Kobe Bryant  and  Kevin Garnett .  Union Executive Director  Billy Hunter  said it could be
“maybe a month, two months” before the sides talk again. The
regular season is scheduled to begin Nov. 1.  BRI Key Issue  “It’s your guess as to when we’ll next meet,” he said.  The talks yesterday, which focused entirely on the economic
split of revenue, broke down with the owners officially offering
to give the players 47 percent of BRI and the union seeking 53
percent.  With no more movement apparent, the top negotiators from
the two groups then floated to each other the idea of a 50/50
split. Stern and NBA Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver took the
idea to the owners and the union leaders went back to the rest
of their group.  “While we were in the process of doing that with our
owners, we were asked to step out and we were advised by the
players that that would not be acceptable,” Stern said. “At
that point, it didn’t seem to make a lot of sense to continue.”  Stern added that the owners “were going to be prepared to
go down that road” of a 50/50 split.  “If Adam and I tell the owners we are going to go back and
sell something, it’s going to get sold,” he said.  Protecting Future Players  The union’s actions yesterday came down to protecting
future players, Fisher said.  “It’s really about a lot of young men that are not
standing here today,” Fisher said. “There’s a place that we
have to remain in order to protect those players.”  Many NBA players have agreed to contracts to play in  Europe ,
and Bryant, who has been in negotiations to play in  Italy  during
the NBA lockout, said he’s still “up in the air” as to what
his plans are.  With only so many overseas jobs available to NBA players,
Hunter said the rest of the league remains committed to holding
out until a fair deal can be reached.  “The thought amongst some of the owners is that as soon as
the players miss a check or two they’ll cave,” Hunter said. “I
was quite specific in saying to them, ‘I hope you don’t
underestimate these guys. The players are pretty strident.’”  Opt-Out Offer  Stern and Silver also disclosed yesterday that the owners
offered a 10-year contract that gave the players the opportunity
to opt out after seven years, and that owners had backed off on
not allowing guaranteed contracts in the next deal.  “We should have continued negotiating,” Silver said.
“I’m personally very disappointed.”  The only other time the NBA, which began play in 1946,
delayed the start of its season was in 1998, when a labor
dispute led to a campaign that began in February 1999 and was
shortened to 50 games from 82.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 