-- 
NBA Owners, Players Begin Negotiating Session in Attempt to Save Season

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-04T17:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/nba-owners-players-talk-try-to-save-season.html
National Basketball Association
players and officials began a labor negotiating session that
might determine whether the season begins on time.  NBA All-Stars  Kobe Bryant  of the  Los Angeles Lakers ,  Kevin Garnett  and Paul Pierce of the Boston Celtics, and Amar’e Stoudemire of the New York Knicks were among the players who
joined the full executive committee of the National Basketball
Players Association for the meeting at a New York hotel with NBA
Commissioner  David Stern , Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver and
the owners’ labor-relations committee.  The league and union reserved neighboring hotel conference
rooms, where their banners hang behind podiums for news
conferences that could reveal a path toward labor peace or much
more discord to come.  Derek Fisher , the president of the union, said yesterday
that a lot of signs pointed toward today being “a very huge
day.”  “There will be a lot of pressure on all of us in the
room,” Fisher said.  The meeting is the sixth in the past eight days for the two
sides that have been in discussions about the next labor deal
for more than two years. A quick session today may serve as a
bad sign for the negotiations, Stern said yesterday.  The NBA locked the players out on July 1 when the previous
six-year labor contract expired. With the season scheduled to
start Nov. 1, the league already has postponed training camps
indefinitely and canceled 43 preseason games through Oct. 15.
When asked on Oct. 1 if he had any schedule announcements
planned, Stern would only guarantee that none would come before
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net .
NI NBA
NI LABOR
NI SPORTBIZ
NI NY 