-- 
New York Fed Names BMO Capital, Bank of Nova Scotia as Primary Dealers

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-10-04T21:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/new-york-fed-names-bmo-bank-of-nova-scotia-as-primary-dealers.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
named BMO Capital Markets Corp. and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , New
York Agency as primary dealers.  The appointments are effective today, according to the New
York Fed’s  website . The change increases the number of
securities firms in the network that underwrite the government’s
debt to 22, the most since February 2007.  The Fed has added seven primary dealers since June 2009
while using unconventional policy tools to stem the financial
crisis that began in August 2007. One firm has left the network
of counterparties. In its latest stimulus measure, the Fed on
Sept. 21 decided to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in
its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries to further reduce
borrowing costs and counter rising risks of a recession.  “An increase in the amount of dealers available will help
create a more efficient process with the activity that’s going
to be coming up in rebalancing their balance sheet,” said  Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks,
 Pennsylvania . “They’re looking to cover the bases and make sure
the process they’re going to go through is going to be smooth
and it’s not going to be disruptive to the marketplace.”  Primary dealers serve as counterparties in open market
operations, the central bank’s mechanism for maintaining its
target rate for overnight loans between banks as well as its
purchases and sales of securities. Primary dealers also are
expected to bid when the Treasury sells bills, notes and bonds.  Expanded Roster  The central bank added Jefferies & Co., RBC Capital Markets
LLC, and Nomura Securities International Inc. in 2009 and
earlier this year expanded its roster to include Societe
Generale SA and MF Global Holdings Ltd. Dresdner Kleinwort
Securities LLC withdrew from the dealership role in 2009.  Demand has reached a record $3 for every dollar of debt
sold at the $1.6 trillion in Treasury auctions this year. The
U.S. sold a record $2.249 trillion of notes and bonds last year,
up from $922 billion in 2008.  Non-primary dealers have increased their purchases of
Treasuries at auctions this year. Firms bidding outside of the
dealer network bought 10 percent or more of the securities in 36
of 63 note and bond auctions this year and at 55 of 81 offerings
in 2010, compared with only 6 times from 2004 to 2008, according
to Treasury data.  Many traders believe aspiring dealers use the direct
bidding system because “they need to prove themselves to the
Fed,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  