-- 
New Mauritius Hotels High-Season Bookings Below Par, Masson Says

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-10-04T13:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/new-mauritius-hotels-high-season-bookings-below-par-masson-says.html
New Mauritius Hotels Ltd. (NMH) ’s bookings
for its first quarter are lagging behind the expansion in
capacity because of a global slowdown, said Marcel Masson,
finance director at the nation’s biggest leisure operator.  Reservations for the three months through December are
“not enough with regard to the additional capacity that the
group has this year,” Masson said in a transcript of an
interview published in BeachNews, the Curepipe-based group’s
newsletter, received today by post.  New Mauritius Hotels, which trades under the Beachcomber
brand, owns and manages eight hotels in Mauritius and one in
 Seychelles , according to its  website . Its new Trou aux Biches
resort was operating at full capacity this year, it said.  Tourism and textiles are the country’s largest earner of
foreign currency.  Europe  is the main source of visitors for
Indian Ocean island nation, accounting for 62 percent of
arrivals for the eight months through August, data from the
Mauritius Tourism Promotion Authority show. Low season normally
runs from April to September.  Results for the fourth quarter through September will be
“negative” as the period coincides with the low season, Masson
said. Full-year earnings will “slightly” improve compared with
the prior period.  The group’s third-quarter loss widened to 133 million
rupees ($4 million), it said on Aug. 5.  The company, third largest in the SEMDEX index of stocks,
is the worst performer among the gauge’s 38 members this year.
It climbed 0.6 percent to 80.5 rupees by the 1:30 p.m. close in
 Port Louis , the capital, paring its drop in 2011 to 27 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  