-- 
New York Police May Use City Buses For Protest Arrests While Suit Proceeds

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-10-04T20:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/new-york-police-may-use-city-buses-for-protest-arrests-while-suit-proceeds.html
New York  police may require unionized
bus drivers to transport protesters arrested during anti-Wall
Street demonstrations, a federal judge ruled, denying a request
for a temporary injunction while their union sues the city.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Engelmayer in Manhattan today
rejected  Transport Workers Union Local 100’s  request for a
temporary restraining order. The union seeks to stop police from
forcing New York City Transit Authority bus drivers to drive
people arrested at demonstrations to holding facilities. The
judge didn’t rule on the request for a permanent injunction.  Engelmayer said a June 1997 bulletin from the authority’s
chief transportation officer included in a standard training
manual for bus drivers instructs operators on what to do when a
bus is commandeered by the fire or police departments.  The bulletin “strongly indicates” that drivers were aware
they may need to assist police or fire officials, the judge
said. He said buses have been commandeered by the  New York City
Police Department  at least three other times: after the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks; after a building collapse to take
people to hospitals; and ahead of the arrival of  Hurricane Irene 
in August to evacuate nursing home residents.  “Police and transit workers are public workers that work
in the same city and have a common duty,” the judge said,
noting that New York state penal law requires a person to assist
police with an arrest when it’s “reasonable” to do so.  700 Arrests  The union, whose 38,000 members include 9,000 bus drivers,
last week said it’s supporting the protests, which were thrust
into the national spotlight when police arrested more than 700
demonstrators on the  Brooklyn  Bridge on Oct. 1.  Police hailed buses traveling in downtown Brooklyn after
Department of Correction vehicles got stuck in traffic, said
Arthur Schwartz, an attorney for the union. The drivers were
ordered to back their vehicles onto the Brooklyn Bridge to pick
up arrested protesters and drive them to One Police Plaza and
other locations, Schwartz said.  Engelmayer disagreed with Schwartz’s argument that police
may commandeer buses again during a march planned for tomorrow,
saying that assessment is “highly speculative” and that the
police are likely to be more prepared than they were last
weekend.  ‘Very Unusual’  “Last Saturday involved very unusual circumstances,”
Arthur Larkin, an attorney with the city’s Law Department, said
in a statement. “The court appropriately found that the police
department’s limited use of MTA buses was not unreasonable.
We’re very pleased with the ruling.”  The NYPD “will be prepared” for tomorrow’s march and “it
would not appear likely that the police are going to have to do
what they did last Saturday,” Larkin said. He said he couldn’t
rule out the possibility that buses might be again commandeered.  “It has been a longstanding practice for the MTA to assist
the city’s police and fire personnel when they request emergency
assistance,” Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the state
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority  that runs the New York
City Transit Authority, said in an e-mail. “We are pleased that
the federal court rejected the TWU’s motion and determined that
the union’s lawsuit lacked any probability of success.”  The next hearing in the union’s suit against the city is
scheduled for Nov. 1 before Engelmayer. Schwartz said that he
hadn’t decided whether to appeal today’s ruling.  ‘Other Avenues’  “We’re going to seek other avenues,” John Samuelsen,
Local 100’s president, told reporters after today’s hearing.  Paul Browne , an NYPD spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment on today’s decision.  The protest continued today several blocks south of the
courthouse, as about 200 people occupied the demonstration site
at Zuccotti Park. As of 2:30 p.m. local time, no demonstrators
had been arrested today, Browne said.  A few dozen participants held a daily “occupiers’
meeting” this morning in the northeast corner of the park to
discuss logistics. A cardboard sign with the agenda listed
announcements, housekeeping and security.  One man at the meeting said that a proposal to not engage
in activity that would draw police attention needed to be more
clear, saying it was hard to define what behavior will attract
 law enforcement .  Infrastructure, Song  “Our movement is expanding so quickly that we’ve been
meeting constantly to expand our infrastructure,” one of the
organizers, Julien Harrison, 29, from Eugene,  Oregon , said in an
interview. Harrison said he’s been at the site for two weeks.  Nearby, a group of six children and five adults sang “We
Shall Not Be Moved.” The children held yellow signs: “We
believe in: fairness,” “We believe in: sharing.” The children
were joined by Peter Yarrow of the former folk group Peter Paul
& Mary. He played acoustic guitar while they sank “The Banks
Are Made of Marble.”  At the far west end of the park, a sign read, “NYPD
Protects and Serves the Rich.”  Regular marches in the area were scheduled for the
afternoon, as well as a teachers union march, according to the
protest’s information desk.  The case is Samuelsen v. Kelly, 11-06947, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York federal court at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net  and:
Thom Weidlich in lower Manhattan at pr
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  