-- 
Toyota, Honda Lose Market Share in September U.S. Sales Rebound

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-10-04T02:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/nissan-leads-asian-carmaker-gains-in-u-s-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor
Co., still struggling to deliver enough vehicles to dealers,
lost share of the U.S. market as Nissan Motor Co. grew more than
expected and industrywide sales were the best since April.  Toyota, held back by tight supplies of Prius hybrids and
Tundra pickups, sold 17 percent fewer vehicles, reducing its
share to 11.5 percent from 15.3 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. Honda’s 8 percent drop in
deliveries cut its share by 1.7 points to 8.5 percent.  Inventory at Toyota was about 40 percent less at the
beginning of the month than a year earlier, said  Bob Carter ,
group vice president of U.S. sales. The automaker,  Asia ’s
largest, returned to full production last month after output was
disrupted by Japan’s March 11 earthquake, and supply of some
models is recovering more slowly than anticipated.  “The worst is behind us, and we expect to exceed year-ago
sales levels beginning in October with continued growth
throughout the fourth quarter,” Carter said in a conference
call yesterday.  Output is rising at Toyota and Honda’s North American
plants after being slowed for five months by parts shortages due
to the March earthquake.  Nissan, with fewer suppliers affected, has said its North
American plants have been at full output since about June. The
Yokohama-based carmaker, Japan’s second-largest, boosted U.S.
sales 25 percent last month from a year earlier.  U.S. Automakers  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , South
Korea’s two biggest carmakers, joined Toyota and Honda in
missing consensus estimates for September sales as industrywide
deliveries gained 9.9 percent, led by volume gains for  General
Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, majority
owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)  The U.S.-based companies had increases of 20
percent, 9 percent and 27 percent, respectively.  September light-vehicle deliveries rose to a seasonally
adjusted annualized rate of 13.1 million, according to Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata Corp. The average estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 12.8 million pace. The
rate is the highest since April’s 13.2 million, when lost output
caused by  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami began crimping supply
of parts and finished cars.  Toyota and Honda “still don’t have quite the selection of
vehicles needed,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at  Santa
Monica , California-based Edmunds.com. “Their cars are being
produced again, but you still have to have selection consumers
want. It will take time to get back to a normal level.”  ‘Pent-Up Demand’  Overall U.S. sales should benefit from rising inventory at
Toyota and Honda dealerships, said  Paul Taylor , chief economist
for the National Automobile Dealers Association.  “A complete inventory makes for stronger sales overall,”
Taylor said. “There’s pent-up demand, and it’s based on need,
not necessarily on discretionary consumption.”  Toyota fell 2.5 percent to 2,568 yen at the 11 a.m. trading
break in  Tokyo , compared with a 1.6 percent drop in Japan’s
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average. Honda dropped 4.1 percent,
and Nissan declined 1.9 percent. Hyundai fell 3.1 percent to
204,500 won in Seoul, while Kia lost 3.6 percent.  Japanese and South Korean automakers sold 445,891 new cars
and trucks in the U.S. last month, up 0.9 percent from a year
ago, trailing the 9.9 percent industrywide increase.  Toyota said sales of its Toyota, Lexus and Scion brand
vehicles totaled 121,451 last month, down from 147,162 a year
earlier. The carmaker’s 17 percent sales drop exceeded a 15
percent decline that was the average expectation of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Prius Supply  The company has more than a 20-day Prius supply at the
start of October, the highest “I can remember,” Carter said.  At Honda, the 8 percent sales decline exceeded the 6.1
percent drop that was the average of five analyst estimates.
Still, that was an improvement from the previous four months,
when deliveries slid at least 20 percent for Tokyo-based Honda.  The company is scheduling overtime shifts at U.S. assembly
plants to rebuild inventory,  Ron Lietzke , a spokesman, said in a
Sept. 28 phone interview.  “Predicting future sales is always risky, but supply of
new vehicles is coming into dealerships,”  John Mendel , Honda’s
executive vice president of U.S. sales, said via e-mail.  ‘Back to Normal’  “We’re optimistic that our fourth-quarter sales will be
back to normal levels and, given economic stability, we could
exceed last year’s sales,” Mendel said.  Nissan’s 25 percent sales gain compared with the 18 percent
average of five analyst estimates. The company said its Nissan-
brand cars rose a combined 32 percent, led by the new Versa
compact.  With vehicle production and inventory recovering for Toyota
and Honda, the fourth quarter may be the year’s strongest for
auto sales,  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice president of U.S.
sales, said in a phone interview.  “Inventory levels for all manufacturers are going to get
back to normal, and people who have been sitting on the fence
are likely to get back in the market,” he said. “If we have
another month like September, I’d say all bets are off.”  Nissan’s September market share gained 1.1 percentage
points to 8.8 percent, according to Autodata. The company’s U.S.
sales so far this year have risen 15 percent compared with
declines of 8.9 percent for Toyota and 5.8 percent for Honda.  Nissan, Hyundai, Kia  Nissan “increased not only year over year, but month over
month, not an easy thing to do,” Caldwell said. “They’re
strong from an inventory standpoint, relative to Toyota and
Honda, and have been aggressive about getting that message
out.”  Hyundai sold 52,051 vehicles, up 12 percent from a year
earlier. The gains were led by its revamped Elantra small car,
the new Veloster hatchback and Santa Fe and Tucson sport-utility
vehicles. Kia sold 35,609 vehicles, up from 30,071 a year
earlier.  Combined sales for the two Seoul-based partners, which
operate separately in the U.S., totaled 87,660 for the month, or
14 percent more than a year ago. That was less than the 20
percent average of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Both companies said sales were their best ever for the
month.  Japan’s  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  said deliveries rose 37 percent
last month, its biggest increase this year. Subaru, the auto
brand of  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , reported a 2.3 percent
sales drop for the month, citing tight supplies of its all-wheel
drive cars and wagons.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  posted a 17 percent increase and
 Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s sales grew 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  