-- 
TNK-BP Seeks to Lower Price for Half of Itera on Economy, Tax

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-10-04T14:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/tnk-bp-seeks-to-lower-price-for-half-of-itera-on-economy-tax.html
TNK-BP is seeking to pay a lower
price for half of OOO Itera, a Russian natural-gas producer and
trader, on a deterioration of the economic and tax situation.  The macroeconomic environment has changed “significantly”
since the start of negotiations with Itera, Mikhail Slobodin, an
executive vice president at the oil producing venture between  BP
Plc (BP/)  and a Russian group of billionaires, told reporters outside
Moscow today.  TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-biggest oil producer, was looking to
pay less than $2 billion, a person familiar with the talks said
in August. The Moscow-based company may raise annual gas output
to 50 billion cubic meters by 2020 before acquisitions, as
consumption and prices at home rise Slobodin said at the time.
That compares with 13.2 billion cubic meters last year. Itera is
a partner in Siberian ventures with OAO Gazprom and OAO Novatek,
Russia’s two biggest gas producers.  The global economic slump has pushed the price of Urals
oil, Russia’s biggest export earner, down 7 percent in the past
two months. Russia faces “lasting stagnation” as external
demand weakens, said  Alexander Morozov , HSBC Holdings Plc’s
chief economist in Moscow, in a report yesterday that showed
manufacturing output stalled in September.  Gas tax proposals and domestic prices may also affect the
value of the assets, Slobodin said. The country is delaying an
increase in the regulated domestic gas prices to July from
January. The mineral extraction tax for OAO Gazprom, the
natural-gas exporter that controls one of Itera’s ventures, may
rise more than planned from next year.  The deal requires approval from a governmental commission
on foreign investment, which may meet within a month, Slobodin
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  