-- 
To Rescue Politics, Adopt Small-Donor Reforms: Lawrence Lessig

-- B y   L a w r e n c e   L e s s i g
-- 
2011-10-04T00:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/to-save-politics-adopt-small-donor-reforms-commentary-by-lawrence-lessig.html
There is a feeling today among too
many Americans that we might not make it. That we have become
Britain, or ancient Rome or  Greece . Not that we, as a people,
have lost anything of our potential, but that we as a republic
have.  The threat to the republic is an economy of influence that
draws our democracy away from the will of the people. Congress
has allowed an engine of influence to evolve that seeks simply
to enrich those connected to it. The rich secure their wealth
through the manipulation of government and politicians.  Our Congress has thus been corrupted; its independence is
weakened. This corruption also weakens Congress’s focus on the
people, as it strengthens the focus on the funders. As
Republican Senator  Barry Goldwater  once put it: “Senators and
representatives, faced incessantly with the need to raise ever
more funds to fuel their campaigns, can scarcely avoid weighing
every decision against the question, ‘How will this affect my
fundraising?’ rather than ‘How will this affect the national
interest?’”  If dependence upon “the Funders” has weakened our Congress,
the solution is to end the compromise. The simplest way would be
to make “the Funders” “the people,” so that none could believe
that the actual influence of the one was substantially different
from the influence of the other. No system is going to eliminate
the gap completely. More than a century ago, however, political
scientist  Robert Brooks  observed, “Under a system of small
contributions from a large number of people, it would matter
little even if some of the contributors were not wholly
disinterested.”  State Reforms  Over the past 15 years, three states have experimented with
reforms that come very close to this idea.  Arizona ,  Maine  and
 Connecticut  all let candidates for the state legislature (and
some statewide offices) fund campaigns through small-dollar
contributions only.  Although details differ, the basic structure of all three
programs is the same: Candidates qualify by raising many small
contributions. Qualified candidates can receive additional state
funding, though the best ways of doing so are still in flux.  These “clean money,” or voter-owned, elections have had
important  success . Candidates opting into these public funding
systems spend time talking to voters, rather than funders. They
represent a broader range of citizens than the candidates who
run with private money alone. The competitiveness of state
legislative elections has increased, making incumbents if not
more vulnerable, then at least more attentive.  If the U.S. were to adopt any one of these programs to fund
congressional elections, it would be an enormous improvement
over the current system. But I believe we can do even better.  The principled objections to these state programs are two.
First, in these systems, bureaucrats pick the amount of money
available to candidates within an election. Second, some people
are troubled with the idea of their money being used to fund
political speech that they oppose. We can solve both these
problems with a small, dollar-funded election that can become
known as the Grant and Franklin Project.  Let’s stipulate that every voter in the U.S. produces at
least $50 in revenue to the  U.S. Treasury . Ninety percent of
adult Americans pay some  tax revenue  to the federal government.
Add the taxes on gasoline, tobacco and airplane tickets, and the
remaining 10 percent of voters are almost certainly swept in.  A Better System  Assuming that, here is an outline of a system to finance
political campaigns that would not produce the cynicism that
stains the current system:  Start by converting the initial $50 -- the bill picturing
Ulysses S. Grant -- that each of us contributes to the federal
Treasury into a voucher. Call it a Democracy Voucher. All voters
are free to allocate their vouchers as they wish. Some may
target $50 to a single candidate; others may direct $25 each to
two candidates. The only requirement is that the candidate
receiving the voucher must opt into the system.  If a Democracy Voucher is not allocated, then it goes to
the political party to which the voter is  registered . If the
voter is not registered to a party, then it goes to supplement
funding for the infrastructure of democracy: voting systems,
voter education and the Grant and Franklin Project.  Any viable candidate for Congress could receive these
voucher contributions if he or she agrees to one important
condition: that the only money that candidate accepted to fund
his or her campaign would be Democracy Vouchers and
contributions from individuals of up to $100 per citizen. That
means no money from political action committees and no direct
contributions from political parties. These campaigns would be
limited to Democracy Vouchers plus, at most, one Ben Franklin
per citizen.  This plan has a number of essential features:  First, it is voluntary. Candidates opt into the system,
just as presidential candidates have (or have not) opted into
the existing system to fund presidential campaigns.  Second, the design does not allow “your money” to be used
to support anyone you don’t believe in. You get to allocate the
first $50 you send to the federal Treasury to whomever you wish.
I get to allocate mine.  Third, this system allows citizens to have skin in the
game. If you give a candidate an additional $100, rather than
spend that money on designer jeans, that says something about
your commitment to that candidate.  Injecting Money  Finally, this approach would inject an enormous amount of
money into political campaigns. In 2010, congressional election
spending totaled $1.8 billion. Contributions to the two major
political parties totaled $2.8 billion. If every registered
voter participated in this system, it would produce at least $6
billion in campaign funds per election cycle ($3 billion a
year). Some portion of that would flow to candidates. The
balance would flow to political parties. Within a reasonable
range, we can be confident the new system would have a shot at
being competitive with the existing one.  Now, focus on the single most important thing that this
system could produce: If a substantial number of candidates
opted into it, and putting aside here the issue of independent
expenditures, then no one could believe that money was buying
results. If enough representatives were elected under this
system, then whenever Congress did something stupid, it would be
because there were more Democrats than Republicans, or
Republicans than Democrats. It would not be because of the
money. This system gets politicians to worry first about what
we, the voters, want.  This reform is the main change that Americans must
consider, the fulcrum of others that could follow. But can we
afford $6 billion per election? That is a lot of money for you
and me. For the republic, it isn’t, for two obvious reasons.  If this program has its intended effect, it will save far
more than $3 billion a year. The  Cato Institute  has  estimated 
that the federal government spends more than $90 billion a year
on corporate welfare, defined as “subsidies and regulatory
protections that lawmakers confer on certain businesses and
industries.”  But we have corporate welfare in part because we have
privately funded elections. The payback to business donors is
indirect and legal, but payback nonetheless.  Pays for Itself  Suppose we could eliminate just 5 percent of that payback,
by eliminating the pressures to pay major donors anything,
because elections are no longer funded by large, private
contributions. Five percent of $90 billion a year is $9 billion
per election cycle -- more than the $6 billion needed to fund
the system every election cycle. Here is an investment that
would easily pay for itself.  Second, $3 billion a year isn’t a lot if it gives us even a
20 percent chance of fixing our democracy.  Think about how much we spend to support democracy all
around the world. A small part of that spending is direct; far
more is indirect. We have waged one of the longest wars in
American history “to make democracy possible” in  Iraq . The total
cost of the war: more than $750 billion. And that’s just the
money. Put aside the 4,500 American patriots who have given
their lives in the effort.  If we’re willing to spend $750 billion so far to make
democracy in Iraq possible, we should be willing to spend one-
25th of that to make democracy in America work.  There are details galore to work out. There are comparisons
to make and lessons to learn. But for now my aim is to talk
strategy. If you believe that our Congress is corrupted; if you
believe that corruption can be solved only by removing its
source, if you believe special-interest funded elections are
that source, then some version of small-dollar funded elections
is the core to a strategy that could restore this republic.  This republic, which we have now lost.  (Lawrence Lessig is the Roy L. Furman professor of law at
 Harvard Law School . This article is excerpted from his
forthcoming book, “Republic, Lost: How Money Corrupts Congress -
- and a Plan to Stop It,” published by Twelve.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Lawrence Lessig at  lessig@pobox.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net . 