-- 
Trade Deals Pending Since Bush Submitted by Obama After Labor Aid Resolved

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-04T01:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/obama-sends-three-free-trade-agreements-to-congress-ending-four-year-wait.html
President  Barack Obama  sent Congress
legislation for free-trade agreements with  South Korea ,  Colombia 
and  Panama , ending a wait for business supporters that spanned
more than four years and two presidencies.  Packed into 18 boxes and piled into a sport-utility
vehicle, the bills were driven from the White House to the
Capitol yesterday after House Speaker  John Boehner  pledged to
debate them in tandem with benefits for workers who lose jobs to
foreign competition. The pacts, reached under President  George W. Bush , had been stymied by a stalemate with Republicans over
the aid, called Trade Adjustment Assistance.  Obama spent two years after taking office seeking to
broaden Democratic support for the trade accords. He negotiated
new terms for auto tariffs in the South Korea agreement that won
over the United Auto Workers union, a deal on exchanging tax
information with Panama and labor-rights assurances from
Colombia. Companies from  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  to  General Electric
Co. (GE)  have lobbied for the agreements to increase  market access .  “We’ve worked hard to strengthen these agreements to get
the best possible deal for American workers and businesses,”
Obama said in a statement. “I call on Congress to pass them
without delay, along with the bipartisan agreement on Trade
Adjustment Assistance that will help workers whose jobs have
been affected by global competition.”  The House Rules Committee yesterday set guidelines for a
vote on the worker aid, creating a path forward for renewing the
benefits. Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican who
heads the Ways and Means Committee, said he plans to hold a
hearing tomorrow to prepare the trade accords for debate.  ‘Top Priority’  “We have overcome a crucial hurdle to helping put
Americans back to work,” Boehner said in an e-mailed statement
welcoming Obama’s submission of the trade deals. “Now that all
three agreements have been transmitted, they will be a top
priority for the House.”  Lawmakers will vote as early as next week, House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said yesterday.  The bills for the accords are covered by fast-track rules
intended to require Congress to vote within 90 legislative days,
limiting debate and amendments before an up-or-down vote.  They may move sooner. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said yesterday he expects the Senate to act on them this month.  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the North American
Free Trade Agreement, would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year. The South Korea and Panama pacts were signed in June
2007, while the Colombia accord was signed in November 2006.  Citigroup, Pfizer  Companies such as  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
have led the effort to get the South Korea deal passed, while
Caterpillar, GE and  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  have been among the biggest
backers of the accord with Colombia.  “For several years, we have pressed for approval,”
Jeffrey Immelt, GE’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
in a statement. “We urge Congress to pass the agreements and
Trade Adjustment Assistance quickly.”  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says the agreements will
prevent the loss of 380,000 jobs. The AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest federation of labor unions, says they will lead to a
decline in U.S. manufacturing as jobs move overseas.  Labor leaders, who are usually Obama allies, said they plan
to protest the trade agreements at a rally outside the Capitol
today.  The accords also face opposition among some Democratic
lawmakers. Senator Sherrod Brown of  Ohio  and Representative Mike Michaud of  Maine  are scheduled to join Leo Gerard, president of
the United Steelworkers union, at the rally to pledge their
opposition to the accords.  ‘Not The Time’  “With an exploding trade deficit that has caused massive
job loss, now is not the time to pass more wrongheaded free-
trade agreements,” Brown, who wrote the book “Myths of  Free
Trade ” in 2006, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
Michaud, who heads the House Trade Working Group, a coalition
made up mostly of Democrats who question the value of free-trade
accords, plans to build “the broadest coalition possible” to
oppose the three agreements, Ed Gilman, a spokesman, said in an
e-mail last month.  The South Korea agreement would remove duties on almost
two-thirds of U.S. farm exports immediately, benefiting
producers of meat, dairy, vegetables, and fruits and nuts. It
would also phase out tariffs on more than 95 percent of
industrial and consumer exports within five years, increasing
market access for chemical, automobile, medical device and drug
companies. Banks and communications companies would gain new
opportunities through reductions in regulatory barriers.  Pull Out Stops  “America is finally getting back in the game,”  Thomas Donohue , chief executive officer of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said in a statement. “The Chamber will pull out all
of the stops to get the votes in Congress, where the agreements
already enjoy bipartisan support.”  Obama and Senate Republicans deadlocked over the aid in
May, with Republicans led by Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah saying
the worker assistance, which was expanded in the 2009 stimulus
measure, was unaffordable and inefficient.  The worker aid was scaled back in a compromise reached by
Camp; Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat; and Gene Sperling,
director of the president’s National Economic Council.  It would extend benefits, including those for service
workers that expired in February, through 2013 while cutting the
weeks of extended  unemployment insurance  that participants can
receive to 130 from 156, and reducing the health-care tax credit
for people enrolled in the program.  “We must take every opportunity to get America back to
work, and Congress should pass these agreements without delay,”
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said in a statement. “Taken
together, the pending trade agreements and Trade Adjustment
Assistance advance a balanced trade agenda that opens new
markets for our exporters and new opportunities for America’s
working families.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  