-- 
Obama Should Push Principal Reductions to Help U.S. Housing, Cisneros Says

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-10-04T14:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/obama-should-push-principal-reductions-to-help-u-s-housing-cisneros-says.html
President  Barack Obama  has failed in
his efforts to help the U.S. housing market recover and should
focus on cutting the amount troubled homeowners owe, said Henry Cisneros, who was secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development under President  Bill Clinton .  “It’s clear this has been the poorest part of the
administration’s response,” Cisneros, 64, said during an
interview at Bloomberg’s Los Angeles office yesterday. “The
whole country is suffering through the fact that the housing
sector is not up and running.”  About 6.4 million U.S. mortgages are delinquent, and the
average homeowner with a foreclosure notice hasn’t made a
payment in 611 days, Lender Processing Services Inc. reported
yesterday. With real estate prices about one-third below the
2006 peak, almost one in four homeowners with a mortgage are
“underwater,” or owe more than their property is worth,
according to CoreLogic Inc.  Obama, in a speech presenting a $447 billion job-growth
plan last month, said he was seeking to boost housing through
proposals such as giving more homeowners access to “ interest
rates  that are now near 4 percent -- a step that can put more
than $2,000 a year in a family’s pocket and give a lift to an
economy still burdened by the drop in housing prices.”  A better way of putting money in homeowners’ pockets and
reducing foreclosures would be for Obama to pressure lenders to
lower the principal owed on mortgages, Cisneros said. The
administration probably didn’t support that type of plan when
Obama took office in January 2009 because banks were weak and
the Treasury Department took the lead in dealing with the credit
crisis, he said.  ‘Running the Response’  “Treasury was running the response and housing was not top
of mind -- the banks were,” Cisneros said in the interview.
“And there’s a little bit of a conflict when you’re asking the
banks to play the role they needed to play on housing, including
some principal forgiveness. It was not the right question to
raise with the banks when they were trying to hang on by the
skin of their teeth.”  Another program the administration should pursue is
encouraging investors to buy foreclosed homes en masse to own
and manage as rentals, he said.  “Investors can at least take it out of inventory, so it’s
not the competition for the private builders,” Cisneros said.
“We need to be doing this on a massive scale -- hundreds of
thousands, even millions of units.”  HUD and the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which oversees
mortgage-finance companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , have
asked investors for proposals to help turn more foreclosures
into rentals.  Shrinking the Inventory  With a smaller inventory of foreclosed homes, which
typically sell at a discount, builders would be more willing to
start construction, adding jobs to the economy, Cisneros said.  “Confidence in the housing markets is off,” he said.
“Builders dare not start new production because they’re
competing with foreclosed stock at 40 percent off.”  As secretary of HUD from 1993 to 1997, Cisneros advocated
programs to boost the U.S. homeownership rate, such as
encouraging banks to lend more to Latinos and blacks. The
ownership rate peaked at 69.2 percent in 2004 and retreated to
65.9 percent as of June 30, the lowest since 1998.  The housing bubble was fueled by a “witch’s brew” of
factors, such as easy credit availability and brokers’ peddling
of risky mortgages for high commissions, Cisneros said. That
doesn’t negate the concept that homeownership is critical to
building a healthy middle class, he said.  “A responsible strategy of increasing homeownership is
perfectly legitimate,” Cisneros said.  Former Mayor  Cisneros was mayor of  San Antonio  from 1981 to 1989. In
1999, he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of lying about
payments he made to a mistress when he was being vetted as a
nominee for HUD secretary.  He is now chairman of CityView, a Los Angeles-based real
estate investment firm that since 2003 has developed more than
$2 billion in projects, including affordable housing. Yesterday,
he hosted a press conference at Branford Village in the Los
Angeles suburb of Pacoima, a project CityView helped finance.  Sales have closed on 21 of Branford’s 125 homes, built by
 Montage Development Inc . of Calabasas,  California , at starting
prices of $260,000. Most were bought by immigrant, first-time
homebuyers, Cisneros said.  “The dream of homeownership is alive, particularly among
the newer Americans -- folks that are here with a dream and have
the ambition of making it to the middle class and have the
understanding that buying a home and investing is a better bet
than renting forever,” he said in yesterday’s interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  