-- 
OCBC Reports Luring Clients From French Banks Amid Debt Crisis

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-10-04T06:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/ocbc-reports-luring-clients-from-french-banks-amid-debt-crisis.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. said it
is attracting assets from the  Singapore  branches of French banks
as the euro region’s debt crisis spooks wealthy clients.  “There’s a lot of outflows from French banks because of
the European debt crisis,” Renato de Guzman, chief executive
officer of Oversea-Chinese’s private-banking unit, said in an
interview. “Investors are panicking at the moment.”  Defections from French banks, including  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
helped generate net new money of about $4 billion for Bank of
Singapore this year, Guzman said. The private bank had $29.6
billion of assets under management at the end of June, less than
9 percent of the total at BNP Paribas’s wealth management unit.  BNP Paribas and Societe Generale SA, France’s largest
banks, last month committed to trim their balance sheets as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to make them too big to save.
French financial firms had $672 billion in public and private
debt in  Greece , Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Spain at the end of
March, the biggest exposure to the euro-area’s troubled
countries.  BNP Paribas spokeswoman Julie Beuter declined to comment on
net new money in Singapore, after the Paris-based bank reported
total first-half net inflows of 7.8 billion euros ($10.4
billion). BNP Paribas, which had 257 billion euros under
management at the end of June, doesn’t break down new money
flows by country.  Stocks Decline  Estelle Dunand, a spokeswoman for Societe Generale,
declined to comment as the bank doesn’t break down inflows by
region. Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman for  Credit Agricole ,
the third-biggest French bank, also declined to comment.  BNP Paribas fell 41 percent this year in Paris trading
while  Societe Generale (GLE) , which reported first-half net inflows of
3.8 billion euros, slumped 54 percent.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , which
had net new money of 2.3 billion euros in the first half, has
declined 48 percent this year. Shares of Oversea-Chinese,
Southeast Asia’s second-largest bank by assets, dropped 19
percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  