-- 
Crude Oil Declines to One-Year Low as Investors Lose Confidence in Economy

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-10-04T21:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/oil-falls-for-third-day-as-investors-lose-confidence-in-economy.html
Oil fell to a one-year low for a
third day in  New York  amid concern that fuel demand will drop as
investors lose confidence in the U.S. and European economies.
Brent settled below $100 for the first time since February.  U.S. futures declined 2.5 percent after European policy
makers indicated they may renegotiate terms of Greece’s bailout.
Prices pared an intraday loss after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he may not be finished with attempts to
stimulate the economy and as Saudi Arabian security forces were
wounded during unrest in the kingdom.  “Fears of recession are driving us lower,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Until we see some positive signals of
the economic front, the market should move lower. We now have to
find the next support level, which should be near $70.”  Crude for November delivery decreased $1.94 to $75.67 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Sept. 23, 2010. Futures have fallen 7.9 percent
in the past three sessions.  Prices increased from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles decreased 3.07 million barrels to 344.2 million.
November futures rose 57 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $78.18 a
barrel in electronic trading at 4:32 p.m. Futures also advanced
after the settlement as U.S. equities reversed an earlier loss.  Brent oil for November settlement declined $1.92, or 1.9
percent, to $99.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, the lowest close since Feb. 7.  Falling Shares  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  slid 1.4 percent to 1,083.82 at
3:20 p.m. in New York. It ended the day up 2.3 percent at
1,123.95 following a report that European Union officials were
examining ways to coordinate the recapitalizations of banks. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 153.41 points, or 1.4
percent, to 10,808.71, reversing an intraday loss of 250.81
points.  “Bernanke seems to be giving a little vote of confidence
that  Europe  will take care of the situation there and stocks
aren’t falling out of bed anymore,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  The chairman said the central bank “will continue to
closely monitor economic developments” in testimony to
Congress’s Joint Economic Committee today in  Washington .  Capital Equipment  The Commerce Department also reported orders for U.S.
capital equipment increased in August by the most in three
months, a sign business investment and exports held up in the
face of mounting concern over the European debt crisis.  “As the economy goes, as the equity markets go, so goes
the market,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives
and research with Blue Ocean LLC in New York. “The issues in
 Greece  and the continued erosion of the U.S. stock market are
our clear-cut correlation.”  Eleven members of the security forces in  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest oil exporter, were wounded by attackers armed
with machine guns and Molotov cocktails during unrest in a
Shiite Muslim town in the east, the official Saudi Press Agency
said.  European finance ministers in Luxembourg considered
recrafting a July deal that foresaw investors contributing 50
billion euros ($66 billion) to a 159 billion-euro rescue package
for Greece.  Libyan Output  Crude also decreased on signs of rising production from
Libya. The North African country aims to raise output to more
than 500,000 barrels a day by the end of this month, according
to Nuri Berruien, the chairman of the state-run National Oil
Corp. Its target of restoring crude production to 1.7 million
barrels a day within 15 months is a “conservative figure,” he
said yesterday in Tripoli.  Fighting in Libya reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content. The country’s
output fell to 45,000 barrels a day in August, according to
Bloomberg estimates. The North African nation pumped 100,000
barrels a day last month.  “Libyan production coming back at higher quantities than
originally thought is a bit bearish,” said  Hannes Loacker , an
analyst at Raiffeisen Bank International AG in Vienna, who
predicts Brent will average $107 a barrel this quarter. “The
most important thing, of course, is the economy and fears of
slower growth in the emerging markets are a big driver. Risk is
clearly on the downside.”  Goldman Cut  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut its 2012 forecast for  Brent
crude . Goldman Sachs said Brent will average $120 a barrel next
year, down from $130.  Jeffrey Currie , an oil analyst at Goldman Sachs, cited a
“flatter upward trajectory” as he cut his Brent crude
prediction. In a separate report, Goldman Sachs cut its global
economic growth forecast for this year and next, predicting
recessions in Germany and France as Europe stalls and the risk
of a contraction in the U.S. grows.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 745,741
contracts as of 3:44 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 705,614
contracts yesterday, 6.9 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.42 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  