-- 
Molopo ‘Long Way Down’ Path to Selling Queensland Gas Assets

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-10-04T06:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/molopo-long-way-down-path-to-selling-queensland-gas-assets-1-.html
Molopo Energy Ltd. (MPO) , an explorer
focusing on oil projects in the U.S. and Canada, said it is
“quite a long way down the process” of selling its coal-bed
methane assets in Australia’s Queensland state.  “We’ve been pleased” with the level of interest in the
Queensland natural gas project, Ian Gorman, chief executive
officer of the Melbourne-based company, said in a telephone
interview today. Molopo aims to make an announcement by the end
of the year on its plans for the assets, he said.  The Molopo holdings are about 150 kilometers (93 miles)
from Gladstone, where  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Santos
Ltd. (STO)  are building plants to liquefy gas from coal deposits for
export to  Asia . They also are probably the largest gas reserves
in Queensland that aren’t already under contract, Gorman said.  The Australian explorer earlier this year hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) 
to advise the company on a potential sale of the coal bed
methane assets after announcing plans to concentrate on oil
projects in North America. Molopo plans to spend about A$40
million through March 2012 on drilling at its Wolfcamp venture
in Texas and its Bakken project in Canada, Gorman said.  “Oil is something that can be monetized much more quickly
and becomes cash flow positive much more quickly,” he said.
“So by building the company on the back of oil, we are then
positioned to be able to tackle long-term gas projects.”  Bow, Eastern Star  Arrow Energy Ltd., owned by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
PetroChina Co., agreed last month to acquire Queensland explorer
Bow Energy Ltd. for A$535 million ($509 million), gaining
resources for a proposed liquefied natural gas venture. That
followed a deal in July by Adelaide-based Santos to buy the
shares in Eastern Star Gas Ltd. it didn’t already own for A$730
million.  “Following the recent moves on Eastern Star and Bow and
the renewed push by Shell/PetroChina to progress their LNG
project in Queensland, Molopo may succeed in achieving a sale
price in excess of” A$62 million, Credit Suisse analysts,
including Sandra McCullagh in Sydney, said in a Sept. 15 report.  Molopo climbed 1.5 percent to 68.5 cents at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading, compared with a 0.6 percent drop in the
S&P/ASX 200 Index, after the company said it started drilling
the first of three planned exploration wells at the Wolfcamp
project in  Texas . The shares have fallen 35 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  