-- 
Omnicare, PharMerica Fall on U.S. Move to Cut Elderly Drugs

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-10-04T20:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/omnicare-pharmerica-fall-as-u-s-moves-to-cut-drugs-to-elderly.html
Shares of  Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  and
PharMerica Inc., pharmacy suppliers to nursing homes, tumbled
after the U.S. government proposed rules that may reduce the
volume of  prescription drugs  for the elderly.  The proposed regulations call on nursing homes to hire
independent pharmacists to review residents’ drug regimens
rather than use services being offered by companies such as
Omnicare and PharMerica at below cost. Omnicare, the largest
U.S. drug supplier for nursing home patients, has made a hostile
bid for Louisville, Kentucky-based PharMerica.  Arrangements between the nursing homes and pharmacy
suppliers may result in “recommendations that conflict with the
best interests of nursing home residents,” the U.S. Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services said in its  proposed rule . The
Baltimore-based agency also estimated that three long-term care
pharmacy companies control 90 percent of the market, a finding
that may block Omnicare’s takeover of PharMerica.  “This statement would appear to suggest that CMS is likely
to take a dim view of an OCR/PMC combination, in our opinion,”
A.J. Rice, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group, said today
in a note to investors. Even though the proposed regulations
must go through a 60-day comment period, Rice said the prospect
will “lead to an overhang on the group until there is greater
clarity.”  Covington, Kentucky-based Omnicare declined $2.96, or 12
percent, to $21.62 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the biggest single-day drop since July 2009.
PharMerica fell $2.14, or 15 percent, to $11.91, in its biggest
one-day decline since August 2010.  Omnicare began a tender offer to buy PharMerica for $440.8
million in cash on Sept. 7. PharMerica’s management has opposed
the acquisition, adopting a shareholder rights plan, or poison
pill as it’s commonly known, to block the takeover.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  