-- 
Honeymoon Over as Euro Loses Luster for Slovaks Begrudging Greek Salaries

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-10-04T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/honeymoon-over-as-euro-loses-gloss-for-slovaks-bemoaning-greeks.html
Jakub Francisci, owner of the San
Marten restaurant in Bratislava’s Old Town, compares adopting
the euro with getting married.  “You marry somebody who you see as the best person on
earth, and after some time she is a different person,”
Francisci, 33 and single, said over lunch at his  eatery  in the
Slovak capital. “The honeymoon is over, but you have to stay
with her, in good times or bad times.”  The euro is losing its gloss for the currency group’s
newest members, whose less-indebted, faster-growing economies
stand for what the region was supposed to be rather than what it
has become. With average salaries still below the Greeks, it’s
getting tougher to garner support among the poorest euro
citizens for further aid to their Mediterranean partners.  Less than three years since adopting the euro,  Slovakia  may
be the last country to approve the European Financial Stability
Facility, or EFSF, as Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  struggles to
gain support among all her coalition partners. The vote in
Bratislava is scheduled to take place on Oct. 11 and a meeting
yesterday failed to yield an agreement.  Estonians, who joined the common currency on Jan. 1 after
having the kroon for 18 years after independence from the  Soviet
Union , backed the EU’s rescue fund, with 59 of 101 lawmakers
supporting it in a Sept. 29 vote.  Drinking Vodka  About a dozen protesters stood outside the legislature on
Sept. 27 as the  EFSF  was being debated, carrying placards saying
“Estonia! Welcome to the Titanic” and “Lending to  Greece  is
like giving vodka to a drunk” and mingling with some of the
politicians who voted against it.  “The attitude is still positive, but it will probably
start deteriorating quite quickly now,” said Hardo Pajula, an
economist at Stockholm-based SEB AB, the second-largest Baltic
lender. “One thing is to vote for rather abstract guarantees,
but making real fiscal transfer is something rather different.”  Germany  has committed the biggest share to the rescue of
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . It’s the largest country in the
expanded EFSF with guarantees totaling 27 percent of the 780
billion-euro ($1.04 trillion) fund.  Slovakia is guaranteeing 7.7 billion euros for the
facility, or 1 percent, while  Estonia  pledged 2 billion euros,
or about 0.3 percent, according to the  agreement .  Rich and Poor  The risk for the euro region is that dissent in smaller
countries will derail further efforts by governments to improve
the workings of the currency bloc and stop the crisis.  While Slovak Finance Minister Ivan Miklos said he hopes
parliament will pass the EFSF, plans to introduce a permanent
bailout mechanism as soon as next year will likely also need
approval by the lawmakers.  “A couple of years ago, being in the euro zone meant a
mark of quality, but it is different now,” said Gabor
Nagyvendegi, 34, who works for a computer company in Dunajska
Streda, Slovakia. “It’s pathetic what’s happening now. Poor
countries like Slovakia shouldn’t bail out the rich ones.”  When Greece started spending the handouts that came with EU
membership in 1981, Slovakia and Estonia were at least eight
years away from unshackling themselves from communism.  In Estonia, the average gross monthly pay was 792 euros in
the second quarter, while it was 781 euros in Slovakia, based on
data from national statistical offices. In Greece, the minimum
gross monthly wage was 863 euros as of Jan. 1 this year,
according to  Eurostat .  Giving to Greece  “We could do much better than give money to Greece and
others who have squandered their finances but where people are
still better off than here,” said Piret Pent, 33, a mother of
two who runs her own catering business in Tallinn. “Of course I
am angry about Estonia supporting those countries. We could
instead raise our own child support or pensions.”  The Slovak economy, driven by exporters such as Volkswagen
AG since the nation divorced from the  Czech Republic  in 1993,
grew at an annual rate of 3.3 percent in the second quarter.
While that slowed from 3.5 percent in the first three months of
the year, it was still twice the pace for the euro zone.  The country’s debt amounted to 41 percent of economic
output at the end of 2010, according to data from Eurostat in
Luxembourg. By contrast, Greece’s debt was 43 percent greater
than the size of its economy at the end of last year and the
government forecast the figure will rise to 62 percent in 2011.  Greece’s economy will shrink for a fourth straight year in
2012, contracting 5 percent this year and 2 percent next year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said last month. Its 10-year
 government bonds  yielded 23.1 percent yesterday, compared with
4.32 percent for a Slovak bond maturing in 2020.  Tired of Waiting  “I’m tired of watching how these euro-zone politicians
aren’t able to fix the situation,” said Francisci, the
restaurateur in Bratislava. “They want poor countries like ours
to pay for other’s debts. Isn’t it ridiculous? Greece should go
bankrupt and return to the drachma.”  In Estonia, the economic scorecard stands out even more,
though the Baltic state remains the poorest nation in the euro
region based on per capita gross domestic product after the
second-deepest recession in the EU from 2008 to 2009.  The $19 billion economy was the fastest-growing in the 27-
member EU in the first and second quarters, expanding 9.5
percent and 8.4 percent from a year earlier. It had the EU’s
lowest public debt last year, at 6.7 percent of GDP, and the
only budget surplus of  euro-zone  members. Estonia also doesn’t
have any government bonds.  ‘Stripped Naked’  Jaanus Mikk, head of property developer Narva Gate OU on
Estonia’s eastern border with  Russia , said the euro was good for
the country because the currency could show investors how it
hasn’t relied on debt and kept spending in check.  “We were really stripped naked in that process,” Mikk,
48, said at his office in Narva. “The euro zone remaining
intact would obviously be good for us, but if there in no other
option but splitting into two parts or throwing some countries
out, we will probably not be hit as much as some of the big
countries that have been supporting this reckless spending.”  Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said Estonians differed from
Slovaks when it came to the euro.  “We tend to be in different camps,” Ligi told lawmakers
in Tallinn during a Sept. 27 debate on the stability fund. “Our
budget policy is much stronger and our skepticism towards the
euro is much weaker. We have never been as critical of  Europe  as
what we hear from them.”  In Slovakia, the second-poorest euro region member, premier
Radicova may have to rely on the largest opposition party to
back the European bailout fund. It has said it will only back
the legislation if the cabinet steps down.  Bad Solution?  Richard Sulik, chairman of the Freedom and Solidarity party
and one of the four in the coalition, repeatedly said bailouts
are a bad solution since they lead to creation of more debt.
Greece should go bankrupt and abandon its euro membership, he
said in a Sept. 15 interview.  A poll conducted by the MVK agency in Slovakia on Aug. 23-
29 on a sample of 1,038 people indicated the SaS party’s stance
is in line with the mood of the citizens. About 52.2 percent of
respondents were against expanding the bailout mechanism and
31.1 percent favored the move, with 16.9 percent undecided.  “The euro itself is beneficial for Slovakia, but not in
the current setup,” said Juraj Blecha, 36, who runs a family
company distributing  laboratory equipment . “The EU has been
mishandling the crisis from the very beginning. They should have
been much tougher on Greece.”  Back at the San Marten restaurant, which serves Italian
food, Francisci laments what he expected of the euro since he
opened up five years ago. His plan was to sell western-quality
food at not-so western prices, he said.  “I had big expectations about the euro, but, frankly, I am
not better off business-wise,” he said. “The only advantage
for me is that I can take a drive to Vienna and have coffee
there without a need to change money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  