-- 
Hong Kong September Home Sales Fall for Ninth Month on Economic Slowdown

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-10-04T09:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/hong-kong-september-home-sales-fall-for-ninth-straight-month.html
Hong Kong ’s home sales fell for a
ninth straight month in September as the threat of a global
economic slowdown damped homebuyer sentiment.  The value of transactions last month declined 44 percent
from a year earlier to HK$23 billion ($3 billion), while the
number of deals dropped 54 percent to 4,823, according to a
statement on the government website today. Both numbers were the
lowest since February 2009.  Buyers have been putting off purchases on concern the city
will slip into a recession. Real estate prices, which have
surged more than 70 percent since early 2009, fell for the first
time in seven months in July after the government introduced new
housing curbs in June, while banks increased  mortgage rates  last
month.  “There are still a lot of uncertainties in the mind of
potential buyers,” said  Louis Chan , managing director for the
Asia-Pacific region at Centaline Property Agency Ltd. “Things
probably won’t get better until later this month when the
government gives us a clear idea of whether there’ll be more
curbing measures.”  Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  may speak about
housing prices in his annual policy address this month,
Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said last month.  Hong Kong home prices may fall 10 percent in the next 12
months on rising mortgage rates, Simon Lo, an  executive director 
at Colliers International, said in a briefing today.  The city’s stock market today fell for a fourth day amid
waning optimism policy makers will resolve the European debt
crisis. The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s
seven biggest developers, has fallen 35 percent this year to the
lowest since April 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  