-- 
Loomis Sayles’ Gaffney Targets High-Yield Debt

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-10-04T16:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/loomis-sayles-shuns-treasuries-for-high-yield-company-bonds-gaffney-says.html
Kathleen Gaffney, co-manager of the
$18.9 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund, said she’s shunning
Treasuries and sees “great value” in corporate bonds,
especially high-yield debt as relative yields soar to the most
in more than two years.  “We don’t own any U.S. Treasuries right now because in the
short-run you’re not earning anything in terms of yield, and in
the long-run we eventually see rising rates, which means
negative returns,” she said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.” “In the
U.S., there is definitely great value in corporate bonds, both
investment-grade but primarily high-yield.”  Speculative-grade bonds declined 6.3 percent in the third
quarter, the worst period since the three months ended December
2008, pummeled by a worsening sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe 
and the threat of another recession in the U.S. Europe’s
financial leaders are trying to repair  Greece ’s recession-struck
economy while insulating Italy and  Spain  and shoring up banks
that the  International Monetary Fund  says face as much as 300
billion euros ($397.8 billion) in credit risks.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield debt
instead of Treasuries has soared 3.14 percentage points to 8.72
percentage points since the end of July, the most since
September 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
The debt is ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘Doing Your Homework’  Yields of 7.5 percent to 8 percent on B rated debt and as
much as 10 percent on lower rated corporate bonds offer “a
significant amount of carry if you’re doing your homework and
you’re comfortable with the company,” Gaffney said. “The
challenge is in this low-growth environment, some of those
lower-quality corporates, triple C rated bonds for example,
probably carry a significant amount of risk, so you have to be
careful about your issue selection.”  Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries, which touched a record
low 1.6714 percent last month, rose 5 basis points to 1.8
percent today after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
told lawmakers the central bank may take more action to
stimulate the economy.  Gaffney, co-manager of the fund with Daniel Fuss at Boston-
based Loomis Sayles & Co., said convertible bonds are a “good
way of setting up a fixed-income portfolio for the future,”
when  interest rates  eventually rise.  The Loomis Sayles Bond Fund has returned 0.35 percent this
year, trailing 80 percent of competitors, after its 13.6 percent
gain last year, when it beat 97 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  