-- 
Moore Capital Management Traders Stein, Nicoll Said to Plan Own Hedge Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-10-04T18:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/moore-capital-management-traders-stein-nicoll-said-to-plan-own-hedge-fund.html
Moore Capital  Management LLC traders
Jens-Peter Stein and Christopher Nicoll plan to start their own
hedge fund, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Moore may invest in the firm, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the company is private. Nicoll, a
former co-head of foreign exchange and emerging markets trading
in Europe at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , registered a firm called Stone
Milliner Asset Management, according to a July 7 filing with the
U.K.’s Companies House. Stein was also a managing director at
the investment bank before joining Moore in 2006, according to
his registration with the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  Hedge-fund startups had the most active first six months of
the year since before the financial crisis, helped by investors
seeking higher returns as central banks hold  interest rates  near
record lows. Money managers founded 578 new hedge funds during
the first six months of 2011, the most since the first half of
2007, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Moore Capital, started by  Louis Bacon , has a history of
spinning off hedge funds. Paul Findley, who led the firm’s
European equities team, left Moore Capital to start London-based
Bramshott Capital LLP this year. In 2008, Moore Capital’s Tim Leslie started London-based James Caird Asset Management LP.
Moore, which is based in  New York , oversees about $15 billion.  A spokesman for Moore couldn’t comment immediately. Stein
didn’t answer a telephone call to his office seeking comment.
Nicoll didn’t return a call and two e-mails seeking comment.
Their plans to start Stone Milliner Asset Management were
reported earlier today by HFMWeek.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  