-- 
Orders for U.S. Capital Goods Rise by Most in Three Months

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-04T14:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/orders-in-u-s-for-capital-equipment-increase-by-the-most-in-three-months.html
Orders for U.S. capital equipment
increased in August by the most in three months, a sign business
investment and exports held up in the face of mounting concern
over the European debt crisis.  Bookings for goods like computers and communications gear,
excluding military hardware and aircraft, climbed 0.9 percent,
the most since May, a Commerce Department report showed today in
Washington. Demand for all factory goods declined 0.2 percent.  Faster growth in emerging economies helped sustain demand
for American-made turbines and equipment even as U.S. households
cut back. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today
that policy makers stand ready to take further action to propel a
recovery that’s shown signs of faltering.  “ Capital investment  continues to grow at a slower pace and
exports will continue to do reasonably well, but ultimately
activity will be driven by how events unfold in  Europe ,”  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in New York,
said before the report. “Manufacturing is continuing to grow,
though certainly at a much slower pace than earlier in the
year.”  Economists projected no change in total factory orders after
a 2.1 percent jump, according to the median forecast of 68
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from a 1
percent drop to a 2.2 percent increase.  Stocks slumped as European policy makers struggled to
reassure investors they can contain the region’s debt crisis. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.4 percent to 1,084.07 at
10:11 a.m. in  New York .  Industrial Machinery  Industrial machinery, computers, aircraft and communications
equipment bookings climbed in August, while orders for motor
vehicles decreased, today’s report showed.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for future business investment, increased after a revised
0.3 percent decrease in July.  Shipments of those items, used in calculating gross domestic
product, increased 2.8 percent in August, the most in five
months, after rising a revised 0.3 percent the prior month.  A report yesterday showed production gains in September,
while orders contracted for a third straight month. The  Institute
for Supply Management ’s factory gauge accelerated last month, the
group said. The figures also showed a gain in export demand.  Regional Surveys  Regional figures from the Fed showed New York-region
manufacturing shrank for a fourth straight month in September,
while factory activity in the Philadelphia area contracted for a
third time in four months.  The Fed “will continue to closely monitor economic
developments and is prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context
of  price stability ,” Bernanke said today in testimony to
Congress’s Joint Economic Committee in Washington.  Today’s report reflected a drop in orders at vehicle makers
following supply disruptions caused by the earthquake in  Japan  in
March. Bookings for motor vehicles and parts decreased 5.3
percent after the prior month’s 8.5 percent surge.  Even so, auto purchases picked up last month. General Motors
Co., Chrysler Group LLC, Ford Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.
yesterday said their sales rose more than estimated. September
vehicle sales rose to an annual rate of 13 million, the fastest
in five months, from 12.1 million, according to industry reports.  Commercial Aircraft  Orders for commercial airplanes jumped 24 percent in August
after surging 50 percent in July. Chicago-based Boeing Co., the
world’s largest aerospace company, said it received 127 orders in
August, up from 115 in July.  Demand for durable goods, which make up just over half of
total factory demand, fell 0.1 percent, today’s report showed.  Bookings of non-durable goods dropped 0.3 percent,
reflecting a decrease in the value of petroleum products.  Factory inventories rose 0.4 percent in August, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.34 months at the
current sales pace, compared with 1.33 months in July.  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based office-equipment maker
 Steelcase Inc. (SCS)  remains optimistic on prospects for continued
business spending in the U.S.  “We are not convinced a pullback in corporate spending is
going to occur,” David Sylvester, chief financial officer at
Steelcase, said in a Sept. 22 conference call with analysts.
“Many corporate balance sheets are as strong as they have ever
been.”  Overseas Sales  Overseas sales remain a source of strength for some
manufacturers, including  General Electric Co. (GE)   “At a time of, I would say, global volatility, we still see
robust demand for our infrastructure products,”  Jeffrey Immelt ,
chairman and chief executive officer of GE, said Sept. 26 in
Pune,  India . “We still feel quite good about our prospects on a
global basis.”  The Fed’s policy-setting committee on Sept. 21 said economic
growth “remains slow” even as “business investment in
equipment and software continues to expand.”  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  