-- 
Morgan Stanley Names Khattar India Capital Markets Head

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-10-04T12:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/morgan-stanley-names-khattar-india-global-capital-markets-head.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest retail brokerage, named Vikas Khattar managing director
and head of global capital markets in  India  to tap demand for
investment banking services in Asia’s third-largest economy.  Khattar, who joined the bank’s Mumbai office on Oct. 1,
reports to Crawford Jamieson and George Taylor, co-heads of
global capital markets in Asia-Pacific, according to a statement
from Morgan Stanley.  International banks are bolstering their services as Indian
companies increasingly tap capital markets overseas. Non-rupee
debt sales by firms from the nation doubled to $9.1 billion this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New York-based
Morgan Stanley is ranked 13th in arranging international bonds
and 8th in managing domestic share sales by Indian companies in
the last twelve months, data show.  Essar Group, controlled by the billionaire Ruia brothers,
is considering listing infrastructure assets in  London  to raise
about $750 million, three people with knowledge of the matter
said. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit Suisse Group AG are
working with Essar on the initial public offering, the people
said, declining to be identified because the process in private.  Khattar was most recently  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s head of South
Asia equity and equity-linked capital markets origination in
India. Before that he was at Merrill Lynch & Co. for 11 years,
according to the release.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  hired P.V. Krishna from Morgan
Stanley to run its equity capital markets business in India, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  