-- 
Morgan Stanley Rises Most in S&P 500 After Touching 34-Month Low

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-04T20:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/morgan-stanley-rises-most-in-s-p-500-after-touching-34-month-low.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest retail brokerage, rose 12 percent, the largest gain in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after earlier dropping to the
lowest level since December 2008.  Morgan Stanley rebounded in the last half-hour of trading,
rising $1.54 to $14.01 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. It was the biggest percentage gain since
March 2009 and came after a report that European Union officials
were examining ways to coordinate the recapitalization of
struggling banks.  The Financial Times quoted  Olli Rehn , European commissioner
for economic affairs, as saying there is an “increasingly
shared view” that the region needs a coordinated approach to
halt the sovereign debt crisis. Morgan Stanley had dropped 17
percent over the two previous days as concern intensified that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will infect U.S. bank balance sheets.  Credit-default swaps on New York-based Morgan Stanley fell
13 basis points to 570 basis points as of 4:01 p.m. in New York,
according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. The contracts
earlier traded as high as 650 basis points, the highest since
October 2008, the month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
filed for bankruptcy.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. said it’s “firmly
committed” to its strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley.
 Japan ’s biggest banking group, which is the U.S. firm’s largest
common shareholder, repeated its commitment in a statement
yesterday “in response to recent market volatility.”  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53,
sent a memo to employees yesterday, encouraging them to remain
focused on their jobs and clients instead of responding to “the
rumor of the day.”  “There has been an enormous amount of confusion and
misinformation about Morgan Stanley and others in our peer
group,” he wrote in the memo, which was obtained today by
Bloomberg News. “In fragile markets, where fear triumphs over
common sense, these things are bound to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  