-- 
Morgan Stanley May Raise $5 Billion in Japanese Bond Sale

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-10-04T07:36:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/morgan-stanley-files-to-sell-385-billion-yen-of-uridashi-bonds.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  said it may raise as
much as 385 billion yen ($5 billion) by selling uridashi bonds
to Japanese investors sometime in the next two years.  The New York-based firm can sell bonds anytime between Oct.
12 this year and Oct. 11, 2013, according to a shelf
registration filed to  Japan ’s  Finance Ministry  today. Uridashi
bonds are debt issued outside of Japan for sale mainly to
Japanese retail investors.  The U.S. bank is turning to Japanese individuals for
funding at a time when its share price is falling and the cost
of insuring its bonds is surging amid concern that Europe’s debt
crisis will infect the global banking system. Market volatility
prompted  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the biggest
shareholder, to issue a statement yesterday saying it is
“firmly committed” to their alliance.  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s biggest retail
brokerage, sold uridashi bonds in Japan at least twice in the
past three months, raising 46.5 billion yen in August and 51.5
billion yen in September as part of a 200 billion yen program
announced in April. Natsuo Nishio, a Tokyo-based spokesman,
declined to comment on the timing for any additional sale.  Sales of yen-denominated uridashi bonds declined 25 percent
to 120.9 billion yen in August from a year ago, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relies on Debt  Shares of Morgan Stanley have fallen 54 percent this year
amid speculation that  Europe ’s debt crisis will erode trading
income and damage balance sheets of U.S. banks. Morgan Stanley
relies on debt markets for funding because it has relatively low
deposits. The bank got less than 10 percent of its funding from
depositors as of June 30, compared with JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
which got more than half from retail deposits, SEC filings show.  Mitsubishi UFJ invested $9 billion in Morgan Stanley in
October 2008 as the U.S. firm’s stock price collapsed after the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The banks agreed in
April to convert $7.8 billion of preferred shares into common
stock and completed the conversion in June, making the Japanese
lender Morgan Stanley’s largest common shareholder with a 22.4
percent stake.  Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ asserted its support for Morgan
Stanley yesterday as the cost to protect the U.S. firm’s debt
surged to the highest level since the weeks after Lehman
collapsed. Contracts on Morgan Stanley, the owner of the world’s
largest retail brokerage, soared 92 basis points to a mid-price
of 583 basis points yesterday in  New York , the highest since
October 2008, according to London-based data provider CMA.  The largest Wall Street firms will start reporting third-
quarter results this month showing how they performed in a
market grappling with fallout from  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade
of the U.S. credit rating and concern  Greece  would default.
JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley warned investors in September
trading revenue may suffer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  