-- 
Goldman, Morgan Stanley Lead Rise in U.S. Bank Default Swaps

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-10-04T15:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/morgan-stanley-leads-rise-in-u-s-bank-default-swaps-on-europe.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan
Stanley led gains in the cost to protect the debt of the biggest
U.S. banks as concern intensified that Europe’s sovereign
financial crisis will infect lender balance sheets.  Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased
48.9 basis points to 444.5 basis points at 9:50 a.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on Morgan
Stanley, the New York-based owner of the world’s largest retail
brokerage, climbed 40.7 to 623.4 and those on  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
added 30.6 to 382, the data show.  Investor confidence in the creditworthiness of the banks
fell as Europe’s finance chiefs considered “technical
revisions” for a second Greek bailout, Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said today. The cost to protect
U.S. company debt rose for the third day to the highest since
May 2009 as Goldman Sachs cut its global growth forecasts and
predicted recessions in Germany and  France .  “When you get stuff blowing out a couple of hundred basis
points in the span of two days, it causes a lot of people to
seize up,” said Michael Donelan, who oversees $4 billion of
bonds at Ryan Labs Inc. “If you see equities continue to be
under pressure, it just leads to a further contagion-type
spreading to credit spreads, credit-default spreads, cash bonds
you name it everything’s interlinked.”  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or speculate on
creditworthiness, added 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 151.5
basis points as of 11:18 a.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd.  Global Economy  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, has increased from 136.2
on Sept. 27 as concerns mount that Europe’s fiscal imbalances
are worsening and the global economic recovery is faltering.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid as much as 2.2 percent
today to 1,074.77. The measure pared declines and was down 0.1
percent to 1,098.15 at 11:11 a.m. in New York after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is ready
to take additional steps to boost growth.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s senior debt climbed 27.9
basis points to 484.5, according to CMA, a unit of CME Group
Inc. that compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Contracts on New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added 18.8
to 198.6, and those on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  increased 19 to 195,
the data show. Swaps on  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
climbed to 598.4, the highest since May 2010.  ‘Bear Raiders’  Credit swaps on Morgan Stanley are up from 305 basis points
on Sept. 15 and are at the highest level since October 2008, the
month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy.
They reached as high as the equivalent of 1,300 basis points on
Oct. 10, 2008, CMA data show. It now costs $623,400 annually for
five years for every $10 million of debt insured.  “What you’ve got right now is bear raiders making a bet
that in the event of a sovereign crisis in  Europe  coming to a
head, what you’re going to have is a freezing in the debt
markets,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York, said on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  That “will lead to funding problems and all the capital
markets firms will be hurt,” he said. “What’s odd about this
is that it requires a number of leaps of faith, and those would
be that central banks are not going to support their commercial
banks and too large to fail is going to be ignored. And I don’t
think that’s going to be true.”  ‘Special Relationship’  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. said yesterday it’s
“firmly committed” to its long-term strategic alliance with
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , reiterating its commitment to the firm “in
response to recent market volatility.”  “The special relationship we have formed remains core to
our global business strategy,” the Tokyo-based bank said in the
statement. Mitsubishi UFJ invested $9 billion in Morgan Stanley
in October 2008 as the firm’s stock price collapsed after
Lehman’s bankruptcy.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  