-- 
Morgan Stanley Bet the Farm in Ukraine Before Taxpayers’ Bailout

-- B y   A l a n   K a t z   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 
2011-10-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/morgan-stanley-bet-the-farm-in-ukraine-before-fed-bailout-by-u-s-taxpayer.html
Iowa native Justin Bruch marveled at
the opportunity when  Morgan Stanley (MS)  called in late 2007 to
recruit him for an unusual assignment.  The New York bank, flush with $7.5 billion in fiscal 2006
 profit  -- the biggest in its history -- was going to be farming
11 parcels on the steppes of  Ukraine . The commodities team
wanted Bruch, a redhead with meaty hands who’d been farming all
his life, to manage one of them.  Bruch saw a chance to dig into some famous dirt, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its November issue. The former
Soviet republic has 30 percent of the world’s black soil, earth
so fertile Adolf Hitler had Nazi troops cart some back to
 Germany  during World War II. Wheat, corn, rapeseed and
sunflowers thrive there.  “It’s like the prairie land that was broken in the Midwest
100 years ago,” says Bruch, 34, who grew up on his family’s
2,500-acre (1,012-hectare) corn and soybean farm. “The soil and
potential for crops that Ukraine has is the best in the world.”  Morgan Stanley was primed for the investment. It was then
the second-largest U.S. securities firm by  market value , after
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer John Mack was
pushing managers to take more risks.  The year Morgan Stanley called Bruch about running a farm
in the Mykolayiv region near Odessa on the Black Sea, the bank
spent $6.5 billion for Crescent Real Estate Equities Co., which
had 54 office buildings in Dallas, Las Vegas, Miami and
elsewhere.  Golden Fields  The bank also financed an Atlantic City casino  resort  after
buying the land for it in 2006. The commodities division, which
had acquired operators of fuel terminals and oil tankers,
recruited for its European agriculture desk, anticipating rising
food prices. The increases would spark riots in several
countries in 2008.  Enselco Ltd. , the company Morgan Stanley funded that owned
the Ukrainian farms, bought satellite-guided John Deere tractors
to plow its weed-strewn Ukrainian acres and imported mold-
preventing grain bags as long as football fields. Bruch picked
up enough Russian to joke with his tractor drivers and order a
meal in his adopted home.  Things began to fall apart within months. The locals stole
fertilizer and insecticide, Bruch says, and he suspected that
harvested wheat was disappearing too. He wound up fighting with
tax, immigration, fire and police inspectors and trying to
satisfy officials who wanted him to build roads, not just till
fields. He left the farm, called Golden Fields, in June 2009 to
manage a Ukrainian farm owned by another foreign investor.  ‘Worked My Tail Off’  “I worked my tail off for a year on that, trying to do a
good job, produce a good crop,” Bruch says in a Lviv beer
garden over a meal of spit-roasted pig. “It was pretty
stressful and pretty much a headache, so I’m really happy not
ever to deal with any of it again.”  Morgan Stanley gave up on farming in Ukraine in July 2009,
abandoning the initiative in the middle of a harvest. It bought
out its local partner, Aleksandr Mamontenko, then sold Enselco
to an investment firm based in Jersey in the  Channel Islands , at
what people familiar with the situation say was a loss. All
told, Morgan Stanley put about $30 million into Enselco through
loans, according to Igor Bobrov, who was hired in 2008 to be
Enselco’s chief financial officer and later became its CEO. Hugh Fraser, a London-based Morgan Stanley spokesman, says bank
officials declined to comment for this story.  Failed Gamble  Morgan Stanley’s failed gamble in Ukraine shows how  Wall
Street  firms, in the last gasp of a debt-fueled bull market,
strayed further from their traditional business of advising
companies and underwriting stock sales to embrace diverse
projects with unfamiliar risks.  By 2007, banks were investing in everything from casino
development to mortgage lending in  Russia . That year, the five
major U.S. investment banks had only $1 in capital for every $40
of assets, meaning a 3 percent drop in asset value could wipe
out a firm, according to a January  report  by a congressionally
appointed panel probing the 2008 credit crisis.  “You don’t buy farms if you’re a brokerage,” says  Richard Bove , an analyst who follows Morgan Stanley for Stamford,
Connecticut-based Rochdale Securities LLC and has covered Wall
Street for 30 years. “It’s an example of stretching too hard to
make a killing without thinking about the core responsibility.”  After credit and equity markets collapsed in the wake of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s failure in September 2008,
Morgan Stanley borrowed $107.3 billion from the  Federal Reserve ,
according to a Bloomberg News compilation of data obtained
through Freedom of Information Act requests, litigation and an
act of Congress. It also got a $10 billion capital infusion in
October as part of a $700 billion government bailout of the
industry.  Food Inflation  Morgan Stanley’s misadventure in Ukraine points up risks
for current-day investors lured by statistics that may seem to
paint agriculture as a no-brainer. Rising wealth is changing the
diets of 2.5 billion people in China and  India , requiring more
grain to feed cattle and pigs just as soil erosion and
urbanization are limiting available farmland.  To keep food inflation under control, at least 185 million
new acres -- twice the area of Germany -- will have to be
cultivated by 2015, says Philippe de Laperouse, the St. Louis-
based director of the agribusiness practice at consulting firm
HighQuest Partners LLC.  Less than 60 million acres were added during the 10 years
through 2005, he says. Global food prices spiked to  records  in
2008 and again this year, according to a United Nations food
index. Prices in August were 26 percent higher than a year
earlier, after having peaked in February.  ‘Difficult Business’  Hedge funds, mutual funds, university endowments and others
with little experience in agriculture are buying farms at an
unprecedented pace, pouring at least $13 billion since the end
of 2007 into land or funds that involve agriculture, according
to London-based Hardman & Co.  “These investments are driven by people who put
investments together; they aren’t farmers,” says  Howard Buffett , the son of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman  Warren Buffett .  The younger Buffett runs a farm in Illinois and is a former
director of agricultural behemoths ConAgra Foods Inc. and Archer
Daniels Midland Co. in addition to sitting on Berkshire’s board.  “It’s a very difficult business, and people really
underestimate that,” he says.  Some foreign investors have had a tough time in Ukraine,
even with the humus-laced  black earth  -- called chernozem in
Russian -- that once made the region  Europe ’s breadbasket.  ‘Soviet Brains’  Outsiders often struggle to appreciate the mind-set of
Ukrainian workers, says Yuriy Kosyuk, CEO of Myronivsky
Hliboproduct SA, a Kiev poultry and grain producer.  “We still have Soviet brains,” the shirt-sleeved Kosyuk
says in a room adorned with porcelain chickens at company
headquarters. “A lot of people here don’t want a job for the
salary. They want it to be able to steal something, or for some
preference or way to get ahead.”  Landkom International Plc (LKI) , based on the Isle of Man, leases
74,000 hectares, mainly in western Ukraine. It raised 54 million
pounds ($111 million) in a 2007 U.K. public offering and has
since lost a similar amount, according to its financial reports.  Richard Spinks, the company’s former CEO, recalls putting
96 people on his payroll for security. They caught workers with
plastic bottles of diesel fuel stuffed in their boots, he says.
Landkom said on Sept. 7 that it doesn’t expect to report a pre-
tax profit this fiscal year because of a poor rapeseed harvest.  Pig Snorts  Ukraine -- which ties with Nigeria, Sierra Leone and
Azerbaijan for 134th place in Transparency International’s 2010
corruption perceptions index -- wasn’t Morgan Stanley’s first
try at producing food. The bank also invested in U.S. pig farms,
says Brad Hintz, a former Morgan Stanley treasurer who left the
company in 1996 and is now an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in  New York .  Morgan Stanley’s merchant banking funds had a controlling
stake in Princeton, Missouri-based Premium Standard Farms Inc.,
founded in 1988, according to a  filing  with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The pork producer ran up $461 million
in debt as it invested in new barns and packing plants while hog
prices fell to the lowest levels since the mid-1970s, the filing
says. Premium Standard sought bankruptcy protection in 1996.  “It was so clear that this was a troubled investment that
when you would sit in the merchant banking review committees, in
the back of the room there would always be an associate who
would do ‘snort, snort, snort,’” Hintz says, making a noise
like a pig.  Emulating Goldman  With Ukraine, Morgan Stanley saw a first step into a
potential multibillion-dollar crop-growing business, according
to people with knowledge of the discussions.  Record profits from advising on mergers, under-writing
stock offers and selling mortgage-backed securities tied to U.S.
housing prices had transformed Wall Street. Banks were opening
the throttle on risk taking.  Mack, hired in 2005 after executive defections and lagging
profits weakened predecessor Philip Purcell, wanted managers to
emulate New York rival Goldman Sachs and wager more of the
firm’s own capital, Hintz says. Mack set aside $2.5 billion for
principal investments and encouraged employees to come to him
with ideas.  Mikhail Chernyy, who worked in the bank’s Moscow office,
helped propose the investment in Ukraine, according to two
people familiar with the creation of Enselco.  ‘Visions of Sugarplums’  Mamontenko, a member of the supervisory board of AKB
Finbank in Odessa, says Chernyy called him to suggest a
partnership. The company was registered in Kiev on Jan. 11,
2007, amid a two-year  surge  in food prices that peaked in mid-
2008. Chernyy, now deputy director of strategy and energy
markets at OAO Bashkirenergo, a utility in Russia’s
Bashkortostan region, declined to comment.  Mamontenko led a search for suitable property for Enselco,
of which he was CEO. After the  Soviet Union  was dismantled in
1991, most of Ukraine’s land was given to its people in plots
that average 3 hectares and that can’t be sold or used as
collateral. Enselco acquired 11 operating farms that leased land
from thousands of peasants in the Mykolayiv region, where Bruch
was a manager, and in the Khmelnytsky region of western Ukraine.
The farms produced wheat, rapeseed and other grains and oilseed.  “I can imagine the visions of sugarplums,” says Bove, the
Rochdale analyst. He says the bank may have wanted to grow grain
to give its traders in futures markets an edge, as it has in
crude oil by chartering tankers.  Bruch, the farmer from Iowa, was finishing a Master of
Business Administration at California State University in Fresno
in 2007 when Morgan Stanley called. He’d gotten a taste for
international farming in  Brazil , where he worked with his
brother running a 1,250-acre farm in the state of Bahia.  ‘You’re Naive’  In Ukraine, Bruch says, he was struck by the timelessness
of a place where on some plots women still drop seeds by hand
behind horse-drawn plows.  “When you come from Iowa, you’re naive,” Bruch says on a
rainy afternoon by a wheat field owned by his current employer,
Stockholm-based farm investment company  Alpcot Agro AB. (ALPA)  He soon
learned that the ancient landscape hid a bureaucracy little
changed from Soviet days.  The red tape begins with bringing equipment into Ukraine.
Most countries require one piece of paper for imports, says
Joseph Gooch, an Indiana farm equipment broker. He loaded five
containers for Morgan Stanley’s Ukraine operations in 2008.  ‘Communist Mentality’  Included were a 500-horsepower John Deere 9620  tractor , a
300-hp John Deere 8430, a self-propelled sprayer and two grain-
bagging systems. He says that in Ukraine, importers need a
“certificate of quality,” a “certificate of origin,” a
packing list and a “pro forma” invoice.  “The Communist mentality just hasn’t died,” Gooch says.  On the farm, Bruch was facing a rash of thefts.  “It’s mind-boggling what people will steal from you,” he
says. “The chemicals don’t go in the sprayer, they go in the
back of someone’s Lada and are sold to a neighbor down the
road.”  Bruch says he didn’t mind losing a few gallons of
insecticide; what concerned him was the wheat that might not
grow because he didn’t have enough to cover the last few acres.
After the 2008 harvest, his doubts increased. Bruch wondered
whether whole truckloads of wheat had been pilfered.  “I would look at a wheat field and know that it was about
a 4 1⁄2-ton field, that I had a good crop,” he says, pointing
to a steel grate where trucks pour in grain after it has been
weighed. “Then it comes across the scale at 3 1⁄4 tons, and I
would lie awake at night and wonder was I way off or did that
wheat get stolen? I’ll never know.”  ‘What a Problem’  Still,  yields  weren’t bad; some wheat fields came in at 5.2
tons a hectare and some rapeseed at 3 tons a hectare, above the
average in Ukraine, Bruch says. The larger concern was the
bank’s dispute with its partner, he says.  “I didn’t have the brains to see what a problem that would
be,” says Bruch, declining to be more specific.  By 2008, Morgan Stanley was sparring with Mamontenko,
according to two people familiar with the situation. Enselco was
owned by Venusaur Holdings Ltd., a Cyprus-based firm whose sole
shareholder was Mamontenko, according to documents in the
Department of the Registrar of Companies in Nicosia. Venusaur
pledged 100 percent of the equity in Enselco as collateral to
Morgan Stanley, the documents show.  The bank questioned Mamontenko’s decisions, people familiar
with the matter say. Enselco bought chemicals from intermediary
companies that charged markups and sold crops to middlemen at
prices below market levels, according to three of these people,
who declined to be quoted by name because they don’t have
documents to prove the markups.  ‘Spoiled Everything’  Mamontenko says he wasn’t affiliated with intermediaries
and coordinated prices with Morgan Stanley officials. He says he
had a good relationship with the bank.  Leaning over a dark-wood table in his Finbank office in
Odessa, he says the market panic following Lehman’s September
2008 collapse caused the bank to bow out.  “The biggest problem was the financial crisis,” says
Mamontenko, his white shirt open to reveal a tanned chest with a
thick chain and a gold cross. “That spoiled everything. Without
that, we’d be farming 200,000 hectares now.”  By the end of the 2008 harvest, Morgan Stanley was cutting
its far-flung investments as fast as it had been making them.
Mack reduced  leverage  -- a measure of how extensively a firm is
using borrowed money to enhance returns on shareholders’ capital
-- to 11 times by the end of March 2009 from almost 28 times a
year earlier, according to bank figures.  Red Lada  The Ukrainian farms went out the door in July 2009 when
Enselco was sold to JadenFinch Ltd., a firm that invests on
behalf of oil trader Robert Finch and his family. Kernel Holding
SA, Ukraine’s largest sunflower oil producer, agreed on Sept. 9
to an option to buy Enselco for $52.3 million.  The bank’s  shares  haven’t recovered. So far this year, the
stock has dropped 49 percent through Oct. 4, closing at $14.01 -
- or less than one-fifth of its $74.13 peak in June 2007.  James Gorman took over as Morgan Stanley’s chief executive
in January 2010. Mack, who’d stayed on as chairman, will end
that role on Jan. 1, making Gorman both chairman and CEO. The
bank wrote down all but $40 million of its $1.2 billion
investment in a half-built Atlantic City casino last year --
another sign it’s getting back to the business of banking.  Bruch is in his element too. Fishtailing up a muddy track
in a red Lada, he points to the wheat and rapeseed fields he’s
cultivating for Alpcot.  After losing money for three years, the company, which
specializes in the black-earth belt of Russia and Ukraine, said
on Aug. 31 that it had turned its first operating profit in
Ukraine.  “I just want to raise the best crops I can for the best
value,” Bruch says. “Now I just focus on raising crops.”  The bankers at Morgan Stanley, who once fancied themselves
farmers, learned how hard that can be.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Katz  in Paris at 
 akatz5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay in Paris at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ; 