-- 
Orkla Poised to Target Paintmaker Tikkurila, Danske Markets Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-10-04T08:53:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/orkla-poised-to-target-paintmaker-tikkurila-danske-markets-says.html
Orkla ASA (ORK) , the Norwegian maker of
frozen pizza and bathroom cleaners, may be preparing a takeover
bid for Finnish paintmaker  Tikkurila Oyj (TIK1V) , according to Danske
Bank A/S.  An offer for the company is possible in the next six to 12
months, analyst Panu Laitinmaki said today in a note to clients.
Danske maintained its “Hold” recommendation on the shares
given the potential for an approach.  A move by Orkla, which declared a 6.2 percent stake in
Tikkurila in August, would coincide with an expected slowdown in
demand for paint, coupled with inflated prices for the raw
material titanium dioxide.  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s largest
paintmaker, plans a renewed efficiency drive after a
“challenging” few months, the Amsterdam-based company said
July 21. Tikkurila itself faces an increasing risk of cutting
its outlook for profit this year, Laitinmaki said.  “We keep our ‘‘Hold’’ despite the weakening outlook
because a takeover bid by Orkla seems possible in the next 12
months,” the analyst said.  Tikkurila shares dropped 3.6 percent to 12.22 euros in
Helsinki trading as of 11:29 a.m. local time, weighed down by a
wider rout in global equity markets. The shares have lost 26
percent this year, valuing the company at 540 million euros
($712 million).  Orkla last month abandoned a $933 million bid for the
remaining shares it doesn’t own in paintmaker Jotun AS. Members
of the Gleditsch family blocked the offer and Orkla said the two
sides are working on developing Jotun together.  With a 22 percent net debt to equity ratio at the end of
the second quarter, Orkla’s gearing would increase to about 35
percent if it buys Tikkurila at 17 euros a share, Danske’s
Laitinmaki said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  