-- 
Mortgage REITs Rise Erasing Steep Losses

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   F e l i c e   M a r a n z
-- 
2011-10-04T20:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/mortgage-reits-tumble-to-worst-two-day-loss-since-2008-on-europe-concern.html
Real estate investment trusts that
buy U.S. mortgage debt rose, erasing losses that had reached the
steepest since December 2008 amid concern that their main source
of financing could be roiled by European bank woes.  Mortgage REITs including  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY)  and
 American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC)  rose 1 percent at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, after earlier falling as much as 6 percent, according to a
Bloomberg index tracking 33 shares. The stocks swung to gains as
U.S. stocks rallied amid speculation that European Union
officials are examining how to recapitalize the region’s banks.
Losses over the past two days among the REITs had reached as
much as 11.1 percent, the biggest drop in almost three years.  France and  Belgium  pledged today to support Dexia SA after
the bank’s board met to discuss a possible break-up as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis reduced its ability to obtain funding.
While the repurchase-agreement, or repo, market for government-
backed mortgage bonds that many REITS rely on for funding is in
“good” shape, it may face pressure if  Europe ’s banks need to
retrench, American Capital President Gary Kain said.  “We see that as being a potential pressure on rates, not
on availability,” Kain, whose company had $43.6 billion of
assets as of June 30, said today in a telephone interview.
Higher rates are possible in part because the  Federal Reserve  is
selling short-term Treasuries in its “Operation Twist” program
that began this month, he said.  Kain’s Bethesda, Maryland-based firm hasn’t seen European
banks pulling out of the market and “we have had no major line
reductions,” he said. “If anything over the last couple of
weeks, we have had” the credit lines go up in size.  Repo Rates  The cost of one-month repo financing for agency mortgage
securities fell 2 basis points today to 25 basis points as of
3:01 p.m., according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
inter-dealer broker. The rate has climbed from 20 basis points
on Aug. 31, tracking increases in the benchmark London interbank
offered rate. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Declines in mortgage REIT’s may have also reflected concern
about the companies’ investment opportunities, said Richard Eckert, an analyst at B. Riley & Co.  Anworth Mortgage Asset
Corp. (ANH)  yesterday announced a dividend two cents lower than its
previous quarterly payout, saying higher homeowner refinancing
eroded returns, and said it plans to buy back as much as 2
million in shares.  Deploying Capital  The share repurchases are “a signal to me they cannot find
enough ARM assets at their targeted spreads and ROEs to fully
deploy their capital, so they are returning it to
shareholders,” Eckert wrote in an e-mail, using acronyms for
adjustable-rate mortgages and return on equity.  John Hillman, a spokesman for  Santa Monica , California-
based Anworth, said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd McAdams wasn’t available to comment. Jay Diamond, a spokesman
for Annaly, didn’t return a message.  The repo market is used by investors and dealers to finance
their securities holdings. Rates are typically below unsecured
borrowing costs because the loans are collateralized.  In a repo arrangement, a lender sends cash to a borrower in
return for collateral such as Treasuries or mortgage bonds which
the borrower agrees to repurchase as soon as the next day.
Interest and credit protection for the lender is built into how
much cash gets extended and returned.  ‘Uncomfortable’ Roll  “People often get uncomfortable with the amount of the
paper that has to get rolled over every month” by mortgage
REITs using repo,  Matthew Howlett , an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “There’s always
potentially liquidity problems. And when there’s an issue with
the banks that provide the liquidity, it can become an issue for
the REITs.”  Many of the mortgage REITs survived the global financial
crisis that peaked after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  failed in
2008, said Howlett. “At the end of the day, the model still
works and we’ll still get through this.”  Anworth’s dividend cut also weighed on mortgage REIT shares
by reminding investors of the dangers of rising prepayments amid
record low mortgage rates, he added. Under accounting rules,
REITs that bought bonds for more than face value need to write
off the premiums faster as prepayments rise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Felice Maranz in New York at 
 fmaranz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  