-- 
How Democrats Can Make Their Case for Raising Revenue: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-10-04T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/how-democrats-can-make-their-case-for-raising-revenue-ron-klain.html
Social Security may be known as the
“third rail” of American politics, but it is the debate over
taxes that has been the “kryptonite” of the  Democratic Party 
in recent decades.  President Barack Obama has put the question of revenue
increases on the front burner as part of his fiscal-policy
agenda, and the discussion will grow in visibility and intensity
as the early December deadline for a report from the
congressional supercommittee approaches.  Although almost every expert, economist and open-minded
leader in both parties (excluding, of course, the hard-line
Republican leadership) agrees that we need more revenue to bring
future deficits under control, the political danger for
Democrats in the debate remains severe.  Indeed, one Democrat with a proven ear for politics,  Bill Clinton , has expressed doubts about the administration’s
decision to wade into the revenue controversy, saying, “I
personally don’t believe we ought to be raising taxes or cutting
spending until we get this economy off the ground.” (More
recently, though, Clinton acknowledged that  deficit reduction 
requires “adequate revenues,” scooting a bit closer to the
administration’s line.)  How can Democrats tackle the tax question without courting
political disaster?  Obama has tried two approaches. Last spring, when he was
pressing for revenue increases during the debt-ceiling talks,
his emphasis was on a “balanced approach”: If spending was to
be cut, then revenue should be increased, too.  Not Balanced  The “balanced” argument was perhaps too effective. When
the president reached a debt-limit deal with the Republicans
that was all spending cuts and no revenue increases, he was
excoriated for accepting a package that didn’t meet his own
standards.  In the end, though, the argument for a balanced approach
has limitations, because it requires only a mix of spending cuts
and tax increases, without specifying how much of each -- or
both -- is needed. That’s a bit like saying, “If you are going
to serve liver, you should also serve Brussels sprouts” --
perhaps correct, maybe even candid, but hardly compelling.  More recently, Obama has emphasized “fairness,” in
particular in pushing for his proposed Buffett rule, which would
raise taxes on incomes of $1 million a year or more, and with
his plan to require private jets to pay a landing fee. The
president has rallied his base with these populist appeals, and
polls show that most Americans agree that those in the upmost
tax brackets pay too little in taxes.  Fairer Package  In addition, because the bulk of the pain from spending
cuts falls disproportionately on those at the bottom, tilting
the revenue increases toward higher-end taxpayers would make any
overall package fairer.  But the limitation of the fairness argument is that it
frames the revenue increases as a penalty that should be imposed
on the wealthy for paying too little. It is more of a jab at the
rich than an appeal for raising needed revenue.  The argument that billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
should pay at least the same  tax rate  as his secretary fails to
explain why either is paying what they are paying, or why anyone
should be paying more. Even if middle-class voters are stirred
by the populist sentiment behind such rhetoric, they may be
unnerved by its implicit zeal to raise taxes, and the tone of
the debate leaves the administration vulnerable to the usual
caricatures of Democrats as overenthusiastic tax hikers.  Making the Argument  So what is a better way to make the case for much needed
revenue increases?  First, the administration needs to reiterate, time and
again, that tax increases -- on anyone -- are a last resort.
This may seem like a tweak, but it is an important one. Even
when voters favor mixed approaches to our ballooning deficit,
more of them believe that our fiscal problems are caused by too
much government spending, not too little taxation.  To avoid being burned by the tax debate, Democrats need to
begin the conversation by reiterating that they support revenue
increases -- not because there are people who can afford to pay
more, but because there is no other way to get our fiscal house
in order.  Second, the administration needs to understand that this
debate is playing out against a backdrop of unprecedented public
doubt about the effectiveness of government spending. For
political purposes, it matters little if Americans believe the
government actually spent too little trying to reverse the Great
Recession -- as progressives such as  Paul Krugman  argue --  or
if they think government spent too much, as Republicans contend.
Either way, the necessity for more revenue is being weighed in
an environment that is highly skeptical of government’s ability
to use that revenue wisely.  Mythical Muffins  The strong reaction to the report that the  Justice
Department  bought $16 muffins -- a story that, as should have
been immediately obvious, was wrong -- illustrates the depth of
the public’s cynicism. The president and the Democrats must
engage the tax debate with that skepticism in mind.  One approach that addresses this challenge is tying
specific revenue increases to specific uses. For example,
revenue from the so-called Buffett rule could be used to endow a
 trust fund  dedicated to education reform and rebuilding our
schools, popular investments in our nation’s future that are
starved for resources. Revenue generated from new fees on
private plane flights could be set aside to fund improvements at
airports. This would neutralize arguments about “class
warfare,” and remind the public of our vital shared needs.  Bush Cuts  The single largest revenue item -- allowing the Bush-era
tax cuts for the highest-income taxpayers to expire as scheduled
at the end of next year -- could be devoted to several purposes.
For example, a large portion could be applied directly to paying
down the debt. In other words, easing the future burden on our
children, not expanded  government spending .  Another dedicated use could be funding an infrastructure
bank to rebuild roads and bridges, with projects selected by an
independent board of governors, not elected officials.  Alternatively, a portion of the funds could be set aside
for loans to small businesses to help spur economic growth; in
the past, Small Business Administration loans have helped launch
or grow some of the most innovative and successful U.S.
companies, including Apple Inc., FedEx Corp., Nike Inc. and
Under Armour Inc.  Here’s the bottom line: Tying tax increases to dedicated
and popular uses insulates proposals for much-need revenue from
attacks of “class warfare” or general anti-tax sentiment, and
can help rebuild faith that marginal dollars collected by the
government will be put to a clear and important public purpose.  Advocates of revenue increases need to develop an effective
way of defending their side if they are to prevail in the
contentious debate that will soon start in Congress, and in the
critical election just 13 months from now.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 