-- 
HP to Decide on Spinning Off PC Unit This Month, CEO Says

-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-10-05T00:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/hp-to-decide-whether-to-spin-off-pc-unit-ceo.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  aims to decide
whether to spin off its personal-computer division by the end of
October, Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said at a
 conference  today, pushing up the company’s timetable.  Whitman, who succeeded  Leo Apotheker  as CEO of the world’s
largest PC maker last month, was speaking at a conference on
women in leadership sponsored by Fortune magazine. Under
Apotheker, who resigned as CEO Sept. 22, the company had said it
would decide on the $41 billion division’s fate by the end of
the year. It’s critical that Hewlett-Packard make the decision
more quickly, Whitman said.  “We have to make a final decision about what to do with
the PC division,” she said. “It’s a decision I want to make
much faster than my predecessor. I want to make it before the
end of October.”  Whitman took over from Apotheker after a series of jarring
strategy shifts and three quarters of reduced sales forecasts
cut short his tenure. Whitman told conference attendees in
Laguna Niguel,  California , it would be “very helpful” if the
company met analysts’ expectations in the fiscal fourth quarter
ending Oct. 31. According to Bloomberg data, analysts are
predicting sales of $32.1 billion and profit of $1.13 a share.  “It would be very helpful if we made those with our heads
high,” said Whitman. “I don’t have a lot of control over
that.”  Romney’s Advice  Integrating the company’s $10.3 billion purchase of
software company Autonomy Corp. is also important, she said.  Whitman said she consulted with her family and mentors
including Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who
advised her to work for Hewlett-Packard, which he called an
“American icon.”  Losing the governor’s race in California last year taught
her to communicate better with groups and weather criticism, she
added. Hewlett-Packard employees need to recover from “a post-
traumatic syndrome” as a result of the company’s succession of
CEOs, Whitman said.  Shares of Hewlett-Packard gained 82 cents, or 3.7 percent,
to $23.02 today on the New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  