-- 
Pakistan Terror No Bar as Unilever Converges With Nestle: Retail

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 
2011-10-05T12:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/pakistan-terrorists-no-sales-bar-as-unilever-converges-with-nestle-retail.html
Unilever and  Nestle SA (NESN)  are defying
turmoil in Pakistan, where terror attacks have killed at least
35,000 people since 2006, to sell more soap, beauty products and
milk to farmers enriched by higher cotton and wheat prices.  Unilever and  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  are sending salespeople
into rural areas of the world’s sixth most-populous nation,
where demand for consumer goods such as Sunsilk shampoo, Pond’s
moisturizers and Colgate toothpaste has boosted local units’
revenue at least 15 percent.  “The rural push is aimed at the boisterous youth in these
areas, who have bountiful cash and resources to increase
purchases,” Shazia Syed, vice president for customer
development at  Unilever Pakistan Ltd. (ULEVER) , said in an interview.
“Rural growth is more than double that of national sales.”  Unilever, the world’s second-largest  consumer-goods 
company, has said it aims to double sales by 2020 through
expansion in faster-growing emerging markets. Consumer-goods
companies forecast growth in Pakistan even as an increase in
ethnic violence in Karachi has made 2011 the deadliest in 16
years for the country’s biggest city and financial center.  U.S. Navy SEALs killed Osama bin Laden north of the
nation’s capital, Islamabad, in May. American Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  has said the U.S. is considering all options to
deal with the Haqqani faction of the Taliban, based largely in
Pakistan’s North Waziristan district.  Pakistan has been accused by the U.S., its biggest donor,
of aiding insurgents who attack American forces in neighboring
 Afghanistan .  Economic growth  has slowed to 2.4 percent in the 12
months through June from a record 9 percent six years ago.  ‘Growing Opportunities’  Brand awareness is growing in the country of  177 million
people  and the urban population is increasing even as security
conditions have worsened, said Misbah Iqbal, an analyst with AKD
Securities Ltd. in Karachi. “I don’t see any reason why
companies operating in Pakistan won’t cash in on the growing
opportunities.”  Nestle Pakistan Ltd. (NESTLE) , which is spending 300 million Swiss
francs ($326 million) to double dairy output in four years,
boosted sales 29 percent to 33 billion rupees ($378 million) in
the six months through June.  “We have been focusing on rural areas very strongly,” Ian Donald, managing director of Nestle’s Pakistan unit, said in an
interview in Lahore. “Our observation is that Pakistan’s rural
economy is doing better than urban areas.”  The parent, based in Vevey,  Switzerland , aims to get 45
percent of revenue from emerging markets by 2020.  Living Like Kings  Cotton prices almost doubled last year as demand from
makers of the fiber outpaced production, draining global
stockpiles. In Pakistan, prices rose as much as fourfold last
year, according to  Muhammad Atif Dada , the chairman of the
Karachi Cotton Exchange.  Haji Mirbar, who grows cotton on a 5-acre farm with his
four brothers, said his family’s income grew fivefold in the
year through June, allowing him to buy branded products. He uses
Unilever’s Lifebuoy for his open-air baths under a hand pump,
instead of the handmade soap he used before.  “We had a great year because of cotton prices,” said
Mirbar, 28, who lives in a village outside south  Pakistan ’s
Matiari town. “As our income has risen, we want to buy nice
things and live like kings.”  Cotton futures rose to a record $2.197 a pound in  New York 
in March before declining to $1.020 on the ICE Futures U.S. as
of 4:51 p.m. in Mumbai. That was still more than 50 percent
higher than the 10-year average.  Prices are still “quite high by historical standards,”
 Michael Creed , an agribusiness economist at the National
Australia Bank Ltd. said from  Melbourne  yesterday. “A lot of
farmers will still be making very good margins.”  Doll Sisters  Sales for the Pakistan unit of Unilever rose 15 percent to
24.8 billion rupees in the first half.  Colgate-Palmolive
Pakistan (COLG)  Ltd.’s sales increased 29 percent in the six months
through June to 7.6 billion rupees, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “In a generally faltering economy, the double-digit growth
in revenue for companies servicing the consumer sector has come
almost entirely from the rural areas,” said Sakib Sherani,
chief executive officer at Macroeconomic Insights Pvt. in
Islamabad and a former economic adviser to Pakistan’s finance
ministry.  Unilever is pushing beauty products in the countryside
through a program called “Guddi Baji,” an Urdu phrase that
literally means “doll sister.” It employs “beauty specialists
who understand rural women,” providing them with vans filled
with samples and equipment, Syed said. Women in villages are
also employed as sales representatives, because “rural is the
growth engine” for Unilever in Pakistan, she said in an
interview in Karachi.  Spending on Beauty  While the bulk of spending for rural families goes to food,
about 20 percent “is spent on looking beautiful and buying
expensive clothes,” Syed said.  Colgate-Palmolive, the world’s largest toothpaste maker,
aims to address a “huge gap” in sales outside Pakistan’s
cities by more than tripling the number of villages where its
 products , such as Palmolive soap, are sold, from the current
5,000, said Syed Wasif Ali, rural operations manager at the
local unit.  Its detergents Bonus Tristar and Brite are packed in
sachets of 20 grams or less and priced as low as five rupees (6
cents), to boost sales among low-income consumers hurt by the
fastest pace of inflation in  Asia  after  Vietnam .  Unilever plans to increase the number of villages where its
products are sold to almost half of the total 34,000 within
three years. Its merchandise, including Dove shampoo, Surf
detergent and Brooke Bond Supreme tea, is available in about
11,000 villages now.  Share-Price Gains  Nestle Pakistan has jumped 49 percent in Karachi trading
this year and the local Unilever unit has climbed 29 percent.
While Colgate-Palmolive Pakistan has lost 27 percent this year,
it’s up more than sixfold since December 2005, compared with a
gain of about 24 percent for the benchmark Karachi Stock
Exchange 100 Index.  Shares of Nestle Pakistan fell 2.8 percent to 3,532.06
rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Karachi trading, while
Unilever’s unit in the nation rose 0.4 percent to 5,636.40
rupees. Colgate Palmolive Pakistan was little changed at 589.91
rupees, while the benchmark index declined 0.6 percent.  Pakistan, Asia’s third-largest wheat grower, in 2008
increased wheat prices by more than 50 percent as Prime Minister
 Yousuf Raza Gilani  sought to boost production of the staple.  “The injection of purchasing power in the rural sector has
been unprecedented,” said Sherani, who added that local prices
for rice and sugarcane have also risen.  Wheat futures, which helped drive food costs tracked by the
 United Nations  to a record in February, have since declined, and
traded at $6.15 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade today.  Telenor’s Text Services  Increasing consumption in rural areas is forecast to drive
economic growth in the South Asian country of  177 million
people , according to government estimates.  Higher crop prices boosted farmers’ incomes in Pakistan by
342 billion rupees in the 12 months through June, according to a
government economic survey. That was higher than the gain of 329
billion rupees in the preceding eight years.  The farm sector last year accounted for about a fifth of
the nation’s $175 billion gross domestic product. “Given the
enormous price inducement, the  agriculture sector  is likely to
spearhead economic growth,” according to the government report.  Telenor  Pakistan Pvt. is also expanding in Pakistan’s rural
areas, which already contribute 60 percent of sales, said Anjum
Nida Rahman, corporate communications director for the local
unit of the Nordic region’s largest phone company.  “If you’re looking to expand your sales and your market
share, that’s whom you have to focus on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  