-- 
Panasonic Leads Shift to Energy-Saving Gadgets After Japan Power Shortages

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u ,   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   K a z u y o   S a w a
-- 
2011-10-04T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/panasonic-leads-shift-toward-energy-saving-bulbs-after-quake.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp.,
makers of Japan’s most popular appliances and televisions, are
accelerating their shift toward energy-saving devices after this
year’s earthquake led to nationwide power shortages.  Panasonic showcased its latest solar panels and power
backup systems at CEATEC, Japan’s biggest annual electronics
show, which kicked off near Tokyo yesterday. Sharp displayed how
an electric car could serve as an emergency power source in case
of blackouts.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  also exhibited energy-efficient
products such as light-emitting diode bulbs.  The exhibits, a contrast to the 3-D televisions that took
center-stage last year, underscore Japan’s mounting interest in
products that consume less electricity after the March 11
disaster triggered the world’s worst nuclear accident in 25
years and caused power shortages. The shift comes at the expense
of TVs, an industry where the Japanese manufacturers are falling
further behind  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)   “Presentation of large-screen TVs, which had long been the
focus of CEATEC, dramatically decreased,” Mizuho Securities
Equity Research analyst Ryosuke Katsura said. “TVs are no
longer the focus of electronics makers’ businesses. For energy-
saving goods, we can expect to see the government giving
subsidies.”  The magnitude-9 earthquake led to power shortages after
reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant of Tokyo Electric Power
Co. melted down. Japan’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said last
month the country still needs atomic power, which provided about
30 percent of the electricity in the world’s third-biggest
economy before March 11.  ‘Losing Power’  “The March incident made us realize how big the impact is
to lose power supply,” Panasonic President Fumio Ohtsubo said
in a keynote speech at the convention yesterday. “Expectations
for renewable energy sources, especially solar power, has risen
in  Japan  and elsewhere. We plan to facilitate the expansion of
those energies to households as well as to large-scale users.”  In August, Japanese lawmakers approved a bill to subsidize
electricity from renewable power sources, a measure that Sharp
President Mikio Katayama said will likely boost the nation’s
solar-panel shipments as much as 10-fold.  “The solar battery is one of our two themes this year,”
Katayama told reporters at the exhibition yesterday. “It took
center stage at Sharp’s booth. That symbolized the increasing
expectation on energy after the March 11 earthquake.”  Bravia TV  Japanese electronics makers, coping with a strong yen
that’s appreciated more than any major currency this year, have
reason to diversify.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest exporter of
consumer electronics, is among TV makers struggling to lure
consumers to upgrade their sets, including those featuring 3-D
technology.  In July, Tokyo-based Sony cut its annual profit forecast 25
percent after a slump in demand in the U.S. and  Europe  led the
company to lower its estimate for television sales. Sales of
Bravia televisions worldwide this year will be 22 million units,
compared with an earlier estimate for 27 million units, Sony
said then.  Panasonic, Japan’s biggest maker of appliances, said in
July interest for houses and equipment that can generate and
save energy is rising after the natural disasters. The Osaka-
based company is building 1,000 homes in its former factory site
in Fujisawa, southwest of  Tokyo , a project that the company
estimates will likely yield at least 100 billion yen ($1.3
billion) in revenue in the year ending March 2013.  Panasonic Houses  Panasonic may replicate the project at other factory sites
it closed, Teruhisa Noro, a director for Panasonic’s systems and
equipment business promotion division, said in an interview in
July. The home-products unit was the company’s biggest profit
generator for the quarter ended June 30. By comparison, the
division that makes TVs posted a 16 billion yen loss.  The Fujisawa “smart town” project illustrates corporate
interest in gaining expertise to build next-generation cities
and win a bigger share in the booming infrastructure market,
Panasonic president Ohtsubo said in May.  “There is a huge business opportunity in energy saving,”
said Tatsuya Yamada, senior manager of strategic planning at
Hitachi. “Because of the earthquake, the balance between
electric demand and supply changed.”  Carmakers are also on board.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is
partnering with  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and Sharp to build a city in
Toyota city, Aichi prefecture. Their aim is to reduce emission
of green-house gases by using next-generation cars and systems
that can utilize power stored in their batteries.  Nissan Motor Co. has a similar plan in Yokohama City,
Kanagawa prefecture.  “The role for electric cars changed dramatically since
March 11,” Osamu Masuko, President of Mitsubishi Motors Corp.
said yesterday. “We need to think of ways to store energy to
use it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  