-- 
Panetta Confers With NATO Allies on Libya

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/panetta-seeks-libya-lessons-at-nato-after-egypt-transition-talks.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
is in Brussels to confer with NATO allies on the future of  Libya 
after his visit to  Egypt  to press its governing military council
on the country’s transition to civilian rule.  “As long as there’s fighting that’s continuing in Libya, I
suspect the NATO mission will continue,” Panetta told reporters
in Cairo earlier yesterday.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization last month extended
its military operations in Libya, where rebels are searching for
former leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and trying to rout the rest of his
loyalists.  “We still don’t know where Qaddafi is, so there are still
some question marks with regards to the situation there,”
Panetta said.  The conflicts in Libya and Afghanistan and the turmoil of
the Arab Spring revolts in the  Middle East  are consuming most of
Panetta’s attention on his second overseas trip since taking
office July 1.  “It’s extremely important for the stability of this region
that Egypt be able to develop a strong democracy,” Panetta said
after meeting Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, who heads
the military council that took power in February after weeks of
demonstrations ousted President  Hosni Mubarak . Panetta also said
continued military aid to Egypt, which signed a peace treaty
with Israel in 1979, is “in America’s interest.”  November Elections  Egypt’s first parliamentary elections since the ouster of
Mubarak are scheduled to start on Nov. 28 with balloting for the
lower house of parliament. Voting for the upper house is due to
begin on Jan. 29.  A joint session of the lower and upper houses is planned in
March or April to appoint an assembly that will rewrite the
country’s constitution. A presidential vote will take place 45
to 60 days after the results of a constitutional referendum are
announced, the ruling military council said on Oct. 2.  “I think they’re making good progress,” Panetta said. “I
really do have full confidence in the process that the Egyptian
military is overseeing.”  Still, Panetta stressed the need to follow a clear
timetable and said current emergency law would cast a shadow
over elections were it to still be in place at voting time,
according to an official who briefed reporters on the condition
of anonymity. Panetta told the Egyptians that half steps were
unlikely to satisfy the population, he said.  Israel  Treaty  Since the ouster of Mubarak, an ally of the U.S. and
Israel, there have been increasing calls by many Egyptians for
ending the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel. The U.S. has
publicly pressed Egypt’s new leaders to maintain the peace
accord.  “It is clear in talking to the Egyptians that they are
committed to the treaty, to enforcement of the treaty,” Panetta
said.  Panetta, who stopped in  Tel Aviv  before going on to Cairo,
said he has urged leaders of both countries to restore
relations. Tensions between the two countries escalated after
militants on Aug. 18 opened fire near the border on cars and
buses close to the southern Israeli city of Eilat, killing eight
Israelis. At least three Egyptian police officers were also
killed.  Israeli officials have said the gunmen who killed the
Israelis came from the  Gaza Strip  and entered Israel from
Egypt’s  Sinai Peninsula . The area also has seen four bombings of
a pipeline that carries natural gas to Israel and Jordan.  Better Security  “One of the things that I strongly urged the field
marshal, as well as others, to do is to do everything possible
to try to provide better security in the Sinai,” Panetta said.
“If they feel the need for additional support in order to be
able to do the job there, we would be happy to work with them in
providing that assistance.”  The NATO meetings in Brussels will focus largely on the
status of the Libya operation and lessons learned from the joint
efforts.  The U.S. provided extensive assistance to fill gaps
European allies couldn’t address, such as refueling tankers and
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. The Pentagon also
sold allies supplies as basic as ammunition, highlighting the
shortfalls in preparedness among the allies.  The Pentagon also supplied drones to help with air strikes
and to monitor sensitive locations such as storage sites for
mustard agent and chemical weapons precursors. The alliance
agreed at its Lisbon summit in November for some members to
finance a joint purchase of five Global Hawk unmanned aerial
surveillance aircraft for future NATO use.  Panetta will encourage additional joint purchases and
pooling of resources since all alliance members face economic
crises and resulting defense budget cuts.  On  Afghanistan , an increase in Taliban activity in the
country’s north will be the subject of a special meeting during
the NATO sessions.  Germany ’s minister of defense will lead the
meeting of 18 countries working in regional command north which
are seeking ways to reverse that trend, the senior official
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  