-- 
Party Like It’s 1929, Toast Prohibition With Speakeasy Classics

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/party-like-it-s-1929-toast-prohibition-with-these-n-y-speakeasy-classics.html
Picture 2,000 cases of 1920 Chateau
 Haut-Brion  claret,  Ballantine’s  scotch and  Hine  cognac hidden
behind two-and-a-half-tons of brick door.  That was just part of the stash at  New York ’s ’21’ Club,
Manhattan’s most prominent Prohibition-era speakeasy still in
operation.  “As a child, it was a fun escapade to unlock the ‘magic
door,’” said Karen Kriendler Nelson, the niece of ‘21’ co-
founder Jack Kriendler and daughter of Robert Kriendler, who ran
the restaurant for 27 years. “We all knew how to jiggle the
hook and we knew what was behind the door.”  The restaurant -- insiders called it “The Numbers” -- was
too upscale for bathtub gin or white lightning. The basement
repository included Montrachet 1889, Romanee Conti 1880 and top-
shelf liquor for a proper Bronx cocktail -- still available
today for $15.  At the height of Prohibition, which lasted from 1920 to
1933,  New York City  had as many as 5,000 speakeasies, according
to Daniel Okrent’s book “ Last Call: The Rise and Fall of
Prohibition. ”  The Ken Burns documentary “ Prohibition ,” which concludes
tonight on PBS, details the no-booze era, which stymied cocktail
culture for seven decades.  Cocktail Renaissance  The legacy of the period can be found all over New York
today, from ubiquitous whiskey sours and daiquiris to old
establishments like  Julius’  bar and newer nightspots like
Angel’s Share, where the art of mixed drinks has been reborn.  Most Prohibition-era potables emphasized ingredients
intended to cover up the toxic taste of bad alcohol, said Eben
Freeman, director of bar operations for the  Altamarea Group .  “The first golden age of the cocktail ended with
Prohibition,” Freeman said. “Bartenders went to Cuba,  Europe 
and  Asia  to ply their trade.”  In most joints, the drinks were hardly drinkable, but who
cared?  “People just wanted to get high,” said Freeman. “They
downed white dog with coloring, bathtub gin with sweet mixers
and bitters to cover up poorly crafted alcohol.”  Old Town Bar on 18th Street and Park Avenue was a speakeasy
protected by Tammany Hall politicians. Co-owner Gerard Meagher
said the rotgut was concealed under the seat of one of the
booths that line the walls.  No White Lightning  These days, bartender Stewart Collins says they don’t sell
white whisky. “We don’t need that kind of trouble around
here,” he said.  This is not a cocktail bar. It’s a saloon where a beer and
a shot are the norm. That said, Collins concocts a serviceable
 Manhattan  for $8.50, even though he declines to make it with
premium  Woodford Reserve  bourbon. “That’s just a waste,” he
says.  Looking down the 55-foot long original mahogany bar, you’re
likely to see patrons who call Old Town their local, among them
fashion photographer Christian Di Lalla, a regular since 1994.  The bar reminds him of a Viennese watering hole during the
time of Gustav Klimt and  Egon Schiele . “It’s like walking into
a Picasso painting,” Di Lalla added, sipping straight gin on
the rocks.  Dating from 1892, the barroom has beautiful orange and
green tulip-shaped lamps, original tile floors and a tin ceiling
turned brown from decades of cigarette smoke.  Hunt for Hooch  A block south, Rye House picked up the current revivalist
trend of sophisticated cocktail mixing, offering an impressive
drinks menu with more than 175 kinds of alcohol. The bar is only
two years old but bespeaks another time with an atmosphere
that’s dark and loud and young.  The list concentrates on American brands and is heavy on
whiskey, like  Blanton’s , a Kentucky bourbon, that legally
produced  medicinal alcohol  throughout Prohibition, and  Templeton
Rye  from  Iowa , that produced illegally.  The spirits menu also includes legal moonshine. When asked
for a cocktail using it, the bartender made a variation of a
Brooklyn cocktail called “The Gentleman” for $17, made with
 Kings County  moonshine instead of rye, and a spoon of Demerara
sugar for flavor. (Recipe follows.)  A manager at Rye House, Choun Yeh, who cultivated a taste
for whiskey in the Navy, says double-pot distilling makes Kings
County smoother. When his clientele wants hooch they usually go
for the bite of  Buffalo Trace White Dog , neat for $9, which is
bottled at 120 proof.  Asked for a taste of another kind of white lightning, he
pulled down a bottle of  Catdaddy Carolina Moonshine , the bar’s
go-to freebie for good customers.  Catdaddy has a sweet licorice flavor but with a kick. Named
after a popular Prohibition-era term, their website says “only
the best moonshine earned the right to be called ‘the
catdaddy.’”  To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Smith  in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 