-- 
Paul Ryan’s Strong Antidote to Obama Health Care: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-10-04T00:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/paul-ryan-s-strong-antidote-to-obama-health-care-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Republicans say they want to “repeal
and replace” the health-care law President  Barack Obama  signed
last year, but they are a lot more specific about the first half
than the second. Representative  Paul Ryan  wants to bring some
balance to the slogan.  In a Sept. 27  speech  to the Hoover Institution at  Stanford
University , the Republican chairman of the House Budget
Committee supplied an Obamacare alternative of his own. Ryan has
the right diagnosis of what’s wrong with federal health-care
policy, and the right prescription, too. He just needs to adjust
the dosage.  Thanks in large part to Ryan’s efforts, congressional
Republicans have already embraced two of the ideas in his
speech. They want the federal government to give states a fixed
amount of money to run Medicaid, instead of paying for half of
whatever the states decide to cover for the poor. And they want
to replace Medicare with “premium support” for future senior
citizens, who would purchase private insurance using capped
federal subsidies.  But Republicans have had less to say about the uninsured,
or the majority of Americans who are eligible for neither
Medicaid nor Medicare. They have advocated tort reform and the
creation of an interstate market for the purchase of individual
insurance, both of which might make coverage a little bit more
affordable. But as Ryan acknowledges, that’s not enough.  Taxes Are Crucial  He believes that we should change the way the  tax code 
treats health insurance. Employer-provided coverage is not taxed
on par with wages, and thus the federal government encourages
companies to offer coverage rather than provide higher wages and
let employees buy coverage. The more expensive the coverage, the
more the tax break is worth. The fundamental flaw of Obamacare,
as Ryan sees it, is that it leaves the inflationary incentives
of current policy in place.  Under Ryan’s  proposal , the tax break would become a credit
available equally to those who get coverage from their employers
and those who buy it themselves. Anyone who wanted to buy
coverage that costs more than the credit would have to pay the
difference themselves. The expectation is that people would buy
less expensive coverage and more often pay for routine expenses
out-of-pocket. The new cost pressures thus created would,
together with competition, drive prices down.  Individuals would have more control because they would be
more likely to own their insurance policies rather than rely on
their employers. Over time, the problem of people who can’t get
insurance because of pre-existing conditions would diminish,
because people would have to change insurance less often. “This
is the 21st century,” Ryan tells me. “People do not have the
same jobs for their entire careers. The tax benefit should be
attached to the worker, not to the job.”  A ‘Risk-Taker’  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, made a similar
proposal during the 2008 campaign, and the Obama campaign
attacked it relentlessly as a new tax on employer-provided
coverage. (Within two years, Obama had enacted his own new tax
on employer-provided coverage as part of his health-care
overhaul.) The McCain experience does not faze Ryan. “He did a
very, very poor job of defending the idea,” he says. “This is
not taking away a tax benefit, it is improving a tax benefit for
people.” People making low incomes, he points out, would get a
larger tax benefit under his proposal than they do now.  Asked to explain his colleagues’ reluctance to embrace this
reform, Ryan says, “I think people are just politically risk
averse. As you know, I am just more of a policy risk-taker.”  It may be that voters, too, are more risk averse than Ryan.  Voter Fears  They have repeatedly demonstrated a preference for the
health-insurance arrangements they have today, faults included,
over politicians’ visions of some better system. That was one of
the major political obstacles to Obama’s health legislation --
and the reason he kept insisting that it would allow everyone
who liked their existing coverage to keep it.  It was also one of the pitfalls of the McCain plan. Liberal
health-policy experts pointed out, correctly, that if young and
healthy people could buy cheap individual policies with no tax
penalty, other employees would end up either paying more for
employer coverage or losing that coverage altogether. If Ryan’s
idea ever became subject to intense national debate, which it
would before becoming law, the fear that it would disrupt
people’s existing arrangements would come to the forefront.  This is not an insoluble problem, and indeed Ryan’s speech
hints at the answer. “We need to transition,” he said, to a more
“market-oriented” system. The transition should be handled
gradually. We could replace the current open-ended tax break
with a tax credit, as Ryan proposes. But for now, we could let
only those people who don’t have access to employer coverage use
their credit to buy insurance on their own.  A Credible Alternative  These reforms would restrain health-care inflation and put
a sizable dent in the problem of the uninsured -- without
raising fears of lost coverage. And they would enable the
individual market to develop before inviting most of the
population to join it.  Ryan’s colleagues have shied away from his reform because
they fear the voters’ fear -- especially because they already
think they took enough risks on Medicare. Modifying his plan may
be a prerequisite for getting Republicans on board as well as
the public.  That important caveat aside, however, Ryan is on the right
track. A credible conservative alternative to Obamacare has to
involve changing the tax code. And without a credible
alternative, Republicans won’t be able to repeal it, let alone
replace it.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 