-- 
PBS Venture to Show ‘Nova,’ ‘Frontline’ in U.K. Broadcast Debut on Nov. 1

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-04T11:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/pbs-venture-to-show-nova-frontline-in-u-k-broadcast-debut-on-nov-1.html
The Public Broadcasting Service, the
U.S. broadcaster of Britain’s “Downton Abbey,” will unveil its
U.K. venture on Nov. 1 with an episode of the “Nova” science
show, part of an effort to add earnings abroad.  PBS’s U.S.-made television programs, including documentary
series “Frontline” and “American Experience,” and content
from its archives will be available to U.K. customers on  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s Sky service, said Rebecca Edwards,
head of PBS’s marketing in the U.K. The company is still in
talks with Virgin Media about carrying the channel, she said.  PBS U.K. was formed as a partnership between the U.S. TV
network’s distribution business and David Lyons, head of energy
company Orca Exploration Group. Richard Kingsbury, a former
executive at satellite-channel operator UKTV who is general
manager of the venture, said he sees PBS’s U.K. channel as a
complement to the British Broadcasting Corp., catering
“intelligent” content from the U.S. to British audiences.  “The people that have the feeling that some shows have
been dumbed down a little bit,” Kingsbury said in an interview
in  London . “These are the people PBS will appeal to.”  The PBS lineup will heavily feature documentaries and
history programs, said Kingsbury, who previously ran the Good
Food and Yesterday channels for  UKTV , a venture of the  BBC  and
Scripps Networks Interactive Inc.  Spokesmen at the London-based BBC didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed message seeking comment.  Local Workforce  The U.K. branch of Alexandria, Virginia-based PBS will
operate much like BBC Worldwide, a profit-making enterprise
managed separately from the BBC’s main nonprofit, publicly
financed arm, that will ideally generate money for its parent,
Kingsbury said. The PBS U.K. office in East London has four
full-time employees and another dozen freelancers. That number
may grow as the channel’s distribution and viewers expand.  PBS U.K. initially won’t have some shows that have become a
hallmark of the channel in the U.S., such as the children’s
program “Sesame Street” that has been airing for more than
four decades, as it continues to secure rights to programs not
wholly owned by the parent company, Kingsbury said yesterday.  “Downton Abbey,” a drama set in early 20th century
 England  that won four awards at the Emmys last month, and
programs that require music rights may also not appear at first,
he said. London-based  ITV Plc (ITV) ’s terrestrial network already
broadcasts “Downton Abbey” to British audiences.  PBS U.K. may seek rights to broadcast programs not owned by
the U.S. parent, though it will primarily use what’s available
in the archives, Kingsbury said.  While PBS has sold programs to the U.K. through its
 distribution arm , which is also helping manage the new venture,
some channels have become more reluctant to use its content and
what does appear isn’t clearly branded as a PBS show, he said.  “A lot of networks don’t like to take programs from
others,” he said. “The BBC used to pick up quite a lot, but I
guess they’re under pressure not to acquire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  