-- 
Philippines Scales Down Plan to Offer Infrastructure Projects to Investors

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-10-05T05:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/philippines-may-offer-two-projects-this-quarter-canilao-says.html
The  Philippines  said it may offer at
least two projects to investors under the so-called public-
private partnership starting this quarter, scaling down from an
earlier plan for 10 proposals this year.  There are four projects worth 34.3 billion pesos ($777
million) in advanced stages of preparation, Cosette Canilao,
deputy executive director at the  Public-Private Partnership
Center , said in an interview in  Manila  yesterday. They include
two toll roads, a plan to build about 10,000 classrooms and a
proposal to manufacture vaccines such as influenza, diphtheria
and tetanus, she said.  “Planning these projects takes a great deal of time to
ensure their success,” Canilao said. “We want to create a
program that can become a legacy that would solve our nation’s
infrastructure needs.”  More than a year after announcing its infrastructure plans,
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino ’s administration has yet to
seek bids from investors for projects under the public-private
plan. The delay may undermine Aquino’s goal to bolster growth to
create jobs and cut poverty as the Southeast Asian nation
competes with the rest of the region for foreign capital to
develop roads, ports and utilities.  From 1970 to 2009, the Philippines lured less foreign
direct investments than its Southeast Asian neighbors, according
to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. It
attracted $32.3 billion, compared with $285.8 billion for
 Singapore  and $104.1 billion for  Thailand .  Rail, Airport Projects  The government may invite bids to extend railway lines and
operate airports after the first quarter of 2012, Transportation
and Communications Secretary Mar Roxas said in an interview this
week. These projects were earlier planned for 2011.  Holcim Philippines Inc. (HLCM) , the nation’s biggest cement-maker,
dropped 5.2 percent today, while Southeast Asia Cement Holdings
Inc. fell 1.4 percent.  “It’s becoming more disappointing already,” said Euben Paracuelles, a Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“Without new investments coming in, the pent-up investments we
saw earlier this year will start to weaken. Coupled with the
fiscal situation, investors will increasingly see this as a
worry as growth may suffer.”  Growth in the $200 billion economy slowed for a fourth
straight quarter to 3.4 percent in the three months through
June, compared with a 4.6 percent gain in the January-to-March
period. The government plans to narrow the  budget deficit  to 2.6
percent of gross domestic product, or about 286 billion pesos,
in 2012, from a target of 3 percent, or about 300 billion pesos,
this year.  Rating Upgrades  Aquino has won credit-rating upgrades for the Philippines
after increasing revenue and controlling spending.  Fitch Ratings 
raised the country’s debt to one step below investment grade in
June, the same month that Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the
Philippines to the highest rating since the start of 2005.  While the government has delayed offering projects to
investors, it is planning to bring forward some spending set for
2012 to this year to help boost the economy.  Government spending 
in the first eight months of 2011 fell 8.1 percent from a year
earlier.  The administration intends to increase expenditures by
accelerating existing projects and spending on additional
projects “allowed by the available fiscal space,” Budget
Secretary Butch Abad said in August.  The peso gained today, snapping four days of losses,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The local currency fell more
than 3 percent in September, its worst monthly loss since May
2010.  “We remain positive on the Philippine peso amidst the
recent government’s strategy to bring forward some of the 2012
infrastructure spending to boost second-half growth and the
resilient domestic spending engine in supporting the economic
growth,”  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  analysts led by Saktiandi Supaat,
head of foreign-exchange research in Singapore, said in a report
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  