-- 
Philippines to Increase Troops in South After Mine Attacks

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 
2011-10-04T09:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/philippines-to-increase-troops-in-south-after-mine-attacks-1-.html
The  Philippines  will increase troops
in the southern part of the country after at least 200 Maoist
rebels yesterday attacked several mines, including a nickel
project of Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.  As many as 600 soldiers will be deployed in Surigao del
Norte province to “augment forces and pursue” the attackers,
Armed Forces deputy chief of staff Brig. Gen. Jose Mabanta told
reporters today in Manila. As much as 2 billion pesos ($45.4
million) in equipment was destroyed, according to a police
statement.  The three attacks yesterday were “well planned and
‘‘motivated by money,’’ police Chief Superintendent Agrimero
Cruz said in a briefing in Manila. The communist National
Democratic Front claimed responsibility for the attacks in a
statement.  The Southeast Asian nation is betting on investments in
infrastructure and mining to help boost economic growth. The
government expects at least $1.4 billion in mining investments
this year and the amount may double after President  Benigno Aquino  won pledges during last month’s visit to  China , Mines and
Geosciences Bureau Director Leo Jasareno said on Sept. 13. That
compares to about $900 million in 2010.  Sumitomo’s $1.4 billion Taganito mine project is the
single-biggest investment in the Philippine  mining industry  and
employs about 6,000 people, the Chamber of Mines said.  Nickel Asia Corp. (NIKL)  will divert output from two other mines
to cover the shipments affected from Taganito, Chief Financial
Officer Emmanuel Samson said in an interview with ABS-CBN News
Channel. Nickel Asia, which is Sumitomo’s partner in the
Philippines and is also partly owned by the Japanese company,
saw shares fell as much as 12.9 percent before closing 2.6
percent lower at 16.82 pesos in Manila today.  The attack ‘‘undermines the  peace process  and makes it
difficult to pursue negotiations,” Aquino’s spokesman Edwin Lacierda said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Evans at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net  