-- 
Physics Nobel Won by Perlmutter, Schmidt, Riess for Universe’s Dark Energy

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t ,   A n d r e a   G e r l i n   a n d   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 
2011-10-04T19:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/physics-nobel-shared-by-perlmutter-schmidt-riess-for-studies-on-universe.html
Three scientists won the  Nobel Prize
in Physics  for discovering that the universe’s expansion is
accelerating, shattering their own expectations and raising
questions about the dark energy behind the surge.  Saul Perlmutter, 52, of the  University of California  at
Berkeley will get half of the 10 million-Swedish-kronor ($1.5
million) prize, while Brian P. Schmidt, 44, of the  Australian
National University  in Canberra and Adam G. Riess, 41, of  Johns
Hopkins University  in Baltimore will split the rest, the Royal
Swedish Academy of Sciences said today in  Stockholm .  Competing teams, one begun by Perlmutter in 1988, the other
by Schmidt six years later, set out to study the most distant
exploding stars, known as supernovae, according to the  academy .
They found that the universe’s expansion was accelerating,
confounding their expectations that the pull of gravity would
cause it to slow. Riess worked on Schmidt’s team.  “You get a lot of results in astronomy and physics that
are said to be groundbreaking, but this was one that really,
genuinely was,”  Steve Rawlings , a professor of astrophysics at
the University of Oxford in England, said in a telephone
interview today. “It’s a whole new component of the universe
that we just didn’t know about before.”  The acceleration led scientists to speculate about the
existence of a mysterious force called “dark energy” that is
pushing the universe apart, the academy said.  Cosmology Class  Schmidt, who was born in Missoula,  Montana , plans to teach
a cosmology class on the subject tomorrow, he said in comments
made by telephone from Canberra to the Nobel news conference.  “I feel weak at the knees,” said the researcher, who is a
U.S. and Australian citizen. “I guess it’s one of those things,
occasionally people mention it but you think it is probably
never going to happen.”  Perlmutter said the work shows that discoveries often come
from unexpected results.  “It was getting to the end of the century and we were
thinking this would be a great millennial project, to walk
around saying ‘the universe is coming to an end and we have
the data,’” he said today at a news conference at UC-Berkeley.  Instead, the opposite finding raises the question of why
the universe would have “this odd property,” Perlmutter, who
was born in Champaign-Urbana,  Illinois , said during a telephone
interview. “You might expect gravity would slow it down, but
it’s just expanding faster and faster.”  Not Ikea  Riess, who was born in  Washington  and grew up in  New
Jersey , won a so-called “genius grant” from the John D. and
Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation in 2008. He was half awake
when the call came from Stockholm because his 10-month-old son
had woken up.  “There was this Swedish sounding voice on the phone,”
said Riess. “I knew it wasn’t Ikea. I quickly realized the
magnitude of it.”  Last year’s physics prize went to Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov of the  University of Manchester  in  England  for
discovering graphene, a one-atom-thick “wonder material” that
may allow for speedier computers and folding touch screens.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The  Nobel Foundation  was established in 1900 and the
prizes were first handed out the following year. The first Nobel
in physics was awarded to Wilhelm Roentgen for his discovery of
X-rays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net ;
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  