-- Pub Manager Wins Battle Over English Premier League Soccer TV Broadcasts
-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 2012-02-24T16:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/premier-league-s-exclusive-broadcast-deals-breach-eu-rules-court-says.html
A U.K. court overturned the
conviction of a pub manager from Portsmouth who used a Greek
decoder card to show English Premier League soccer matches.  The ruling by a High Court judge in  London  in  Karen
Murphy ’s favor follows a similar decision by a European Union
court last year. The court ruling still gives the League the
right to prevent the unauthorized use of its copyrights by bars
and clubs, the League said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Premier League, home to some of  Europe ’s most
successful clubs including Manchester United and Liverpool,
started a three-year 1.8 billion-pound ($2.8 billion) U.K.
television contract in August 2010, and receives a further 1.4
billion pounds from the sale of international broadcast rights.  Murphy spent years fighting attempts to stop her from
showing live soccer at her Red White and Blue Pub without a
subscription to  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s Sky Sports.
She spent 800 pounds a year on a Greek decoder card to show
games rather than 700 pounds a month for a Sky package.  The  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled last year that
territorial licenses are “contrary” to competition law “if
the license agreements prohibit the supply of decoder cards to
television viewers who wish to watch the broadcasts.” While the
court said anyone can watch such broadcasts, pubs can’t show the
feeds via foreign decoder cards without the permission of the
copyright owner, such as the broadcasters and the league.  “Unauthorized use gives rise to both civil and criminal
penalties,” the League said in the statement. “Should Mrs.
Murphy, or any other publican, use European Economic Area
foreign satellite systems to show Premier League football on
their premises without our authority and outside the scope of
our authorization, they make themselves liable for us to take
action against them in both the civil and criminal courts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  