-- 
Putin Says Russian-Led Eurasian Bloc to Stem Global Imbalances

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-04T09:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/putin-says-russian-led-eurasian-bloc-to-stem-global-imbalances.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said an
emerging Russian-led economic bloc in the former Soviet Union,
the Eurasian Union, will help reduce global imbalances and fuel
integration across “Greater Europe.”  The common economic space being formed by Russia,
Kazakhstan and Belarus on Jan. 1 will unite 165 million
consumers, capable of becoming a global economic hub that links
Europe and  Asia , Putin wrote in an article published in the
 Izvestiya  newspaper today and distributed by his press office.  Other former Soviet states are encouraged to join the bloc,
said Putin, who dismissed Ukraine’s concerns that this will
hinder its efforts to join the European Union. The three nations
on July 1 formed a customs union and next year will take a
further step toward integration by merging into a single
economic space modeled on the EU.  Putin, 58,  announced  on Sept. 24 that he plans to return to
the Kremlin next May by swapping jobs with his successor,  Dmitry
Medvedev , potentially giving him another 12 years in power. The
Russian leader, a former officer in the KGB, has called the 1991
collapse of the Soviet Union the greatest geopolitical tragedy
of the 20th century.  ‘Indivisible Part’  The Eurasian grouping will become an “indivisible part of
the Greater Europe, founded on common values of freedom,
democracy and market principles,” Putin said.  “An economically sound and balanced partnership between
the Eurasian Union and EU can change the geopolitical and geo-
economic situation of the entire continent and have a positive
impact globally,” he wrote.  Putin today urged the member countries to target “tighter
coordination of economic and currency policies to create a full-
fledged economic union.”  “We have a great inheritance from the  Soviet Union  --
infrastructure, industrial specialization, a common language and
cultural and scientific space,” Putin wrote. “It’s in our
joint interests to use this resource for our development.”  Citizens will be free to live and work anywhere in the bloc
and businesses will be able to register and base themselves in
any of the three countries, he wrote. The union also will have a
unified visa and migration policy.  “It took the Europeans 40 years to get from the European
coal and steel community to the fully fledged European Union,”
said Putin. “The formation of the Unified Economic Space and
Customs Union is proceeding much more dynamically because it is
learning from the experience of the EU and other regional
organizations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  