-- 
Galleon’s Rajaratnam Says Prison Term Should Be No Longer Than Eight Years

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/rajaratnam-says-he-should-get-a-sentence-of-as-low-as-six-years.html
Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam,
claiming that prosecutors overstated how much he profited from
directing what they called the biggest hedge fund insider-
trading scheme in history, said he should get a prison term of
6 1/2 to 8 years.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 counts of
 securities fraud  and conspiracy. Prosecutors, who say he made
$72 million from his crimes, asked for a term ranging from 19
years and seven months to 24 1/2 years, citing federal
sentencing guidelines and the “historic nature of his crimes.”  At a hearing yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court, defense
lawyer Terence Lynam said the calculations by prosecutors were
wrong. Rajaratnam made only $7.4 million personally in
management fees and from Galleon trades, Lynam said. Prosecutors
rejected the defense position.  “The government has proved beyond a reasonable doubt that
he was a serial insider trader,” Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who will
preside over Rajaratnam’s sentencing Oct. 13.  Defense Lawyer  Lynam argued Rajaratnam didn’t deserve the enhanced
sentence sought by prosecutors, saying the government improperly
calculated Rajaratnam’s gains from trading on information from
insiders, as well as losses he avoided through the schemes.  “The vast majority of the profits we’re talking about were
never realized by Mr. Rajaratnam,” Lynam said, adding later,
“We don’t dispute that  insider trading  is a serious offense,
but the sentencing range overstates the seriousness of the
offense here.”  Prosecutors contended yesterday that the Galleon Group co-
founder deserved more time because he obstructed justice when he
lied under oath to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
in 2007.  The hedge  fund manager  also deserves a tougher sentence,
Brodsky said, because he was the leader of a conspiracy of five
or more people, and because the gains or losses from his insider
trading were greater than $50 million, prosecutors said.  ‘Ingratiate Themselves’  Lynam argued that Rajaratnam hadn’t corruptly influenced or
directed anyone in a scheme to commit insider trading, saying
yesterday that if  Anil Kumar , a former McKinsey & Co. partner,
and Rajiv Goel, a former managing director at  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
provided the fund manager with inside information, they’d done
so out of friendship.  “A lot of people just wanted to ingratiate themselves to
Mr. Rajaratnam,” Lynam said.  Brodsky said he would provide Holwell with a list of
individuals who knowingly or unknowingly engaged in insider-
trading conspiracies with Rajaratnam.  “Mr. Rajaratnam is a uniquely situated individual compared
with all the others,” Brodsky said. “He is an individual at
the top of a pyramid, the head of a hedge fund who’s
orchestrating and controlling interlocking insider-trading
schemes. And, by far and away, he’s the clear leader and
organizer.”  ‘1,000 Counts’  Samidh Guha, another defense lawyer, said the government
didn’t have enough evidence to charge Rajaratnam with
obstructing justice and is instead seeking a longer prison
sentence based on uncharged conduct.  Brodsky disputed the argument, saying prosecutors didn’t
charge Rajaratnam with “every crime he committed.”  “The government could’ve charged him with 100, 200, 400
maybe even 1,000 counts,” Brodsky said. “There are hundreds of
trades he made based on inside information.”  Holwell didn’t rule on the matter, saying he will issue his
decision on the day of sentencing.  In earlier court filings, Rajaratnam’s lawyers have called
the punishment the U.S. seeks “grotesquely severe”  and asked
for an unspecified sentence “substantially below” that.  At trial, a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agent testified
that Rajaratnam earned $63.8 million by using illegal tips to
trade in stocks of companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Intel Corp.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)   Two-Month Trial  During a two-month trial, jurors heard evidence that
Rajaratnam engaged in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside
information from corporate executives, bankers, consultants,
traders and directors of public companies.  Prosecutors said yesterday that additional prison time is
warranted. They asked Holwell to take into account that
Rajaratnam also earned an additional $8.2 million while trading
illegally in another Galleon fund which government witnesses
testified was under his control.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  