-- 
Raskin Says Mortgage Terms Work Against Borrowers, Banks

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-10-04T14:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/raskin-says-some-mortgage-terms-work-against-borrowers-banks.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the “shocking and enormous decline” in U.S. home
prices has revealed weaknesses in mortgage pooling and servicing
contracts that work against the interests of borrowers and
lenders.  “Servicers may not be properly motivated to perform loan
modifications even when such modifications are in the best
interests of borrowers and investors,” Raskin said in the text
of her remarks to  Maryland  State Bar Association in Columbia,
Maryland. “Can this contract be saved? I think the answer is no
-- at least not in its current form.”  A U.S. unemployment rate stuck at 9 percent or higher for
the past five months and falling house prices have tested the
solvency of mortgage holders. About 8.4 percent of all mortgages
were delinquent at the end of the second quarter, and 4.4
percent were in foreclosure, according to data from the  Mortgage
Bankers Association .  “An estimated 3 million families are not able to refinance
their mortgages at today’s historically low  interest rates 
because they are underwater on their mortgages,” Raskin said.
That calculation is based on a Fed Board staff estimate of the
number of borrowers with fixed-rate mortgages of 4.75 percent or
higher and a loan-to-value ratio of greater than 100 percent.  Loan Principal Reduction  Raskin said in the question-and-answer session that she is
starting to hear more discussion about the possibility of loan
principal reduction as a solution to foreclosures. The problem
of rewarding borrowers who can’t pay versus those who are
current on their mortgage balances, is still “hanging over”
the concept, she said.  “I see people beginning to talk about principal reduction
again whereas it had waned in influence,” she said.  Raskin said loan pooling and servicing agreements, or PSAs,
in their current form have a number of misaligned incentives.  Servicer compensation is not tied to the performance of the
loan, and in most cases, she said, servicers receive no extra
payment for preventing default. Servicers are not reimbursed for
the labor-intensive costs of loan modification. The service
agreements do provide reimbursement for some foreclosure
expenses.  ‘Loss Mitigation’  “It is imperative to reconsider the compensation structure
so that servicers have adequate incentives to perform payment
processing efficiently on performing mortgages, and to perform
effective loss mitigation on delinquent loans,” Raskin said.
“After the compensation structure is reconsidered, the PSAs
need to be amended or renegotiated in order to facilitate more
workouts.”  Pooling and servicing agreements should also clarify “the
situations in which loan modifications and other mitigation
strategies should be pursued,” she said.  Residential investment contributed 0.09 percentage point to
the economy’s 1.3 percent annual rate of growth in the second
quarter, and subtracted 0.06 percentage point from growth of 0.4
percent in the first three months, according to the U.S.
Commerce Department.  Home prices  in the U.S. fell 4.1 percent
for the year ended July, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values in 20 cities.  Fuel Growth  Fed officials continue to look for ways to fuel economic
growth and boost employment. They have held the benchmark
federal funds rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  U.S. central bankers decided last month to extend the
maturity of the Fed’s bond portfolio by selling short-term
securities and purchasing  Treasury securities  with maturities of
six to 30 years. The Fed also plans to reinvest principal
payments from maturing mortgage-backed securities and agency
debt back into mortgage-backed securities. Fed officials are
next scheduled to meet Nov. 1-2.  Raskin completes her first year at the Board of Governors
today. Prior to her appointment to the Fed by President  Barack Obama , Raskin was Maryland’s Commissioner of Financial
Regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Homan in Columbia, Maryland at 
 thoman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  