-- 
Stevens Rate-Cut Signal Sends Yield Gap to 20-Month Low: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-10-05T02:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/rate-signal-sends-yield-gap-to-20-month-low-australia-credit.html
Australian bond yields tumbled to the
lowest level in 20 months relative to U.S. Treasuries after
central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  indicated he’s willing to
cut the developed world’s highest benchmark interest rate.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the nation’s two-
year securities instead of Treasuries fell to 3.21 percent
yesterday, the least since Feb. 3, 2010, from as much as 4.58
percent on Jan. 3. Cash-rate futures showed traders wagering on
an 78 percent chance the benchmark will be cut to 4.25 percent
from 4.75 percent by November.  Stevens, who held rates yesterday for an 11th straight
month, signaled slowing inflation may give him scope to lower
borrowing costs. Such a move would follow cuts by nations from
 Brazil  to  Israel  to counter slowdowns in  Europe  and the U.S. In
 Australia , business and consumer confidence have weakened in
recent months and the nation’s unemployment climbed to a 10-
month high in August.  “You have shorter-maturity bond yields now being driven by
an RBA that’s opening up the possibility of a response to slower
growth,” said  Tony Morriss , head of interest-rates research in
Sydney at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “I don’t
really see the catalyst for yields to rise too far when you’re
looking at the RBA possibly easing as early as next month.”  Australia’s currency fell to the lowest level since
September 2010 yesterday against its U.S. counterpart after
Stevens said “an improved inflation outlook would increase the
scope for monetary policy to provide some support to demand,
should that prove necessary.”  Weaker Dollar  The local dollar has dropped 14 percent from its record-
high $1.1081 reached July 27 as speculation mounts that  Greece 
will default and spur a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. After the
RBA decision yesterday, the currency fell as low as 93.88 U.S.
cents and traded at 95.19 at 12:41 p.m. in Sydney today.  The central bank noted the currency’s decline in
yesterday’s statement and a broader “easing” in financial
conditions in the economy.  “While there remain good reasons to expect solid growth
over the medium term, the indications are that the pace of near-
term growth is unlikely to be as strong as earlier expected, due
both to local and global factors, including the financial
turmoil and related effects on business confidence,” Stevens
said in the statement.  Accessing Funds  The spread between the interest Australian banks pay when
borrowing from each other for three months and swaps tracking
expectations for the RBA’s benchmark was little changed at 37
basis points after yesterday falling 14 basis points. The gap,
which is a gauge of banks’ difficulty in accessing funds, closed
at 61 basis points on Aug. 8, the highest since January 2009.  Australia’s two-year bond yield pared a 13 basis point, or
0.13 percentage point, decline yesterday and rose 2 basis points
to 3.49 percent today. The 10-year rate rose 4 basis points to
4.04 percent, or 222 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries.  The extra yield investors demand over  government securities 
to hold Australian corporate debt surged 64 basis points last
quarter to 241 basis points, as global premiums jumped 101 to
264, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The spread on
the Australian index held at 241 on Oct. 4, the highest since
September 2009.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 1 basis point to 239
as of 11:36 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking Corp.
The benchmark is headed for its first decline since Sept. 27,
CMA prices in New York show.  Rising Unemployment  Monthly employment growth in Australia averaged 2,800 from
January through August, less than a 10th of the average of
30,500 in the first eight months of 2010. The nation’s
unemployment rate in August rose for a second straight month,
reaching 5.3 percent, the highest level since October 2010.  Stevens said the labor market is “a little softer” and
consumers are “more concerned about the possibility of
unemployment rising.” A weaker job market reduces the
likelihood of a “significant acceleration” in labor costs, the
RBA governor said.  Consumer prices will rise at a 2.37 percent annual pace
over the next five years, yields on inflation-linked debt showed
yesterday.  “The path for inflation may now be more consistent with
the 2 percent to 3 percent target in 2012 and 2013,” Stevens
said yesterday. “The  exchange rate  has also declined from the
very high levels of a few months ago.”  Rate Outlook  Investors predict at least 1.5 percentage points of rate
reductions over the next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG index based on swaps trading.  “November is definitely a live meeting and the outcome
will very much be determined by conditions in the market and how
the data pans out,” said Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia
rates strategy at Credit Suisse in  Singapore .  The  Australian Bureau of Statistics  is scheduled to release
a report on September employment figures on Oct. 13 and third-
quarter data on consumer prices Oct. 26. The RBA next meets Nov.
1.  Retail sales advanced more than economists forecast in
August for a second straight month as consumers spent more on
household goods and dining out, a report today showed.  Mining Industry   While unemployment has risen and confidence fallen in
Australia, government reports yesterday underscored the strength
of the nation’s mining industry.  Australia’s exports surged in August to a record A$28.4
billion ($27 billion) on coal shipments, and the nation’s A$3.1
billion trade surplus was the second-widest on record.  The RBA, which last raised rates in November, has balanced
inflation driven by resources investment and a stronger currency
that’s hurt manufacturing jobs and damaged confidence.  “It’s pretty clear at this stage that the RBA is less
interested in what happens at home and more interested in what
happens abroad,” said  Robert Ryan , a currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in Singapore. “The focus is much more on Europe,
financial market volatility and the possible spillover into
confidence in Australia.”  Stevens reduced rates from 7.25 percent to a 49-year low of
3 percent from September 2008 to April 2009 as the collapse of
Lehman sparked a global financial crisis.  The RBA boosted its rate seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010, tempering a rise in  consumer debt , which more
than tripled in the past 20 years to 153.7 percent of disposable
income in the second quarter.  “The RBA does not tend to fine-tune,” said Paul Bloxham,
chief economist for  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Sydney and a former
central bank official. “We think the RBA is still very keen not
to have to cut rates, if it can avoid it, given the medium-term
outlook for the mining investment boom, the very high terms of
trade and the limited supply capacity of the economy.”  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said after yesterday’s decision that
global instability, cautious consumers and the still high dollar
are putting “sustained pressure” on parts of Australia’s
economy. The RBA confirmed “it has room to move if the global
situation further deteriorates,” Swan said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  