-- 
Australian Lawmakers Call for Probe of Central Bank Cover-Up Allegations

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-05T05:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/rba-denies-allegation-of-note-printing-unit-corruption-cover-up.html
Australian lawmakers called on the
government to investigate claims senior central bank officials
suppressed evidence of corruption at the bank’s note-printing
units that sought contracts in Nepal and  Malaysia .  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  should establish a probe, Greens Party
member of parliament  Adam Bandt , whose vote the government
relies on to pass legislation, said in a statement today. The
deputy leader of the opposition,  Julie Bishop , told ABC radio
the government should hold a comprehensive investigation.  The allegations may increase scrutiny of the  Reserve Bank
of Australia  after Swan said last month it will lose its sole
power to set compensation for its board and executives for the
first time. The  Sydney Morning Herald  reported today that RBA
officials in 2007 and 2008 covered up information about secret
payments to middlemen hired by RBA banknote-printing
subsidiaries, a charge the central bank denies.  “The  Reserve Bank  is meant to be independent of the
government but it has a whiff of scandal around it,” said Anil
Hargovan, an associate professor specializing in corporate law
and governance at the Australian School of Business in Sydney,
part of the University of New South Wales. “It could become an
inflammatory political issue.”  ‘Serious Allegations’  Deputy Governor Ric Battellino was among those aware of the
corruption concerns, the newspaper said, citing internal
documents at the RBA and the printing units, Securency
International Pty and Note Printing Australia Ltd. Battellino
didn’t respond to a request for comment today made through the
RBA’s press office.  Swan “can no longer stand to one side,” Bandt said in his
statement. “He must immediately establish an inquiry to get to
the bottom of these serious allegations.”  “The bank categorically denies the allegations, which are
based on inaccurate and incomplete facts,” the RBA’s press
office said. “We do not seek to address the specific detail of
your allegations since these matters are, or are potentially,
the subject of court proceedings.”  Australian police said on July 1 they charged the two note-
printing units and six people, including former managers, with
paying bribes in Malaysia, Indonesia and  Vietnam  between 1999
and 2005. The Greens Party the next month demanded a
parliamentary inquiry into the allegations.  Pending Case  The Australian Federal Police declined to comment today,
saying that the investigation is continuing. A spokesman in the
Treasurer’s office said the government won’t comment while
authorities are investigating and court cases proceeding.  The Sydney Morning Herald said the documents in its
investigation challenge a statement from RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  in February that no one at the central bank knew of the
corruption allegations before they were revealed in May 2009.
There’s no suggestion that Stevens himself knew of the
allegations, the newspaper said.  Securency is half-owned by the RBA, while Note Printing
 Australia  is fully owned by the central bank. After the charges
were presented in July,  Stevens said  “the Reserve Bank condemns
in the strongest terms corrupt or questionable behavior of any
kind.” No one at the RBA has been charged, the Sydney Morning
Herald reported.  Brandt said in today’s statement that he would also request
that RBA officials comment before the House Economics Committee
on how the fresh allegations “sit with their previous
evidence.”  The central bank has already endured criticism of its pay
practices and relative lack of women on its board this year.
Swan stripped the RBA of autonomy to set compensation for its
board and executives after the treasurer wasn’t told until
almost a year after the central bank chief got a A$234,000
($223,000) raise in October 2008.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said in an interview last
month that the lack of women on the RBA’S board, which has had
only three in half a century of existence, “is reflective of a
problem we have with corporate boards around Australia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  