-- 
Property, Construction Bankruptcies Increasing in England, Deloitte Says

-- B y   R o s s   L a r s e n
-- 
2011-10-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/real-estate-bankruptcies-rise-in-england-deloitte-report-says.html
The number of real-estate and
construction companies seeking bankruptcy in England and  Wales 
rose by 11 percent in the third quarter as budget cuts and
economic uncertainty led to canceled projects, Deloitte LLP
said.  A total of 117 property companies and builders went into
administration in the period, up from 105 a year earlier,
Deloitte said today in a research report. The industries are
unlikely to improve in the next quarter and medium-sized firms
will be hurt more than larger contractors, the U.K. affiliate of
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  said.  “Rising energy prices and significant cuts to public and
private sector building projects have brought a large amount of
planned projects to a grinding halt,” Nigel Shilton, real-
estate industry partner for Deloitte, said in the statement.
“The next quarter is not going to bring any relief from the
pressures.”  The U.K.’s recovery is faltering as global growth slows,
 Europe ’s debt crisis crimps confidence and the government
carries out the biggest budget cuts since World War II. A
squeeze on household incomes from faster-than-targeted inflation
and rising unemployment are eroding  consumer confidence  and
undermining the housing market.  While mortgage approvals in August reached the highest
level since 2009, the housing market remains “subdued” as
tougher lending standards “locked thousands of first-time
buyers out of the market,” Shilton said.  U.K. construction output almost stagnated in September as
the level of new business fell for the first time since February
2010. A gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers dropped to 50.1 from 52.6 in August, Markit
and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  in  London 
said in a report yesterday. A measure above 50 indicates
expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ross Larsen in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  