-- 
REE 2012 Profit May Rise 15% on Vietnam Power, Property Push

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-05T10:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/ree-2012-profit-may-rise-15-on-vietnam-power-real-estate-push.html
Refrigeration Electrical Engineering
Corp. (REE) , the Vietnamese maker of Reetech air-conditioners, expects
profit and sales to rise 15 percent next year as it invests in
hydropower and real estate to pare its reliance on
manufacturing.  “Our portfolio, both now and in the near future, is
looking good,” General Director Nguyen Thi Mai Thanh said in an
interview in Hanoi yesterday. The Ho Chi Minh City-based company
has stakes in Thac Ba Hydropower Joint-Stock Co. and Thac Mo
Hydropower Plant Joint-Stock Co., as well as investments in
banking and real estate.  The company also expects to rebound from less-than-forecast
first-half earnings to meet its 600 billion dong ($29 million)
target for pretax profit this year as falling interest rates
boosts earnings at affiliates.  Vietnam ’s economy expanded 6.1
percent in the third quarter, quickening from a 5.7 percent
growth in the preceding three months.  “We’re hoping investment income will speed up in the third
and fourth quarters,” Thanh said. REE’s affiliates are on
course to meet full-year targets and the company will also
complete some investments in final months of the year, she said,
without elaboration.  REE rose 1.8 percent to 11,300 dong in  Ho Chi Minh City 
today, the biggest jump since Sept. 22. The company has fallen
36 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent decline for the
benchmark VN Index.  The company expects to achieve its 200 billion dong full-
year pretax target for investments, Thanh said. Earnings at the
company’s mechanical and electrical engineering operations and
its real-estate leasing unit met or surpassed expectations in
the first six months, she said.  Company-wide pretax profit was 211.6 billion dong in the
first half, according to a  financial report  on REE’s website.
For the whole of 2010, the company made a pretax profit of 467.8
billion dong, according to its  annual report .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  