-- 
Repsol Said to Ask Spanish Market Regulator to Investigate Share Trading

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-05T08:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/repsol-said-to-ask-spain-market-regulator-to-probe-share-trading.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  asked  Spain ’s stock
market regulator to investigate trading in the petroleum
company’s shares over the last two months, according to a person
familiar with the situation.  Spain’s biggest oil driller asked for a probe of “abnormal
or unusual movements” in its shares in August and September, the
person said, citing a letter from Repsol’s audit committee dated
Oct. 3. It argues that volumes were higher than usual as were
the number of Repsol shares being lent, said the person, who
declined to be identified as the letter isn’t public.  Repsol Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antonio Brufau
is seeking ways to stall shareholders Petroleos Mexicanos and
 Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , who agreed Aug. 29 to pool their votes
and push for Repsol to appoint a separate CEO. He began
proceedings last week to have the two investors’ representatives
thrown off the oil company’s board.  Shares in Repsol rose 44 cents, or 2.3 percent, to 19.62
euros in  Madrid  as of 10:52 a.m., in line with the 2.4 percent
gain in the Stoxx 600 Oil & Gas Index. Sacyr climbed 0.5 percent
to 4.07 euros as Spain’s IBEX 35 benchmark advanced 1.5 percent.  Pemex said in a Sept. 2 filing it had added 4.6 percent of
Repsol shares to its stake, bringing the combined holdings of
the two partners to almost 30 percent.  A spokeswoman for the regulator, the National Securities
Market Commission, said the agency received a letter from Repsol
yesterday asking it to look into share movements. She asked not
to be named, in line with official practice. A spokeswoman for
Sacyr declined to comment. A Pemex press official, who wouldn’t
be named citing internal policy, said the company had no
comment.  Dividend Payments  Sacyr Chairman Luis Del Rivero, who also serves as vice
chairman of Repsol, is racing to meet a December deadline with
his lenders to refinance a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) loan
he used to buy 20 percent of Repsol in 2006.  Del Rivero has been pressing Brufau to increase Repsol’s
dividend payments since at least December 2009 as the global
recession damped profit in its construction business. He was
forced to put up more collateral against the loan in 2008 after
Repsol shares fell.  Brufau instead has devoted Repsol’s resources to searching
for more oil and has added the equivalent of about 2 million
barrels of crude in the past five years. The company is also
spending 5.3 billion euros to increase the efficiency of its
Spanish refineries.  Request Denied  Spain’s energy regulator last week rejected a separate
request from Repsol to intervene in the struggle. The  oil
company  had said Pemex should need permission for its stake
under rules governing foreign investment in Spain.  For Pemex, the benefits of a closer cooperation with Repsol
will be worth $4.27 billion, the Mexico City-based company said
in a Sept. 21 filing with Spanish regulators. Increasing its
stake will help Pemex take on “highly complex” projects and
deep-water drilling, the company said.  Repsol has raised its capacity for offshore drilling
developing fields such as Guara in the ocean off  Brazil  under
Brufau’s plan to boost oil production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  