-- 
RIM Gains on Speculation It May Explore Strategic Options

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-04T20:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/research-in-motion-surges-for-the-second-time-in-a-week.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the
BlackBerry smartphone, climbed amid speculation the company may
have hired an investment bank to explore strategic options.  “It’s looking less and less likely that they can make the
turnaround on their own,” said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst at
Morgan Keegan Inc. in Nashville,  Tennessee , who rates RIM
“market perform.” “So whether they’re hiring an investment
bank to help defend themselves against activists or outright
sell themselves or explore alternatives, those are the kinds of
stories that make sense to investors.”  RIM has plunged 64 percent this year as the company lost
ground to Apple and handset makers that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system. The Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry
maker’s share of the global smartphone market fell to 12 percent
in the second quarter from 19 percent a year earlier, according
to Gartner Inc.  RIM rose 50 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $21 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock had earlier
gained as much as 9.7 percent before paring those gains after
Apple announced a new version of its iPhone.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  unveiled its iPhone
4S, with a chip seven times faster than the current model. Cook
said that 92 percent of Fortune 500 companies are using or
testing Apple’s iPad, which outshipped RIM’s BlackBerry PlayBook
tablet computer 46 to 1 last quarter. Ninety-three percent of
those companies are testing the iPhone, he also said.  New QNX Phone  Last week, RIM climbed on speculation that billionaire  Carl Icahn  may take a stake in the company. Icahn, a veteran
corporate raider, had pushed for a board seat at handset maker
Motorola Inc. and pressured the company to split in two, which
it did in January. In August, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
the business that makes mobile phones, agreed to sell itself to
Google for $12.5 billion.  RIM spokeswoman Tenille Kennedy declined to comment.  Co-chief Executive Officers  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie  said last month a sales recovery is imminent, citing
the “excellent reception” that a new range of BlackBerry 7
phones have received. The company is also counting on a new
phone in 2012 based on its QNX operating system winning over
more customers than the PlayBook.  RIM shipped 200,000 of the QNX-based PlayBooks last
quarter, down from 500,000 in the previous period when they
first went on sale. That bodes badly for RIM’s turnaround and
means RIM is destined at some point to recruit a bank to
consider strategic changes, said Mike Genovese, an analyst at
MKM Partners.  “They’ve already weakened QNX by putting out a PlayBook
that nobody wanted,” said Genovese, who rates RIM “neutral.”
“If they haven’t done it yet, they will eventually hire
investment bankers to explore alternatives as there’s a certain
inevitability to this story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  