-- 
Tribune Wins Approval to Pay Up to $42.5 Million in Bonuses to Managers

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-04T15:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/tribune-wins-approval-to-pay-up-to-42-5-million-in-bonuses-to-managers.html
Tribune Co. won court approval to pay
as much as $42.5 million in incentive bonuses to 640 managers of
the bankrupt newspaper publisher.  The recipients, who include television-station managers and
newspaper executives, will split a bonus pool that will be based
on Tribune’s operating cash flow at the end of the year. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey approved the bonuses today in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  The bonuses are “critically important to maintain proper
incentives for the management team,” Tribune said in a court
filing dated Aug. 30.  Tribune expects to end the year with $517 million in cash,
 Brian J. Gold , a company attorney, said in court. That means
executives would split from $26.4 million to $32.4 million,
according to the plan. They would split $42.5 million should
Tribune reach $700 million in operating cash flow.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in 2008, one year after
billionaire  Sam Zell  led a buyout that added more than
$8 billion in debt onto the Chicago-based company.  Two groups of  hedge funds  are waiting for Carey to pick one
of two competing plans to reorganize the company so it can leave
bankruptcy.  The main dispute over which plan to approve involves the
way to resolve allegations that the 2007 buyout was a fraud on
creditors. Noteholders, led by hedge fund Aurelius Capital
Management LP, want to sue lenders that funded the buyout.  Tribune backs a plan that would settle the main lawsuits
against the lenders, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and allow
claims against Zell to go forward. Tribune’s plan is backed by
JPMorgan, Oaktree Capital Management LP and Angelo Gordon & Co.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 