-- 
Roberto Alagna Blasts From Test Tube to Paris Triumph: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-10-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/roberto-alagna-blasts-from-test-tube-to-paris-triumph-jorg-von-uthmann.html
The child murderess drags a
guillotine onto the stage, hops on, the blade whizzes down, and
her head rolls onto the floor only to be picked up by a pious
procession pleased to have found a new relic.  Thus ends the strangest production of “Faust” that I’ve
ever seen.  Gounod’s 1859 opera was supposed to be a highlight of the
Paris fall season, not least because it has Roberto Alagna in
the title role. Instead, the production is almost done in by the
bizarre ideas of the director (Jean-Louis Martinoty) and the set
designer (Johan Engels).  Things started to go wrong before the premiere. A week
before opening night, conductor Alain Lombard threw in the
towel, claiming that he couldn’t get along with a star who was
late for rehearsals and took liberties with the music.  Alagna countered by accusing the 71-year-old conductor of
being not up to the job due to ill health.  Insiders suspect that the tenor favored Lombard’s young
colleague Alain Altinoglu with whom he had already sung the role
in Vienna. Altinoglu took over on short notice.  Then the unions stepped in. Whenever a special event comes
up, Paris stagehands come down with strike fever. The premiere
had to be performed without the sets, which, in retrospect,
proved to be a blessing.  Circular Library  The first scene, Faust’s study, looks wonderful. It’s a
circular library with spiral staircases not unlike the much-
lamented reading room of the  Bibliotheque Nationale .  While Faust is mimed by an actor, Alagna sings his lines
hidden in a giant test tube from which he emerges rejuvenated
after the old man has signed his agreement with the devil.  From there, things go downhill.  The library, with slightly altered details, remains the
backdrop for everything that follows -- the fair with the
townspeople, Marguerite’s garden and bedroom, the church, the
Walpurgis Night in the Harz Mountains and finally the prison.  Although the costumes (Yan Tax) are on the traditional
side, you need a lot of imagination to empathize with the
characters. Most scenes are depressingly unpoetic; some border
on the grotesque.  The director himself often seems lost in the clutter. The
singers appear and disappear for no particular reason or
aimlessly climb up and down the staircases.  Whenever an original idea pops up, it tends to be of
dubious taste. When Faust raves about regaining the sexual power
of youth, Mephistopheles rams a cane between his legs. After the
night of love, a red stain in Marguerite’s underwear reveals
what happened.  Faust’s Ravings  In the program, Martinoty wonders whether Faust really
abandoned his plan to kill himself and suggests that his
adventures were, in fact, the hallucinations of a dying man.  Death appears in various guises: When Faust admires
Marguerite’s “demeure chaste et pure,” a white-faced fiddler
crawls out from underneath her bed.  Presenting the plot as a fantasy of one of the characters
has been a directorial fad for quite some time. Occasionally,
the trick works, as it did in Harry Kupfer’s sensational
 Bayreuth  “Flying Dutchman.” In most cases, it doesn’t.  The musical side is better. Alagna, more heroic than
lyrical, is in splendid voice and fearlessly attacks his top
notes. Inva Mula’s Marguerite produces lovely sounds; only in
her upper register does a drop of vinegar seep in.  Paul Gay is an elegant Mephistopheles, more baritone than
bass. His low notes are virtually inaudible. Tassis
Christoyannis is a sturdy Valentin, Angelique Noldus a charming
Siebel.  Altinoglu, though he offers no special insights, does allow
the orchestra to shine in the woodwind passages. The ballet
music is cut.  Incidentally, Susanna Margaretha Brandt, the waitress from
 Frankfurt  and real-life model for Gounod’s heroine, was executed
with an axe, not guillotined. “Accompanied by encouraging
shouts from the clergy,” says the official record, “her head
was happily chopped off with a single blow.” Rating: **.  “Faust” is in repertory at the Opera Bastille through
Oct. 25. Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr  or +33-1-7125-
2524.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 