-- 
Russian Inflation Rate Declines to Lowest in Year on Food Costs

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-10-04T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/russian-inflation-rate-declines-to-lowest-in-year-on-food-costs.html
Russia’s inflation rate fell to the
lowest level in a year in September as food-price growth
weakened and higher borrowing costs took hold.  Consumer prices rose 7.2 percent from a year earlier, in
line with the median estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, after an 8.2 percent increase a month earlier, the
Federal Statistics Service said in an e-mailed statement today.
Prices were unchanged from August. Economists predicted a
monthly decline of 0.1 percent.  Inflation has slowed from 9.6 percent in May, equaling its
highest in 18 months. A further easing in prices would help
policy makers meet this year’s 7 percent inflation target, the
slowest since the collapse of the  Soviet Union  in 1991. Bank
Rossii said yesterday it aims to slow price gains to 4 percent
to 5 percent in 2014.  “We expect inflation to be contained to 6.7 percent this
year thanks to the good harvest and deflationary effects seen
this summer,” Maria Pomelnikova, an analyst at Raiffeisenbank
in Moscow, said yesterday by phone. “The slowdown in inflation
was helped by tighter monetary policy, including a tightening of
the interest-rate corridor.”  The central bank last month raised the deposit rate, which
it uses to absorb rubles from the banking system, while lowering
the repurchase rate that lenders use to borrow extra cash. The
move “helps limit volatility of money market interest rates as
risks arise of ruble-liquidity shortfalls in the banking
system,” the regulator said Sept. 14.  Rate Increases  Policy makers raised the overnight auction-based deposit
rate five times since December to 3.75 percent from 2.5 percent.
The repurchase rate was raised twice, from 5 percent to 5.5
percent, before being reduced by a quarter-point last month.
That narrowed the so-called interest-rate corridor in which
market rates tend to fluctuate to 1.5 percentage points from 2.5
percentage points. The benchmark refinancing rate remained at
8.25 percent.  Food prices shrank 0.6 percent last month from August, the
statistics service said.  Slower inflation has boosted  consumer spending  this year as
real wages rise. Food retailers such as X5 Retail Group and OAO
Magnit and manufacturers including OAO AvtoVAZ, the country’s
largest carmaker, have benefited from a surge in domestic
demand.  This year’s grain harvest may reach 93 million metric tons,
53 percent more than a year ago, when drought cut the crop to
60.9 million tons, Arkady Zlochevsky, president of the Russian
Grain Union, told reporters yesterday in Moscow. About 25
million tons of grain may be exported, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  