-- 
Russia Seeks U.S. Ties, Won’t Skip ‘Reset,’ Shuvalov Says

-- B y   B l a i r   E u t e n e u e r
-- 
2011-10-04T19:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/russia-seeks-more-u-s-ties-won-t-skip-reset-shuvalov-says.html
Russian First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov  said his country seeks stronger ties with the U.S.
and won’t forget the “reset” in relations between Moscow and
 Washington .  Shuvalov, in a speech today in Chicago, said that the U.S.
and European economic slowdown is challenging his country, while
the major issue it faces is a dependence on commodity exports.  “We will not forget about reset,” Shuvalov said in a
question-and-answer session after the speech. “We need to
provide a deeper relationship and strengthen it.”  Shuvalov said he delivered that message from Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  to U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  in a meeting
yesterday in Washington, eight days after a Russian economic
leadership shakeup. Biden in February 2009 announced plans to
“reset” relations with  Russia  after several years of
occasionally strained ties.  “The slowdown in the economy which is so evident in both
the  United States  and  Europe  is challenging the abilities of
Russia,” Shuvalov told the annual U.S.-Russia Business Council
meeting in Chicago. “The biggest problem we face is our
dependence on international markets and most of all commodities
exports.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev  dismissed Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin on Sept. 26 after Kudrin publicly criticized 2.1 trillion
rubles ($64 billion) in additional defense spending through
2014. Anton Siluanov, Kudrin’s deputy for overseeing inter-
budgetary relations, was named acting finance minister. Shuvalov
is set to take over the responsibilities Kudrin had as the
deputy prime minister in charge of the economy.  Putin’s Plans  Putin, 58, announced on Sept. 24 that he plans to return to
the Kremlin next May by swapping jobs with his successor,
Medvedev, potentially giving him another 12 years in power. The
Russian leader, a former officer in the KGB, has called the 1991
collapse of the  Soviet Union  the greatest geopolitical tragedy
of the 20th century.  Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian private-equity unit
being set up by Medvedev, said the switch with Putin “will
provide stability and an opportunity for further growth,”
according to what he has heard from investors.  “The stronger business ties we have with the U.S., the
better the business climate in Russia will be. It’s a
relationship based on interdependence and mutual ties,”
Dmitriev, chief executive officer of the Russian Direct
Investment Fund, said in a telephone interview today.  ‘Lasting Stagnation’  Russian manufacturers face “lasting stagnation” as
external demand weakens, HSBC Holdings Plc said yesterday, while
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its global growth forecasts and
predicted recessions in Germany and  France . The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities sank to a 10-month low.  “Another global financial crisis is not inevitable, but
cannot be ruled out,” Shuvalov said today. “Today, Russia is
much better equipped to deal with crisis than in 2008.”  He said he expects a growth rate of about 4 percent this
year or “maybe better.” The  International Monetary Fund  said
Sept. 27 it expects gross domestic product to increase 4.3
percent in 2011.  Russian stocks retreated the most in more than a week on
concern that a worsening European debt crisis will hurt
manufacturers and erode demand for commodities, the country’s
chief export.  Rosneft  OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer, and OAO
Sberbank, the largest lender, sank more than 4 percent. OAO
Raspadskaya tumbled the most in two months after Kommersant
reported the Russian coal producer may miss its output target.
The 30-stock Micex Index retreated 4.4 percent to 1,286.1 at
4:47 p.m. in Moscow, the biggest decline since Sept. 23 on a
closing basis. The dollar-denominated RTS sank 4.2 percent to
1,237.29.  Shuvalov said today that Russia is “closer” to the goal
of joining the  World Trade Organization .  “We unfortunately have a few minor things, which don’t
relate to our operation with the Americans, but it involved a
third party. I don’t want to discuss it publicly,” Shuvalov
said in the question-and-answer session.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blair Euteneuer in  Chicago  at 
 beuteneuer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  