-- 
Russia Defends Top Mideast Ally in Veto of UN Vote on Syria

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T08:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/russia-defends-top-mideast-ally-in-opposing-un-vote-on-syria.html
Russia, which sells weapons to  Syria 
and maintains a naval base there, joined  China  in vetoing a
European-drafted United Nations resolution that sought to stop
the Syrian regime’s deadly seven-month crackdown against
dissenters.  Both countries, two of five veto-wielding members in the
Security Council, blocked the measure that had the support of
nine nations in the 15-member body. Lebanon, India,  Brazil  and
South Africa abstained.  The dual block is a blow to U.S. and European diplomacy,
after the draft resolution underwent many changes until the last
minute in an effort to persuade Russia, which counts Syria as
its top ally in the  Middle East , to abstain from the vote. Human
Rights Watch yesterday called the outcome “a disgrace.”  “The U.S. is outraged that this council has utterly failed
to address an urgent moral challenge and a growing threat to
regional peace and security,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said
after the vote. She called  Russia ’s veto a “slap in the face.”  Rice walked out of the chamber after Syrian Ambassador
Ja’afari Bashar Ja’afari accused the U.S. of “partaking in
genocide” by supporting  Israel  at the UN.  Russia and China have used their vetoes together on three
previous occasions, including votes to block measures against
Myanmar and Zimbabwe.  Libya  Criticism  After abstaining in a March vote that authorized NATO-led
military action in Libya, Russia has repeatedly criticized the
U.S. and European nations for overstepping the mandate to
protect Libyan civilians and seeking to topple  Muammar Qaddafi 
instead. Russia has warned against any similar effort to
overthrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  “The situation in Syria cannot be considered in the
council apart from the Libyan experience,” Russia’s envoy to
the UN,  Vitaly Churkin , said. Events in North Africa “can only
alarm us.”  Rice called the Libya comparison a “cheap ruse by those
who would rather sell arms to the Syrian regime than stand with
the Syrian people.”  The softened draft called for measures within 30 days if
Assad didn’t change course. The resolution also urged “all
sides to reject violence and extremism,” acquiescing to demands
by nations such as  India  that also wanted anti-government
protesters to be rebuked. Churkin yesterday labeled the Syrian
opposition as “terrorists.”  Civilian Toll  More than 3,600 civilians have died since protests began in
March, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization
for Human Rights in Syria. About 30,000 people have been
detained and 13,000 are still being held, he said.  The unrest will slow economic growth to about 1 percent
this year from 5.5 percent in 2010, Finance Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said in a Sept. 7 interview. Syria has spent $2
billion defending its currency since the start of the uprising,
and has about $18 billion in foreign-currency reserves, Adib Mayaleh, governor of the  central bank , said on Aug. 26.  Syria’s government reversed a decision last month to
suspend imports that was aimed at shielding reserves, state
television reported yesterday.  Opposition groups this month set up the Syrian National
Council, following the example of the umbrella group established
by rebels in Libya that is now running the country.  Turkish Army Exercises  Riad al As’ad, a Syrian colonel who fled to  Turkey  after
starting the Free Syria Army, called on opposition groups to
unite and accused Syrian leaders of stirring up sectarian
strife, in an interview with Turkey’s state-run news agency
Anatolia yesterday.  “We cannot remain indifferent any longer to the
developments in Syria,” Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan told reporters yesterday in  South Africa , where he is on
a state visit. Turkey’s army will stage nine days of exercises
in Hatay, the border province where thousands of Syrian refugees
are staying, the General Staff said yesterday.  Russia’s close economic and military ties with the Assad
regime may account in part for the veto. Syria allowed Russia to
build a Russian naval base on the Syrian coast that gives it a
presence in the Mediterranean Sea. The port of Tartous is the
only Russian base outside the former Soviet republics. Russia
also has weapons contracts with Syria worth at least $3 billion,
according to the Moscow-based Center for the Analysis of
Strategies and Technologies.  Russia’s current stance also reflects how Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin, who plans to return to the Kremlin in May as
president, rates Assad’s chances of clinging to power.  “The Russians are also aware of realpolitik and won’t back
Assad if they’re convinced he’s going to fall,’” said Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in
 London . “At the moment they’re very confident that he’s going
stay in power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at 
0503 or  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 