-- 
Ryanair Plans Swedish Domestic Flights Next Year in Push North

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-04T12:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/ryanair-plans-swedish-domestic-flights-next-year-in-push-north.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  may start
domestic flights in  Sweden  next year, challenging SAS Group, as
 Europe ’s biggest discount airline targets growth in the north of
the region, Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said today.  Ryanair is also talking with seven new airports in Sweden
about commencing services, O’Leary said in an interview in
 Stockholm . While he declined to identify the terminals, they’re
located mainly in the center and north of the country, he said.  “We’ve been focusing for the last two, three years on the
big southern European markets, Italy and  Spain , but our focus in
the next two or three is more likely to be in Scandinavia and
central Europe,” the CEO said. “It just depends which airports
come up with the best package of costs.”  The expansion in Scandinavia could squeeze SAS Group, the
No. 1 Nordic carrier that’s been unprofitable for four years
amid competition from discount rivals including Norwegian Air
Shuttle ASA. Dublin-based Ryanair already has a base at
Stockholm Skavsta with flights to about 45 European cities, and
operates to six other Swedish airports from overseas.  Ryanair said it’s meanwhile holding off on any talks about
selling its shares of  Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc until Ireland divests
a 25 percent holding. The government has said it may auction the
state’s stake next year to pay down debt, while O’Leary has said  his company’s 29 percent of stock may be sold after it was
blocked by regulators in successive attempts at a full takeover.  Price Gap  “We’re not going to talk to someone who hasn’t bought the
government stake,” the executive said today. “Go and buy the
government stake first, then we’ll talk to you. Otherwise we’ll
just talk to loads of bottom fishers and all the rest.”  O’Leary also said there’s “no doubt” that the economic
slowdown will cause aircraft prices to drop. While Ryanair is
continuing talks with  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Commercial Aircraft Corp.
of China  about potentially buying planes, it hasn’t yet been
offered “prices that make sense to us,” the CEO said.  While Ryanair is currently an all-Boeing operator, with a
fleet of 737-800s, the Irish carrier said in June it’s exploring
a requirement for at least 200 single-aisle planes with Comac
after signing an accord to help develop the company’s C919 jet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  