-- 
S&P Rating in Australia Based on ‘Imagined Events,’ Lawyer Says

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-04T05:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/s-p-rating-in-australia-based-on-imagined-events-lawyer-says.html
Standard & Poor’s , under
investigation by U.S. over the nation’s credit downgrade, gave
its highest rating to notes whose value was dictated by
“imagined events,” a lawyer appearing for a group of
Australian investors told a court.  Two Australian towns and an insurer sued the U.K. arm of
S&P’s owner McGraw-Hill Cos., along with financial services
firms including the Royal Bank of  Scotland ’s Australian unit,
which were involved in the sale of AAA-rated securities that
plummeted in value during the global financial crisis in 2008.  “The note is really just a series of rules,” Noel Hutley,
lawyer for the plaintiffs, told Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot today in Sydney at the start of a scheduled 10-week trial.
The rules were supposed to be affected by external events, yet
were “akin to a game” with “imagined events” dictating the
outcome, Hutley said.  Bathurst regional council and Corowa Shire Council seek to
recoup the losses they incurred from the purchase of securities
in 2006.  The Bathurst council paid A$1 million ($948,600) to acquire
a Community Income Constant Proportion Debt Obligation Note, or
a CPDO, on Dec. 20, 2006, and was advised less than two years
later that the note was being unwound and the council would
receive a repayment on the note of A$67,043, according to the
statement of claim.  The start of Hutley’s opening statement was dominated with
explanations and definitions of terms involved in the
construction and sale of the CPDOs.  ABN Amro Bank NV, one of the lenders involved in the sale
of the notes, objected to Hutley’s proposal to allow his opening
statement to be made public.  ‘Sensationalist Allegations’  The statement contains “sensationalist allegations” that
aren’t based on the filings in court, Ian Jackman, the bank’s
lawyer said.  The CPDO note was rated as AAA by S&P, and a financial
market specialist at Local Government Financial Services Ltd.
assured Bathurst’s accountants that the CPDO wasn’t like a CDO,
in which the council had a specific policy not to invest, the
Bathhurst council said in its filing.  “The Standard & Poor’s report was misleading and in
material ways misdescribed the characteristics and operations of
the CPDO note,” according to the filing.  Standard & Poor’s, based in  New York , on Aug. 5 cut its
rating on  U.S. government debt  to AA+ from AAA. The downgrade
contributed to an equity rout that erased about $6.8 trillion
from the value of global stocks from late July to mid August.  U.S. government officials have said the downgrade was based
on a flawed analysis that overstated the nation’s debt by about
$2 trillion. The Securities and Exchange Commission is
scrutinizing the method S&P used to cut the rating and whether
the firm properly protected confidential information, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the probe, who declined to
be identified because the inquiry isn’t public.  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of  Australia 
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 