-- 
S&P Affirms Zambia Credit Rating at B+ as Sata Takes Power

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-10-04T11:02:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/s-p-affirms-zambia-credit-rating-at-b-as-sata-takes-power-1-.html
Standard & Poor’s  affirmed Zambia’s
foreign and domestic credit ratings at B+ with a stable outlook,
saying the country’s economic prospects are promising and newly
elected President  Michael Sata  is likely to continue to court
foreign investment.  Sata defeated incumbent Rupiah Banda in a Sept. 20 vote.
Since taking control of  Africa ’s largest copper producer, he has
fired the governor and board of the central bank, dissolved the
boards of four state agencies and scrapped the sale of a local
lender to  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , a Johannesburg-based bank.  “We view the smooth handover of power following the recent
presidential elections in Zambia as indicative of a maturing of
democracy,” Standard & Poor’s said in an e-mailed statement
today. “While Mr. Sata’s victory has increased economic policy
uncertainty, we expect any shifts to continue to broadly support
investment.”  Sata, 73, has pledged to extract more money from mining
companies to distribute to citizens, create jobs and tackle
graft. Companies including  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. and Glencore International Plc operate in Zambia.  Standard & Poor’s warned that Sata may reintroduce a
windfall tax on mining companies, raise  government spending  and
cut taxes.  The rating company also expressed concern about increased
political interference in monetary policy following the Sept. 29
dismissal of central bank Governor Caleb Fundanga. Appointed in
2002, Fundanga helped bring inflation below 10 percent for the
first time in 30 years.  Higher Copper Price  Zambia’s economy has been bolstered by an increase in
copper prices and production, with per-capita growth likely to
exceed 4 percent this year and the inflation rate likely to
remain slightly above 8 percent, Standard & Poor’s said.  “The stable outlook balances improving economic
fundamentals against uncertainty regarding the new
administration’s economic policies,” it said. “The ratings
could be lowered if the new administration’s policies shift
macroeconomic policies radically, weakening external, fiscal and
monetary fundamentals, or impairing copper production.”  Standard & Poor’s first assigned Zambia a B+, the fourth-
highest junk-grade rating, in March, placing it on a par with
Kenya and Nigeria.  Fitch Ratings  gave the southern African
nation a similar rating the same month.  Before the election, Zambia’s government announced plans to
sell a $500 million Eurobond to finance new transport links and
generate and transmit more electricity to the copper mines that
drive the economy. The sale was delayed until after the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  