-- 
Chaoda Long-Term Credit Rating Cut By Standard & Poor’s

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-10-05T00:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/s-p-downgrades-chaoda-modern-s-long-term-credit-rating-1-.html
Chaoda Modern Agriculture (Holdings)
Ltd., the Chinese vegetable supplier which delayed its annual
results announcement last month, had its corporate ratings cut
by  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services.  Chaoda’s long-term corporate credit rating was lowered to
“BB-” from “BB”, S&P said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. It also put all of Chaoda’s ratings on credit watch
with negative implications.  Chaoda’s shares have been suspended from trading in Hong
Kong since the afternoon of Sept. 26, and the company delayed
the release of earnings for the year through June, amid
allegations of misconduct by two of its top executives.  Holders of Chaoda’s $200 million of convertible bonds due
in 2015 can force the company to buy back the debt should the
shares be suspended for more than 60 consecutive days, S&P said.
“In our view, such an outcome would materially weaken Chaoda’s
liquidity position and growth,” S&P said.  The trading halt and delayed results announcement may
undermine investor confidence and weaken Chaoda’s ability to
access capital markets, S&P said. Historically, the company has
pursued growth through debt and equity financing, it said.  Chaoda Chairman Kwok Ho, Chief Financial Officer Andy Chan,
and Fidelity Management’s George Stairs were accused by Hong
Kong’s financial secretary of  insider trading , the city’s Market
Misconduct Tribunal said on Sept. 28. Kwok, who founded Chaoda,
has a 19.6 percent stake in the company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Challenges’  “Chaoda could face significant challenges to restore its
image while the market-misconduct investigation is under way, in
our opinion,” S&P said yesterday. “The investigation could
take a long time to resolve. Chaoda’s potential difficultly in
accessing the capital markets during this period could limit its
growth prospects.”  The financial secretary says the chairman and chief
financial officer told Stairs about a June 2009 share placement
three days before it was publicly announced, and the  fund
manager  traded profitably as a result, according to a Sept. 28
notice released by the city’s Market Misconduct Tribunal. A
further tribunal hearing is scheduled for Jan. 30.  “An unfavorable outcome from the investigation would
confirm our assessment that the company’s corporate governance
is weak,” S&P said.  Allegations Disputed  The allegations weren’t made against Chaoda itself and the
executives dispute the accusations, Chaoda said in a Sept. 30
filing. Boston-based Fidelity Investments conducted a thorough
internal review of the matter in 2009 and believes that Stairs
didn’t violate any laws or regulations, according to spokesman
 Vincent Loporchio . Stairs continues to work for the company, he
said.  Chaoda delayed the release of earnings, originally due on
Sept. 30, to “include additional audit procedures” after a
report from Anonymous Analytics, which describes itself as a
faction of the Internet group Anonymous, questioned Chaoda’s
accounts.  Anonymous, made up of hundreds of members in several
countries, gained renown in December when it targeted  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit,  Visa Inc. (V)  and other companies deemed hostile
to WikiLeaks, an organization that posts secret documents on the
Web. A spinoff group called Lulz Security later claimed credit
for breaking into websites at Sony Corp., the  U.S. Senate  and
the Central Intelligence Agency.  Chaoda’s shares will remain suspended until the company
issues a statement to address the Anonymous Analytics report, it
said. S&P said it plans to resolve the credit watch within three
months.  “We could lower the rating by one or more notches
depending on the level of stress placed on the company’s
reputation, operations, liquidity, and access to the capital
markets,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in  Hong Kong  at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  