-- 
Shoes-On Screening Begins With Test at Four U.S. Airports

-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 
2011-10-04T20:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/tsa-says-some-frequent-u-s-travelers-may-be-given-speedier-airport-checks.html
The U.S. Transportation Security
Administration today began a program aimed at speeding the most
frequent travelers through airport checkpoints without the usual
security measures such as removing shoes.  The pilot program, called PreCheck, is at four airports, in
Miami,  Dallas , Detroit and Atlanta, and includes only travelers
who have been invited by the TSA and approved after background
checks.  “We are looking at how to further enhance security through
passenger pre-screening and, whenever possible, expedite the
screening process for travelers we know and trust the most,”
Transportation Security Administrator  John Pistole  said today in
prepared  remarks  for a conference in Amsterdam sponsored by the
International  Air Transport Association .  As many as 8,000 passengers per day are expected to move
through the expedited checkpoints, Greg Soule, a TSA spokesman,
said Sept. 14. The program is voluntary. Approved passengers
will receive coded boarding passes that enable TSA agents to
refer them to a separate screening lane, Soule said.  Some members of the  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection’s
trusted traveler program, as well as some frequent fliers with
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines were
invited to join PreCheck. The program is free of charge. Citing
security reasons, the TSA hasn’t disclosed how it selected the
participants.  ‘A Good Step’  The TSA must expand PreCheck to include anyone willing to
submit to criminal and commercial-data checks and provide a
biometric such as a fingerprint to meaningfully improve airport
security, said Geoff Freeman, executive vice president of the
U.S. Travel Association, a Washington-based organization
representing the travel industry.  “The frequency of flying is one important facet of the
traveler profile, but so, too, are other things that cannot be
addressed by the airlines alone,” Freeman said in an interview.
“This is a good step in the right direction, but we believe the
final program years down the road should be much bolder.”  About two-thirds of respondents to a  survey  conducted last
December for the association said they would travel more
frequently if security procedures were less intrusive and time-
consuming while being as effective.  Risk-Based Security  TSA’s program may not have much impact on checkpoint wait
times as many business travelers have access to shorter lines
through airlines’ preferred passenger programs, Chris McGinnis,
editor of The Ticket, a monthly e-mail newsletter for frequent
travelers, said in an interview.  “Right now, if you went out to Atlanta airport where they
are running the beta test you’ll find that the airport is not
that busy,” he said.  PreCheck might prove more useful at heavy travel times such
as the U.S. Thanksgiving weekend, he said.  The TSA has experimented with expedited checkpoints for
years, partnering with businesses in trials from 2004 to 2008.
The agency abandoned that program, saying it was not effective.  PreCheck is part of TSA’s risk-based security initiative,
which includes a trial program allowing pilots to bypass
security checkpoints at several airports, Pistole said.  Risk-based security “means moving further away from what
may have seemed like a one-size-fits-all approach and
establishing TSA as a high-performing counterterrorism agency,”
he said.  Expansion Plan  The Air Transport Association, the Washington-based trade
group for the largest U.S. airlines, expects a second phase of
PreCheck to include frequent fliers with  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ,
 Hawaiian Holdings Inc. (HA) ’s Hawaiian Airlines,  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU) ,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s United Airlines if the four-airport
trial is successful,   Steve Lott , a spokesman for the trade
group, said in an e-mail.  “Allowing TSA to focus its finite resources on that which
creates the greatest threat is both good policy and good
security,” Lott said. “Our member airlines look forward to
working with TSA to ensure its success.”  Representative Bennie Thompson, ranking member of the House
Homeland Security Committee, said the trial program may help TSA
tailor its screening process.  “Given the clear need for checkpoint screening reforms and
the public dissatisfaction with current procedures, I will
continue to exercise scrutiny and oversight of TSA’s efforts at
designing, testing and implementing this program,” Thompson, a
Mississippi Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  