-- 
Salida Capital Raises Hedging, Says Collapse Rumors ‘Unfounded’

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-10-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/salida-capital-raises-hedging-says-collapse-rumors-unfounded-.html
Salida Capital LP , a Toronto-based
hedge fund that said yesterday speculation of its collapse are
“unfounded,” has increased its hedging in energy and other
holdings as oil prices fall.  With the potential for oil to head lower “we’ve now raised
our level of hedging in both the energy sector and the broad
market,” Salida Capital said late yesterday in a  report  to
clients.  Salida told investors in May that commodity prices were in
a correction and were poised to rebound. At the time, Chief
Executive Officer Courtenay Wolfe said her firm managed about
$900 million in assets, focusing on natural resources, with
about 50 percent of the investments in  Canada .  Salida’s investment calls in mid-August backing oil and
gold “have been costly, as the market has moved against us,”
the company said in yesterday’s report. “We still believe that
the reasoning was logical, but arguably ill-timed. In hindsight,
we underestimated the short term impact of forced selling.”  “Not only did the bounce not occur, but the sector has
continued to sell off,” Salida wrote, referring to energy
stocks. “Sell off is an understatement -- it’s been
decimated.”  The company’s Salida Strategic Growth Fund has dropped 20
percent this year, including a 17 percent drop in the past month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund soared 182
percent in 2009. The benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX composite
index has fallen 16 percent in 2011. Units of its publicly
traded Salida Wealth Preservation Listed Fund have dropped 25
percent since April.  ‘Not Going Anywhere’  Wolfe, who along with Salida representatives paid $1.68
million in 2009 to have lunch in  New York  with billionaire
investor  Warren Buffett , said she’s talked to “key” clients
and hasn’t seen any recent uptick in fund redemptions.  “Salida is not going anywhere; we’re not blowing up,” she
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Wolfe said speculation that her Toronto-based hedge fund
had collapsed is “unfounded,” and may have been started by
volatility in the equity markets.  “We’re having a difficult time in the markets, like
everybody else,” Wolfe said. “Everybody sees the volatility.”  Canadian stocks fell yesterday, led by energy companies and
banks, as  Europe ’s finance leaders prepared to weigh the risk of
a Greek debt default.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s biggest oil and gas producer,
lost 5.5 percent after crude oil closed at a one-year low last
week. Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s biggest base-metals and coal
producer, sank 7.2 percent as copper fell to a 14-month low.  The company remains positive on gold.  “The fundamental backdrop for gold has rarely been more
compelling,” according to the report. “A bet on bullion is a
bet that central banks are about to ramp up money printing -- a
logical bet in our view. In fact, we feel safer in gold than
anywhere else in today’s market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  