-- 
Samsung Says It May Scrap Australia Tablet

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-04T10:32:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/samsung-says-it-may-scrap-australia-tablet-plans-if-ban-persists.html
Samsung Electronics Co., locked in
patent disputes with Apple Inc., may scrap the release of the
Galaxy Tab 10.1 in  Australia  unless it wins approval to sell its
newest tablet computer in the next two weeks, a lawyer said.  Samsung is willing to abandon plans to launch the product
because missing the Christmas season would result in the new
tablet being “dead,” Neil Young, a lawyer representing the
Suwon, South Korea-based company, told Federal Court Justice
Annabelle Bennett in Sydney today.  Apple, which claims the Samsung tablet infringes its
patents, has delayed the release of the Galaxy 10.1 for two
months in Australia by seeking a temporary judicial ban on sales
until after a trial on the patent claim. Samsung said a trial
can’t be held until next year because it must collect evidence.  It’s part of a dispute between the two companies that spans
four continents and began in April, when Apple sued in the U.S.
and claimed Samsung’s Galaxy products “slavishly” copied the
designs of iPhones and iPads. A German court in August
temporarily banned sales of Galaxy tablets, a ruling Samsung has
appealed.  The two companies also are involved in legal disputes in
 South Korea ,  Japan  and the Netherlands.  Bennett said she will need a “little” time to consider
Apple’s request for a temporary injunction as the hearing
concluded after a week. She didn’t specify when she will come to
a verdict.  Young said technology changes so quickly that even another
month’s delay in the release of the Galaxy 10.1 would threaten
the product’s sales prospects.  Samsung had offered to agree to a quick trial on Apple’s
patent claim if Apple agreed to drop its demand for a ban on the
sale of the Galaxy 10.1, Young said. Apple rejected the proposal,
he said.  “We’re willing to pull out all the stops to get it out by
mid-October,” Young said. “We’re absolutely desperate.”  The case is:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  