-- 
Sarkozy’s Euro Debt Role Undermined as Re-Election Threatened by Inquiries

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-05T07:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/sarkozy-s-euro-debt-role-undermined-as-re-election-threatened-by-inquiries.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
re-election may be threatened by corruption probes involving
his associates, undermining his bid to play a leading role in
resolving the European debt crisis.  With about 200 days to go before his term ends, “les
affaires,” or the scandals, as the French media calls them,
have driven his popularity close to a record low. Two-thirds of
respondents in an Oct. 3 poll said they don’t see him winning in
2012. The opposition Socialist Party won control of the senate
last month for the first time since World War II. Sarkozy’s
 Union for a Popular Movement  has lost all four local and
regional votes since his May 2007 election.  For Sarkozy, 56, who has yet to say if he’ll seek a second
term, the setbacks may undercut efforts to tame the euro crisis
with  Germany ’s  Angela Merkel . France, whose financial firms held
$672 billion of public and private debt in  Greece ,  Portugal ,
Ireland,  Italy  and  Spain  -- the biggest such exposure -- has
much at stake from averting the unraveling of the euro.  “Sarkozy is facing a wall,” said Francois Miquet-Marty,
who heads Paris-based polling company Viavoice. “He has lost
moral credibility with the scandals, he lost politically in the
senate elections and he has lost credibility on his economic
skills. His own candidacy for 2012 is being questioned and his
bargaining power at home and internationally, like with Merkel,
is weakened.”  ‘End of Reign’  While Sarkozy has made no public statements on the
corruption cases -- none of which so far directly implicate him
-- the media has all but written him off.  The  Nouvel Observateur  magazine’s cover story last week was
“The End of the Reign,” while the national weekly L’Express
went with “The Fall of the Clan.” Weekly magazine Marianne
called Sarkozy a burden on his party, with his picture on the
cover below the title that reads: “The Millstone.”  The French voting public is ignoring Sarkozy’s role on the
international stage, including his efforts to push for action on
the Greek debt crisis and the ouster of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Those achievements have been eclipsed by the scandals
and concerns about a slowing economy, falling purchasing power
and a depressed job market.  The corruption cases, one dating back to 1995, have
engulfed some of Sarkozy’s closest allies and include the
alleged illegal funding of a presidential campaign and the
tapping of a Le Monde newspaper journalist’s mobile phone.  Phone Tapping  Investigative magistrates have charged Nicolas Bazire, who
was a witness at Sarkozy’s 2008 wedding to  Carla Bruni , and
another long-time ally Thierry Gaubert in connection with a case
dubbed “The Karachi Affair.” They are looking into whether
payments to secure sales of submarines to  Pakistan  in the 1990s
illicitly funded a French election campaign.  Bazire, the head of Groupe Arnault, the private investment
arm of  France ’s richest man  Bernard Arnault , ran the failed 1995
presidential campaign of then-Prime Minister Edouard Balladur.
Sarkozy was Balladur’s budget minister and also a spokesman for
the campaign. Gaubert was an adviser to Sarkozy at the budget
ministry. Lawyers for Bazire and Gaubert, whose investigation is
ongoing, have denied they did anything wrong.  French magistrates also are investigating the tapping of  Le
Monde  journalist Gerard Davet’s mobile phone. Davet was looking
into allegations that L’Oreal SA heiress Liliane Bettencourt
gave cash to Sarkozy’s 2007 presidential campaign.  Bettencourt Affair  Sarkozy allies Frederic Pechenard, head of the French
police, and Bernard Squarcini, head of the intelligence
services, who said they ordered the tapping, will be questioned
by magistrates by the end of the month.  The newspaper Liberation reported Sept. 28 that Sarkozy’s
party treasurer received 50,000 euros ($67,900) in cash from a
Bettencourt five months before the 2007 ballot. The daily cited
an interview with the billionaire’s former accountant.  Sarkozy’s spokesman  Franck Louvrier  denied the report. His
ministers have denied his involvement in any of the cases.  “I’ve been in politics for 35 years and they’ve always
tried to trap me in scandals,” Sarkozy told his supporters,
 Agence France-Presse  reported Sept. 27, citing a party member.  The probes, which now dominate headlines in France, have
made members of Sarkozy’s own party uneasy.  “The right-wing supporters are themselves losing
confidence in their leader,” Gael Sliman, head of Paris-based
pollster BVA, wrote last month.  Systemic Response  For now, Sarkozy is shrugging off re-election concerns.  “Make no mistake, the presidential elections will play on
the crisis,” Sarkozy is cited by AFP as saying to supporters.
“The financial crisis is systemic, the crisis of confidence is
systemic, therefore the response also has to be systemic.”  Sarkozy will seek a boost from the November summit of
France’s presidency of the Group of 20, where European leaders
will try to show they can resolve the 18-month long debt crisis
that’s threatening to plunge the global economy into recession.  It may be too early to write off Sarkozy, Bruno Cautres, an
analyst at Paris-based political research center Cevipof, said.  “Will current circumstances kill his presidential plans?
That’s the thousand-dollar question,” Cautres said. “I don’t
think we can say today that Sarkozy is toast; that he is out of
the game; that he won’t run. It’s very premature. The story is
not written yet.”  Euro to Libya  Domestic economics will play a major role, he said.  “Voters cast a ballot on that and on the ability of a
candidate to be president,” Cautres said. “Before the affairs,
he was grabbing back popularity and support as his management of
the Libyan war and of the euro crisis helped him. The domestic
economic situation is his challenge.”  Sarkozy’s government was forced to cut it 2012 growth
forecast to 1.75 percent from 2.5 percent, which is still more
than half a percentage point above economists’ estimates. His
government is struggling to create jobs two years after France
emerged from its worst recession in six decades, as the number
of jobseekers in the country started increasing again in June.  The president’s popularity is  down 5 percentage  points from
June to 32 percent, a survey by Paris-based BVA for L’Express
and France Inter radio released Sept. 27 showed. That brings
Sarkozy close to his record low of 30 percent in February.  Inadequate Results  A poll commissioned by  Liberation  published Oct. 3 showed
that 68 percent of the respondents said Sarkozy would lose the
2012 vote if he ran. Sixty-two percent of the voters surveyed by
Viavoice said the scandals are a “major disgrace.”  The 1,007 people aged 18 or more surveyed on Sept. 29 and
Oct. 1 cited inadequate results on fighting the economic
slowdown and the debt and deficits issues among the major
reasons for his defeat in 2012. The poll had a margin of error
of 2.85 percent.  Meanwhile, all polls taken in the past three months show
that  Francois Hollande , the Socialist Party’s leading contender,
would win the May 2012 elections.  Sarkozy would lose the first round of next year’s vote
against his two main Socialist Party rivals, Hollande and
 Martine Aubry , an Ipsos institute poll showed yesterday.
The  Socialist Party  has not held the presidency for 17 years.  Viavoice also showed for the first time the possible
emergence of candidates in Sarkozy’s own UMP party. Respondents
cited the current Foreign Affairs Minister  Alain Juppe  as the
best replacement for Sarkozy in the race.  “Sarkozy accumulates handicaps,” said Viavoice’s Miquet-
Marty. “It’s terrible for him to have lost most of his credit
among voters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  