-- 
HSBC Said to Consider Selling Its Non-Life Insurance Businesses by Region

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-10-04T03:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/hsbc-said-to-consider-selling-regional-non-life-insurance-units-separately.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the European bank
seeking buyers for its non-life insurance assets, will consider
selling regional units of the business separately, three people
familiar with the matter said.  HSBC may receive offers for its general insurance
operations in Asia and  Latin America  separately, though
potential buyers can also submit bids for the global business,
said the people. The sale may value HSBC’s non-life insurance
assets at $1 billion to $1.5 billion, they said, asking not to
be identified because the sale process is private.  Selling the regional operations separately may help HSBC
get a higher price for the assets, as some buyers are only
interested in acquisitions in Asia and Latin America, the people
said.  MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings (8725)  Inc. and Axa SA are among
possible bidders for HSBC’s non-life insurance business, people
with knowledge of the matter said.  “Profit margins have been under pressure” in general
insurance, said  Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in
Hong Kong. “If HSBC finds this business not profitable in some
markets, it’s logical for them to exit those markets.”  Gareth Hewett, a spokesman for HSBC in Hong Kong, declined
to comment on the sale process. Spokespeople for MS&AD, Japan’s
biggest non-life insurer, and Axa,  Europe ’s second-largest
insurer, also declined to comment.  Tougher Rules  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, reported $1 billion of “net
written insurance premiums” for its non-life business last year,
down from $1.1 billion in 2009, according to its  annual report .
Net premiums in Asia accounted for about a third of the total,
while Latin America made up 42 percent, the report showed.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  is reversing HSBC’s
expansion over the past two decades, selling assets and cutting
jobs as the euro-area debt crisis saps profit and regulators
demand thicker capital buffers.  The bank in July agreed to sell almost half its U.S.
branches to First Niagara Financial Group Inc. for about $1
billion. HSBC said last month it will reap a $2.4 billion after-
tax gain from the sale its U.S. credit card division to
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  The company has also sold part of
its Russian consumer banking unit and said it will shut 10
retail branches in Poland.  European lenders will need to raise an extra 423 billion
euros ($611 billion) by 2019 to comply with global capital rules
approved by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
according to a European Union study. HSBC is cutting jobs and
closing offices to reduce costs by as much as $3.5 billion over
the next two years as it prepares for the stricter regulations.  The Basel committee said in July that 28 banks would be
subject to additional  capital requirements  to rein in too-big-
to-fail lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  