-- 
Scene Last Night: Staley, Langone, Julianne Moore, Billy Crudup

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-04T16:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/scene-last-night-staley-langone-julianne-moore-billy-crudup.html
James Staley, chief executive of
 investment banking  at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said he was at the
 NYU Cancer Institute  gala last night “to support my wife.”  “I am involved because my father died of stomach cancer,”
said Debora Staley, who is on the institute’s advisory board.
“And because I have so many friends with cancer.”  The gala tables filled the Plaza Hotel Ballroom and the
reception area, accommodating 600 guests in an area usually used
for 300 or so.  “We had to turn people away,” said Lori Fink, chairman of
the institute’s advisory board and wife of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
Chairman Laurence Fink. “The reason we’re so successful is our
board. Every meeting we learn about the science.”  “I love learning, but I’m biased,” said Kenneth Langone.
“I’m chairman of the NYU Langone Medical Center,” of which the
institute is a part within the larger domain of  New York
University .  The next board meeting will include presentations on
integrative medicine and biomarkers, said Dr. William Carroll,
the director of the NYU Cancer Institute.  The event raised $3.2 million.  Bedside Manner  Julianne Moore admitted she felt nutty reading a children’s
book to adults but she was game. Her mother-in-law, Deborah
Freundlich, had asked her to.  John C. Reilly was roped in by his mother-in-law’s best
friend, Linda van Schaick.  And so a benefit for the Children of Bellevue Reach Out and
Read program came together.  The idea was to simulate what happens at the hospital,
where volunteers sit down on blue mats and read to every child
who comes in, even if it’s just for a checkup.  The event, “Starry Night Stories,” took place at Florence
Gould Hall in midtown  Manhattan .  Moore and Samuel Jackson read “Freckleface Strawberry Best
Friends Forever,” which Moore wrote. She is a dead ringer for
Freckleface Strawberry, and gave her a giddy, sweet voice.
Jackson deadpanned as her best friend Windy Pants Patrick.  Later Jackson made some very realistic pigeon coos as
sound effects for Mo Willems’s “Don’t Let the Pigeon Stay Up
Late,” read by his wife, LaTanya Richardson. Jackson is playing
 Martin Luther King Jr . in the Broadway production of “The
Mountaintop,” which opens Oct. 13.  Ana Gasteyer brought down the house as a bratty, emphatic
Olivia the Pig, reading “Olivia ... and the Missing Toy” by
Ian Falconer.  Billy Crudup read “Duck for President” by Doreen Cronin,
and Brooke Shields joined Reilly to read “Sylvester and the
Magic Pebble” by William Steig.  At Bellevue, doctors encourage parents to read aloud to
their children at home by giving them free books in their native
language.  Moore said the key to reading to children is to “give them
enough space to use their imagination.”  Treasure Hunt  Uptown, another organization also entertained adults with
kid-like fun. Friends in Deed, which offers support to people
with life-threatening illnesses, presented a treasure hunt at
the  American Museum of Natural History . Composer  Stephen Sondheim  designed the hunt.  “He is the master,” said Benjamin Rosen, a Sondheim game
veteran and former chairman of Compaq Computer Corp. “The clues
are as clever as his lyrics.”  The final clue required locating “Hall 4, Section 8, Aisle
L, Case F8, Position R.”  Sound out 4-8-L-F8-R and you get, more or less, “freight
elevator.” Team 18 got to the elevator first, and won mini
dinosaurs and Droid mobile phones.  The rest of the event was less taxing on the brain: Waiters
gave guests including Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick
a choice of chicken or gnocchi for dinner, and Melissa Errico
and Raul Esparza performed Sondheim songs.  Back at home, two babysitters watched over Errico’s three
daughters, all under five.  “It takes a lot of people,” said Errico, who has a new CD
of songs by Michel Legrand. “Everyone is very small. Bedtime is
harder than daytime.”  Korean Costume  At the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art, the Korean Costume
Science Foundation presented guests with a fashion show of
Korean royal costumes and a dinner including rice and milk
porridge and braised beef short ribs.  Guests included Bill Hwang of Tiger Asia Management,
soprano Kathleen Kim (who played Madame Mao in “Nixon in
 China ” at the  Metropolitan Opera  last winter), New York
Philharmonic violinist Na Sun and costume designer and stylist
Patricia Field.  “These clothes make Marie Antoinette look bourgeois,”
said Field. “The embroidery, the fabric, the balance, it was all
beautiful.”  The program included a presentation on the “Every Woman,
Every Child” public-health program launched by United Nations
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, who dined with ABC correspondent
Juju Chang and her husband, Neal Shapiro, president and CEO of
WNET.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 