-- 
Circuit Breakers Could Allow Market Disruption, Chilton Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-10-04T22:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/sec-circuit-breakers-could-allow-market-disruption-chilton-says.html
Proposed regulations aimed at halting
volatile trading in U.S. securities markets may still allow for
market disruptions and expose regulators to a backlash, said
 Bart Chilton , a member of the  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission .  The  Securities and Exchange Commission  is seeking comments
on proposals submitted by U.S. equities exchanges and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority to change how circuit
breakers are used to halt trading. The proposal would allow for
a 20 percent move in the value of an index during the last 35
minutes of trading without a circuit breaker being triggered,
Chilton, a Democrat on the five-member commission, said in a
speech prepared today for the  Golden Networking High-Frequency
Trading Leaders Forum 2011  held in Chicago.  “Such a move, while unlikely, would be extraordinarily
disruptive, would threaten the market’s infrastructure, and
could lead to substantial criticism about what regulators
thought was a-okay,” he said. “I understand that markets need
the freedom to discover a closing price, but 20 percent in 35
minutes. Really? I don’t think that’s cool.”  Regulators have been seeking ways to prevent disruptions
such as the May 6, 2010, plunge in which the Dow Jones
Industrial Average briefly dropped 9.2 percent.  At the  Chicago  session, Chilton didn’t deliver the remarks
about specific trading percentages. The percentages came from a
prepared text that was changed before the speech, he said later
today.  Chilton also said he is calling on the CFTC to propose that
high-frequency traders register with regulators next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  