-- 
SEC Names Conley Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Appeals

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-04T19:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/sec-names-conley-deputy-general-counsel-for-litigation-appeals.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission named Michael Conley, an 11-year veteran of the
agency, deputy general counsel for enforcement matters,
appellate cases and adjudication.  Conley, 48, is taking over the position from Anne Small,
who left the SEC to take a position at the White House, the
agency said today in a statement. He was promoted from deputy
solicitor, a position he has held since 2009.  Conley, who will be one of two deputies reporting to
General Counsel Mark Cahn, will work on litigation of
enforcement matters, challenges to agency rules and appeals of
sanctions meted out by self-regulatory organizations, including
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the SEC said.  “Michael is a spectacular lawyer who will bring to his new
position an extraordinary breadth of experience,” Cahn, who
took the helm after  David Becker  stepped down in February, said
in the agency’s statement.  While serving as deputy solicitor, Conley was involved with
the SEC’s positions regarding bankruptcies, including that of
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm, and the Securities Investor Protection
Corp., the federally chartered nonprofit that works to restore
funds to customers when brokerages collapse.  After graduating first in his class from  Boston
University ’s law school in 1989, Conley was a law clerk for
Judge Abner J. Mikva of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the D.C.
Circuit, and later worked for Supreme Court Justice Harry A.
Blackmun, the SEC said. He graduated from Iona College in 1984,
and was editor-in-chief of the Boston University Law Review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  