-- 
Dems Said to Weigh Millionaire Tax in Job Bill

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-10-05T00:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/senate-democrats-said-to-weigh-millionaires-surtax-in-jobs-bill.html
Senate Democrats are weighing a plan
to substitute a surtax on millionaires for a package of tax
increases President  Barack Obama  proposed to pay for his $447
billion  job-creation  plan, a Democratic aide said.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  outlined the concept to Senate
Democrats during a closed-door meeting today, said the aide
familiar with the discussions, who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly. The aide said it wasn’t determined how the surtax
would work or if it would be used to partly or entirely replace
the increases proposed by Obama.  Obama wants to pay for his plan by capping itemized
deductions for individuals earning more than $200,000 a year and
married couples earning more than $250,000. The plan would also
boost taxes on private equity firms and end oil and gas
subsidies. Some Senate Democrats are objecting to those tax
increases.  Senator Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, last year
unsuccessfully pushed an amendment that would have allowed Bush-
era tax cuts to expire for millionaires.  Obama is trying to bolster the economy at a time when the
nation’s unemployment rate has reached 9.1 percent. He proposes
cutting payroll taxes, spending more on infrastructure and
modernizing schools to stimulate employment.  Senate Maneuvering  Obama’s plan is opposed by Republicans who control 47 of
the Senate’s 100 seats. Reid told reporters today that
Democratic leaders are seeking changes to the measure that could
draw more support, at least within their party. He said he plans
to bring the jobs bill up later this month, though he would need
60 votes to begin debate.  White House communications director  Dan Pfeiffer  said in a
statement tonight that the administration has “offered a
balanced way to pay for the American Jobs Act, but if Congress
has a better idea that ensures that everyone pays their fair
share, we’re open to it.”  Obama has been traveling the country, calling on lawmakers
to take swift action on his proposal. Today he went to a
community college in the Dallas suburb of Mesquite to promote
it, targeting House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, for saying the full proposal won’t be put to a vote
in the chamber.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , citing the
president’s comments, tried unsuccessfully to get a Senate vote
today on Obama’s plan, which leaders in both parties knew would
fail.  ‘A Good Approach’  “It won’t surprise anyone to know I don’t think it’s a
good approach, a way that’s likely to create jobs, but he’s
asked for a vote,” McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said on
the Senate floor. “I think we ought to accommodate the
president of the  United States  on a matter that he has been
speaking about frequently over the last few weeks and give him
his vote.”  Reid dismissed the move as a “political stunt,” and said
he will advance a modified jobs bill within two weeks.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  called McConnell’s move a
“disingenuous” effort to draw attention away from Obama’s
effort to boost job creation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  