-- 
Senate ‘Workhorse’ Murray Must Save Majority While Cutting Debt

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-10-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/senate-workhorse-murray-must-save-majority-while-cutting-debt.html
Among the 12 members of the
congressional deficit-cutting supercommittee, there are
committee chairmen, Sunday news show regulars, anti-tax purists,
and  Patty Murray .  Murray, 60, is not only the lone woman on the panel, she
also is the head of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee, which is charged with protecting the party’s Senate
majority in the 2012 elections.  The decision by Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to name the
bespectacled Washington senator to serve as the Democratic co-
leader of the supercommittee, which held a closed-door meeting
last evening, drew criticism among Republicans and government
ethics advocates.  “I think her job at the DSCC consumes a lot of time and
requires her to take a lot of public positions that might very
well create an obstacle to getting this job done,” said Senator
Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican.  Groups including  Common Cause  and  Public Citizen  are urging
Murray and other supercommittee members to cease fundraising
while the panel deliberates. Murray hasn’t agreed, attending
such events as a Sept. 13 reception at the  National Museum of
Women in the Arts  that asked donors to give as much as $30,800
to the Senate Democrats’ re-election account.  “As much as I respect Patty Murray, she has placed herself
in a very perilous conflict of interest situation,” said  Craig Holman , a lobbyist for Washington-based  Public Citizen .  ‘My Workhorse’  Murray’s refusal to bend to such demands is likely to be no
surprise to Reid, who calls her “my workhorse,” someone he
taps to manage difficult assignments.  In 2004, when Reid suddenly had to attend a funeral, Murray
stepped in to manage dozens of amendments on an annual budget
blueprint on the Senate floor.  After Reid decided in 2009 that the late Senator  Robert Byrd , then 91 years old, was too frail to oversee floor debate
on an Iraq war spending bill, he tapped Murray to replace the
iconic and stubborn appropriator.  This year, several senators declined appointment to the
DSCC chairmanship, lest they risk being in charge when
Republicans take the majority. Murray’s agreement to do a second
tour makes her both the first and second committee chairwoman.
Murray also is the first woman to be appointed to a special
congressional committee assigned to create a blueprint for
reducing the deficit.  Automatic Cuts  On the supercommittee, Murray, who declined an interview
request, and her co-chairman, Republican Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , by Nov. 23 must find $1.5 trillion in
budget savings over a decade. If they succeed, the House and
Senate would consider the plan by Dec. 23. A stalemate on the
supercommittee, evenly divided between the parties, would
trigger $1.2 trillion in across-the-board cuts in defense and
domestic programs such as education.  Reid of  Nevada  said in an interview that he’s confident
Murray can manage the re-election effort while also crafting a
deficit-cutting deal.  “You look around and you’ll find the busiest person is
usually the best,” he said. “She’s the busiest; she’s the
best. She can handle both of them.”  First elected in 1992, making a leap from the statehouse to
the  U.S. Senate , the Seattle native has been part of Reid’s
leadership team since 2006. The daughter of a disabled World War
II veteran, she is the first woman to lead the Senate Veterans
Affairs Committee. When she’s not legislating, she takes to
quiet pursuits, such as salmon fishing in  Puget Sound .  Policy Expertise  Murray doesn’t gravitate toward the television klieg
lights. A tenacious worker, she has a reputation for knowing how
to find political leverage in policy battles as much as she does
for resolving them.  In 2005, Senate Republicans rebuffed Murray’s calls for
more funding for veterans’ health care. Later, it became known
that the agency was experiencing a shortfall.  Then-Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , the third-
ranking Republican leader and now a presidential candidate,
proposed $1.5 billion in added funding for the program.  “We were in error,” he said on the Senate floor on June
29, 2005. “Senator Murray was right.”  In her 2010 re-election campaign against Republican former
state Senator Dino Rossi, she aligned herself with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
fight to win a $35 billion Air Force contract, weighing in with
the  World Trade Organization  and working with the Washington
state delegation to push the Pentagon to act.  Murray and Boeing  Boeing, which employs 81,000 people in her state, made a
rare endorsement in the race. Amid an anti-Democratic wave,
Murray bested Rossi by 118,766 votes out of 2.5 million cast. In
February, Boeing was awarded the Pentagon contract.  Kirby Wilbur, chairman of the state  Republican Party , said
Murray was well positioned to take advantage of a “lack of
focus” by Rossi. “She’s likeable,” Wilbur said. “She’s a
class act and has good staff. Those things mean something in a
close race.”  Murray’s relationship with Boeing is one that government
ethics groups worry could influence her actions on the
supercommittee. If the supercommittee fails to reach an accord,
the automatic cuts that would follow could slash about $500
billion from defense programs during the next ten years, which
could threaten funding for Boeing’s contract.  ‘Conflict of Interest’  “Clearly, that’s a conflict of interest,” Holman said.
“Boeing is a major company in her state and she has a very
strong interest in making sure whatever decision comes out does
not hurt Boeing.”  Matt McAlvanah, a spokesman for Murray, said the senator’s
“only interest is in putting forward a balanced and bipartisan
plan that is fair to the ordinary working families she has
always fought for. Every senator in Congress has major companies
in the states they represent and to suggest that that alone
represents a conflict is fairly shortsighted.”  Thus far, Murray has advocated the Democratic line,
speaking about the effect of spending cuts on the middle class
and the need for tax increases. She said at a Sept. 22 hearing
that “every serious bipartisan commission” agrees that tax
increases are needed.  “It’s going to mean looking at every part of our budget
and realizing that there is spending that has grown too fast,
job investments that still need to be made, entitlements that
are expanding too quickly, and a  tax code  that’s become riddled
with corporate giveaways and special interest carve-outs for the
richest Americans,” she said.  Entitlement Cuts  Robert Bixby , executive director of the Concord  Coalition ,
a smaller-government advocacy group in  Washington , said the test
will be whether Murray is willing to make significant
entitlement cuts to achieve a deficit-cutting plan in an
election cycle in which she has advocated using Republican
support for cutting Medicare benefits as a campaign issue.  “If it weren’t for the fact that she is chairing the DSCC,
she would be a plus on the committee,” Bixby said. “She’s
high-ranking on the budget committee and someone who’s very
interested in the nuances of policy and in working across party
lines.”  Murray can tap a reservoir of goodwill in both parties,
lawmakers said. Senator Thad Cochran of  Mississippi , the top
Republican on the  Senate Appropriations Committee , said Murray
bridged partisan differences when she managed the Iraq war bill.
“She handled it with a seriousness of purpose that reflected
well on the Senate,” Cochran said.  Murray’s advantage is that she’s not entirely aligned with
either the liberal or conservative wing of her party, said
Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent.  “She’s a real fighter -- she has very strong opinions and
she’s very persistent,” Lieberman said. “On the other hand,
she’s not an extreme ideologue, which means she’ll be capable of
negotiating a bipartisan agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  