-- 
Sex Gap Isn’t Just Stupid, It Squanders Billions: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-10-04T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/sex-gap-isn-t-just-stupid-it-costs-billions-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Paul Hogan’s reptile-wrestling tough
guy from the 1986 movie “Crocodile Dundee” typified
 Australia ’s reputation for “mateship,” a creed of male
friendship that often excludes women. A quarter of a century on,
it’s costing the country billions.  Don’t take my word for it -- take the prime minister’s.  “I’ve always thought the Australian culture is blokey,”
 Julia Gillard  told Bloomberg News last month. “It’s not
acceptable to me in the modern age that we can look at boards of
major corporations and not see one woman.”  Nor should it be to the men ruling over those corporate
suites. If basic fairness won’t convince them, hit them with
something harder to ignore: money. Australian women earn about
17 percent less than men. Narrowing this gender gap by just 1
percentage point could boost gross domestic product by A$4.4
billion ($4.3 billion), the  Committee for Economic Development
of Australia  said in a recent report.  Australia’s economic boom is about the coal and iron ore it
ships to  China . Oddly, the nation’s executives aren’t mining the
hidden resource of women. Unconscious or not, bias costs the
A$1.3 trillion economy as much as 13 percent in lost annual
production, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates.  Sexism is bad economics, and if it’s squandering growth in
advanced, Western-thinking economies like Australia, you can
just imagine how it’s affecting some Asian ones.  Female Employment  Take  Japan . If its female employment rate matched the male
rate -- one of the highest anywhere at about 80 percent -- GDP
would get a boost of as much as 15 percent, Kathy Matsui, Tokyo-
based strategist at Goldman Sachs, estimated last year.  South Korea  has trouble with women, too. In 2010, it ranked
a dismal 104th in a World Economic Forum  report  on the gap
between men and women. It trailed the  United Arab Emirates ,
Suriname and  Azerbaijan . That’s quite a blemish on an otherwise
successful economy (Japan ranked 94th, behind Belize and
 Zimbabwe ).  Southeast Asia ’s record is mixed, given the diversity of
cultures and living standards. Yet it also leaves considerable
room for improvement. The same goes for South  Asia , which like
 Southeast Asia  has had its fair share of female leaders, without
commensurate gains in participation in corporate boardrooms or
legislatures.  Quality of Life  The Asian economies that tend to do best in equality
analyses are the  Philippines  and Sri Lanka. Such rankings track
progress on economic opportunity, education, politics, health
and survival. It’s not that life is always great for women in
the Philippines and  Sri Lanka . To get ahead, all too many work
abroad apart from families and send remittances back home. If
that’s our definition of empowerment, we need to rethink it.  This sex gap undermines the quality of life of one-half of
nations’ populations and poses significant risks to long-term
growth and well-being of societies. For an economy to fully use
only half of its  labor force  is to tie a limb behind its back.
In this age of globalization and fast-rising competition, it’s a
wonder leaders don’t address this senseless imbalance.  Developing economies in Asia and the Pacific-island region
are losing from $42 billion to $47 billion annually because of
women’s limited access to employment opportunities, and an
additional $16 billion to $30 billion because of gender gaps in
education, according to the  Asian Development Bank .  Trailblazing Australia  That also goes for the most developed of nations -- like
Australia. It has only one female chief executive officer among
its 30 biggest companies by market value. At 8.4 percent,
Australia’s female board representation lags behind major
English-speaking nations.  The irony is that Australia is often an equality
trailblazer. It fielded its first female political candidate in
1897, decades before most Western nations granted universal
suffrage. It is enacting new passport rules allowing citizens to
list their official gender as male, female or indeterminate,
without having to undergo surgery as proof of a sex change.
Australia is also ending a 110-year ban on women serving in
frontline combat roles, clearing the way for female soldiers to
potentially fight the Taliban in  Afghanistan .  Yet Gillard finds herself the subject of indignities that
escape male politicians. The extent to which she’s finding
respect hard to come by was apparent in a recent episode of the
national broadcaster’s “ At Home With Julia ” television comedy.
It depicted Gillard lying naked under the nation’s flag after
having sex in her office with her hairdresser boyfriend and
being interrupted by a colleague who was knocking at the door.  Protesters annoyed with Gillard’s policies, including a
carbon tax, have shown up bearing placards reading “Ditch the
Witch.”  Australia is a great country, and it’s not exactly a
bastion of sexism, “Crocodile Dundee” stereotypes aside. Yet
statistics showing that Australia’s female board representation
is almost half that of  South Africa ’s boggle the mind.
Discrimination exists, and if Australia doesn’t attack its
blokey ways, investors may have reason to go walkabout.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 