-- 
Slovakia Sets Vote Date as Parties Seek Accord on EFSF

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-10-05T12:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/slovak-coalition-has-no-agreement-yet-on-efsf-official-says.html
Slovakia’s ruling parties set Oct. 11
for a parliamentary vote on an overhaul of the euro area’s
bailout mechanism as they seek an agreement to ensure passage of
the bloc’s main defense to keep a debt crisis from spreading.  The governing Freedom and Solidarity party, or SaS, whose
votes the Cabinet needs to retain a majority in parliament,
continues to oppose the measures, Bela Bugar, head of the Most
party, told reporters late yesterday. Without SaS, Premier Iveta Radicova will need support from Smer, the largest opposition
party, which has said it will only back the legislation if the
Cabinet steps down.  “We don’t have an agreement yet,” Bugar said after a
meeting of leaders in the four-party coalition in the capital
Bratislava. Negotiations with SaS will continue, he added.  Slovakia’s support for the European Financial Stabilization
Facility, which must be ratified by all 17 members of the euro
area, is seen as the most questionable among the three still to
endorse enhancement of the bailout agreement. The European
Commission has urged Slovakia to back the legislation. Malta and
the Netherlands also have yet to ratify the EFSF.  ‘More Procrastination’  “I think Slovakia will procrastinate some more,” Poland’s
Deputy Foreign Minister Mikolaj Dowgielewicz told reporters in
Warsaw today. “But I hope and believe that they’ll sign
eventually. The markets are waiting for all the states to ratify
as proof the EU is determined to defend the euro.” Poland holds
the EU’s rotating presidency.  Slovakia’s largest opposition party Smer won’t back the
overhaul of the EFSF in the Oct. 11 vote unless the government
steps down, Chairman  Robert Fico  told journalists today.  The enhanced powers of the 440 billion-euro ($587 billion)
EFSF were approved at a July 21 meeting of European leaders in
Brussels. The measures would allow the fund to buy the debt of
stressed euro-area nations, aid troubled banks in the region and
offer credit lines to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to
sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  