-- 
Slovenia Headed for ‘Difficult Period,’ Central Banker Says

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 9 2 4 2 1 0 ]   A l a n   C r o s b y   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-04T12:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/slovenia-headed-for-difficult-period-central-banker-says-1-.html
Slovenia is headed for a “difficult
period” as the banking industry struggles to find financing and
the economy slows because of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis,
central bank Governor Marko Kranjec said.  “The central bank will do all it can to stabilize the
banking sector in the country as we’re headed for a difficult
period,” Kranjec, who’s also a member of the Governing Council
of the  European Central Bank , told reporters in Ljubljana, the
capital. “Slovenian banks can’t fund projects that are not
sound and viable. Slovenian companies are highly indebted and
are having difficulties finding good investment projects.”  Seven Slovenian banks had their  credit rating  cut by Fitch
Sept. 29 on poor asset quality and after the ratings service
lowered the credit score of the euro region member by one level
to AA- because of risk to the stability of the banking system
and on a worsening fiscal position.  Banks in the former Yugoslav nation, including the two
largest Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor d.d., are still reeling from the impact of the 2009
recession as companies continue to go bankrupt with record loan-
loss provisions, mostly from the construction industry. That
trend is likely to continue as the economic outlook worsens.  ‘Slightly Different’  The methodology used by ratings companies are “slightly
different” than that used by the central bank, which sees a
better picture of the industry than the credit assessors,
Kranjec said.  The country’s export-dependent economy will expand 1.3
percent this year, though risks from the debt crisis may damp
growth and jeopardize the forecast, Damjan Kozamernik, head of
research at the bank, told the same news conference. Gross
domestic product will rise 1.7 percent in 2012 and 2.5 percent
in 2013, he said.  GDP rose 0.9 percent in the second quarter on the year,
compared with 2.3 percent in the first three months on slower
growth in exports and industrial output.  “One of the  credit rating agencies  warned that the
government collapse was one of the contributing factors in the
rating cut,” Kranjec said today. “We can only hope the next
administration will be better at sorting labor market overhaul,
pension and health systems in order to improve the fiscal
position.”  Slovenia was plunged into political uncertainty after the
ouster of the government of Prime Minister Borut Pahor on Sept.
20. That and the worsening economic outlook prompted Moody’s to
cut Slovenia’s credit rating by one level from AA on Sept. 23, a
move that was followed by Fitch ratings a week later.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Slovenia’s bonds
maturing in 2021 rather than similar-maturity German debt rose
to a record today. The difference advanced to 351 basis points,
or 3.51 percentage points, in Ljubljana at 2:47 p.m. from 343
basis points after the Moody’s credit score cut on Sept. 23,
according to Bloomberg data. The spread was at 147 basis points
on June 6 when voters rejected the pension system overhaul.  Slovenia’s banking industry had a profit of 48 million
euros ($67.5 million) in the first seven months of the year, the
 central bank  said last month. The core tier one capital ratio of
the industry in the first half improved 0.9 percent to an
average 9.9 percent, the central bank said. 