-- 
Somalia Government Building Hit by Suspected Suicide Bomb; 70 Die, AP Says

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-10-04T16:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/somalia-government-building-hit-by-suspected-suicide-bomber.html
A suspected suicide bomber attacked a
government building in the Somali capital, Mogadishu, killing at
least 65 people, officials said.  The explosion occurred at a two-storey structure in the
central KM4 district that houses the foreign affairs and
national development ministries, National Development Minister
Jeylani Nur Ikar said in a phone interview today from inside the
building. The attack may have been carried out by al-Shabaab,
the al-Qaeda-linked rebel group, Xinhua reported, citing a pro-
al-Shabaab website that it said described the blast as a
“martyrdom operation.”  “We have collected 65 corpses and 60 wounded people
including students and pedestrians,” Ali Muse Sheikh, head of
the Mogadishu ambulance service, said in a phone interview. “We
are still in the process of helping the casualties” and the
death toll may rise, he said.  Al-Shabaab, which has pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda,
withdrew its forces from Mogadishu on Aug. 6 in what it
described as a “tactical” step. The militant group has waged a
four-year campaign to remove President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s Western-backed administration. It controls most of
southern and central Somalia.  At the scene of the incident, an exploded container truck
was parked outside the front gate of the building, which is
opposite the Criminal Investigation Department. The building is
situated on one the busiest roads in Mogadishu that links the
international airport to the presidential palace.  More than 90 people, including 9 children, were admitted to
Mogadishu’s Medina Hospital, the  International Committee of the
Red Cross  said in an e-mailed statement. The ICRC has supported
the hospital since 2000, it said.  “Many suffered burns and fractures,” the ICRC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  