-- 
Marathon Art Sale Raises Record $94.8 Million, Triple Estimate

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-10-04T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/sotheby-s-asia-marathon-sale-triples-estimate-to-make-record-94-8-million.html
A marathon of competitive bidding by
collectors of Chinese artworks pushed a Hong Kong auction to
more than three times its estimate.  Sotheby’s (BID)  biggest Chinese fine-painting sale ended last
night after almost 12 hours and 364 lots. Its total of HK$738.3
million ($94.8 million) including fees was the highest for the
New York-based auction house in that art category. The presale
estimate was HK$200 million at hammer prices.  Wealthy Chinese are keen to buy works by the nation’s top
artists. Bidding was brisk for 36 pieces by 20th-century master
 Zhang Daqian . Other highly sought lots by  Lin Fengmian  and Qi
Baishi sold at several times estimates. A second sale raised
$HK2.1 million for the University of Oxford’s China Center.  “I said to them to raise money is great,” Kevin Ching,
Sotheby’s Asia chief executive officer, commented on the Oxford
sale in an interview. “You will need to do many more
auctions.” More Chinese mainland parents are sending their
children to  England  for education, he said.  Yesterday’s top-selling lot was Zhang’s 1961 color picture
“Self Portrait in the Yellow Mountains.” The ink-and-water
work fetched HK$46.6 million, nearly four times its high
estimate of HK$12 million.  Enthusiastic bidding in the main saleroom -- where 16 lots
sold for more than HK$10 million -- wasn’t repeated in the
second salon for the charity event aiding the new HK$250 million
 center  in Oxford, England. Just 15 lots sold of 37 offered,
including porcelain, scrolls and embroidered robes.  Estimate Target  Excluding the Oxford sale, Sotheby’s has raised HK$1.6
billion in four days, including contemporary and 20th-century
Asian art and wine. It is on its way to exceeding its HK$2.7
billion estimate for six days of sales.  The highlight of today’s auctions include rare Qing dynasty
porcelains from the Meiyintang collection and a ring featuring a
9.27 carat pink diamond known as the Golconda Pink that carries
a high estimate of $19 million. Watches and jewelry from the
estate of  Hong Kong  singer and actress Anita Mui are also on
sale today, with the final sale of watches tomorrow.  Buyer’s premium, the commission added to the hammer price
of works sold, is 25 percent for the first HK$400,000, 20
percent for lots fetching as much as HK$8 million, and 12
percent above that. The wine premium is a flat 21 percent.
Estimates reflect the hammer price, before premium.  Potential buyers who aren’t represented at the  Hong Kong
Convention and Exhibition Centre  sale can bid via Sotheby’s
 online bidding system .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  