-- 
South Africa Plans Regulator for Health-Care Price, Quality

-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 
2011-10-04T12:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/south-africa-wants-to-deal-fairly-with-private-health-costs.html
South Africa  plans to set up a
health-care pricing commission to regulate the private sector
and “completely overhaul” the government medical service as
the country prepares to introduce compulsory medical insurance.  “If we leave it only to market forces, we can’t reach our
goals” of extending health care to the entire population,
Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said in a speech in
Johannesburg today. “I am not saying there must not be
commerce, but it must be reasonable.”  The government plans to introduce the National Health
Insurance program over 14 years starting in April in an effort
to improve an ailing public health system plagued by shortages
of medicine and staff as well as maintenance backlogs. The
country has the worst health outcomes among the major emerging
markets of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa, the
minister said.  Motsoaledi said he wants to deal “fairly and openly” with
costs and that private medical care will continue to exist.  “Not in the African National Congress, Cabinet or any
structure I belong to, have we discussed killing private health
care,” the minister said. “It’s not on the agenda.”  Both the government and private medical systems are
“destructive, unsustainable and need to change,” Motsoaledi
said. “The quality of health care in the public sector has to
be improved and isn’t a separate issue” from the insurance
program’s development.  The country has a “mountain to climb” to reduce a “still
extraordinarily high” child and maternal  mortality rate  and
meet the United Nation’s  Millennium Development Goals  by 2015,
Motsoaledi said. About 5.7 million South Africans have HIV, the
virus that causes AIDS, more than any other nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  