-- 
Spain Drugmakers Plan $7 Billion Unpaid-Bill Securitization

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-04T14:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/spain-drugmakers-eye-7-billion-bond-sale-backed-by-unpaid-bills.html
Spain’s pharmaceutical lobby is
negotiating with authorities a plan to sell state-guaranteed
securities backed by 5.4 billion euros ($7.1 billion) of unpaid
bills,  Farmaindustria  Director General Humberto Arnes said.  The group, which represents companies including the Spanish
units of  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) , is in talks with the
regional governments that owe the debt and the central
government, Arnes said in an interview in Madrid today. The aim
is to bundle the unpaid bills into a vehicle that would issue
securities guaranteed by the central government and channel the
proceeds to the companies, he said.  “It would allow the payment of the debt to be deferred by
several years and has a government guarantee which allows it to
be sold in the market,” Arnes said. “The mechanism allows a
delay until Spain is in a financial and economic situation that
allows it to face the pharmaceutical bill,” he said.  Spain ’s regional governments are struggling to pay
suppliers as the collapse of the real-estate boom has slashed
their  tax revenue  while access to capital markets has narrowed.
The regions, which control health and education, have racked up
record amounts of debt during the crisis, and together owe more
than twice what they did in 2007, Bank of Spain  data  shows.  The proposal comes as Spain’s central government pays more
than 5 percent to borrow for 10 years, amid growing expectations
of a Greek default. Government-guaranteed bonds due in 2013 that
are backed by Spanish power bills -- issued in a similar
securitization program -- yield 83 basis points above securities
issued by the Spanish Treasury.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis, and Alexander
Klauser, a spokesman for Roche, declined to comment immediately
on the plan. Both companies are based in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  ‘Very Advanced’  Work on the proposal is “very advanced,” and contacts
with regions and the government so far have been “positive,”
Arnes said. The facility, which would allow regions to delay
payments for around four to six years, would remain open to
including future unpaid bills, he said.  Arnes said the industry isn’t even considering the
possibility that the pharmaceutical debt won’t be repaid in
full. The vehicle would take the debt off the books of the
regions, with the aim that it wouldn’t restrict their ability to
borrow more, he said.  “It’s realistic because, firstly, it doesn’t saturate the
regions’ ability to take on debt,” he said.  Elections  The plan may have to be put in place by the next
government, as Spain holds elections on Nov. 20. Polls indicate
the opposition  People’s Party  will win. The PP already governs
in most of the regional administrations. A spokesman for the
 Finance Ministry  declined to comment on the proposal and no one
was available to comment at the Health Ministry in Madrid.  Spain’s regional governments owe 5.4 billion euros for
medicines supplied to hospitals and are paying bills an average
of 430 days late, Arnes said. That debt, as at June 30,
increased from 5.19 billion euros at the end of March, when the
average delay was 410 days, according to the group’s statistics.  The pharmaceutical debt is equivalent to about 0.5 percent
of Spanish gross domestic product. Regions also have combined
outstanding debt of 133.2 billion euros, or 12.4 percent of GDP,
according to data from the Bank of Spain, compared with 60
billion euros at the end of 2007. Moody’s Investors Service
cited concerns about the regions’ budgets when it put Spain’s
rating on review for a downgrade on July 29.  “The problem will not be solved by inertia,” Arnes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  