-- 
Spain Regions Rush to Sell $1.3 Billion of Property as Debt Pressure Grows

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-10-05T15:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/spain-regions-rush-to-sell-1-3-billion-property-to-cut-deficit.html
Catalonia and Andalusia, two of
Spain’s largest and most  indebted  regions, are trying to sell
$1.3 billion of real estate by the end of the year as the
country tries to slash its  budget deficit  and keep borrowing
costs from ballooning.  “We put the cream of the crop in the portfolios to ensure
the sales are completed,” Jacint Boixasa, director of assets
for  Catalonia , said in interview in  Barcelona . “Our target is
to sell 550 million euros ($742 million) of real estate by year-
end, which is relatively little time.”  Spanish regions, which control more than a third of public
spending, will play a pivotal role in the nation’s effort to cut
its deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 9.2 percent in 2010 as the country tries to avoid following
Greece, Ireland and Portugal in requiring a bailout. In August,
Moody’s Investors Service put  Spain ’s credit rating on review
for a downgrade, citing the worsening finances in the regions.  Catalonia is trying to find buyers for 37 properties
including the Barcelona stock market on Paseo de Gracia, Spain’s
fourth-most expensive commercial street, as well as the Catalan
Agriculture Ministry on Gran Via. Jones Lang LaSalle and Madrid-
based real-estate consultant Aguirre Newman are advising the
government on the sales.  Andalusia  hired BNP Paribas SA to help raise at least  400
million euros  selling  76 properties  including the cultural
department in Granada and youth centers in Malaga, according to
the region’s treasury department. The government will pay around
30 million euros a year to lease the buildings after the sale  Offers Arrive  “We have 10 non-binding offers -- mainly from Anglo-Saxon
investors -- for the entire portfolio that exceed our target,”
 Manuel Sanchez Galey , general director of finances for
Andalusia’s treasury department, said in an interview in the
regional capital, Seville. “I am completely confident we will
close the deal on time.”  He declined to identify any of the bidders because the
process is confidential. A spokesman for  BNP Paribas (BNP)  in Spain
wouldn’t comment.  Office property investment in  Madrid  and Barcelona, Spain’s
biggest markets, dropped 56 percent in the first half from a
year earlier to 276.6 million euros, according to Aguirre
Newman, a real-estate broker based in the Spanish capital. Prime
office rents in Madrid declined to 27.09 euros a square meter in
July from 27.50 euros in January and slipped to 16.80 a square
meter from 17.05 euros in Barcelona.  Success ‘Unlikely’  “It’s unlikely that a large-scale portfolio sale will be
completed on time, due to the volatility in financial markets
and restrictions on funding,” Patricio Palomar, head of
research at CBRE Group Inc. in Spain said in an interview.
“It’s possible that equity could be raised for one portfolio,
but unlikely it can be done for both.”  Some individual assets owned by the regions may be bought
by private investors who don’t require funding, he said.  Catalonia and Andalusia, whose economies match the size of
 Portugal  and Ireland, have 38.5 billion euros and 13.5 billion
euros of debt respectively, ranking them the first and fourth-
most indebted of Spain’s 17 regions in  nominal  terms, according
to data from the Bank of Spain. Both regions have included the
future proceeds from the property sales in their 2011  budgets .
Valencia and Madrid are the second and third most indebted.  “We have to get this right,” Sanchez Galey said. “We are
carrying out the first sale of regional government-owned real
estate ever on this scale. People will be watching closely.”  Template for Regions  The sales may pave the way for other debt-laden regions,
Palomar said. Last year, public-sector property sales in  Europe 
totaled 1.1 billion euros, or 7.5 percent of all disposals by
building occupiers, with  Sweden , the U.K., Germany and  Italy 
representing 75 percent of the total, according to CBRE.  “Spanish administrations have traditionally been buyers
not sellers of real estate, so there are a lot of assets that
could be sold,” Palomar said in an interview in Madrid.  Selling so much property in just a few months will be
challenging said Vanessa Gelado, vice president of  Drago Real
Estate Partners Ltd.  The company took part in Pearl Group Plc’s
2.04 billion-euro purchase of 1,152 Banco Santander SA branches
in 2007.  “They are working against the clock,” she said in an
interview. “It’s not impossible for them to do it, but the
calendar is very tight.”  The debt burden of Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions’
surged to a record 133.2 billion euros, or 12.4 percent of gross
domestic product, in the second quarter from 11.6 percent in the
previous three months as  tax revenue  from real estate and land
sales dropped.  Biggest Debt  All the regions except Catalonia pledged to limit their
deficits to 1.3 percent of gross domestic product to help cut
the national budget gap, currently the third highest in the euro
region after  Greece  and Ireland.  Following local elections last year, the incoming
government of Catalonia said the 2010 deficit was 60 percent
wider than its predecessors had acknowledged. It plans a deficit
equal to 2.7 percent of GDP this year, more than twice the
national government goal.  Fitch’s downgrades of the regions could affect their
property sales because the governments themselves would be the
tenants in most of the properties offered.  “The credit rating of the tenant who is going to occupy
your buildings is very important as it has a huge impact on the
cost of your financing,” Gelado said. “Rating cuts aren’t good
news.”  Downgrade Woes  Though investors tend to favor government tenants because
of the steady income they generate, buying Spanish state
property may be less attractive than it was five years ago, said
Simon Martin, head of research and investment strategy at
 Tristan Capital Partners , a London-based real estate investment
company with 2.8 billion euros of assets under management.  Martin said he isn’t looking to invest in the assets being
sold by Catalonia and Andalusia.  The buildings Catalonia sells will be rented back by the
regional government for a maximum of 37 million euros a year
with leases of 20 years or more, according to Boixasa.  Catalonia’s Boixasa said the properties on offer are a
competitive investment as other assets are hurt by economic
concerns and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Stock markets continue to fall,” he said. “Fixed income
is returning less and less, companies and countries keep having
their ratings cut, so what investment options do I have?”  Stocks Struggle  The Euro Stoxx 50 index has dropped 25 percent and more
than $6 trillion was wiped from equity values globally this year
as political leaders struggle to contain a debt crisis that has
Greece teetering on the edge of a default.  Investors demand a yield of 1.96 percent to hold German 10-
year bonds, considered the safest debt in Europe. That is 29
basis points up from the 1.67 percent yield of the bunds on
September 22, the lowest since at least 1992, according to
Bloomberg data.  “Regional governments are guaranteeing the rents and I
find it very hard to believe that a regional government could
default,” said Gelado. “But in the post-Lehman world where
anything can happen, you have to ask yourself whether it
could.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 