-- 
Sprint Slump Accelerates on Concern IPhone Will Hurt Profit

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-04T14:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/sprint-stock-slump-accelerates-on-concern-iphone-will-hurt-profitability.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless operator, slumped as much as 18 percent in
New York trading on concern its plan to offer  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone to customers will hurt profitability.  Sprint has committed to buy at least 30.5 million iPhones
over four years, which would cost $20 billion at current rates,
the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.  The deal would add a burden to unprofitable Sprint, which
is already spending billions to upgrade its wireless network.
The  Overland Park , Kansas-based company also owns about half of
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , another money-losing carrier that is seeking
additional funding.  “If it’s true, throwing a $20 billion dollar liability on
your balance sheet is insanity,” said Ben Abramovitz, an
analyst at Kaufman Brothers LP. “We may have just reached a
tipping point. Investors have all these questions. ‘What is your
Clearwire strategy? What is your 4G strategy? What are you going
to do about the iPhone?’”  Sprint fell 25 cents, or 9.2 percent, to $2.48 at 10:49
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading, after dropping as low
as $2.25. It lost 10 percent yesterday.  Sprint, which will present its plan to investors Oct. 7, is
struggling to compete against Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
the two largest U.S. wireless operators, which are both able to
offer the Apple device. In July, Sprint reported its 15th
consecutive quarterly loss and lost more contract customers than
some analysts had estimated.  Bill White , a Sprint spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net 
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  