-- 
Sprint to Offer IPhone in Battle With AT&T, Verizon Wireless

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-10-04T20:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/sprint-gets-right-to-offer-latest-iphone-in-competition-with-at-t-verizon.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless operator, struck a deal to offer  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest iPhone, joining rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Wireless  in selling the device.  Sprint will begin selling the iPhone 4S on Oct. 14 along
with its competitors. The iPhone 4S uses two antennas to improve
call quality and a processor that is seven times faster than the
chip in the previous phone, Apple said today at a press
conference at its headquarters in Cupertino, California.  “They have been at a competitive disadvantage and this
puts them on a level playing field with AT&T and Verizon,” said
Michael Nelson, an analyst with Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
“They will benefit from improved retention of their customers
and a high level of customer upgrades.”  Sprint has been struggling to compete against Verizon
Wireless and AT&T, the two largest U.S. wireless operators,
which both already offer the Apple device. The Overland Park,
Kansas-based company has lost money for 15 consecutive quarters
and in July reported a decline in contract customers that was
larger than some analysts had estimated. Lack of the iPhone has
been the top reason customers choose other carriers, Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  told investors last month.  Verizon Wireless, which is majority owned by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , added the iPhone in February after almost
four years of AT&T exclusivity. In the second quarter, the first
full quarter with two iPhone carriers, AT&T activated 3.6
million of the devices, while Verizon, the largest wireless
carrier, activated 2.3 million.  Boost Sales  Sprint gained 13 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $2.86 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange trading. The stock has dropped 32
percent this year.  Sprint may add 214,000 new contract subscribers this year
with the iPhone, compared with 855,000 customers it lost last
year, said John Hodulik, an analyst with UBS AG, who rates the
shares “neutral.” Hodulik estimates Sprint will sell 1.2
million iPhones in the fourth quarter, with about 25 percent of
those coming from other carriers.  Sprint will offer the phone with unlimited data service and
plans to distinguish itself from AT&T and Verizon Wireless,
people familiar with the matter said last month. That could draw
customers away from the other carriers, said  Todd Rethemeier , an
analyst at Hudson Square Research in New York.  Sprint already offers unlimited data plans for smartphones
such as  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s BlackBerry and  HTC Corp. (2498) ’s
Evo, which runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 Smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  