-- 
Tom Moore Gets Caught by Stock Slump in Income Hunt

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-10-05T17:31:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/standard-life-s-moore-gets-caught-by-stock-slump-in-income-hunt.html
(Corrects name of fund in first paragraph.)  Tom Moore, manager of the U.K. Equity
Income Unconstrained Fund at Standard Life Investments,
benefited for two-and-a-half years by looking for superior
returns outside the biggest dividend payers in the benchmark
FTSE 100 Index. That strategy backfired last quarter.  His fund was the third worst of 101 similar funds in the
three months to Sept. 30, according to Chicago-based research
firm Morningstar Inc. Over the previous 10 quarters, since Moore
took over at the start of 2009, it ranked fourth of 83 funds,
Morningstar said. Financial stocks  Melrose Plc (MRO) ,  3i Group Plc (III)  and
 Man Group Plc (EMG) , three of its largest holdings, fell twice as much
as the index or more, dragging down returns.  “The strategy hasn’t worked in the last six to eight weeks
because midcap stocks tend to underperform in times of stress,”
Moore said in a Sept. 27 interview at Bloomberg’s Edinburgh
office. “We just need a change of sentiment. If we get a
tailwind the  risk aversion  will wane.”  With U.K. interest rates at record lows, investors have
favored companies handing out more of their earnings to
shareholders. Since Moore took over the 58 million-pound ($90
million) fund, dividends have added 75 percent to the return on
the  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) , according to Morningstar.  From the start of 2009 to the end of the second quarter,
the fund, which targets individual investors rather than pension
funds, posted a total return of 84 percent, according to
Morningstar. That slumped to 54 percent by the end of the third
quarter. The earlier outperformance means it still ranks fifth-
best over Moore’s tenure.  Institutional Clients  Standard Life Investments , Edinburgh’s largest money
manager, oversaw 156.9 billion pounds as of June 30. Moore also
manages three funds for institutional clients with assets
totaling 430 million pounds.  Melrose, a U.K. investment firm that on Sept. 27 abandoned
plans to buy Charter Plc, plunged 39 percent in the quarter. 3i
Group, the U.K.’s largest publicly traded private equity firm,
declined 33 percent. Man Group, the world’s largest publicly
traded hedge fund manager, dropped twice the 14 percent decline
in the FTSE All-Share Index.  “This fund is trying to get away from indexes, it’s much
more my best ideas,” said Moore, 35, who holds about 60 stocks
in the fund. “What is helping is taking a different view and
looking in places where traditionally income funds don’t go.”  U.K. Dividends  Three quarters of all U.K. dividends are paid out by 20
companies, headed by Vodafone Plc, the world’s biggest mobile-
phone operator, and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil
company and the fund’s largest holding. Only four of them are
among Moore’s 20 largest investments.  Other holdings include Stagecoach Plc, the Perth, Scotland-
based bus and rail operator that said in August it is returning
340 million pounds to investors in cash. Its stock has risen 14
percent this year.  Moore has trimmed stakes in HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s
largest bank,  BP Plc (BP/)  and copper producer Kazakhmys Plc and sold
out of Domino Printing Sciences Plc, while increasing holdings
in companies such as  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT) , the producer of a
third of all auto-catalysts, oil services company Petrofac Plc
and software maker  SDL Plc. (SDL)   Thirty-four companies in western Europe were identified by
Bloomberg in August as having scope for dividend increases or
buybacks, based on stock market value and analysis of payouts.  Largest Holdings  They included seven of Moore’s 20 largest holdings: WPP
Plc, Imperial Tobacco Plc, Carillion, Melrose,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , caterer Compass Group Plc and money manager Ashmore Group
Plc. The risk of financially sound companies cutting payouts is
less now than in 2008 or 2009, Moore said.  Earnings per share are now on average 2.8 times higher than
dividends, the highest multiple since 1975, according to Moore.
At the same time, share prices are at their lowest relative to
earnings since 1982, apart from at the height of the global
financial crisis, he said.  “The market is rich with opportunities,” Moore said.
“Stocks with structural growth drivers are available at an
unusually reasonable price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  