-- 
Bernanke Statement to the Joint Economic Committee (Full Text)

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-10-04T14:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/statement-by-bernanke-to-the-joint-congressional-economic-committee-text-.html
Following is the prepared text
of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s statement to the Joint
Economic Committee of the  U.S. Congress  today:  Chairman Casey, Vice Chairman Brady, and other members of the
Committee, I appreciate this opportunity to discuss the economic
outlook and recent monetary policy actions.
It has been three years since the beginning of the most intense
phase of the financial crisis in the late summer and fall of
2008, and more than two years since the economic recovery began
in June 2009.  There have been some positive developments: The functioning of
financial markets and the banking system in the United States
has improved significantly. Manufacturing production in the
United States has risen nearly 15 percent since its trough,
driven substantially by growth in exports; indeed, the  U.S.
trade deficit  has been notably lower recently than it was before
the crisis, reflecting in part the improved competitiveness of
U.S. goods and services. Business investment in equipment and
software has continued to expand, and productivity gains in some
industries have been impressive.  Nevertheless, it is clear that, overall, the recovery from the
crisis has been much less robust than we had hoped. Recent
revisions of government economic data show the recession as
having been even deeper, and the recovery weaker, than
previously estimated; indeed, by the second quarter of this
year--the latest quarter for which official estimates are
available--aggregate output in the  United States  still had not
returned to the level that it had attained before the crisis.
Slow economic growth has in turn led to slow rates of increase
in jobs and household incomes.  The pattern of sluggish growth was particularly evident in the
first half of this year, with real gross domestic product (GDP)
estimated to have increased at an average annual rate of less
than 1 percent. Some of this weakness can be attributed to
temporary factors. Notably, earlier this year, political unrest
in the  Middle East  and North Africa, strong growth in emerging
market economies, and other developments contributed to
significant increases in the prices of oil and other
commodities, which damped consumer purchasing power and
spending; and the disaster in  Japan disrupted global supply chains and production,
particularly in the automobile industry. With commodity prices
having come off their highs and manufacturers’ problems with
supply chains well along toward resolution, growth in the second
half of the year seems likely to be more rapid than in the first
half.  However, the incoming data suggest that other, more persistent
factors also continue to restrain the pace of recovery.
Consequently, the  Federal Open Market Committee  (FOMC) now
expects a somewhat slower pace of economic growth over coming
quarters than it did at the time of the June meeting, when
Committee participants most recently submitted economic
forecasts.  Consumer behavior has both reflected and contributed to the slow
pace of recovery. Households have been very cautious in their
spending decisions, as declines in  house prices  and in the
values of financial assets have reduced household wealth, and
many families continue to struggle with high debt burdens or
reduced access to credit. Probably the most significant factor
depressing  consumer confidence , however, has been the poor
performance of the job market. Over the summer, private payrolls
rose by only about 100,000 jobs per month on average--half of
the rate posted earlier in the year.1
Meanwhile, state and local governments have continued to shed
jobs, as they have been doing for more than two years. With
these weak gains in employment, the  unemployment rate  has held
close to 9 percent since early this year. Moreover, recent
indicators, including new claims for  unemployment insurance  and
surveys of hiring plans, point to the likelihood of more
sluggish job growth in the period ahead.  Other sectors of the economy are also contributing to the
slower-than-expected rate of expansion. The housing sector has
been a significant driver of recovery from most recessions in
the United States since World War II. This time, however, a
number of factors--including the  overhang of distressed and foreclosed properties, tight credit
conditions for builders and potential homebuyers, and the large
number of “underwater” mortgages (on which homeowners owe more
than their homes are worth)--have left the rate of new home
construction at only about one-third of its average level in
recent decades.  In the financial sphere, as I noted, banking and financial
conditions in the United States have improved significantly
since the depths of the crisis. Nonetheless, financial stresses
persist. Credit remains tight for many households, small
businesses, and residential and commercial builders, in part
because weaker balance sheets and income prospects have
increased the perceived credit risk of many potential borrowers.  We have also recently seen bouts of elevated volatility and risk
aversion in financial markets, partly in reaction to fiscal
concerns both here and abroad. Domestically, the controversy
during the summer regarding the raising of the federal debt
ceiling and the downgrade of the U.S. long-term credit rating by
one of the major rating agencies contributed to the financial
turbulence that occurred around that time. Outside the United
States, concerns about sovereign debt in  Greece  and other euro-
zone countries, as well as about the sovereign debt exposures of
the European banking system, have been a significant source of
stress in global financial markets. European leaders are
strongly committed to addressing these issues, but the need to
obtain agreement among a large number of countries to put in
place necessary backstops and to address the sources of the
fiscal problems has slowed the process of finding solutions. It
is difficult to judge how much these financial strains have
affected U.S. economic activity thus far, but there seems little
doubt that they have hurt household and business confidence, and
that they pose ongoing risks to growth.  Another factor likely to weigh on the U.S. recovery is the
increasing drag being exerted by the government sector. Notably,
state and local governments continue to tighten their belts by  cutting spending and employment in the face of ongoing budgetary
pressures, while the future course of federal fiscal policies
remains quite uncertain.  To be sure, fiscal policymakers face a complex situation. I
would submit that, in setting tax and spending policies for now
and the future, policymakers should consider at least four key
objectives. One crucial objective is to achieve long-run fiscal
sustainability. The federal budget is clearly not on a
sustainable path at present. The Joint Select Committee on
 Deficit Reduction , formed as part of the Budget Control Act, is
charged with achieving $1.5 trillion in additional deficit
reduction over the next 10 years on top of the spending caps
enacted this summer. Accomplishing that goal would be a
substantial step; however, more will be needed to achieve fiscal
sustainability.  A second important objective is to avoid fiscal actions that
could impede the ongoing economic recovery. These first two
objectives are certainly not incompatible, as putting in place a
credible plan for reducing future deficits over the longer term
does not preclude attending to the implications of fiscal
choices for the recovery in the near term. Third, fiscal policy
should aim to promote long-term growth and economic opportunity.
As a nation, we need to think carefully about how federal
spending priorities and the design of the  tax code  affect the
productivity and vitality of our economy in the longer term.
Fourth, there is evident need to improve the process for making
long-term budget decisions, to create greater predictability and
clarity, while avoiding disruptions to the financial markets and
the economy. In sum, the nation faces difficult and fundamental
fiscal choices, which cannot be safely or responsibly postponed.
Returning to the discussion of the economic outlook, let me turn
now to the prospects for inflation. Prices of many commodities,
notably oil, increased sharply earlier this year, as I noted,
leading to higher retail gasoline and food prices. In addition,
producers of other goods and
services were able to pass through some of their higher input
costs to their customers. Separately, the global supply
disruptions associated with the disaster in  Japan  put upward
pressure on prices of motor vehicles. As a result of these
influences, inflation picked up during the first half of this
year; over that period, the  price index  for personal consumption
expenditures rose at an annual rate of about 3-1/2 percent,
compared with an average of less than 1-1/2 percent over the
preceding two years.  As the FOMC anticipated, however, inflation has begun to
moderate as these transitory influences wane. In particular, the
prices of oil and many other commodities have either leveled off
or have come down from their highs, and the step-up in
automobile production has started to reduce pressures on the
prices of cars and light trucks. Importantly, the higher rate of
inflation experienced so far this year does not appear to have
become ingrained in the economy. Longer-term inflation
expectations have remained stable according to surveys of
households and economic forecasters, and the five-year-forward
measure of inflation compensation derived from yields on nominal
and inflation-protected  Treasury securities  suggests that
inflation expectations among investors may have moved lower
recently. In addition to the stability of longer-term inflation
expectations, the substantial amount of resource slack in U.S.
labor and product markets should continue to restrain
inflationary pressures.  In view of the deterioration in the economic outlook over the
summer and the subdued inflation picture over the medium run,
the FOMC has taken several steps recently to provide additional
policy accommodation. At the August meeting, the Committee
provided greater clarity about its outlook for the level of
short-term  interest rates  by noting that economic conditions
were likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal
funds rate at least through mid-2013. And at our meeting in
September, the Committee announced that it intends - 6 -  to increase the average maturity of the securities in the
 Federal Reserve ’s portfolio. Specifically, it intends to
purchase, by the end of June 2012, $400 billion of Treasury
securities with remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years and
to sell an equal amount of Treasury securities with remaining
maturities of 3 years or less, leaving the size of our balance
sheet approximately unchanged. This maturity extension program
should put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and
help make broader financial conditions more supportive of
economic growth than they would otherwise have been.  The Committee also announced in September that it will begin
reinvesting principal payments on its holdings of agency debt
and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed
securities rather than in longer-term Treasury securities. By
helping to support mortgage markets, this action too should
contribute to a stronger economic recovery. The Committee will
continue to closely monitor economic developments and is
prepared to take further action as appropriate to promote a
stronger economic recovery in a context of  price stability .
 Monetary policy  can be a powerful tool, but it is not a panacea
for the problems currently faced by the  U.S. economy . Fostering
healthy growth and job creation is a shared responsibility of
all economic policymakers, in close cooperation with the private
sector. Fiscal policy is of critical importance, as I have noted
today, but a wide range of other policies--pertaining to labor
markets, housing, trade, taxation, and regulation, for example--
also have important roles to play. For our part, we at the
Federal Reserve will continue to work to help create an
environment that provides the greatest possible economic
opportunity for all Americans.  1 The figure of 100,000 private jobs per month adjusts for the
effects of the two-week strike by communications workers at
Verizon, which held down measured payrolls in August.  #<659699.3550614.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 