-- 
Steinitz Optimistic Cabinet Will Approve Panel’s Proposals

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-10-04T11:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/steinitz-optimistic-cabinet-to-approve-panel-s-recommendations.html
Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said he is optimistic that the government will get the
Cabinet to approve the proposals of a panel on reducing the cost
of living after failing to garner enough support yesterday.  The panel, appointed by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
in response to protests over consumer and housing prices,
proposed that corporate taxes be set at 25 percent next year and
26 percent in 2013. They were 24 percent this year. It said the
top rate of personal income tax should be raised to 48 percent
and that the country must increase its stock of affordable
housing and open its markets to more imports.  “The government will not miss the opportunity to make this
correction,” Steinitz said at a conference today in  Tel Aviv .
The Cabinet meets again next week to discuss the proposals.  Netanyahu tapped the panel, led by economist Manuel
Trajtenberg, to come up with proposals after mass street
protests across the country calling for lower prices and more
affordable housing. Ministers in two parties in Netanyahu’s
ruling coalition, Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael
Beitenu and the religious Shas faction, have objected to the
report.  “I don’t see here any real solutions to the problem of
poverty in  Israel ,” Minister of Tourism Stas Misezhnikov of
Yisrael Beitenu told  Army Radio  yesterday. “This won’t solve
the housing problem, won’t solve the problem of indirect taxes
and won’t bring funds flowing into the Education Ministry.”  Labor Union  The Histadrut Labor Federation also criticized the
recommendations, saying they fail to address the issue of
contract workers. Israel’s largest union said it planned to
announce the start of a work dispute on Oct. 11, the first step
toward a strike.  The tax increases would raise 30 billion shekels ($8
billion) over five years and the money should mostly be spent on
education, the panel said when it presented its recommendations
on Sept. 26. It also proposed cuts to the  defense budget .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 