-- 
Congress Approves Stopgap Measure to Avert Government Shutdown

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-10-04T18:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/stopgap-bill-gets-final-approval-in-congress-to-avert-government-shutdown.html
The  U.S. Congress  gave final approval
to a stopgap spending measure to keep federal agencies running
while lawmakers battle over the government’s fiscal 2012 budget.  The bill, which would keep the government open until Nov.
18, was approved today by the House on a 352-66 vote and now
heads to President  Barack Obama  for his signature. A temporary
budget measure funding the government expires tonight.  Lawmakers haven’t approved any of the dozen annual spending
bills that would set funding levels for hundreds of programs for
the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. Negotiations are likely to be
difficult.  While Congress and the administration have agreed to spend
$1.043 trillion in fiscal 2012, they are at odds over how to
divide that money.  House Republicans  seek a number of changes opposed by
Democrats, including ending funding for the public radio network
NPR, Planned Parenthood because it provides abortions, and the
Americorps volunteer program. Republicans also are proposing
cuts in programs such as  Pell grants , which help low-income
students go to college.  At the same time, House Speaker  John Boehner  won’t be able
to count on support from some Republican colleagues in budget
negotiations because they object to the spending levels agreed
to as part of a deal reached several months ago to raise the
U.S. debt limit.  That may threaten a repeat of last month’s showdown over a
disaster-assistance measure that initially failed in the House
when many Republicans balked because the bill was attached to
the stopgap measure that expires tonight.  The bill is H.R. 2608.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  