-- 
Swiss Stocks Fall for Third Day; Credit Suisse, Julius Baer Slip

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-10-04T16:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/swiss-stocks-fall-for-third-day-credit-suisse-julius-baer-slip.html
Swiss stocks declined for a third day
as concern escalated that policy makers aren’t close to
resolving Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and that global growth
will stall.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the country’s fifth-biggest wealth
manager, and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  dropped more than 2.5
percent.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  slid 6.3 percent as oil fell.  UBS AG (UBSN) 
rose 1.4 percent after saying it expects a “modest” third-
quarter profit.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, slid 0.9 percent to 5,444.55 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has retreated 19 percent
from its high this year on Feb. 18. The broader Swiss
Performance Index decreased 1.1 percent today.  “Markets are beginning to come to the conclusion that
ministers are far too behind the curve to get a handle on the
crisis and that having so many different bureaucracies involved
makes the probability of any unified agreement any time soon a
slim probability,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at London Capital
Group, wrote. “With such a negative environment, traders will
remain highly risk averse.”  Euro-area finance ministers meeting yesterday considered
“technical revisions” to a July deal for a second Greek aid
package, fueling concern that bondholders may have to take
bigger losses on the nation’s debt.  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
chaired the meeting, said the ministers considered reshaping the
private sector’s 50 billion-euro ($67 billion) involvement in
July’s 159 billion-euro rescue. The package included debt
exchange and rollover.  Goldman Cuts Forecasts  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its global growth forecast for
this year and next and predicted recession in Germany and France
as the European economy stalls and the risk of a contraction in
the U.S. grows. The world economy will probably expand 3.8
percent this year and 3.5 percent in 2012, compared with earlier
estimates of 3.9 percent for 2011 and 4.2 percent for next year,
Goldman Sachs economists Jan Hatzius and  Dominic Wilson  wrote in
an Oct. 3 report.  Julius Baer  sank 2.7 percent to 29.59 Swiss francs. Credit
Suisse fell 3.5 percent to 22.10 francs.  Transocean, the biggest offshore drilling contractor, slid
6.3 percent to 40.92 francs as oil fell for a third day in  New
York  after the chairman of Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp.
said the country’s production will rise to more than 500,000
barrels a day by the end of this month.  ABB, UBS  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker of power-transmission
gear, tumbled 3.4 percent to 15 francs. JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut
its 2012-2013 earnings-per-share estimates for electrical
engineers a further 5 percent to 10 percent.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, rose 1.4 percent to 10.23
francs as the Zurich-based bank forecast a “modest” third-
quarter profit as gains from wider credit spreads and the sale
of bonds cushion its $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized
trading.  UBS said last month it may be unprofitable in the quarter
after discovering losses from unauthorized trading at its
investment bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  