-- 
U.K. Construction Almost Stagnates in September as Orders Drop

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-04T09:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/u-k-cips-construction-index-falls-to-50-1-in-september.html
U.K. construction output almost
stagnated in September as the level of new business fell for the
first time since February 2010.  A gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers dropped to 50.1 from 52.6 in August, Markit
and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  in  London 
said in a  report  today. That’s lower than the median forecast of
51.6 in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists. A measure
above 50 indicates expansion.  “Construction companies continued to struggle in the face
of growing concerns about the wider economy, with weaker client
confidence leading to a reduction in new business,” Markit
economist Sarah Bingham said in the report. “Growth slowed to
near-stagnation, with constructors relying on work on existing
contracts to support output. This therefore bodes ill for
construction activity in the coming months.”  The U.K.’s recovery is faltering as global growth slows,
 Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on confidence and the government
implements the biggest budget cuts since World War II to narrow
the deficit. Meanwhile, a squeeze on household incomes from
faster-than-targeted inflation and rising unemployment is
eroding  consumer confidence  and undermining the housing market.  ‘Subdued’ Confidence  Civil engineering declined in September as government-
related clients curtailed spending, while homebuilding shrank at
the fastest rate in nine months, Markit said. Commercial
building expanded, though remained below its long-term trend.
The report also said that confidence among construction
executives “remained relatively subdued.”  While input costs for builders rose “markedly” in
September, driven by higher raw material and fuel costs, the
rate of inflation slowed “sharply,” with the measure
registering its sharpest monthly decrease since March 2009,
Markit said.  U.K. manufacturing rebounded in September from a 26-month
low as factories depleted backlogs of work at the fastest pace
for two years, CIPS and Markit said yesterday. A survey due to
be published tomorrow will show British services growth slowed,
according to the median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The deteriorating outlook will spur the  Bank of England  to
resume its emergency bond-purchase program this week, according
to nine out of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That’s
the highest proportion since November 2009, when the central
bank last expanded the program. The rest say the bank will hold
the program at 200 billion pounds ($308 billion).  All 53 economists in a separate survey see no change in the
Bank of England’s key interest rate at the Oct. 6 policy
meeting, which is at a record low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  