-- 
U.K.’s Karak to Start $1.8 Billion Oil Shale Project in Jordan

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-10-04T12:40:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/u-k-s-karak-to-start-1-8-billion-oil-shale-project-in-jordan.html
Karak International Oil  can start a
$1.8 billion oil shale project expected to produce 15,000
barrels of oil a day by 2016 in  Jordan  after securing a royal
decree, according to the British embassy in the kingdom.  Karak International, a unit of  Tunbridge Wells , England-
based Jordan Energy and Mining Ltd., has invested $30 million in
the plan, the embassy said in an e-mailed statement today. The
company signed an agreement with Jordan in March. The project
will help the nation by “reducing its reliance on foreign oil
imports and increasing national wealth by an estimated $60
million per year through tax and royalties,” it said.  Karak plans to use Canadian and German technology to
extract and process oil shale in an area called Lajjun south of
Amman, according to the statement. The company expects to expand
output gradually to 60,000 barrels a day, the embassy said in a
statement on March 9.  The project will help Jordan “to increase energy from
indigenous oil shale resources from zero to 14 percent of the
country’s energy requirements by 2020,” Khalid Touqan, Jordan’s
minister of energy, was cited as saying in today’s statement.  Jordan has the world’s fourth-largest reserves of oil
shale, a sedimentary rock containing solid bituminous materials
that are released as petroleum-like liquids when the rock is
heated, according to former Energy Minister Khalid Irani. The
kingdom, which imports almost all of its energy, holds about 40
billion metric tons of shale oil, according to government
figures. The country is turning to nuclear, solar, wind and oil
shale to meet increasing power demand and hopes to attract $14
billion in investments in energy infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  