-- 
U.K. Shop-Price Inflation Unchanged as Stores Cut Prices to Lure Consumers

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/u-k-retail-inflation-unchanged-as-shops-absorb-higher-costs.html
U.K. shop-price growth was unchanged
in September as supermarkets absorbed costs to attract shoppers
squeezed by rising fuel and utility prices, the  British Retail
Consortium  said.  Retail prices rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the
same pace as in August, the trade group and Nielsen Co. said in
an e-mailed report in  London  today. On the month, prices gained
0.2 percent. A separate report from KPMG LLP showed hiring of
both permanent and temporary staff grew at the slowest pace in
more than two years last month.  The Bank of England has predicted that inflation will
accelerate to 5 percent before slowing next year as the impact
of higher commodity prices, a declining pound and an increase in
 sales tax  earlier this year fade. Retailers such as  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,
the U.K.’s No.1 supermarket chain, are cutting prices as
consumers scale back spending in the face of weak wage growth
and a faltering economic recovery.  “The pressures on prices from world commodities, import
inflation and January’s value-added tax rise haven’t gone away,
but they haven’t worsened either,” BRC Director General Stephen Robertson said in the report. “Fundamental conditions are
unlikely to change much this side of Christmas.”  Annual food-price inflation was 5 percent last month, the
same as in August, while non-food prices climbed 1.3 percent,
down from 1.4 percent.  Price Cuts  U.K. consumer confidence is weakening as unemployment rises
and inflation quickens. Consumer-price growth was 4.5 percent in
August, more than double the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent target.
A retail-sales index fell to its lowest level in 16 months in
September, the  Confederation of British Industry  said last week.  Tesco said on Sept. 22 it will lower prices on 3,000
essential items such as milk, fruit and vegetables as it seeks
to attract cash-strapped shoppers. “Across the country,
families are telling us the same thing -- their budgets are
under real pressure,” Tesco’s U.K. chief  Richard Brasher  said.  The faltering recovery and threats from  Europe ’s debt
crisis prompted most Bank of England policy makers to say last
month that more stimulus for the economy is “increasingly
probable.” Nine of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey say
the central bank will resume its emergency bond-purchase program
tomorrow. The rest say it will hold the plan at 200 billion
pounds ($308 billion).  All 53 economists in a separate survey see no change in the
key  interest rate , which is at a record low of 0.5 percent. The
announcements will be made at noon in London.  In their report, KPMG and the Recruitment and Employment
Confederation said an index of hiring of full-time staff dropped
to 51.2 in September from 52.4 the previous month. A measure of
demand for temporary staff dropped to 50.9 from 52.5. Both
readings were the lowest since August 2009. A result above 50
indicates an increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  