-- 
Death Toll Climbs to 18 in U.S. From Tainted Cantaloupes

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-04T20:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/u-s-death-toll-from-tainted-cantaloupes-rises-to-18-cdc-says.html
The death toll from listeria linked
to contaminated cantaloupes has climbed to 18, while 100 people
have been sickened in the deadliest U.S. foodborne illness
outbreak in more than a decade, the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention  said.  The illnesses now span 20 states, the CDC said today in an
 update  on its website. The agency earlier  reported  that as of
Sept. 30, laboratory tests had confirmed 84 people in 19 states
had fallen ill from the tainted melons and 15 deaths had been
tied to infections triggered by the contaminated fruit.  The listeria outbreak, the first ever linked to cantaloupe,
may sicken people through October because those who eat the
tainted cantaloupes can take more than two months to become
sick, CDC Director  Thomas Frieden  said Sept. 28 on a conference
call. Jensen Farms of Granada,  Colorado , recalled the
cantaloupes on Sept. 14.  “Cantaloupes that are known to not have come from Jensen
Farms are safe to eat,” the CDC said in today’s update. “If
consumers are uncertain about the source of a cantaloupe for
purchase, they should ask the grocery store.”  Food and Drug Administration officials said Sept. 28 that
they working with Colorado officials to learn how the
contamination occurred.  Listeria, a bacterium often found in soil and water,
sickens about 1,600 people and kills about 260 in the U.S. each
year, according to the CDC website.  Animals  can carry the germ
without appearing ill. Pregnant women, the elderly and those
with weakened immune systems are at greatest risk from listeria
infections. Symptoms include fever and diarrhea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  