-- 
U.S. Earnings May Not Matter Given Greek Debt Crisis, Citi Says

-- B y   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n
-- 
2011-10-04T17:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/u-s-earnings-may-not-matter-given-greek-debt-crisis-citi-says.html
Third-quarter earnings season may
mean little to investors amid speculation  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis will harm the global economy, Citigroup Inc. said.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index profits will miss analyst
estimates for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2008,
according to Steven Wieting, a New York-based managing director
of economic and market analysis at Citigroup, in a note
yesterday. European developments may determine the impact of
earnings reports on the market during this time of record
correlation among U.S. stocks, he said.  “As the rallies of the past few weeks show, investors
would not ignore convincing steps from officials to diffuse
sovereign debt risks in Europe,” Wieting wrote. “But in the
absence of such steps, reasonably solid earnings reports would
most likely provide only a temporary respite from macro-driven
markets.”  U.S. options traders see almost no chance that earnings,
dividends or buybacks will influence stock prices through the
end of 2011, instead placing record bets that equities move in
lockstep in reaction to Europe’s debt crisis. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange S&P 500 Implied Correlation Index jumped to a
record 90.28 on Sept. 30. The correlation coefficient of S&P 500
companies with the index has surged to 0.85, its highest level
ever, according to data on the 50-day rolling average from
Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut . A correlation
of 1 would mean they move in lockstep.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc. will become the first Dow Jones Industrial
Average company to report third-quarter results on Oct. 11.
Euro-area finance ministers, who yesterday discussed re-crafting
a July deal on private-investor participation in a new Greek
rescue, pushed back a decision on the release of the country’s
next 8 billion-euro ($10.6 billion) loan installment until after
Oct. 13.  The delays in resolving the Greek crisis leave “an
uncertain backdrop at the very start of reporting season,”
Wieting said. “If aid is not delayed further, the next focus
would be another more crucial payment in December.”  Third-quarter earnings will miss analyst predictions by 1.2
percent, Wieting said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kaitlyn Kiernan in New York at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  