-- 
USDA Food-Safety Programs Unlikely to Be Cut, Vilsack Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-10-04T17:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/u-s-food-safety-programs-unlikely-to-be-cut-vilsack-says-1-.html
Food-safety programs may be less
vulnerable to cuts than other areas of U.S. Department of
Agriculture spending because of the importance placed on the
nutrition supply, Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  “I’m least concerned about the food-safety part than any
other part,” Vilsack said today at a food-policy conference in
 Washington . Nutrition assistance for poor families may be more
vulnerable, even as it helps reduce poverty, he said.  Funding for programs that protect the nation’s  food supply 
are being pressured by congressional spending cuts. The USDA’s
Food Safety and Inspection Service budget would be reduced by
3.4 percent to $972.7 million in the year beginning Oct. 1 under
the appropriations bill the  House of Representatives  passed in
June, while the Senate’s plan would leave funding unchanged.  Calls for stricter government oversight of the food supply
have increased during recent outbreaks of foodborne illnesses.
 Listeria infections  linked to cantaloupes have killed 15 people
and sickened at least 84 others. Cargill Inc. in August began
the second-biggest U.S. meat recall ever during a salmonella
outbreak that killed one person and made more than 70 others
ill.  The USDA regulates meat, poultry and egg products while the
 Food and Drug Administration  oversees the other 80 percent of
the food supply.  FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said the agency may be
more vulnerable to cuts than USDA programs.  “Historically, it’s been significantly underfunded,”
Hamburg told reporters at today’s conference. “There remains a
very large gap” between food-safety needs and the agency’s
budget, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  