-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Question Overseas Reach of Dodd-Frank Swap Rules

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-10-04T21:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/u-s-lawmakers-question-overseas-reach-of-dodd-frank-swap-rules.html
U.S. regulators’ proposed Dodd-Frank
Act rules for the $601 trillion swaps market may clash with the
intent of Congress because of their reach to foreign
subsidiaries of U.S. financial firms, according to the top two
Democratic lawmakers on financial issues.  “Given the global nature of this market, U.S. regulators
should avoid creating opportunities for international regulatory
arbitrage that could increase systemic risk and reduce the
competitiveness of U.S. firms abroad,” Senator Tim Johnson,
chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, and Representative
 Barney Frank , the top Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee, wrote in a letter today.  The letter was sent to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission,  Federal Reserve , Securities and Exchange Commission
and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  “We are concerned that the proposed imposition of margin
requirements, in addition to provisions related to clearing,
trading, registration, and the treatment of foreign subsidiaries
of U.S. institutions, all raise questions about consistency with
congressional intent,” Johnson, of South Dakota, and Frank, of
Massachusetts, said in the letter.  Proposed regulations imposing margin requirements to reduce
trading risks will “damage the competitiveness” of foreign-
based businesses of U.S. banks compared with their overseas
rivals, lawyers for six banks including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  told regulators in
a June 29 letter.  The CFTC and SEC are leading U.S. efforts to write new
derivatives regulations after largely unregulated trades helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank aims to reduce risk and
boost transparency by having most swaps guaranteed by central
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other venues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  