-- 
Ubiquiti Presses Ahead With First U.S. Initial Offer in More Than a Month

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-10-04T12:21:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/ubiquiti-presses-ahead-with-first-u-s-initial-offer-in-more-than-a-month.html
Ubiquiti Networks Inc., the wireless
network gear maker pursuing a U.S. initial public offering, is
moving ahead with the sale after a monthlong drought in a market
hurt by slumping stocks and surging volatility.  Ubiquiti, based in  San Jose , California, is seeking as much
as $155 million, selling 7.04 million shares at $20 to $22 each,
according to a regulatory filing today. Companies typically
complete IPOs about two weeks after setting offer terms.  American Realty Capital Properties Inc., the New York-based
real estate investment trust, completed the last U.S. IPO Sept.
1. At least 25 U.S. IPOs seeking a total of $3.3 billion were
withdrawn or postponed in the third quarter, the biggest number
of pulled deals in one quarter since the final three months of
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies and investors recoiled from the market as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index plunged 18 percent below its 2011
high and the measure of stock-market volatility surged to more
than double its average in the first half.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the VIX, surged as high as 48 on Aug. 8, compared with the
average level of 18 in the first half. Yesterday, the  S&P 500 
reached its lowest level this year.  Aveon Group LP, a new  investment company  that planned to
buy stakes in  hedge funds , withdrew its plans to raise as much
as $251.2 million in a U.S. IPO, according to a filing on Sept.
30. ReSearch Pharmaceutical Services Inc. scrapped its filing
Sept. 28.  Wait It Out  Other companies that haven’t canceled their offerings are
delaying them to wait for markets to stabilize. Groupon Inc.,
the biggest daily-deal website, delayed marketing its planned
$750 million U.S. IPO to investors amid stock swings, people
familiar with the matter said last month.  International Automotive Components Group, the auto-parts
supplier owned by billionaire  Wilbur Ross , postponed its IPO
until at least January because of market turmoil in the U.S. and
 Europe , people familiar with those plans said last month.  Ubiquiti, which hired UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and  Raymond
James Financial Inc. (RJF)  to lead its IPO, will list on the Nasdaq
under the symbol UBNT. The company makes gear including high-
performance radios and antennas, targeting customers in
developing markets, as well as in  North America  and Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  