-- 
UBS Sees ‘Modest’ Third-Quarter Net as Credit Spreads Cushion Trading Loss

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-10-04T13:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/ubs-sees-modest-net-profit-in-third-quarter-net-new-money.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
expects a “modest” third-quarter profit as gains from wider
credit spreads and the sale of bonds cushion the $2.3 billion
loss from unauthorized trading.  The bank expects a fair-value gain of about 1.5 billion
Swiss francs ($1.6 billion) as its credit spreads widened in the
third quarter and a 700 million-franc profit from the sale of
U.S. Treasuries and U.K. gilts held in the wealth-management and
Swiss bank division, the Zurich-based company said today.  UBS said last month it may be unprofitable in the quarter
after discovering the losses from unauthorized trading at its
investment bank. Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil said today
that “economic uncertainty” drove clients to trade less, while
declines in equity markets reduced assets under management.
Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest bank, today scrapped its
full-year profit target after quarterly earnings at its
investment bank were “significantly lower” than expected.  “The news of third-quarter profit is not as positive as it
may appear at first glance because the gains UBS booked have
nothing to do with normal business,” said  Dirk Becker , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “It’s rather
disappointing.”  UBS fell 1 percent to 9.99 francs at 2.55 p.m. in Zurich
trading, bringing the decline in the stock since the bank
announced the trading loss to 8.6 percent. That compares with a
1.7 percent decline in the 46-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index over the same period.  Capital, Jobs  UBS is due to disclose detailed third-quarter earnings on
Oct. 25. The bank’s capital position is “strong,” as its tier
1 ratio is expected to “decline slightly” in the quarter from
18.1 percent at the end of June, UBS said. Tax expenses will be
close to zero in the quarter, it added.  The bank will also book about 400 million francs in
reorganization charges after announcing in August plans to
eliminate about 3,500 jobs, with about 45 percent of the
reductions coming from the investment bank, as stricter  capital
requirements  and market turmoil hurt the earnings outlook. The
bank in July scrapped the target of doubling pretax profit from
last year’s level to 15 billion francs by 2014.  The cost-reduction program, aimed to save the company 2
billion francs annually by the end of 2013, is “on track,” UBS
said today. The bank will continue to invest in “growth
regions,” including Asia-Pacific, the Americas, emerging
markets and wealth management, it said.  Investment Bank  The trading loss, which resulted from positions in Standard
& Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures over the past
three months, may accelerate the plans to shrink UBS’s
investment bank, analysts have said. The unit will probably be
unprofitable for 2011 and drag down return on equity for the
bank in coming years, Morgan Stanley analysts Huw van Steenis
and Hubert Lam estimated in a note yesterday.  UBS plans to make its investment bank “less complex and
more focused,” Naratil, 49, told investors at a Bank of America
Corp. conference in  London  today. The unit will in the future
concentrate on “advisory, capital markets and client flow and
solutions businesses,” he said, which will allow UBS to
“deliver less volatile results while using less risk.”  While the bank plans to provide more details on its future
strategy at an investor day on Nov. 17, Naratil said the unit
will aim to boost return on equity as UBS reallocates more
shareholders’ funds toward wealth and asset management.  No Strategy Changes  About three-quarters of risk-weighted assets by business
under the Basel III rules resided at the investment bank,
according to a pro-forma calculation for June 30. That portion
will be reduced to about half of the company’s total, Naratil’s
presentation slides showed.  The trading loss resulted in “no material changes” to the
strategy review at the investment bank, Naratil said.  “We deeply regret the management and control mistakes that
allowed the unauthorized and fictitious trading activity to
occur,” he said. “We’re in the process of determining the
appropriate disciplinary actions for the individuals accountable
for these failures.”  Kweku Adoboli, 31, the UBS trader charged with fraud and
false accounting that may have resulted in the loss, remains in
custody in London. He has yet to enter a plea.  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , 67, resigned on
Sept. 24, saying the trading incident has “worldwide
repercussions,” and was replaced by  Sergio Ermotti , 51, on an
interim basis.  Trading Losses  UBS’s long positions in DAX, EuroStoxx and S&P 500 index
futures began to increase at the beginning of July, accelerating
around the end of the month and peaking in early August, Naratil
said. The long positions then “rapidly decreased” and were
reversed into short positions in mid-August. Losses, which were
“limited” until the end of July, were boosted by market
declines and reached about $2 billion in mid-August, he said.
They remained near that level until they were discovered and the
positions closed last month, Naratil said.  UBS is cooperating with reviews by the regulators and is
“committed to addressing all findings to ensure we create a
risk-management framework that fully protects our bank and our
shareholders,” Naratil said. It is “premature” to disclose
any steps the bank plans to take to improve risk management, he
said.  The bank has so far not seen a “material change” in net
new money flows as a result of the trading loss, Naratil said.
UBS said third-quarter  wealth-management  inflows were
“similar” to the 8.2 billion francs reported in the previous
quarter. There were “moderate” outflows from its asset-
management unit, which had net new money of 1.1 billion francs
in the second quarter.  “Net new money inflows in the second quarter weren’t
particularly strong, and if clients were to show a reaction to
the trading loss, that would happen in the fourth quarter,”
Becker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  