-- 
Uganda’s Central Bank Boosts Benchmark Interest Rate to 20%

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-10-04T13:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/uganda-s-central-bank-raises-key-rate-on-inflation-shilling.html
Uganda’s central bank boosted its
benchmark  interest rate  by 4 percentage points to curb inflation
at an 18-year high and bolster the shilling.  The central  bank rate  was increased to 20 percent, Bank of
Uganda Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters today
in the capital, Kampala. Before today, the rate was raised by 3
percentage points since it was introduced in July.  Inflation soared to 28.3 percent last month from 21.4
percent in August as the worst regional drought in 60 years
boosted food costs and a weaker shilling drove up import prices.
The bank aims to bring the underlying inflation rate, which
excludes food, energy and water, to 5 percent from 27.5 percent
currently.  “With upside risks to inflation still significant, we
believe the policy tightening bias remains,” Ridle Markus, an
economist at Absa Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in note to
clients today. “The aggressive tightening by the Bank of  Uganda 
thus far bodes well for the shilling’s medium-term
performance.”  The shilling plunged 19 percent against the dollar this
year to an 18-year low and is the third-worst performer of all
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The shilling gained as much as
0.9 percent to 2,885.50 per dollar today and was trading at
2,859 as of 3:30 p.m. in Kampala.  Inflation to Slow  The central bank expects inflation to peak by the end of
the year and begin slowing in 2012 as better weather conditions
help to ease food prices, Tumusiime-Mutebile said.  “This should be seen as a clear signal to bring inflation
under control,” he said. “However, should the upside risk to
inflation continue in the months ahead, then monetary policy
will be tightened further.  Uganda,  East Africa ’s third-biggest economy and the
continent’s second-largest coffee producer, is scheduled to
become an oil producer next year when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  begins
pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert Basin.  Higher interest rates may crimp domestic spending, reducing
the central bank’s economic growth projection to 5 percent in
the year through June 2012 from 6 percent previously, the
governor said.  ‘‘Banks will certainly get a pinch as borrowing is
discouraged and some borrowers may begin defaulting,” Kenneth
Kitariko, the chief executive of African Alliance Uganda Ltd.,
an investment bank, said by phone from Kampala today.
“Decreased borrowing will lead to decreased economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  