-- 
Finance Minister Mukherjee Says ‘Difficult’ to Meet India’s Deficit Target

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-10-05T04:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/mukherjee-says-difficult-to-meet-india-s-budget-deficit-target.html
India  may find it hard to meet its
budget-deficit target in the current fiscal year, Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said after the government last week
decided to sell more debt.  “It is difficult to maintain the ceiling,” Mukherjee told
the Bloomberg UTV television channel in Mirati, his village in
the Indian state of West Bengal, referring to the budget-
shortfall goal. “I can’t say how I will be able to maintain it
now without looking at the cash flows,” he said in the
interview that was broadcast yesterday.  India’s budget gap may exceed the government’s estimate as
 tax revenue  may fall short because of slowing economic growth,
said  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at  Standard
Chartered  Plc. Ten-year bond yields in India have climbed to the
highest level in three years on concern demand for existing
securities will decrease as the government boosts debt sales.  “Increased debt supply is likely to exert an upward
pressure on yields in the near-term,” Standard Chartered’s
Sahay said. She expects the budget shortfall to widen to 5.4
percent of gross domestic product in the year ending March 31,
compared with the government’s target of 4.6 percent, which
would be a four-year low.  Yields Rise  The yield on the 7.8 percent securities due April 2021 rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.55 percent at
9:19 a.m. in Mumbai, the highest level for benchmark 10-year
notes since September 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index advanced
0.6 percent, and the rupee strengthened 0.5 percent to 49.14
against the dollar.  India’s federal government on Sept. 29 increased its bond-
sale target for the second half of the financial year by about
32 percent, citing outflows from national  savings accounts .
Savings placed by individuals in state-run deposit plans, which
are used to fund public spending, have fallen short of target
this year and forced the government to increase market
borrowings.  So far, tax collections from companies and individuals,
including those from the middle class, have surpassed the
government’s projection.  India’s gross direct-tax revenue rose 26 percent from
a year earlier to 1.54 trillion rupees ($31 billion) in the five
months through August, the  finance ministry  said Sept. 8. The
government had budgeted a 19.4 percent increase for the current
fiscal year.  Slowing Growth  “The current buoyancy in gross tax collections reflects
still-high nominal GDP growth as well as strong trade
performance in the first half of the fiscal year,” Atsi Sheth,
New York-based senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc.,
said in an Oct. 3 note. Sheth expects economic growth to
moderate in the second half of the year because of high domestic
 interest rates  and “global uncertainties.”  The  International Monetary Fund  last month cut its forecast
for India’s economic growth. The South Asian nation’s economy
will expand 7.8 percent in 2011, the Washington-based lender
said, slower than the 8.2 percent projected in June. For 2012,
it lowered its estimate to 7.5 percent from 7.8 percent.  The finance ministry plans to raise 2.2 trillion rupees
selling bonds in the six months ending March 31, higher than the
budgeted 1.67 trillion rupees, R. Gopalan, secretary, Department
of Economic Affairs, said last week. The government raised 2.5
trillion rupees in the first six months of the year.  Small Savings  Individual investors withdrew 61.9 billion rupees between
April and August from small-savings deposit plans such as those
run by post offices, after adding 238.56 billion rupees in the
year-earlier period,  official data show . The state-run savings
programs offer a return of 8 percent, while  State Bank  of India,
the nation’s biggest lender, offers 9.25 percent interest on
one-year deposits, according to its website.  Fitch Ratings  said Oct. 3 that any further deterioration in
Indian government finances may “weigh” on the nation’s debt
ratings, even though the decision to increase the annual
borrowing plan was expected.  India’s BBB- rating by Fitch, the lowest investment grade,
is currently “well supported” with a stable outlook, said
 Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of Asia-Pacific sovereign
ratings at Fitch.  The Indian government’s announcement to issue more debt is
“not surprising” and is “within the scope of expectations,”
 Takahira Ogawa , Singapore-based director of sovereign and
international public finance ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , said
Oct. 3. The nation’s budget deficit will exceed the government’s
target, he said, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  