-- 
Unsafe Buses Run Until Fatal Crashes After U.S. Inaction

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-10-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/unsafe-buses-run-until-crashes-u-s-fails-to-act.html
When executives of Sky Express Inc.
met with U.S. bus-safety regulators for an audit in March, the
problems were clear even in the rough English of records
translated from Chinese.  One driver worked 11 consecutive days without a rest
period, according to audit documents obtained under the Freedom
of Information Act. Four of 10 drivers couldn’t understand
enough English to identify their employer. An insulin-dependent
driver made a 938-mile run without medical clearance. All those
infractions violated U.S. law.  Inspectors rated the carrier “unsatisfactory,” meaning it
had to close in 45 days unless it could prove it fixed the
problems. It didn’t, the documents show. Fifty-four days later,
on May 31, one of its buses crashed outside Doswell, Virginia.
Four people were killed.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s failure
to close Sky Express has been repeated throughout its 12-year
history and is linked to a growing number of crashes, some of
them fatal,  Deborah Hersman , chairman of the  National
Transportation Safety Board , said in an interview.  “We’ve seen it in too many accidents,” Hersman said.
“They have a fatal accident that’s very public, and ka-boom,
they go in within a week and they put them out of service. If
they were bad before, that’s when they need to be caught.”  When the FMCSA, which regulates all intercity bus services,
ordered Sky Express off the road after the accident, the agency
cited the same violations behind the “unsatisfactory” rating
that let the company stay in business, documents show.  Asked whether the agency should have shut down Sky Express
immediately after the inspection, FMCSA Administrator Anne Ferro
said in an interview, “I wish we had.”  Rapid Growth  Fatal crashes have surged as intercity bus travel becomes
the fastest-growing U.S. mode of commercial transportation. In
2011, 28 people have died in eight fatal crashes, including
three in an 11-week period involving carriers operating out of,
or carrying passengers between, Chinatown neighborhoods in East
Coast cities.  Led by  Firstgroup Plc (FGP) ’s Bolt Bus and  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) ’s
Megabus, as well as so-called Chinatown lines such as Sky
Express,  U.S. bus departures increased 24 percent last year ,
according to Joseph Schwieterman, professor of public service at
DePaul University in  Chicago . There were 723 million trips on
U.S. motor coaches, including intercity, commuter and charter
buses, in 2009, the most recent full year for which information
is available, according to the American Bus Association.  Cutting Costs  While Sky Express’s official address in FMCSA records was a
Charlotte, North Carolina, home owned by Jenny Han, its
corporate secretary, most operations were run out of an office
on Chrystie Street in  Manhattan ’s Chinatown, according to the
FMCSA’s compliance review. Han also owned Fusion 108, a Chinese
restaurant in Huntersville,  North Carolina , where Sky Express’s
safety audit was conducted, according to audit records.  With some companies, the lowest fares are possible only by
cutting costs to a degree that it becomes difficult to operate
safely, said Jackie Gillan, president of Washington-based
Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety.  “Whether they were paying a lot of money for the ticket or
a little money for the ticket, whether they boarded the bus at a
bus terminal or in front of a store, it doesn’t matter,” Gillan
said. “The public deserves more.”  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said the day after
the Sky Express crash he was “extremely disappointed” the
company hadn’t been shut down. He said in a speech Sept. 23 that
he will push Congress for more authority to shut down unsafe
carriers immediately.  Imminent Hazard  The FMCSA, however, can already declare a company an
“imminent hazard” and close it, Hersman said. That power can
be invoked when the agency finds a company’s method of operating
“substantially increases the likelihood of serious injury or
death if not discontinued immediately,” according to  FMCSA
rules.   FMCSA safety audits too often focus on paperwork and don’t
examine buses or maintenance facilities, said Peter Pantuso,
chief executive officer of the American Bus Association, a
Washington-based trade group whose members include Firstgroup
and Stagecoach.  Sky Express had received special attention from regulators
before. The company received an “unsatisfactory” rating in
2009, agency records show. The company satisfied the agency that
it had corrected the issues and was allowed to stay in business.
A 2010 audit resulted in a “satisfactory” rating.  Sky Express  In this year’s follow-up, regulators discovered the company
had expanded from 10 drivers and 11 coaches to 53 drivers and 31
coaches in less than a year.  Sky Express charged customers $30 for a one-way trip
between Durham, North Carolina, and  New York , compared with $55
to $126 for a Greyhound ticket. The company stayed profitable by
keeping expenses low. A driver on the nine-hour trip would make
$75, according to audit documents.  Inspectors began probing more deeply after it took the
company three attempts over eight days to produce a correct
driver roster, audit records show. Regulators tallied 26
violations, including six deemed critical and one deemed acute.  U.S. law requires commercial drivers to be conversant
enough in English to communicate with passengers and read
traffic signs. When an inspector asked a driver heading from
Charlotte to New York on March 31 how long he’d been driving or
whether he had done a pre-trip inspection of the bus, he
couldn’t answer, the safety inspector wrote. The only English
words the driver recognized were “log book,” according to an
interview summary by agent Timothy Switzer.  Good Faith  Agency officials reviewed a Sky Express appeal that arrived
May 11. They rejected it within a day, meaning the carrier
should have been closed on May 28, pending a follow-up review.
Still, regulators granted Sky Express 10 extra days to come into
compliance based on a “good-faith effort,” according to a May
12 memo by Chris Hartley of the agency’s North Carolina division
and a May 13 letter to Sky Express by Darrell Ruban, an agency
field administrator.  The agency indicated Sky Express was close to receiving a
rating upgrade on May 26 that would have kept the company on the
road indefinitely, according to George Gray, a former North
Carolina highway patrol official who was working for Sky Express
as a consultant.  Sky Express’s problems were “70 percent to 80 percent”
paperwork, Gray said in an interview. Executives were making
rapid progress coming into compliance, he said.  No Different  The week before the crash, Sky Express spent four days with
FMCSA officials in  Charlotte  to go over changes the carrier had
made. Regulators using a computer program to score the company’s
safety practices indicated they would upgrade the unsatisfactory
rating, Gray said.  “Had that crash not occurred, they would be operating
today,” Gray said. “They were no different than a lot of
companies out there right now operating under a conditional
rating.”  The FMCSA sent a settlement agreement to Sky Express on May
31, the day of the accident, the records show. It was confined
to how much the company would pay to settle proposed fines,
Ferro said. The agency had agreed to a lower amount based on
progress Sky Express was making, Gray said.  “These claims are false,” Ferro said in an e-mail. “Sky
Express was not on the verge of receiving an upgraded safety
rating or a reduced fine for safety violations.”  Reincarnated Carriers  A company that had as many violations as Sky Express and
wasn’t operating from its registered address should have raised
more urgent concerns than it did, as people familiar with the
bus industry can distinguish a company making an honest mistake
from one trying to skirt the rules, Pantuso said.  “Instead of negotiating to keep them open, why wasn’t the
negotiation to quickly shut them down?” Pantuso said.  A woman who identified herself as Han, the Sky Express
corporate secretary, declined to answer questions. “We have
already closed the business,” she said in a phone interview.  The FMCSA used the 10-day extension, in part, to make sure
its case against Sky Express would hold up in court, Ferro said.  Preventing rogue carriers from restarting has been a
struggle for the agency for years. In a June 3 order shutting
down Sky Express, the FMCSA accused the carrier of repainting
buses and selling tickets online to operate under a new name.  The agency has been pushing for changes to U.S. law since
May, seeking greater powers to catch so-called reincarnated
carriers and raise the fine for operating without authority to
$25,000 per violation from $2,000 a day.  Similar Problems  Still, the agency’s current rules required it to shut down
Sky Express three days before the accident, under a Government
Accountability Office interpretation discussed with agency
officials in 2007. LaHood ordered the agency after the accident
to stop extending 45-day shutdown periods.  “We agree with GAO’s assessment that extending the appeals
period for bus companies undergoing compliance reviews is not in
the best interest of safety,” Ferro said in an e-mail. “That
practice has been permanently ended.”  The GAO, the Transportation Department’s inspector general
and the NTSB have noted a pattern in reports and testimony of
the agency not using all its powers.  Hurricane Rita Accident  Since 2002, there have been at least five fatal accidents
involving intercity bus companies that had accumulated enough
safety violations to be shut down, according to separate NTSB
crash investigations. The board has faulted the way FMCSA
identifies audit targets, how it inspects new companies and lack
of follow-through with companies prior to fatal crashes.  “When there are serious safety violations, this agency
typically tries to accommodate the motor carrier and not the
safety of the motoring public,” Gillan said.  A company involved in a 2005 crash in Wilmer, Texas, that
killed 23 nursing-home residents evacuating Hurricane Rita had
been cited by state authorities in 2002 for having unqualified
buses, poor maintenance and a bus that wasn’t registered to
operate in the U.S.  In February 2004, FMCSA gave company a “satisfactory”
rating even as it recorded similar violations. The agency shut
down the company after the crash as an imminent hazard, citing
many of the same practices it deemed acceptable a year earlier,
the NTSB said.  ‘Plenty of Indicators’  “They had plenty of indicators that they needed to look
more deeply at this carrier,” Hersman said. “We were certainly
frustrated and disappointed that over 20 people lost their
lives. We felt like they should have identified the issues
earlier.”  The GAO, in a 2007 report, said the agency rarely imposed
the maximum fines called for by U.S. law because companies with
serious safety violations weren’t judged to meet the regulator’s
threshold of having a “pattern of violations.”  FMCSA’s enforcement wasn’t “as effective as possible in
deterring unsafe practices and, as a result, additional
accidents could occur,” said the GAO, which acts as Congress’s
investigative arm.  The bus agency has stepped up oversight of passenger
coaches through roadside inspections nationwide, shutting down
more carriers and increasingly shutting down unsafe operators,
Ferro said in an interview. It doesn’t take a crash to close
down a company, she said.  Cracking Down  Eight companies have been shut down this year as imminent
hazards, compared with one last year, Ferro said. Another 30
companies have been shut down for unsatisfactory ratings
following a 45-day waiting period, and eight more are pending.
That compares with 12 for all of last year, Ferro said. Only
four of the companies shut down this year were closed after
fatal crashes, she said.  Congress is considering proposals made after this spring’s
accidents to beef up the FMCSA’s authority to shut down unsafe
companies and make it harder for companies to reincarnate under
new names after being closed.  Besides greater power to close down unsafe carriers
immediately, LaHood is seeking tougher screening of new
companies before they’re given permission to operate and making
it easier to revoke commercial drivers’ licenses for drug and
alcohol offenses.  ‘Very Tough Lesson’  The department also has asked Congress to overturn
restrictions imposed in 2005 that prevent it from carrying out
inspections while buses are en route.  Upgrading the agency’s computerized screening system later
this year will enable the FMCSA to better target problem
carriers and get them off the road more quickly, Ferro said. Bus
companies with unsatisfactory ratings will have to meet higher
safety standards to be allowed to operate, she said.  “Our team lives these tragedies,” Ferro said. “The Sky
Express crash has been a very tough lesson for us. We have gone
back and will continue to go back, to analyze the policies,
procedures and systems that have been in place to see what it is
that is driving an outcome like the one on Sky Express.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  