-- 
Turkey’s Lira Weakens to Record Low as Central Bank Offers Fewer Dollars

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-04T15:08:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/turkey-s-lira-weakens-to-record-low-as-central-bank-offers-fewer-dollars.html
The lira fell to a record low as the
central bank offered fewer dollars than some investors expected
in an auction today, fueling concern it isn’t doing enough to
defend the currency.  The lira dropped as much as 0.9 percent to 1.9077 per
dollar in Istanbul and traded 0.5 percent lower at 1.8995 at
5:45 p.m.  Turkey ’s currency has lost 19 percent against the
dollar this year, the second worst-performer among emerging-
market currencies after South Africa’s rand.  The Ankara-based central bank sold $140 million in an
auction today, compared with $375 million of bids. Demand has
exceeded supply at all auctions since they began Aug. 5, with
the largest amount of $350 million sold on Sept. 20, according
to data on the central bank’s  website .  Today’s foreign-exchange sale was “not enough,”  Benoit Anne , Societe Generale SA’s chief emerging-markets strategist,
said in e-mailed comments today after the auction announcement.
“A strong message would be something like $500 million.” The
lira may slide to 1.95 against the dollar in the near term, he
said.  Turkey’s currency depreciated 13 percent in the third
quarter as the nation’s current-account deficit and the
worsening European debt crisis hurt investor confidence in the
nation’s financial stability.  “If the central bank doesn’t step up selling and/or global
markets do not improve, then we could go towards 2 per dollar
this month,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , the head of fixed-income and
foreign-exchange strategy for central and eastern  Europe , the
Middle East and Africa at BNP Paribas SA, said in e-mailed
comments today. “In the current environment, the central bank
would need to be doing at least $250 million to $300 million per
day.”  Reserves, Rate Risk  The bank’s foreign-currency reserves, excluding gold, fell
by $1.6 billion to $85.6 billion last week, dwarfed by  Russia ’s
$526 billion in currency and gold. Turkey has cut  interest rates 
three times since December to a record low at 5.75 percent to
buoy the economy.  “The main risk for the lira assets, as well as for other
emerging markets, is a horrible technical picture, given that
long-term real money investors have yet to massively cut their
risk positions,”  Societe Generale ’s Anne wrote. “This leaves
Turkey at the mercy of significant capital outflows, which would
put further downward pressure on the currency.”  Two-year lira-denominated bonds sank, driving yields up 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 8.56 percent, the RBS
Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index showed.  “The central bank’s interest-rate policy is the main
driver behind the lira’s fall,” Bulent Topbas, a  fund manager 
at Strateji Menkul Degerler AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments. The bank may be forced to cut  reserve requirements  for
foreign exchange deposits to back the lira, Topbas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  