-- 
Turkey M&A Outdoes BRICs as Economic Boom Attracts Goldman Sachs, Diageo

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-10-05T15:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/turkey-m-a-beats-brics-as-economic-boom-attracts-goldman-diageo.html
Turkey is having its best year for
takeovers since 2008, recording better growth than any of the
largest emerging markets as Europe’s fastest-expanding economy
lures buyers from  Diageo Plc. (DGE)  to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The value of transactions involving Turkish targets has
increased 59 percent annually to $8.8 billion, the highest level
since  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. failed in September 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deals dropped this year
in Brazil, India and  China , while mergers and acquisitions grew
50 percent in  Russia , the data show.  Turkey’s $735 billion economy grew 8.8 percent in the
second quarter, faster than India’s and more than four times the
euro zone’s expansion, as credit growth spurred consumer demand.
The central bank has taken the most aggressive steps in emerging
markets this year to guard the economy against a global
slowdown, cutting  interest rates  three times since December
while borrowing costs rose in the so-called BRIC nations.  “What has brought  Turkey  into focus along with BRIC
countries is that it combines high levels of potential growth
with large size,” said Emre Yildirim, executive director of M&A
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul, the leading adviser on
Turkish transactions this year, according to Bloomberg data, in
response to e-mailed questions. “Turkey is large enough to move
the needle for many global companies.”  Acquisitions  Diageo, the London-based distiller, bought Turkish spirits
maker Mey Icki for $2.1 billion in February, while Jersey-based
Vallares Plc, an oil investment company run by former BP Plc
Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward, combined with oil field
developer Genel Energy International Ltd. in a $2.1 billion all-
share reverse takeover last month. Goldman agreed to buy 26.5
percent of power producer  Aksa Enerji Uretim AS (AKSEN)  for about $450
million, Aksa Chairman Cemil Kazanci said July 25.  While Turkey’s benchmark  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  is down 14
percent in 2011, the measure rallied 10.9 percent last month,
the best performance among 94 indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  “Despite all the global uncertainties and risks, it seems
as if everyone wants a piece of Turkey,” Kerim Kotan, managing
director at Pragma Corporate Finance, an Istanbul-based M&A
adviser, said in an interview at his Istanbul offices. “Over
the past 15 years in  investment banking  in Turkey, I cannot
recall a period when we have been busier.”  Family Businesses  Pragma expects to close eight deals and sign another five
by the end of the year, Kotan said. The company, with 23
bankers, is currently working with a foreign energy company
seeking to buy assets worth more than $1 billion, he said.  New York-based Cerberus Capital Management LP, whose
chairman, former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle, was in Istanbul
yesterday to announce a joint investment initiative with Turkish
broker Garanti Securities, said it’s planning about 10 buyouts
or stake purchases in Turkish family-run businesses with an
equity size of $50 million to $250 million each.  “International investors, especially Europeans, started
pursuing Turkish companies from the beginning of the third
quarter of 2010 as Turkey is one of the fastest-growing emerging
markets,” said Basak Vardar, a partner in the mergers and
acquisitions division of Deloitte & Touche LLP in Istanbul, who
forecasts deals may reach $18 billion this year. “I am
expecting this trend to accelerate into next year.”  ‘Core Market’  Next year could be “the year of M&A for Turkey,”
according to Sinan Borovali, a founding partner at  Karatas
Yildiz Borovali , an Istanbul law firm that helped Turkish social
gaming developer  Peak Games  raise an initial round of funding
from German venture capital firm Hummingbird Ventures. “Turkey
has become part of the ‘core market’ defined by most investment
and private equity funds due to its stable banking and well-
regulated financial system.”  Private equity funds that invested in Turkey five to six
years ago in the first “gold rush to Turkish companies” are
also now looking to exit, which should help encourage M&A
activity next year, Borovali said.  With concerns growing that the global economy is headed for
a recession though, the expansion in Turkey is beginning to
slow. The nation, which sends half its exports to  Europe , is
showing a record current-account deficit. The lira is down 18
percent against the dollar this year, the worst-performer among
25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, even as the
central bank spent more than $3 billion since Aug. 5 in an
attempt to stem the declines.  The lira gained 0.8 percent to 1.8730 per dollar at 6:00
p.m. in Istanbul. It fell to an intraday record low of 1.9096 to
the dollar yesterday.  Slowing Economy  The International Monetary Fund forecasts gross domestic
product growth will slow to 2.5 percent next year while the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five economists is for
a 3.7 percent expansion. The IMF expects 7.5 percent economic
growth this year.  “There has recently been a sharp reversal in growth
dynamics,” JPMorgan economist  Yarkin Cebeci  said in an e-mailed
report from Istanbul. “Loan growth has lost momentum and
consumer sentiment has worsened significantly in recent
months.”  Turkey’s foreign-currency debt is rated two levels below
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service, on par with
Jordan and the Philippines, while Fitch Ratings has Turkey one
level below with a positive outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  assigned
an investment-grade ranking to Turkey’s local-currency debt last
week while keeping the foreign-currency rating two levels below.  Yields on Turkish benchmark two-year bonds have dropped to
8.54 percent from 24 percent in October 2008, at the peak of the
crisis brought on by the collapse of Lehman Brothers.  Biggest Buyers  Turkish companies were targets in 83 transactions this
year, compared with 79 transactions worth $13.1 billion for all
of last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average
disclosed deal size is $198 million, with 93 percent of the
buyers coming from abroad and the biggest foreign buyers are
from the U.K., the U.S. and Russia.  The value of deals totaled $23.2 billion in India, $35.9
billion in Russia, $84.9 billion in China and $71.8 billion in
Brazil this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Acquisitions are taking place across the economy.  Naspers
Ltd. (NPN) , Africa’s biggest media company, bought 71 percent of
discount-shopping website Markafoni for an undisclosed sum on
July 7. Vienna-based  Verbund AG (VER)  and  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) 
offered $1.5 billion to buy a power grid in Istanbul.  Health  Deals in the works include Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri &
Ticaret AS, a hospital chain with a market value of $1.3
billion. Owners Abraaj Capital Ltd. and Turkey’s Aydinlar family
said they signed a non-binding joint venture agreement with
Khazanah Nasional Bhd of Malaysia in a statement on Sept. 30.  Drugmaker Abdi Ibrahim Ilac Sanayi & Ticaret AS, energy
producer  Akenerji Elektrik Uretim AS (AKENR)  and airport operator  TAV
Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL)  are among others up for sale, according
to statements by the companies and people familiar with the
transactions.  Turkish mergers and acquisitions are being driven by
transactions in power, infrastructure, services, private equity-
driven food and consumer retail, and healthcare, Metin Ar, chief
executive of Garanti Securities, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Ar is advising Turkey’s asset sales agency on the
sale of the gas distribution grid in Ankara, and a Turkish-
Italian group on the purchase of roads and bridges.  Turkish banks have attracted some of the country’s biggest
M&A deals. Spain’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA bought a
24.9 percent stake in  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s
largest listed bank, for $5.8 billion last year, and National
Bank of Greece bought lender Finansbank AS for around $4.5
billion in 2006. Finansbank’s market capital, at $4.1 billion,
is now bigger than its parent company’s $2.8 billion.  Turkey’s growth helped create “a completely different
environment,” Memet Yazici, director of  Rhea Girisim AS (RHEAG) , the
Istanbul-based private equity firm whose stock gained 810
percent last year, said in an interview. “Both private equity
and merger and acquisition guys are seeing Turkey as the next
hot spot, and I feel like most companies are for sale here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net  and Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
   eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  