-- 
Vapores Gains Most Since June Before Chile Share Sale Vote

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-04T19:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/vapores-gains-for-second-day-in-chile-before-new-share-sale-vote.html
Cia. Sud Americana de Vapores SA,
 Latin America ’s largest container shipping company, rose the
most in four months as investors bought shares to have the right
to participate in a planned sale of new stock.  Vapores rose 6.5 percent to 125.81 pesos, the biggest
advance since June 17, while  Chile ’s Ipsa index slumped 4.2
percent. Vapores shares have lost 78 percent this year compared
with the Ipsa’s 27 percent slide.  “The gain is due to tomorrow’s shareholder meeting where
the price of the new shares will be indicated,” said Jorge Rios, an analyst at the brokerage unit of Corpbanca. “Many
investors want to pick up some of the shares to be ready for the
announcement and have the right to buy.”  Vapores shareholders will vote on the sale of $1.2 billion
in new shares to shore up its finances.  Quinenco SA (QUINENC) , the Luksic
family’s holding company, agreed to acquire as much as $1
billion of the new shares while the Claro family agreed to buy
$100 million through holding company  Maritima de Inversiones SA. (MARINSA)   Vapores had a second-quarter net loss of $339 million, the
biggest in at least five years, as an increase in new vessels
entering the market outpaces a faltering recovery in demand,
sending rates down, the company said Sept. 5. Even after cutting
some routes and forming associations on others, Vapores
forecasts “negative” results in the third quarter and
“significant losses in 2011,” it wrote.  Quinenco announced plans in April to enter an agreement
with Maritima de Inversiones to share control of the shipping
company and Guillermo Luksic was appointed chairman.  After the share sale, Vapores plans to spin off its
container handling unit Sudamericana Agencias Aereas & Maritimas
SA, or SAAM, and seek a “strategic partner” for the company.  Quinenco fell 4.2 percent to 1,102 pesos, the lowest since
January last year.  “Investors are punishing the stock as they will now be
stuck with Vapores’ problems,” Rios said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  