-- 
Verizon Puts Highest Since ’05 After Shares Rally 10%: Options

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-10-04T19:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/verizon-puts-highest-since-05-after-shares-rally-10-options.html
Options traders are the most bearish
in six years on  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , convinced it will
decline after the largest U.S. wireless operator posted the
industry’s biggest stock-market rally.  Three-month options to protect against a 10 percent drop in
the shares cost 44 percent more than those wagering on an
advance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap
reached 47 percent on Sept. 28, the widest since July 2005, when
it was 49 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Three months
after that peak, Verizon tumbled 15 percent to a three-year low.  Investors are betting the economic slowdown that has sent
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Telecommunication Services Index down
6.9 percent this year will pull down New York-based Verizon.
While the stock has the biggest increase among phone companies
at a time when the  S&P 500  is within 1 percent of a  bear market ,
Verizon lost 45 percent during the financial crisis of 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s part of the very negative tone to the market that
there’s a lot of puts outstanding,” Brian Barish, who oversees
about $7.5 billion as president of Cambiar Investors LLC in
Denver. Verizon has “been a safe haven and held up very well
but the market has been very destructive. At some point in bear
markets, they tend to get to everything and this is one of those
last haven stocks that’s yet to fall.”  Implied Volatility  Verizon’s implied volatility, the key gauge of options
prices, for contracts expiring in three months surged 73 percent
since its July 1 low to 26.37 yesterday. Historical volatility
for the past three months jumped to 24.13 yesterday, the highest
level since June 2009.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, jumped 160 percent in the third quarter, its
biggest increase on record. The volatility gauge is trading
above its 21-year historical average of 20.46 and dropped 1.9
percent to 44.61 at 3:17 p.m. in New York today. In  Europe , the
 VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting against
losses in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, gained 3.7 percent to 50.44.  Verizon shares fell 1.3 percent to $36.34 yesterday.
They’re up 1.6 percent in 2011, compared with a decline of 13
percent for the  S&P 500 Index .  The price of puts to sell Verizon should the company fall
10 percent versus calls to buy is the second-highest among eight
S&P 500 telecom companies, Bloomberg data show. Larger rival
 AT&T Inc. (T)  has the highest level of the price relationship known
as skew.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  had the lowest, with puts priced
4.6 percent higher.  Higher Yields  Robert Varettoni, a spokesman for Verizon, declined to
comment on the stock price or options trading.  Verizon shares have fallen less than other companies this
year in part because investors seeking higher yields are buying
the stock for its annual dividend payout, according to  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.
The stock currently yields 5.4 percent, Bloomberg data show.
Those traders also may be paying more for protection because
they want to keep owning the shares, he said.  “It could be what we’re seeing is hedging strategies from
yield investors,” Moffett said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It’s trading at a huge premium to AT&T.”  Verizon has a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.7, 27 percent
higher than the valuation for Dallas-based AT&T, the largest
U.S. wireline telecom-services company, and 36 percent above the
S&P 500 Index.  AT&T Takeover  The New York-based company may also be attractive because
it’s not going through a big change similar to AT&T’s $39
billion proposed takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc., according to
John Butler, a Bloomberg Industries analyst. AT&T has clashed
with the  Justice Department  and rivals like Sprint Nextel as it
seeks to complete the acquisition.  “The telcos are attractive in a choppy macroeconomic
environment because they offer a generous yield relative to
other S&P stocks,” Butler said in a telephone interview from
Princeton,  New Jersey , yesterday. “People look at Verizon and
they’re like, ‘You know what? If I had to choose between owning
Verizon and AT&T, I’m going to choose Verizon because they don’t
have the distraction of that merger going on right now.’”  January $30 puts, with their strike price 17 percent below
yesterday’s closing level, had the biggest ownership among all
Verizon options. January $31 puts had the biggest increase in
open interest over the past week, adding 6,764 contracts to
19,676. The shares haven’t closed below $31 for more than a
year.  “Since the stock has been going up of late, that would let
you know that in a certain sense the options market reflects
that the upside has been realized,” Ophir Gottlieb, managing
director of client services at San Francisco-based Livevol Inc.,
a provider of options-market analytics, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “It’s the downside risk that’s the
potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  