-- 
Volvo Auto-Braking Means Deer in Headlights Miss Collision: Cars

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-04T22:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/volvo-auto-braking-means-deer-in-headlights-miss-collision-cars.html
Volvo Car Corp. wants to bring to an
end the sight of slaughtered animal carcasses on the side of the
road, as the safety-focused luxury brand seeks to gain a
technological edge over  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   In development is a system that uses a radar sensor and an
infra-red camera to alert the driver to nearby critters and
brake if a collision is unavoidable. That technology is due to
be rolled out in a few years in cars like the XC90 sport-utility
vehicle, priced at $38,400, after employees studied the movement
of moose and deer in southern Sweden.  “It’d be good because it’d allow the driver to avoid a lot
of unnecessary animal killings,” said David Cain, who runs an
annual roadkill cooking contest in  West Virginia . “He could
still choose to run over something that’s good for eating.”  While frying up squashed squirrels may not be to everyone’s
taste, wild animals are a costly hazard. There were an estimated
1.09 million collisions with deer in the U.S. in the 12 months
through June 30, causing about $3.5 billion in damages,
according to State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.  Volvo, owned by  China ’s Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.,
is seeking ways to stand out among competitors as all cars get
safer. Road deaths in the U.S. are down 25 percent since 2005,
according to the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .
While Volvo's deliveries this year are forecast to trail a 2007
high, BMW,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
are targeting record 2011 sales and will deliver three times as
many vehicles. The world’s top three luxury-car brands are also
working on their own active safety features.  Safety First  The Swedish manufacturer, which became the first carmaker
to introduce a system that brakes for pedestrians last year,
needs to stay ahead on safety to underpin its claim to premium
prices. Volvo’s safety package, which includes lane-departure
warning and pedestrian detection, costs $2,100 on the $31,150
S60 sedan, according to its website.  “We are the leader right now in active safety, and we want
to continue to be the leader,” Volvo Chief Executive Officer
 Stefan Jacoby  said in an interview. “It’s very important” for
the company’s goals, which include doubling sales to 800,000
vehicles by 2020 and eliminating deadly accidents in its models
the same year.  The use of cameras and radar to avoid accidents, so-called
active safety, started appearing about a decade ago in premium
brands like BMW and Mercedes. The technology has been trickling
down to mass-market cars.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s models can assist
with braking if an emergency is detected. The revamped Qashqai
crossover from Nissan Motor Co., which hits European showrooms
over the next few months, will include a four-camera system
providing a 360-degree bird’s eye view to the driver.  Fast Spread  “There’s a democratization of driver assistance systems,”
putting pressure on upscale brands to stand out, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive Research at
the  University of Duisburg-Essen ,  Germany .  That means booming business for specialist auto suppliers.
The active safety market is growing more than 30 percent
annually and is likely to reach $1.5 billion in 2015, while
demand for airbags and seatbelts, so-called passive safety
products, is growing at a rate of 4 percent to 6 percent a year,
said Jan Carlson, chief executive officer of  Sweden ’s Autoliv
Inc., the world’s biggest maker of seatbelts and airbags.  Still, the weak  U.S. economy  could cause consumers to balk
at paying for such hard-to-see extras, said  Alexander Edwards ,
head of the automotive unit for researcher Strategic Vision.  “Because of today’s economy, the mass market has a very
tough time deciding to buy these features,” Edwards said.  Island of Security  Carmakers’ ability to attract buyers based on night vision
and collision-alert systems will depend on whether the message
gets through that they can simplify people’s lives, said Scott Keogh, U.S. marketing chief for Audi. The world’s second-largest
maker of luxury cars last month started running television
commercials for its $41,700 A6 sedan portraying the car as an
island of security.  Audi’s German rivals are following suit. Mercedes is
equipping the revamped B-Class compact with a radar-based
collision-prevention system, as it rolls out high-end safety
features beyond the S-Class flagship. The third-largest maker of
luxury cars is seeking to enhance its accident avoidance systems
by using night-vision technology and cameras that generate
three-dimensional images to identify potential hazards.  Better Than Smeared Hog  BMW, the luxury-car leader, is also setting its sights on
preventing roadkill. It showcased a system this year that shines
a spot light on pedestrians or animals near the roadway at night
by locating them with a heat-sensitive camera. The Munich-based
carmaker is also working on laser-based headlights and glare-
free high beams to make driving safer after dark.  In Sweden, where wandering moose represent a natural
obstacle for drivers, Volvo’s engineers spend time in the
Kolmaerden wildlife park, driving cars among elk and deer and
studying their behavior around vehicles to build into the
system. Cain, the roadkill cooking chief, hopes  General Motors
Co. (GM)  adopts the technology for his Chevrolet pickup.  “It could really enhance the menu for our cookoff,” he
said. The winning dish at the 2011 event on Sept. 24 was Smeared
Hog with Ground Hog Gravy a la Truck.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  