-- 
Wall Street Protesters Sue Over Bridge Arrests as Demonstrations Continue

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/wall-street-protesters-sue-new-york-city-police-for-demonstration-arrests.html
Wall Street  protesters arrested in a
march across the Brooklyn Bridge sued New York City, Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  and Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  for
allegedly violating their constitutional rights.  Five of the protesters, seeking to represent about 700
people arrested in the Oct. 1 march, filed a civil rights
complaint yesterday in Manhattan federal court. They claimed
officers from the  New York City Police Department  lured them
onto the bridge’s roadway to trap and arrest them.  “After escorting and leading a group of demonstrators and
others well out onto the Brooklyn Bridge roadway, the NYPD
suddenly and without warning curtailed further forward movement,
blocked the ability of persons to leave the bridge from the
rear, and arrested hundreds of protesters in the absence of
probable cause,” they said in the complaint.  The protesters, whose demonstration continued yesterday
with as many as 1,000 people in Lower  Manhattan , seek a
declaration nullifying the arrests, that police violated the
U.S. Constitution and an order barring the city from using
similar tactics in the future. The group also seeks unspecified
damages.  Police have said protesters were warned not to block the
roadway and that those at the rear were allowed to leave.  Not Served  “We have not been served with the formal legal papers yet,
but we’ll review the claims thoroughly,” said Muriel Goode-
Trufant, chief of the city Law Department’s Special Federal
Litigation Division, in an e-mailed statement.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News.  Earlier yesterday, a federal judge declined to block police
from using unionized city bus drivers to transport protesters
arrested at demonstrations, denying their union’s request for an
immediate injunction while the lawsuit proceeds.  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer rejected the request by
the  Transport Workers Union Local 100 , which sought to bar
police from forcing  New York City  Transit Authority bus drivers
to take protesters to holding facilities. The judge didn’t rule
on the union’s request for a permanent injunction.  Engelmayer said Transit Authority training materials
instruct operators on what to do when a bus is commandeered by
the fire or police departments.  ‘Strongly Indicates’  The material “strongly indicates” that drivers were aware
they may need to assist police or fire officials, the judge
said. He said buses have been commandeered by the New York City
Police Department at least three other times: after the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks; after a building collapse to take
people to hospitals; and ahead of the arrival of  Hurricane Irene 
in August to evacuate nursing home residents.  “Police and transit workers are public workers that work
in the same city and have a common duty,” the judge said,
noting that New York state penal law requires a person to assist
police with an arrest when it’s “reasonable” to do so.  The union, whose 38,000 members include 9,000 bus drivers,
last week said it’s supporting the protests, which were thrust
into the national spotlight when police made the mass arrests
this weekend on the  Brooklyn  Bridge.  Hailed Buses  Police hailed buses traveling in downtown Brooklyn after
Department of Correction vehicles got stuck in traffic, said
Arthur Schwartz, an attorney for the union. The drivers were
ordered to back their vehicles onto the Brooklyn Bridge to pick
up arrested protesters and drive them to One Police Plaza and
other locations, Schwartz said.  Engelmayer disagreed with Schwartz’s argument that police
may commandeer buses again during a march planned for today,
saying that assessment is “highly speculative” and that the
police are likely to be more prepared than they were last
weekend.  “Last Saturday involved very unusual circumstances,”
Arthur Larkin, an attorney with the city’s Law Department, said
in a statement. “The court appropriately found that the police
department’s limited use of MTA buses was not unreasonable.”  The NYPD “will be prepared” for today’s march and “it
would not appear likely that the police are going to have to do
what they did last Saturday,” Larkin said. He said he couldn’t
rule out the possibility that buses might be again commandeered.  ‘Longstanding Practice’  “It has been a longstanding practice for the MTA to assist
the city’s police and fire personnel when they request emergency
assistance,” Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the state
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which runs the  New York 
City Transit Authority, said in an e-mail. “We are pleased that
the federal court rejected the TWU’s motion.”  The next hearing in the union’s suit against the city is
scheduled for Nov. 1. Schwartz said that he hasn’t decided
whether to appeal yesterday’s ruling.  “We’re going to seek other avenues,” John Samuelsen,
Local 100’s president, told reporters after yesterday’s hearing.  The protest continued yesterday several blocks south of the
federal courthouse at Zuccotti Park. The number of protesters
increased to as many as 1,000 by noon from about 200 in the
morning. As of 9:45 p.m. local time, no demonstrators had been
arrested, police spokesman John Grimpel said.  A few dozen participants held a daily “occupiers’
meeting” this morning in the northeast corner of the park to
discuss logistics. A cardboard sign with the agenda listed
announcements, housekeeping and security.  ‘Believe in Sharing’  One man at the meeting said that a proposal to not engage
in activity that would draw police attention needed to be more
clear, saying it was hard to define what behavior will attract
 law enforcement .  “Our movement is expanding so quickly that we’ve been
meeting constantly to expand our infrastructure,” one of the
organizers, Julien Harrison, 29, from Eugene,  Oregon , said in an
interview. Harrison said he’s been at the site for two weeks.  Nearby, a group of six children and five adults sang “We
Shall Not Be Moved.” The children held yellow signs: “We
believe in: fairness,” “We believe in: sharing.” The children
were joined by Peter Yarrow of the former folk group Peter Paul
& Mary. He played acoustic guitar while they sang “The Banks
Are Made of Marble.”  At the far west end of the park, a sign read, “NYPD
Protects and Serves the Rich.”  ‘Not Afraid’  Nader Vossoughian, 38, a professor of architecture who has
brought his 2-year old daughter to the protests, said he isn’t
afraid of being arrested. His family, which includes 10-month-
old twins, makes him feel more accountable for their future amid
concerns of poverty, inequality and government mismanagement, he
said.  “If civil disobedience has to be part of the conversation
with my children, so be it, because that’s what this country was
built on,” Vossoughian said yesterday in  lower Manhattan .  Across from the park, three police cars restricted traffic
flow at Broadway and Cedar Street, keeping it to one lane for
the few blocks between the protest site and Wall Street. A man
holding a sign saying “Nazi Banker” flanked the metal
barricades next to an empty storefront of now-bankrupt Borders
Group Inc.  “The American government needs to get their heads out of
these big glass buildings,” said Jason Moses, 25, who graduated
from  Pace University  with a law degree and has yet to find a
job. Moses said he’s willing to do any kind of legal work, and
estimates it will take him 15 years to pay off his loans.  Linnea M. Palmer Paton, a graduate student at  New York
University  who works as an unpaid intern, is a press liaison for
the demonstrators. She said she’s there to protest lobbying and
the lack of real jobs.  Work For Free’  “How long can I afford to work for free?,” she said,
adding that she’s considering dropping out of her last year at
NYU.  Regular marches in the area were scheduled for the
afternoon, as well as a teachers’ union march, according to the
protest’s information desk.  The civil rights case is Garcia v. Bloomberg, 11-06957; the
transit suit is Samuelsen v. Kelly, 11-06947, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  