-- 
WaMu Seeks to Limit Mediation, Avoid New Creditor Vote on Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-04T17:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/wamu-seeks-to-limit-mediation-avoid-new-creditor-vote-on-plan.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , former owner
of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, will try to limit the scope of
court-ordered mediation by changing its reorganization plan to
appease a bankruptcy judge.  The proposed changes would help speed WaMu’s exit from
Chapter 11 by avoiding a new vote of creditors, according to a
filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .
Mediation should focus only on allegations of  insider trading 
that shareholders made against four  hedge funds , WaMu said.  “There is absolutely no reason confirmation should be
hijacked,” WaMu said in its filing. Waiting for a broad range
of issues to be resolved in mediation would take about six
months and cost about $180 million, WaMu said.  Last month, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath for a second
time rejected WaMu’s plan to pay creditors more than $7 billion.
Some WaMu noteholders, including the hedge funds, would get a
higher  interest rate  than is legally permitted, she said.  Walrath also allowed shareholders, including those who
would get nothing under the plan, to try to prove allegations of
insider trading. She ordered the groups into mediation, saying
they should try to settle any disputes that may prevent WaMu
from ending its bankruptcy.  WaMu Changes  WaMu argued in its filing that issues other than the
insider-trading claims don’t need to mediated because the
company has agreed to change the interest rate some creditors
will receive and to adjust other parts of the plan Walrath
criticized in her Sept. 14 opinion.  The Seattle-based company didn’t say when it would seek to
end its three-year-old bankruptcy. The proposed changes use an
Oct. 31 exit date for the purposes of estimating creditor
recoveries.  WaMu filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26, 2008, the day after
its banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion. Washington Mutual Bank
had more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  