-- 
Washington, D.C. Assault Weapons Ban Constitutional, Appeals Court Rules

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-04T18:22:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/washington-d-c-assault-weapons-ban-constitutional-appeals-court-rules.html
Washington , D.C.’s ban on assault
weapons and large-capacity magazines doesn’t violate the
constitutional rights of residents in the U.S. capital, a
federal appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington today also upheld
registration requirements for handguns put in place after a
landmark U.S. Supreme Court decision in 2008 ended the city’s
almost total ban on firearms. The three-judge panel ordered a
lower court to further review other aspects of Washington’s gun
control law, such as its limits on multiple purchases.  “The District has carried its burden of showing a
substantial relationship between the prohibition of both semi-
automatic rifles and magazines holding more than 10 rounds, and
the objectives of protecting police officers and controlling
crime,” Judge Douglas Ginsburg wrote in the 2-1 ruling.  The challenge to the restrictions was brought by Dick
Heller, the plaintiff in the 2008 Supreme Court case, who argued
that the District of Columbia’s gun laws are so burdensome as to
violate the Constitution’s right to bear arms. The rules are
inconsistent with high court rulings, including Heller’s earlier
case, he said in court papers.  Fingerprinted and Photographed  Under the statute, residents who want to keep guns at home
must be fingerprinted and photographed by the police, provide a
work history and describe their intended use of the weapon.
Firearms have to be registered every three years. Guns defined
by the city as assault weapons are banned.  Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  dissented, saying he would have
thrown out the ban on assault weapons and the registration
requirements.  “This case concerns semi-automatic rifles,” Kavanaugh
wrote. “It would strain logic and common sense to conclude that
the Second Amendment protects semi-automatic handguns but does
not protect semi-automatic rifles.”  Ginsburg said the court only looked at semi-automatic
rifles qualifying as an assault weapon under the law because
Heller and the other plaintiffs didn’t attempt to register a
semi-automatic pistol or shotgun.  Heller’s lawyer, Stephen Halbrook, told the three-judge
panel during arguments in November that district’s gun
regulations are “the most radically restrictive” in the
country. Halbrook didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
message seeking comment on today’s ruling.  Work History  Washington also requires residents who want to keep a gun
at home to provide a five-year work history and state their
intended use of the weapon. Applicants must allow police to run
ballistic tests on each gun they register. Magazines that hold
more than 10 bullets are banned.  The solicitor general for the  District of Columbia , Todd
Kim, said during oral argument that the city has the authority
to keep tabs on who owns guns within its borders and to keep out
certain types of weapons. Kim had no immediate comment on the
ruling.  The appeal panel approved what it called basic requirements
for handguns, such as providing the city with name, age,
occupation, date of sale and residence. Ginsburg said any
registration requirements related to “long guns” and “novel”
requirements for handguns, such as those requiring re-
registration of handguns every three years and requiring the gun
owner be fingerprinted and photographed, were sent back to the
lower court judge for additional review.  Heller filed the current challenge in July 2008, just 12
days after Washington lawmakers passed emergency legislation to
comply with the high court ruling in his earlier case. A federal
trial judge dismissed the new case in March 2010 after finding
that the city’s regulations were an appropriate balance between
public safety and an individual’s right to own a gun.  The case is Heller v. District of Columbia, 10-07036,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for D.C. Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 