-- 
Wolf Questions Norquist’s Associations, Calls Him Obstacle

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-10-04T18:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/wolf-questions-norquist-s-associations-influence-on-lawmaking.html
Representative Frank Wolf, a Virginia
Republican, said anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist  has profited
from associations with “unsavory” groups and has become an
obstacle to an overhaul of the U.S. tax code.  “My conscience has compelled me to come to the floor today
to voice concerns I have with the influence Grover Norquist, the
president of Americans for  Tax Reform , has on the political
process in Washington,” Wolf read from a  statement  on the floor
of the  House of Representatives  today.  Wolf listed a series of associations that he said
undermines Norquist’s credibility as a policy advocate. Among
them, he cited a relationship Norquist had with former lobbyist
and convicted felon  Jack Abramoff .  “Mr. Abramoff essentially laundered money through ATR and
Mr. Norquist knew it,” Wolf said.  The link between Norquist and Abramoff was documented in an
October 2006 report by Democratic members of the Senate Finance
Committee.  Norquist today called Wolf’s comments “silly and
dishonest.”  ‘Very Frustrated’  “Frank Wolf is very frustrated,” Norquist said in a phone
interview today, because Norquist declined his request about two
years ago to support an effort to narrow the federal  budget
deficit  through a combination of tax increases and budget cuts.  Norquist said Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  George H.W. Bush 
tried blending tax increases and budget cuts and couldn’t rein
in spending. “We did it his way in ‘82 and ‘90 and it failed,”
he said.  In his floor remarks, Wolf criticized Norquist for lobbying
on behalf of  Fannie Mae , a main source of mortgage financing in
the U.S. that is currently under government conservatorship.
Norquist also represented the Internet gambling industry, Wolf
said.  Norquist said some of the lobbying occurred 15 or 16 years
ago when Americans for Tax Reform “had no money.”  “It has nothing to do with anything here,” Norquist said.  Wolf also said Norquist represented “terrorist financier
and vocal Hamas supporter Abdurahman Alamoudi” and “associated
with terrorist financier Sami Al-Arian, who pleaded guilty in
2006 to conspiring to provide services to the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad.”  Norquist said Wolf is recycling discredited allegations
about him. “It’s sad and unfortunate,” Norquist said.  Wolf’s Criticism  Wolf said lobbyists in  Washington  have clients “of all
stripes and backgrounds. But my concern arises when the
appearances of impropriety are raised over and over again with a
person who has such influence over public policy.”  Norquist, a small government advocate, has spent years
urging lawmakers to sign a pledge not to raise taxes. On the
website of Americans for Tax Reform, a Washington-based group
that advocates for lower taxes, it states that 41 sitting
members of the  U.S. Senate  and 236 sitting members of the U.S.
House have signed the anti-tax pledge. Norquist founded the
group in 1985.  Political scientist James Thurber said Wolf’s attack on
Norquist may be part of a House Republican strategy to seek
changes to the  tax code  that may include some tax increases.  “The Republicans need maneuvering room on taxes,” said
Thurber, the director of the  Center for Congressional and
Presidential Studies  at American University in Washington.
“This is a nuclear bomb on the guy who is forcing everybody to
not compromise.”  “It’s likely the House leadership knew about this ahead of
time,” Thurber said.  Anti-Tax Pledge  Aides to House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  Norquist dismissed the notion that House leaders might be
trying to mute the influence of his no-new-taxes message.  “Not a chance,” Norquist said. “I work regularly with
leadership.”  Wolf, 72, was first elected in 1980 and is the senior
member of the  Virginia  congressional delegation. He represents a
section of northern Virginia that stretches from McLean in
suburban Washington west to the Blue Ridge Mountains.  His comments come during a partisan debate over how to
reduce the federal budget deficit, with many Republicans opposed
to increasing taxes to address it.  Wolf said he wasn’t calling for tax increases but that
“everything must be on the table for discussion” including
“reforms to make the tax code simpler and fairer and free from
special-interest earmarks.”  Wolf hasn’t signed the anti-tax pledge.  He said “reasonable people can disagree on the merits of
the pledge -- and I respect those differences-- but the issue is
with the interpreter of a pledge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  