-- 
Wynn, Mandarin Macau Rooms Sold Out for National Holiday

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-10-04T10:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/wynn-mandarin-macau-rooms-sold-out-for-china-national-holiday.html
Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  and Mandarin Oriental
said their hotels in the world’s largest gambling hub are fully
booked during China’s week-long national holiday.  “It’s a very busy period for us,” Katharine Liu, Wynn’s
director of communications, said by phone today. All the
company’s 1,009 rooms will be rented during China’s so-called
Golden Week holiday this week, she said. The Mandarin Oriental
 Macau  has been full since Sept. 30, said Ada Chio de la Cruz,
the hotel’s director of communications.  Rooms are selling out in Macau as casinos attract more
visitors who helped drive gambling revenue up 39 percent to 21.2
billion patacas ($2.6 billion) last month, according to data
published on the city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination
Bureau website today. High-stakes gamblers on junkets from
mainland  China  have driven growth in Macau, the only place in
the country where casinos are legal.  “Many companies expect October to be a record month
considering the Golden Week and forward bookings,” Aaron Fischer and Huei Suen Ng, consumer and gambling analysts at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets, said in a research note. “The industry
dynamics remain attractive with limited threat from gaming in
other Chinese locations; only six operators and only 3 percent
to 5 percent expansion in supply over the long run.”  Occupancy at  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ’s 360-room Four Seasons Hotel
on the former Portuguese colony’s Cotai Strip has been
“strong,” said Julius Santos, director of marketing.  Room Rates Rising  The Mandarin Oriental Macau’s rooms this week start at
3,500 patacas for Oct. 1-7, 76 percent higher than the rates
early last week, according to a  price list  on the Macau
Government Tourist Office’s website. The hotel’s most expensive
room is listed at 49,000 patacas a night.  Mandarin Oriental continues to receive inquiries for
available rooms, said Chio de la Cruz.  Mandarin Oriental
International Ltd. (MAND)  has at least 27 hotels worldwide, according
to its  website .  Casino revenue of the former Portuguese colony has grown 46
percent in the nine months through September to 194 billion
patacas, according to data from the Macau government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  