-- 
Yields Climb on New York Mortgage Muni Bonds Backed by Ailing Bank Dexia

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-10-04T18:57:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/yields-climb-on-new-york-mortgage-muni-bonds-backed-by-ailing-bank-dexia.html
Yields on New York state mortgage
agency bonds backstopped by  Dexia SA (DEXB)  rose as much as 0.75
percentage point on concern that the Brussels-based bank hasn’t
written down enough of its holdings of Greek government debt.  The daily yield of a New York floating-rate mortgage-
revenue bond maturing in 2037 jumped to 2.75 percent today from
2 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Interest costs on similar securities also backed by so-called
standby purchase agreements from Dexia have risen as much as
1.25 percentage points since last week. Under such arrangements,
the bank guarantees to be a buyer of last resort for the debt.  “Yields have definitely adjusted up,” said Dan Solender,
the head of municipal bonds at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey .  The French and Belgian governments pledged to support Dexia
after shares of the bank fell 22 percent in Brussels on concern
that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis has reduced the lender’s
ability to obtain funding. Dexia guarantees $13.4 billion of
U.S. municipal bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Marian Zucker, president of the office of finance and
development at New York’s Home and Community Renewal Agency,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Breakup Weighed  Company directors met yesterday to weigh a breakup of the
company, including creating a “bad bank” for troubled assets,
according to people with knowledge of the talks, who declined to
be identified because the negotiations are private. Options for
Dexia will be the focus of a Belgium cabinet meeting late today
in Brussels. Both the French and Belgian governments own stakes
in the bank, which was bailed out in 2008.  Moody’s Investors Service put Dexia’s three main operating
units on review for a downgrade yesterday on concern the lender
was struggling to maintain liquidity amid “worsening funding
conditions in the wider market.”  Investors didn’t demand higher yields for all municipal
bonds backed by Dexia standby purchase agreements. Yields on
 Oregon  floating-rate bonds that refinanced debt issued to fund
mortgages for veterans and reset daily have held at 0.5
percentage point since Sept. 22, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt has the state’s general-obligation pledge.  Similarly, yields on $150 million of debt issued by the  Las
Vegas  Valley Water District in  Nevada  have remained at 2.5
percentage point since Sept. 14.  Issuers such as Oregon and Las Vegas might have an easier
time getting other banks to step in and provide a backstop if
they needed to, Solender said.  Dexia posted a 4 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) loss for the
second quarter, its largest ever, after writing down the value
of its Greek debt. Once the world’s biggest municipal lender,
the bank received a 6 billion-euro bailout from Belgium, France
and its largest shareholders in September 2008, following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 