-- 
Ahmadinejad Rejects U.S. Claim That Iran Backed Terror Plot

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-10-16T14:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/ahmadinejad-rejects-u-s-claim-that-iran-backed-terror-plot-1-.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  rejected U.S. accusations that his country was
involved in a plot to assassinate the Saudi ambassador to
 Washington .  “Each day they try to campaign against Iran,” Ahmadinejad
said, according to the official  Islamic Republic News Agency .  The U.S. Justice Department accused Iran on Oct. 11 of
sponsoring a plot to murder  Saudi Arabia ’s ambassador to
Washington, Adel Al-Jubeir. Two men were charged with conspiracy
to kill the diplomat in a plot that U. S. Attorney General Eric Holder said was “directed and approved by elements of the
Iranian  government.”  “They are accusing Iran of seeking to assassinate but they
need to understand that terrorism is the work of those who are
uncivilized,” Ahmadinejad said.  Iran  “has no need to resort to
this.”  The Obama administration has used the case to underline its
portrayal of Iran, which it already accuses of seeking to
develop nuclear weapons, as a rogue state that threatens global
security. The campaign has led the groundwork for efforts to
ratchet up multilateral sanctions, isolate the regime
diplomatically and perhaps take other actions.  “If U.S. officials are coming up with some ideas they
should know that any inappropriate move, be it political or
security related will be met with the Iranian nation’s firm
reaction,” supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was quoted as
saying today in an address to supporters in the western
Kermanshah province, according to the official  Islamic Republic
News Agency .  Iran’s Foreign Ministry said last week it “categorically”
rejected the claim, which it said was a “ridiculous show.”
Iran’s ambassador to the  United Nations , Mohammad Khazaee, said
Oct. 11 the allegations were an “evil plot” and an effort by
the U.S. “to divert attention from its ‘‘economic and social
problems at home.’’  Manssor Arbabsiar, a 56-year-old Iranian native and
naturalized U.S. citizen who was working as a used car salesman
in  Texas , is in U.S. custody. Gholam Shakuri, an Iranian member
of the Quds Force, remains at large, U.S. officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  