-- 
Bangkok’s Governor Calls for Sandbags as Floods Besiege Thailand’s Capital

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-10-18T06:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/thailand-says-floodwaters-receding-won-t-inundate-bangkok.html
Bangkok Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra appealed for more than a million sandbags to prevent
flooding in the Thai capital as a “huge amount” of water from
northern dams threatens to deluge inner parts of the city.  “Every minute is critical from now on,” he told a
televised press briefing late yesterday in which he asked for
1.2 million sandbags. “We urge the government to give those
bags now. Otherwise, it will be too late.”  Sandbag shortages are widespread, with the price jumping
15-fold to 75 baht ($2.44) each, Sean Boonpracong, a spokesman
for the government’s Flood Relief Operation Command, said by
phone today. A “lack of accurate information from the field”
makes the situation unclear, he said, adding that inner Bangkok
doesn’t face an immediate threat.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra is seeking to spare
Bangkok from the country’s worst flooding in 50 years after
heavy monsoon rains forced officials to release large amounts of
water from northern dams. The disaster has killed more than 300
people and swamped at least 930 plants employing more than
300,000 workers, according to government data.  Thailand ’s Cabinet today agreed to widen the 2012  budget
deficit  by 50 billion baht to fund flood reconstruction, Finance
Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said.  ‘Surrounded by Water’  Sukhumbhand, whose opposition Democrat party was defeated
by Yingluck’s party in national elections three months ago, said
flooding may occur in suburban parts of northern Bangkok,
including areas near  Don Mueang airport , which handles mostly
domestic flights and where the government has set up a flood
relief center. Levies must be built urgently along canals in
nearby Rangsit to prevent floods, he said.  “At the moment we are surrounded by water,” Jate
Sopitpongstorn, a spokesman for the  Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration , said yesterday by phone. “What we are afraid of
over the next two or three days is whether the sandbags we put
in place will be able to hold.”  Four eastern districts in Bangkok, a city of 9.7 million
people with an area twice the size of  Singapore , are flooded
with about half a meter (1.6 feet) of water, Jate said. Waters
would rise slowly if temporary levies are breached, he said.  City officials are monitoring flood defenses along the Chao
Phraya river, whose banks are lined with hotels including the
Peninsula and the Shangri-La, as well as the Bank of Thailand.
Bangkok sits near the bottom of the river basin, a low-lying
area the size of  Florida  in which water drains from  Chiang Mai 
in the north down to the Gulf of Thailand.  No Rate Cut  The Bank of Thailand will likely hold  interest rates  at a
meeting tomorrow as reconstruction efforts and a “powerful
stimulus” from Yingluck’s campaign pledges offset concerns
about slowing economic growth, HSBC Holdings Plc economist
 Frederic Neumann  wrote in a note.  The central bank will “assess the situation again and see
how flexible we can be” after the waters recede, Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters in Bangkok yesterday,
after saying last week the floods may cause damage of 120
billion baht and force the central bank to cut its forecast for
economic growth this year. Bank of Thailand policy makers have
increased borrowing costs for seven straight meetings.  The disaster may reduce economic growth by as much as 1.7
percentage points this year, Thirachai said yesterday, without
specifying a reference point. The ministry on Sept. 28 cut its
2011 growth forecast to a range of 3.8 percent to 4.3 percent
from a June forecast of 4 percent to 5 percent.  China,  Malaysia   China and Malaysia may be the most vulnerable to supply
chain disruptions stemming from the floods for office machinery,
including hard-disk drives, Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-
based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note
yesterday. Thailand accounts for 60 percent of global production
of hard-disk drives, the note said.  Yingluck apologized after floods swamped part of Navanakorn
Pcl’s industrial zone in Pathum Thani on Bangkok’s outskirts,
which employs 180,000 workers at 227 plants, including a hard-
disk drive plant operated by Toshiba Corp., according to
 Toshiba’s website .  About 30 percent of the industrial zone is flooded, and
officials are negotiating with local residents to open five
water gates to help drain floodwaters, Pracha Promnog, head of
the flood center, said today.  A total of 419 Japanese companies have shut down operations
in the six worst-affected industrial estates, according to data
from the Japan External Trade Organization’s Bangkok office.
Others have been forced to idle plants because of supply-chain
disruptions, according to Jetro.  At least 315 people have been killed and 8.8 million more
affected as monsoon rains and floods have swept across 61 of
Thailand’s 77 provinces over the past three months, the Disaster
Prevention and Mitigation Department said yesterday. Floodwaters
are still present in 27 provinces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  