-- 
Air France Turns to Old Hand Spinetta as CEO Gourgeon Ousted

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-10-18T08:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/air-france-klm-board-said-to-plan-ouster-of-chief-executive-gourgeon-today.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group recalled Jean- Cyril Spinetta, 68, as chief executive officer and ousted
Pierre-Henri Gourgeon amid slumping earnings and questions
regarding the role of pilots in a fatal crash.  CEO since January 2009, 65-year-old Gourgeon had been
slated to stay until 2013. Instead he quit after a board meeting
late yesterday, with Chairman Spinetta taking charge until Air
France-KLM adopts a single corporate structure that year.  Gourgeon’s position was undermined by a 60 percent drop in
Air France-KLM’s share price this year, the worst performance in
the region, and after safety experts said pilot training was a
factor in a 2009 crash that killed 228 people. Government
official Alexandre de Juniac, 48, will serve as CEO of the Air
 France  unit, a post Gourgeon occupied, the Paris-based company
said yesterday in a statement.  “Spinetta represents a safe pair of hands in a difficult
period,” said Andrew Lobbenberg, a London-based Royal Bank of
Scotland analyst with a “sell” rating on the stock. “They’re
in a challenging position because if we head into a
deteriorating macroeconomic environment they’re starting from a
much weaker position than their peers.”  Lufthansa, IAG  Air France-KLM shares fell as much as 40 cents, or 7.1
percent, to 5.21 euros and were down 3.4 percent as of 10:01
a.m. in Paris trading. The company has a market value of 1.62
billion euros ($2.22 billion), down about 60 percent since it
first listed in 1999.  The Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index has fallen 35 percent in
2011.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , ranked second in  Europe  by traffic,
is down 41 percent and worth 4.44 billion euros. International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the No. 3, has slid 42 percent
since its January formation via a merger of British Airways and
 Spain ’s Iberia, valuing it at 3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion).  “In the current economic context, top priority must be
given to the recovery and improvement of the performance of Air
France and of KLM,” yesterday’s statement said. “Consequently,
the setting-up of a full-dedicated Air France-KLM holding, which
was to be implemented at the beginning of 2012, has been put
off. In these circumstances, Pierre-Henri Gourgeon has resigned
from his duties as CEO of Air France and Air France-KLM.”  Operating Losses  Air France-KLM suffered operating losses in two of the past
three fiscal years following 11 years of profitability on that
basis under Spinetta, who ran Air France and later the enlarged
company formed via the purchase of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines NV
from 1998 through the end of 2008, with Gourgeon as his deputy.  De Juniac will take charge of turning round the Air France
unit, the company said, subject to the appointment being
approved by a state ethics committee, given his government role.  The official served as chief of staff to French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  and more recently as an adviser to
 Francois Baroin , Lagarde’s successor after she stepped down in
June to head the  International Monetary Fund . The state still
owns about 15 percent of Air France-KLM.  KLM’s Leo Van Wijk is to assist Spinetta as deputy CEO at
the parent group, yesterday’s release said.  “Gourgeon wasn’t particularly appreciated by investors and
having new leadership could help build confidence and provide an
electro-shock for the company,” said  Yan Derocles , an Oddo
Securities analyst in Paris who recommends buying the stock.  De Juniac had been identified as a future Air France-KLM
CEO in French media reports since June, with the plan originally
for him to become deputy chief and head of the Air France
division while Gourgeon continued in the group role. Yesterday’s
statement didn’t say who will eventually replace Spinetta.  Disadvantage  Himself a one-time government official, Spinetta took over
as CEO the first time round with the company in recovery mode
after a state bailout rescued it from a brush with bankruptcy in
1994. He is credited with developing a hub at Paris’s Charles de Gaulle airport and building the SkyTeam alliance with  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL) , as well as engineering the KLM deal that boosted the
carrier to European No. 1 from third spot previously.  Air France-KLM has lately come under pressure to deepen
cost cuts to achieve a level footing with Lufthansa and BA, and
Gourgeon himself said at a Sept. 9 briefing that the airline was
at a competitive disadvantage to rivals. The carrier’s full-year
earnings target is simply to avoid a loss.  The global  airline industry  is likely to sustain a 30
percent drop in net income to $4.9 billion in 2012, and even
that may prove too optimistic should the global economy slow
further, International Air Transport Association CEO  Tony Tyler 
said this month in an interview.  France’s BEA crash investigator has meanwhile published two
reports showing that the crew of Air France flight 447 pulled
the jet into a steep climb until it slowed to an aerodynamic
stall before slumping into the sea while en route from  Rio de
Janeiro  to Paris in June 2009, killing everyone aboard.  A book published last week with the title “Piloting Error,
Volume 5” disclosed what it said were further recordings from
the doomed Airbus SAS plane’s cockpit, revealing a scene
dominated by confusion, a lack of coordination and denial among
the flight crew as the jet plunged toward the ocean.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  