-- 
New Zealand to Battle France in Rugby World Cup Final That Rematches 1987

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-16T12:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/all-blacks-beats-australia-20-6-to-reach-rugby-world-cup-final-with-france.html
New Zealand  beat Australia 20-6 to
reach its first  Rugby World Cup  final since 1995, where the All
Blacks will face  France  in a repeat of the inaugural
championship decider 24 years ago.  Inside center Ma’a Nonu scored the only try,  Piri Weepu 
kicked four penalties and Aaron Cruden added a drop goal last
night as top-ranked New Zealand extended its winning run at
Auckland’s Eden Park to 26 matches.  The All Blacks, who led 14-6 at half time, secured their
first win over the Wallabies in three World Cup semifinal
meetings and will face two-time runner-up France on Oct. 23 at
Eden Park in a repeat of the 1987 final. New Zealand won that
game for its only  World Cup  title.  “We’ve now given ourselves a chance in a final,” All
Blacks captain Richie McCaw said at a news conference. “We’re
going to have to make sure we get our feet back on the ground
straight away and put a performance together the same if not
better next week.”  The French defeated 14-man  Wales  9-8 two days ago after
Welsh captain Sam Warburton was red carded in the 18th minute
for a dangerous tackle. Australia, which had been seeking an
unprecedented third world championship, will play Wales in the
third-place playoff on Oct. 21.  New Zealand, which had lost a final, three semifinals and a
quarterfinal since winning its only title, has had to contend
with the loss of first-choice fly-half  Dan Carter  and his backup
 Colin Slade , who both suffered tournament-ending groin injuries.
Cruden, who wasn’t in the original 30-man squad, started in the
playmaking role last night and was able to orchestrate attacks
on the front foot as the home forwards dominated.  No Momentum  The All Blacks won nine scrums on their own ball and twice
earned possession on Australia’s feed by overpowering the
Wallabies, who were restricted to a James O’Connor penalty and
Quade Cooper drop goal in the first half.  “Clearly we did not have enough possession to build
pressure,” Australia coach  Robbie Deans  said. “We were unable
to get much momentum and that inhibited our attack.”  The 14-point deficit was  Australia ’s largest defeat in a
World Cup knockout match.  “It was a very tough night,” Cooper told reporters.
“Right across the board they were making it a personal contest
between each player and they came out on top.”  The home team took the lead in the sixth minute when full-
back Israel Dagg handed off flanker Rocky Elsom and managed to
offload the ball from on the ground in the tackle for Nonu to
touch down.  Weepu’s Misses  Weepu, voted man of the match in the quarterfinal win over
 Argentina  after kicking 21 points, missed the conversion and
then a penalty before finding his range in the 13th minute to
make it 8-0.  O’Connor, who booted the winning penalty in Australia’s
quarterfinal victory over  South Africa , took advantage of a
McCaw infringement at a ruck to cut the gap to five points.  Cruden and New Zealand-born Wallabies fly-half Cooper, who
was being jeered each time he touched the ball, then traded drop
goals 10 minutes apart to make it 11-6.  Weepu, who had missed with another penalty attempt midway
through the opening half, slotted over in the 38th minute after
Adam Ashley-Cooper was penalized for offside to put the All
Blacks eight points up at half time.  Weepu kicked his third penalty early in the second half
after Wallabies inside center  Pat McCabe  didn’t release the ball
in the tackle. The All Blacks scrum-half then missed with a
long-range chance from the touchline before getting replaced by
 Andy Ellis .  Blood Replacement  Cruden put another long-range effort wide as the All Blacks
continued to dominate possession and field territory. Weepu,
back on as a blood replacement for Ellis, took New Zealand two
converted tries ahead in the 73rd minute before going off for
Ellis again.  Although reduced to 14 men for the last five minutes after
Sonny Bill Williams was yellow carded, the All Blacks defended
their line to hold the Wallabies scoreless in the second half.  With the match approaching full time, the majority of the
crowd of 60,087 at  Eden Park  celebrated by chanting “four more
years” in reference to Wallabies’ scrum-half George Gregan’s
taunt during Australia’s win over New Zealand in the 2003
semifinal in Sydney.  “It was an outstanding performance,” All Blacks coach
 Graham Henry  said. “The boys were very heroic out there.
Everyone who took to the field gave 100 percent. We need to
build towards next week and do the same again, hopefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  