-- 
All Blacks Seek to Relive ‘Good Times’ Against France in World Cup Final

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-17T04:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/all-blacks-seek-to-relive-good-times-against-france-in-world-cup-final.html
New Zealand will meet  France  in next
week’s Rugby  World Cup  final, intent on a repeat of its victory
in the 1987 championship decider rather than defeats in 1999 and
2007 at the hands of the European team.  “There’s a bit of history there,” All Blacks captain
Richie McCaw said last night at Auckland’s Eden Park after his
team’s semifinal win over  Australia . “We’ve had some good times
playing against them and we’ve had not so good times.”  The All Blacks extended their winning run at Eden Park,
which will host the Oct. 23 final, to 26 matches with a 20-6
victory over the Wallabies. France, which was the last team to
beat New Zealand at the stadium in 1994, defeated Wales 9-8 in
the first semifinal two days ago.  Top-ranked  New Zealand  won by 20 points when the teams met
on Sept. 24 in a Pool A match, one of two losses for France in
the group stage. The French, who were also upset by Tonga,
rebounded by beating England and Wales to become the first
nation to reach a World Cup final after two losses.  France, ranked fifth by the International Rugby Board,
eliminated the All Blacks twice in World Cup knockout games,
including a win in the 2007 quarterfinals.  “That game caused some people a lot of pain,” All Blacks
coach  Graham Henry  said today at a news conference at the team’s
Auckland hotel. “There’s history in All Black-French  Rugby
World Cup  games.”  Odds-on Favorite  New Zealand is the NZ$1.08 favorite to win the match,
according to local bookmaker TAB, meaning a successful NZ$1 (80
cents) bet returns a profit of 8 New Zealand cents. France is
the NZ$7 outsider.  The All Blacks, who won their only World Cup by beating
France 24 years ago, need to come down from yesterday’s victory
before focusing on the final, according to their coach.  “You can’t stay up there,” said Henry, who has won 85
percent of his matches in charge of New Zealand. “We’ve got to
get to base again, a clean sheet of paper and build again.
Although they didn’t play particularly well in their semifinal,
we know they’ve got the ability to play outstanding rugby.”  The 20-18 loss to France in Cardiff,  Wales , four years ago
led to calls for Henry to be fired. He was reappointed following
a review. McCaw captained the team that day and was also
criticized for failing to change tactics.  At the 1999 World Cup, France rallied from 14 points down
early in the second half to oust tournament favorite New Zealand
43-31 in a semifinal played at Twickenham,  London .  ‘Dangerous’  “We know that you can never write them off,” said All
Blacks fly-half Aaron Cruden, who became the team’s first-choice
playmaker after groin injuries to  Dan Carter  and  Colin Slade .
“People had written them off this tournament but they have made
the final and are dangerous.”  The 1987 final was one of the good times. The inaugural
tournament, also in New Zealand, pitted the All Blacks against
France and the home side won 29-9 at  Eden Park .  Next week will be France’s 10th Test match against the All
Blacks at the Auckland stadium. They have two wins there and
also defeated New Zealand in Dunedin two years ago.  “We are not going to get ahead of ourselves,” McCaw said.
“We have given ourselves a chance.”  Australia coach  Robbie Deans , a New Zealander, expects his
home country to end its 24-year wait between world titles.  “They are more than capable of winning,” Deans told
reporters. “They are hungry. They’ll take some stopping from
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Auckland at  twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  