-- 
Allot Communications Surges Most on Record in Tel Aviv After U.S. Advance

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   T a l   B a r a k - H a r i f
-- 
2011-10-16T14:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/allot-communications-surges-most-since-june-in-tel-aviv-after-u-s-advance.html
Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  soared the
most since the shares started trading in  Tel Aviv  after the
U.S.-listed stock rose 22 percent last week on speculation
profit of technology companies will improve on demand for
smartphones.  The stock of Israel’s biggest maker of high-speed
networking equipment climbed 13 percent, the most since the
December listing, to 46.92 shekels, or the equivalent of $12.83
at the 2:45 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The U.S. shares closed at
$12.93 on Oct. 14. Israel’s market was shut for a holiday since
the end of trading on Oct. 11.  Israeli technology companies, which raised $569 million in
capital during the second quarter, the most in two years, are
benefiting from rising Internet traffic and increased online
video streaming. Allot will report adjusted third-quarter
earnings on Nov. 1 of 10 cents per share, according to the
median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Allot’s business is exposed to the high-growth service
provider mobile infrastructure market,” Catharine Trebnick, an
analyst at Northland Securities Inc. in  Minneapolis , wrote in an
e-mailed report dated Oct. 12. Trebnick rated Allot’s shares
“outperform” in her initial coverage of the company.  Twenty-four of the 25 companies in the Bloomberg Israel-US
25 Index gained last week as the measure soared 6.3 percent,
beating the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 6 percent advance.
Global stocks rallied on Oct. 14, extending the biggest weekly
rally since July 2009, as the Group of 20 began talks to tame
 Europe ’s debt crisis and U.S. retail sales and Google Inc.’s
results beat estimates.  The Hod Hasharon, Israel-based company’s customers include
Virgin Media Inc. and billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s fixed-line
carrier, Telefonos de Mexico SAB. Its technology allows  Internet
providers  to differentiate network traffic and provide tailored
plans to their clients as demand for faster data surges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  