-- 
Ambani Armed With $12.6 Billion to Buy Assets as Energy Valuations Slump

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-10-17T07:39:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/ambani-armed-with-12-6-billion-to-buy-assets-as-energy-valuations-slump.html
Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL)  is poised to use its record cash for overseas
acquisitions to take advantage of the cheapest valuations of oil
and natural gas companies in three years as profit growth slows.  “Reliance has a strong balance sheet and sustained earning
base to pursue growth opportunities,” Chairman Ambani, 54, said
Oct. 15 after the refiner and explorer reported that asset sales
to  BP Plc (BP/)  helped boost cash to 614.9 billion rupees ($12.6
billion). Quarterly profit rose 16 percent from a year earlier.  Reliance, PetroChina Co. and Cnooc Ltd. are among Asian
companies likely to spend $150 billion over the next five years
on assets to secure energy supplies for the region’s growing
economies, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Ambani has
bought shale gas assets in the U.S. and is targeting acreages in
 Canada  after a drop in gas output in India led to a 21 percent
decline in his company’s shares in Mumbai trading this year.  “A large energy acquisition may be just what they need to
kick-start things,” said Kamlesh Kotak, vice president of
research at Asian Markets Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “That will
be the best possible use of their cash, which has become pretty
huge now.”  Reliance fell as much as 4 percent, its biggest decline in
almost a month, after its net income of 57.03 billion rupees for
the three months ended Sept. 30 fell short of the 57.1 billion
rupee median estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Profit was little changed from the preceding quarter.  The stock was down 3.5 percent at 837 rupees at 12:48 p.m.
in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index fell 0.2 percent.  BP Alliance  Reliance holds the third-largest cash and short-term
investments among energy companies in Asia Pacific, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. PetroChina and Cnooc have the most.
The Indian company received $7.2 billion from the sale of a 30
percent stake in 21 oil and gas fields to BP and is working with
the London-based explorer to help reverse the drop in output at
 India ’s biggest gas deposit.  Output at the KG-D6 field may start rising by 2014,  Robert Dudley , BP’s chief executive officer, said Sept. 28. Reliance
and BP have sought permission from the Indian government to
develop smaller fields to make up for declining output at
KG-D6’s two main producing areas.  “The future depends very much on what the BP-Reliance
joint venture can do to turn around their upstream business and
what Reliance will do with their cash,”  Neil Beveridge  and Ying Lou, Hong Kong-based analysts at Bernstein, said in a report
today. “We expect Reliance to use its strong cash position to
fund M&A, potentially buying overseas upstream assets.”  Energy Valuations  Bernstein and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have predicted a
surge of oil and gas takeovers after global energy shares fell
21 percent in the third quarter, the worst three months since
2008. Crude in  New York  has declined 3.8 percent this year amid
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis and a U.S. economic slowdown
will drag the world back into recession.  Reliance’s debt stood at 714 billion rupees as of Sept. 30.
The explorer plans to have more cash than debt by March 31 as it
seeks to expand into new business areas, Ambani said June 3.  Sales rose 37 percent to 785.7 billion rupees from a year
earlier, and were less than the record 810.20 billion rupees in
the three months ended June 30. Gains processing each barrel of
crude oil into fuels followed a similar pattern, rising to $10.1
in the quarter from $7.9 in the same period a year earlier, and
easing from $10.3 a barrel in April-June quarter.  Refining Margins  Refining margins may fall next year as global capacity
additions, including 730,000 barrels a day in  China , exceed
demand growth, according to an Oct. 5 note by Bank of America
Corp. analyst Sabine Schels.  Pretax profit from refining increased 40 percent to 30.8
billion rupees from a year earlier. Other income, including
interest earned on cash deposits, climbed 64 percent to 1.1
billion rupees. The  Reserve Bank  of India has increased  interest
rates  12 times since March 2010 to curb inflation, helping
companies earn more money on their cash.  “Reliance is making more money out of money and less out
of oil,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC
Wealth Management Services Ltd. in  New Delhi . “That shows
operations are stagnating,” he said. “With BP on board, they
have an opportunity to work with them on overseas projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  