-- 
Wenger Sees Confidence Growing as Van Persie’s Two Goals Seal Arsenal Win

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-10-16T23:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/arsenal-beats-sunderland-2-1-in-premier-league-on-two-van-persie-goals.html
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said
he can see his team growing in confidence after a 2-1 victory
against Sunderland which lifts the Gunners into the top half of
soccer’s Premier League.  Robin van Persie  struck in each half at Arsenal’s Emirates
Stadium yesterday, opening the scoring with the club’s fastest-
ever Premier League goal, then earning the win with a late
freekick.  “If we can put another two or three results together it
will help confidence because you can feel that the attitude and
spirit of the team is great,” Wenger said at the post-match
news conference. “The motivation is there and the quality too
so we should eventually get there.”  Arsenal’s third league win in eight matches this season
moves Wenger’s team into 10th spot. Sunderland is 17th in the
20-team standings. Fourth-place Newcastle rallied twice to draw
2-2 against Tottenham, while West Bromwich Albion beat
Wolverhampton Wanderers 2-0 in yesterday’s other games.  Arsenal made the breakthrough after only 29 seconds against
the Black Cats. Gervinho collected a pass from Tomas Rosicky and
found  Van Persie , who fired a low shot into the net from the
edge of the penalty area.  The home team continued to press and looked likely to
increase its lead, with Van Persie coming close on 13 minutes.
Van Persie spun past his defender before clipping the ball over
goalkeeper Simon Mignolet, but it struck the post and bounced
across the goal before being cleared.  The Dutchman then struck a 20-yard shot just wide two
minutes later.  Sunderland improved through the first half and tied the
game on 31 minutes when it was awarded a freekick. Sebastian Larsson, who failed to establish himself at Arsenal early in his
career, curled an effort over the wall and into the corner of
the net.  Arsenal secured the win from a freekick of its own on 82
minutes, Van Persie stepping up to fire the ball past Mignolet.
Wenger praised the Dutchman’s prowess from set pieces, but said
that Larsson is “maybe the best freekick taker in the league.”  “We started well for the first 25 minutes and then when
they equalized you could see that we were wobbling a bit,”
Wenger said. “At halftime the team regrouped and then the
second half was all us.”  Newcastle maintained its unbeaten start in the league after
substitute  Shola Ameobi  scored in the 86th minute at St. James’s
Park.  The home team trailed at halftime as Rafael van der Vaart
put Spurs ahead with a penalty kick, awarded for a trip on
Emmanuel Adebayor by Steven Taylor.  Demba Ba tied the game three minutes after the interval
before Tottenham reestablished its lead midway through the half
from a strike by Jermain Defoe. Ameobi, who was 30 on Oct. 12,
fired a low shot across goalkeeper  Brad Friedel  into the net for
his first goal of the season.  “I think it was a penalty, I made contact and I’m
disappointed with that,” Taylor told Sky Sports. “But credit
to the lads, we came back and it was fully deserved.”  At the Hawthorns, West Brom got its first home league win
of the season on goals from Chris Brunt and  Peter Odemwingie .  Two days ago,  Manchester City  took a two-point lead atop
the standings following a 4-1 win against  Aston Villa , while
second-place  Manchester United  tied 1-1 at Liverpool.  Chelsea beat Everton 3-1, Bolton won 3-1 at Wigan, Stoke
defeated Fulham 2-0, Norwich beat Swansea 3-1, while Queens Park
Rangers and Blackburn drew 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 