-- 
Bankers Bridle at EU’s Push for Bigger Greek Debt Losses, Higher Capital

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-10-17T14:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/bankers-balk-at-eu-push-for-bigger-greek-losses-higher-capital.html
Josef Ackermann , the head of
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and chief lobbyist for the world’s largest
financial firms, has pressed European leaders for months to
devise a strategy to stamp out the sovereign debt crisis.  Now that European Union officials are moving toward an
agreement that may include bigger losses on Greek debt holdings
and the forced recapitalization of lenders, the Deutsche Bank
chief executive officer and Washington-based Institute of
International Finance he chairs are pushing back. He travels to
Brussels this week for talks with policy makers.  Forcing lenders to boost capital would be
counterproductive, and getting investors to accept larger losses
on Greek holdings difficult, Ackermann said on Oct. 13.
Opposition from banks may hamper efforts by German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to present a
breakthrough at an Oct. 23 summit of euro leaders in combating
the crisis, which has driven Greece toward default, roiled
global markets and dented confidence in the survival of the 17-
nation currency.  “What’s most depressing about this whole thing is the
squabbling between politicians, regulators and banks,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst with Mediobanca SpA.
“Banks have to take positive action alongside the EU to find a
solution, which is a combination of dealing with sovereigns as
well as capital concerns.”  Revamped Strategy  Reaching a compromise is in the interest of banks, whose
earnings have been battered by financial-market turbulence,
Wheeler said. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank scrapped its profit
forecast on Oct. 4 and announced 500 job cuts and further
writedowns of Greek bond holdings amid what the company
described as a “significant and unabated slowdown in client
activity” brought on by the debt crisis.  Germany  dampened optimism for a complete fix to the crisis
at the Oct. 23 meeting. Merkel has made it clear that “dreams
that are taking hold again now that with this package everything
will be solved and everything will be over on Monday won’t be
able to be fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, said at a briefing in Berlin today.  European financial companies dropped for a third day. The
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index of 46 stocks
fell 2.5 percent, led by  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , by 4:50
p.m. Central European Time.  Bigger Losses  Europe’s revamped strategy to beat its two-year sovereign
debt crisis won the backing of global finance chiefs in Paris
this past weekend. In the works is a five-point plan foreseeing
a solution for Greece, bolstering of the firepower of the 440
billion-euro ($611 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility bailout fund, fresh capital for banks, a new push to
boost competitiveness and consideration of European treaty
amendments to tighten economic management.  The Greek bond losses now envisaged in the plan may be
accompanied by a pledge to rule out debt restructurings in other
countries that received bailouts, such as  Portugal , to persuade
investors that Europe has mastered the crisis, people familiar
with the discussion said on Oct. 14.  Options include altering a July accord struck with
investors and spearheaded by Ackermann for a 21 percent net-
present-value reduction in Greek debt holdings. One variant
would take that loss up to 50 percent, the people said.  ‘Political Reality’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
the reduction of  Greece ’s debt by means of private-investor
participation must be bigger than agreed to in July by euro-
region leaders to achieve a “sustainable solution” for the
country. There will be negotiations with banks about a debt cut
for Greece, Schaeuble said on ARD public television, according
to a transcript of the interview.  Policy makers’ priority needs to be convincing investors
that  Italy , the third-largest issuer of debt after the U.S. and
 Japan , is a risk-free investment, said  Holger Schmieding , a
London-based chief economist for Berenberg Bank. Still,
increasing private contributions to a Greek rescue would help
mollify German voters and injecting capital into banks may ease
investors’ concerns about the stability of the financial system,
he said.  “Being a realist, I don’t see the chance of avoiding
larger private-sector involvement, especially given the German
political reality,” said Schmieding. “We also probably need
some type of recap after raising market expectations over the
last few weeks. But the ultimate thing is impressing on the
market that Italy is safe.”  No ‘Compelling Case’  The  Institute of International Finance  on Oct. 10 rejected
pressure for banks to accept larger losses on their holdings of
Greek government debt. There are no plans to change the deal,
Hung Tran, deputy managing director of the IIF, said in a
telephone interview.  “The potential risk and potential costs of revisiting the
deal far outweigh any potential benefits,” Tran said. “July 21
represented a balanced approach with significant concessions
from private investors. We should remind the public sector that
we need to preserve the voluntary nature of the Private Sector
Agreement, and therefore honor and implement the deal.”  Charles Dallara , managing director of the IIF, which
represents more than 450 financial institutions globally, told
the Financial Times on Oct. 14 that he didn’t see a “compelling
case” to reopen negotiations.  One risk to changing the agreement is that forcing bigger
writedowns could be viewed as a default, triggering insurance
bought against such an event, known as credit default swaps, and
risking contagion to larger countries such as Italy and Spain,
according to analysts.  Rescue Fund  Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, known as the
GIIPS, have about 2.9 trillion euros of  government bonds 
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Italy
accounts for more than half, or 1.59 trillion euros, the data
show.  About 413 billion euros of GIIPS debt is held by 38 of
Europe’s largest lenders, according to an analysis of European
stress-test results by Alberto Gallo, a strategist at  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in  London . Those holdings equal almost 40
percent of the banks’ 1.1 trillion euros of equity, according to
Gallo.  To combat concern about contagion, officials are
considering ways of multiplying the strength of Europe’s
temporary rescue fund. The likeliest option is using it to
partly insure new bonds issued by distressed governments. EFSF
guarantees of new bonds might range from 20 percent to 30
percent, a person familiar with those deliberations said.  More Capital  There are risks to this plan, Joachim Fels and Sung Woen Kang, analysts at Morgan Stanley, said yesterday in a research
note.  “Guaranteeing first losses may well turn out less
appealing to investors than many hope and a larger private
sector involvement could spark another wave of contagion,” the
analysts wrote. “Banks would probably choose to shed assets and
de-lever rather than raise capital in the market if they are
given a longish grace period before having to accept
recapitalization through their sovereign and the EFSF.”  All lenders judged by the region’s top banking regulator to
be systemically important should be required to hold
“temporarily higher” amounts of capital, European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said on Oct. 12. The European Banking
Authority discussed making the banks hold core capital equal to
at least 9 percent of their assets, up from a 5 percent core
Tier 1 capital requirement imposed in the stress tests carried
out by the regulator earlier this year, according to a person
familiar with the proposals.  ‘Held Hostage’  Those new criteria would lead to a 220 billion-euro capital
shortfall at 66 of the participating banks, with the biggest
gaps at Edinburgh-based RBS, Deutsche Bank and Paris-based  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, according to a note published by Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts on Oct. 13.  The European Banking Federation, in a statement on Oct. 13
titled “High time for coordinated European solution on
sovereign debt,” said recapitalization is not “central to the
solution” and the region’s lenders have continued to place
trust in sovereign debt and made credit available to national
governments throughout the crisis.  “European banks feel they are being held hostage by the
sovereign debt crisis,” said Guido Ravoet, secretary general of
Brussels-based EBF, which represents more than 5,000 banks. The
region’s lenders have already “substantially increased” their
capital and among about 90 lenders that took part in July’s
stress tests, the average core tier 1 capital ratio, a measure
of financial strength, was 8.9 percent at the end of 2010, the
EBF said.  Ackermann, Merkel  Bankers including Ackermann have also said that tougher
regulation, higher capital requirements and bigger sovereign
debt writedowns may force them to restrict lending, which could
hurt economic growth.  Deutsche Bank, which navigated the financial crisis in 2008
without a government capital injection, will “do everything”
not to take money from the state as part of assistance efforts
for European banks, Ackermann said in a speech last week, when
he criticized the EU’s plans.  His remarks created a stir in Germany. Newsmagazine  Spiegel 
carried the headline “Everyone against Ackermann,” while the
country’s biggest tabloid, Bild-Zeitung, wrote: “New Ice Age
between Merkel and Ackermann.”  Even if Deutsche Bank didn’t need direct state support in
the last financial crisis, “it profited from the fact that the
government staved off a collapse of the financial market,”
Social Democrat Carsten Schneider told Der Spiegel. “A little
bit of humility wouldn’t hurt.” 