-- 
Blow the Budget on Petrus, Lobster: Dine & Deal in Johannesburg

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-10-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/blow-the-budget-on-petrus-lobster-dine-deal-in-johannesburg.html
High-end restaurants in Johannesburg
are offering $6,700  Chateau Petrus  and fresh lobster for big
business spenders.  Chefs in  Africa ’s richest city say expense accounts are
still holding up with mining companies profiting from soaring
prices and banks from  interest rates  at 30-year lows.  Here are our 10 choices, in alphabetical order, for
business dining in the city.  1. Annica’s: Michelangelo Towers, Maude Street, Sandton,
Johannesburg. Information: +27-11-884-9445,
 http://www.annicas.co.za   What: Mediterranean-styled deli.  Why: The menu ranges from eggs hollandaise to pasta,
‘designer burgers’ served with straw potato cakes, salads for
the health-conscious, shellfish, steaks and a great stack of
desserts. According to one investment banker, who works just
down the road, it’s “discreet.”  Where: In a new section of the  Michelangelo Towers Mall 
complex, close to the FTV Fashion Bar and the Mercedes Benz
Boutique for people who want to wear their car labels.  When: It’s always open for breakfast and lunch and serves
dinner from Tuesday to Saturday.  Bar: Yes, it bills itself as a cocktail bar. While it has a
clinical look, it serves classics such as mojitos and margaritas
and offers signature cocktails including rose-petal Martini.  Private room: Yes, one that can seat up to 25 people.  Sound level: An even babble.  2. Assaggi: Post Office Centre, 30 Rudd Road, Illovo,
Johannesburg. Information: +27-11-268-1370.  What: Northern Italian.  Why: Subtle pastas, zucchini fries, lots of fresh herbs, an
exceptional asparagus and brie lasagne and even rabbit.  Where: Not a swank area. Parking is off Rudd Road behind
the Thrupps Centre, next to the Trafalgar apartments. Head for
the Post Office sign in the nondescript mall, take a left and
you may be pleasantly surprised.  When: Summer lunchtimes with crisp Italian wines.  Bar: No.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Busy, still easy on the ears.  3. Browns: 21 Wessels Road, Rivonia, Johannesburg. Information:
+27-11-803-7533,  http://www.browns.co.za   What: Refined dining with game, South African fare and an
eclectic mix of dishes.  Why: The wine cellar is well stocked. It used to be very
popular until Sandton, which is just down the drag, attracted
more restaurants than diners knew what to do with. Nonetheless
Browns remains a favorite for year-end parties and out-of-town
guests trying South African food such as bobotie or kudu.  Where: At the top of Rivonia, close to the N1 highway and
on a quiet backstreet.  When: Lunch on days when it’s not raining and you can sit
outside pretending you don’t really work at all.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Yes, a number of rooms seating from 18 people
to 100. There are also many seating areas, some relatively
private.  Sound level: Cocktails and conference crowds can get rowdy
but the main dining areas are quiet without being reverential.  4. Le Canard: 163 Rivonia Road, Morningside, Sandton,
Johannesburg. Information: +27-11-884-4597,
 http://www.lecanard.co.za   What: French.  Why: The setting is peaceful, even with it being in the
heart of traffic-mad Sandton. The use of mobile phones isn’t
allowed. The service and food haven’t had rave reviews this
year. Nonetheless, on the menu you’ll find classics such as
lobster bisque, vichyssoise, steak tartare and the signature
dish -- a free range duck breast with honey and pepper.  Where: On Rivonia Road, opposite the Crowne Plaza Hotel.  When: Business guests might find it a tad too romantic in
the evenings, so best go for lunch. Unless someone is harboring
other intentions, that is.  Bar: No.  Private rooms: Yes, seating from 10 to 40, and there’s a
smoking section.  Sound level: Pretty hushed.  5. The Grill House: Shop 70, The Firs, Hyatt Shopping Centre,
Corner Oxford Road and Bierman Avenue, Rosebank, Johannesburg.
Information: +27-11-880-3945,  http://thegrill.co.za   What: Steakhouse.  Why: This staple of the Johannesburg dining scene never
goes out of favor. The service is good, the wine cellar is
fabulous and the steaks are a carnivore’s dream. If you’re
trying to get into the newspaper, this is where editors from
 Avusa Ltd. (AVU) ’s Business Day and the Sunday Times hang out at lunch
time.  Where: In The Firs mall as you exit from the Hyatt Hotel.  When: Lunch or dinner and it’s always good to book. Late-
night revelries can always be continued at the owners’ bar next
door, Katzy’s, where live bands play. And if you really can’t
get enough, the proprietors have also opened meat.etc across the
way, a butchery which caters to braai-mad (read “barbecue”)
 South Africans .  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Many. Call well ahead to book them.  Sound level: A comfortable buzz.  6. Koi: 24 Central, corner Gwen Lane and Fredman Drive, Sandton,
Johannesburg. Information: +27-11-883-7247,
 http://www.koirest.co.za   What: Contemporary Asian.  Why: Soft, sticky dim sum, DIY crispy Peking duck pancakes,
fresh sushi and hot sake on a cold day are all good reasons.  Where: In the heart of Sandton’s bank-land, nestled next to
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and surrounded by FirstRand Group Ltd., SBG
Securities and Johannesburg’s stock exchange in the popular
restaurant complex known simply as 24 Central. The restaurant
has also opened a branch in Rosebank, attached to a mall called
The Firs. It offers outdoor seating, ideal for summertime.  When: The dining room during lunch service is when it’s
most likely you’ll spot a rival talking to a company you’d like
to bag for yourself.  When we asked 10 of Johannesburg executives for their top
choices for business dining in the city, Koi came second. It was
top choice for a relaxed meal by Sizwe Nxasana, chief executive
of FirstRand.  Bar: Yes, and there’s a sushi bar.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Chatty.  7. Mastrantonio: Illovo Square, off Rivonia Road, Illovo,
Johannesburg. Information: +27-11-268-6754,
 http://www.mastrantonio.com/mastrantonio   What: Italian.  Why: If you’re friendly enough, or famous enough, the
owners will ask you what you feel like eating and tailor a dish
to make you feel at home. Choices include veal, chicken, pasta
and seasonal salads laden with Italian cheeses. The fresh
garlic, chili and parmesan served with every meal are also
winners. Cabinet ministers such as  Trevor Manuel  have been
spotted.  Where: Tucked at the back of the Illovo Centre, on the
second floor and well out of sight.  When: In winter or summer. When it’s raining or when it’s
sunny. The only prerequisite for going to this restaurant is a
love for delicate, flavor-loaded Italian food. This place is a
top pick for  Absa Capital ’s chief executive, Stephen van Coller.  Bar: No.  Private room: There is a semi-private room which can seat
up to 25 people.  Sound level: Calm.  8. Pigalle: 4th Floor, Michelangelo Towers, Maude Street,
Sandton, Johannesburg. Information: +27-11-884-8899,
 http://www.pigallerestaurants.co.za   What: Fine dining with a leaning toward Mediterranean fare
and seafood.  Why: This is the place for people who need to impress
people. Skills required include the ability to wield an escargot
fork, slurp down bouillabaisse, lap up lobster thermidor and
utterly blow the budget on a bottle of Chateau Petrus at 48,000
rand a pop ($6,110).  Where: In Sandton it’s tucked around the corner from  Nelson
Mandela  Square with its own entrance off Maude Street. In
Melrose Arch, home to the newest Pigalle, the restaurant is
upstairs from the most recently built piazza.  Pigalle came top in the informal Bloomberg survey of
Johannesburg executives. The head of  Old Mutual Plc (OML) ’s South
African business, Kuseni Dlamini, is a fan of the Melrose Arch
eatery.  When: The Sandton branch is buzzy at lunch. The Melrose
restaurant is more conducive to evening dining.  Bar: Yes, though heading out into the square may be more
enjoyable.  Private room: Yes, in Sandton, and it can double up as a
smoking room. It seats 40 people.  Sound level: Quiet.  9. Tashas: Shop 14, The Piazza, Melrose Arch, Melrose,
Johannesburg. Information: +27-11-684-1781,
 http://www.tashas.co.za   What: Boutique cafe.  Why: It’s a place for executives in their pinstripes to
feel a bit more hip while enjoying an array of menu choices.  Where: In Melrose Arch’s new piazza. It’s right on the
square allowing for loads of people watching -- essential for a
business lunch gone boring. Tashas has also opened in Rosebank.
Tashas came third in our informal survey of executives.  When: Pretty much anytime. With 35 choices for breakfast, a
range of quesadillas, Turkish flat breads and pastas, salads,
light meals, coffees and cocktails, this place is open from
early till late. If you make it to breakfast in Melrose Arch you
may spot  First National Bank ’s Chief Executive Officer, Michael Jordaan, who lives nearby.  Bar: No.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Noisy inside, a bit quieter outside.  10. Ten 2nd Avenue: No. 10, Second Avenue, Houghton Estate,
Johannesburg. Information: +27-11-853-2400,
 http://www.houghtonestate.com   What: A fine dining restaurant on an estate that also
offers accommodation and boardroom facilities.  Why: Very private and a favorite of Tito Mboweni, former
governor of the South African Reserve Bank, current chairman of
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and an adviser for  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  The chefs know his top choice for lunch is a boiled, free-
range chicken, which thankfully isn’t on the menu.  Where: Nestled behind big walls and down a long driveway
hemmed in by luscious plants and trees in Johannesburg’s most
affluent suburb. It’s just a couple of blocks away from Nelson
Mandela’s house.  When: Breakfast, lunch or dinner are all catered for. Call
ahead.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Yes, loads of them.  Sound level: As loud or quiet as you want your room to be.  (Renee Bonorchis is a reporter for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are her own. This report is the 10th of the 2011
series of Bloomberg Dine & Deal. The articles survey top cities
and offer informed tips on good restaurants for business and
pleasure. For more Dine & Deal reviews, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 