-- 
BOE New Stimulus May Not Be Enough as U.K. Outlook Worsens, ITEM Club Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-17T08:15:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/boe-steps-may-not-be-enough-as-outlook-worsens-item-club-says.html
Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club cut
its U.K. growth forecast and said the  Bank of England  should
lower its key interest rate as its new stimulus earlier this
month is unlikely to be enough to revive economic growth.  Gross domestic product will increase 0.9 percent in 2011
and 1.5 percent in 2012, compared with July projections of 1.4
percent and 2.2 percent respectively, the research group said in
an e-mailed report in London today.  As the euro-area debt crisis roiled financial markets, the
Bank of England increased its bond-purchase program to 275
billion pounds ($435 billion) from 200 billion pounds this
month. Policy makers from the Group of 20 nations meeting in
Paris at the weekend set an Oct. 23 European summit as the
deadline for firming up a plan to end the turmoil. The ITEM Club
said failure to find a resolution will impact the U.K.  “With the U.K. recovery grinding to a halt, new measures
are now needed,” said Peter Spencer, chief economic adviser to
the ITEM Club. “We have based our figures on the assumption of
an early resolution of the crisis gripping the  euro zone , which
may prove optimistic in view of the very slow progress made
until now. In that case, the outlook for the U.K. would
inevitably be a lot worse.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar and traded
at $1.5816 as of 9:01 a.m. in London. Bonds declined, pushing
the yield on the benchmark 10-year U.K. gilt up 2 basis points
to 2.63 percent.  Rate-Cut Call  As well as raising the ceiling of its asset-purchase plan,
the Bank of England also held its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent on Oct. 6. While inflation is more
than double the central bank’s 2 percent target, policy makers
forecast that it will slow “sharply” next year.  ITEM Club’s central forecast assumes that the Bank of
England will expand QE further and not raise  interest rates 
until November 2012. Spencer said the central bank can afford to
cut its key rate to 0.25 percent as inflation is set to slow.
This would provide a “boost to borrowers and potentially help
to stimulate  consumer spending ,” he said.  ‘Soft Patch’  U.K. GDP grew just 0.1 percent in the second quarter and
data on Oct. 12 showed unemployment rose to 2.57 million in the
three months through August, the most since 1994. While growth
probably accelerated to 0.4 percent in the third quarter,
business surveys indicate there will be a “soft patch around
the turn of the year,” ITEM Club said.  “If demand disappears, the private sector could see
sizeable job losses” and unemployment will rise to 2.7 million
by early 2013, it said.  The government should cut National Insurance contributions
paid by employers for staff under 21 years of age and scrap the
stamp duty property-transaction tax for first-time homebuyers to
boost the housing market, ITEM Club said. The Engineering
Employers Federation also called on the government to take
additional steps to aid the economy. In a statement today, it
recommended increasing tax credits for companies and expanding
measures to provide funding for smaller businesses.  Separately, the Centre for Economics and Business Research
Ltd. lowered its 2011 growth estimate, to 0.6 percent from a
previous range of between 1 percent and 1.5 percent. It sees the
Bank of England raising its bond-program target to 300 billion
pounds by end-2012, and said a “severe financial crisis” could
push it to as high as 400 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  