-- 
Boehner-Led Group Defends Marriage Law in Worker Suit

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-16T01:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/boehner-led-group-defends-marriage-law-in-worker-suit-correct-.html
(Correct’s spelling of Boehner in headline.)  The three Republican members of the
five-person House of Representatives Bipartisan Legal Advisory
Group, including Speaker  John Boehner , told a U.S. judge that a
lesbian woman’s fundamental rights aren’t burdened by the
federal Defense of Marriage Act.  The measure, signed into law by President Bill Clinton in
1996, defines marriage as being between one man and one woman,
bars the U.S. government from recognizing same-sex marriages,
and allows states to decline to do so as well. President Barack Obama’s administration this year said it wouldn’t defend the
measure in court.  The representatives, in a filing yesterday with U.S.
District Judge Jeffrey S. White in San Francisco, defended the
law, known as DoMA, against a legal challenge filed last year by
Karen Golinski, a federal court employee seeking to extend her
health insurance benefits to her wife.  “There is nothing intrusive in the least about DoMA,” the
congressmen said, opposing Golinski’s request for a ruling that
the act is unconstitutional. “It is simply a definitional
statute that defines, for federal law purposes, marriage and
spouse.”  New York , in June, became the sixth U.S. state to legalize
same sex marriage, joining Massachusetts,  Connecticut , Vermont,
 New Hampshire  and Iowa. Such unions are also lawful in the
District of Columbia.  Golinski wed Amy Cunninghis in 2008 during a period in
which same sex marriages were lawful in  California  before being
barred by a voter referendum. That outcome is being challenged
in court.  ‘Impermissible Burden’  “No adequate government interest can sustain this
impermissible burden on Ms. Golinski’s family relationship,”
her lawyers said in a July court filing. One of her lawyers,
James R. McGuire of San Francisco-based Morrison & Foerster LLP,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail today seeking comment on the
filing by the congressional group.  When the U.S. Justice Department said it wouldn’t defend
the law’s definition of marriage, Boehner of  Ohio , said the
chamber would support the measure. Joining him in yesterday’s
filing were U.S. Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia and
Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy of California.  California Democrat Nancy Pelosi, who preceded Boehner as
speaker, and Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the
Democratic Whip, are also members of the Legal Advisory Group.
They declined to support yesterday’s filing, according to a
footnote on the final page of the document.  A hearing in the case is scheduled for Dec. 16.  The case is Golinski v. United States Office of Personnel
Management, 10-cv-00257, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  