-- 
Bond Trust Rises as 10-Year Posting Best World Gain on Tusk: Poland Credit

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-17T10:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/bond-trust-rises-as-10-year-posting-best-world-gain-on-tusk-poland-credit.html
Growing investor confidence in Prime
Minister Donald Tusk’s re-elected government is making  Poland ’s
10-year bonds the best-performing sovereign debt worldwide.  Government zloty bonds due in 10 years or more jumped 7.4
percent this month for the biggest gain in dollar terms among
144 debt indexes compiled by Bloomberg as of Oct. 14. The yield
fell 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 5.72 percent
today, about half the rate of 11.69 percent for 10-year bonds
sold by  Portugal . The advance pared the extra yield relative to
two-year zloty notes by 35 basis points to 127 basis points at
11:38 a.m. in Warsaw from a nine-year high on Sept. 22.  Polish bonds, the world’s third-worst performers last
quarter, are rebounding after Tusk kept his parliamentary
majority on pledges to cut the budget deficit to 2.9 percent of
gross domestic product from 5.6 percent. The nation’s yields are
the lowest compared with the average for emerging-market bonds
since June and the tightest relative to  Hungary  since April
2009, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  “The market was relieved at the election result,”  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $3.5 billion in emerging-market assets
at Aviva Investors Ltd. in London, said by phone on Oct. 13.
“It’s difficult to see much fiscal tightening happening in an
election year, so now that’s out of the way I think the market
hopes something will be done by the government.”  Poland is likely to show the biggest improvement in budget
finances of any country in eastern  Europe  or the former  Soviet
Union  next year, according to the International Monetary Fund’s
World Economic Outlook report in September. General  government
borrowing  may fall to 3.8 percent of GDP in 2012 from 5.5
percent this year, according to the IMF’s data.  Budget Trimmed  Tusk’s last administration trimmed the budget deficit from
a record 7.9 percent last year by reducing state contributions
to private pension funds, freezing wages of government workers
and pledging to cap spending growth at 1 percentage point above
inflation. His government also raised the value-added  tax rate 
by 1 percentage point to 23 percent.  The next government will have to “act twice as fast”
because of “even bigger challenges” ahead, Tusk said in a
televised address after his Civic Platform and coalition
partner, the Polish Peasants Party, won a total 235 seats in the
460-member parliament.  “You’ve had a combination in Poland of the election
outcome being relatively comforting and the market concerns
about the euro zone crisis dampening a little bit,” Kasper Bartholdy, an emerging-market analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG
in London, said by phone on Oct. 14.  Default Swaps  The election helped turn around bondholder sentiment after
the European Union’s largest eastern economy underperformed for
the past 12 months because of concern a Greek default could
undermine growth in the euro region, which buys 55 percent of
Polish exports.  The zloty weakened 9.9 percent against the euro last
quarter, the second-worst performance worldwide after the
Belarusian ruble. The depreciation fueled concern defaults may
rise among Polish households facing higher costs on foreign-
currency loans, which account for 63 percent of mortgages
according to the country’s financial regulator.  “There is a preference for shorter-term bonds because they
are less risky and more liquid,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief
economist at BRE Bank SA in Warsaw, said in a phone interview on
Oct. 11. “Polish 10-year bonds are correlated to global
sentiment and are unpredictable for local players.”  While Polish credit-default swaps cost 62 basis points less
than the average for countries in eastern European, the  Middle
East  and  Africa  included in Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index, the
discount was 85 basis points a year ago.  Status Quo  Tusk’s plan to reduce the fiscal shortfall should help
restore Poland’s advantage in the credit market, analysts at
 Barclays Capital  including Piotr Chwiejczak in  London , wrote in
an e-mailed report on Oct. 14.  “With the political status quo seemingly assured post-
election, we are confident the Polish government can build on
its solid fiscal performance this year and, even in a more
challenging growth environment, deliver the envisaged fiscal
adjustments,” the Barclays analysts wrote. “Poland’s credit
spreads should be well positioned to reverse its
underperformance.”  The Polish swaps fell 16 basis points to 231 today,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Higher Debt  The zloty climbed 0.7 percent to 4.2726 per euro today,
after rising 1.7 percent last week for the biggest weekly gain
since Jan. 7, amid speculation European leaders are moving
toward easing pressures on the banking system.  The additional yield on Poland’s 10-year bonds in zloty
compared with their German equivalent in euros fell 2 basis
points to 351 today. The gap reached the widest level since 2002
at 443 basis points on Sept. 22. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Poland’s dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries
fell 18 basis points to 238.  While Tusk has been pruning the  budget deficit , the
country’s public debt is set to increase to 56 percent of GDP
this year from 47 percent in 2008, according to the IMF. Only
 Brazil  is more indebted among the largest emerging-market
countries known as the BRICs at 65 percent. Poland’s debt is
also higher than  Mexico ,  Turkey ,  South Africa  and  Indonesia .  Austerity Trigger  Poland is rated A- by  Standard & Poor’s , its seventh-
highest investment-grade ranking, and A2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, the sixth highest. The ratings are above grades for
Mexico, Turkey, South Africa and Indonesia.  Boosting debt above 55 percent of GDP would force the
government to enact mandatory austerity measures, according to
the polish constitution. The ceiling helps to reinforce market
confidence in Poland, according to Aviva’s Curtis.  “We do need to see some more determined reform in Poland
to try and get the fiscal deficit down,” Curtis said. “The
market has a reasonable amount of confidence that something will
be done about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  