-- 
Bulls Converge With Bears as Consumer Stock Valuations Soar

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-10-17T20:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/bulls-converging-with-bears-on-consumer-stocks-as-valuations-at-2008-high.html
Stock market bulls and bears agree
on at least one thing. The highest valuations for makers of
household goods since 2008 signal the best is over after the
industry rose more than any other group this year.  Supermarket operators, food producers and soapmakers in the
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index gained 3.1 percent in 2011 through Oct. 14 as
the gauge for developed-market stocks lost 7.3 percent on
concern the global economy is slowing.  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , the
seller of Mild Seven cigarettes, trades 12 percent above its
price-earnings multiple from the past five years.  Hershey Co. (HSY) ’s
27 percent rally pushed the chocolate maker to the biggest
premium to profits since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bears say the easy money has been made in so-called
defensive shares should the world slip into a recession. Bulls
favor companies with faster earnings growth and cheaper
valuations. The last time household-goods producers were this
expensive versus the MSCI World, stocks were about to begin an
advance in which bank, mining and industrial stocks jumped more
than 137 percent, while consumer staples rose 76 percent.  “You’ve got too much money that has been bet that we’re
going into a recession,” said  Jeffrey Saut , who helps oversee
$300 billion as chief investment strategist at Raymond James &
Associates in St. Petersburg,  Florida . “If we don’t go into a
recession, you’ll get a whole rotation out of these highly
valued defensive stocks into more aggressive stocks.”  Third-Quarter Plunge  Almost $9 trillion has been erased from the value of
equities worldwide since May as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
worsened and U.S. unemployment stayed above 9 percent. The MSCI
World plunged 17 percent between July and September, the biggest
quarterly drop since the end of 2008, when credit markets froze
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in New York.
The MSCI World Index fell 1.3 percent at 4:08 p.m. New York time
while consumer-staples stocks in the measure dropped 0.9
percent.  Raymond James bought shares of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the
world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment, Saut
said in an Oct. 12 telephone interview. The Peoria, Illinois-
based company, which reports earnings on Oct. 24, has dropped 27
percent from an April peak and is valued at 13.5 times reported
earnings, compared with 24.8 a year ago.  Stocks rallied last week, sending the MSCI World up 5.4
percent to a six-week high of 1,186.40, as European leaders took
steps to contain the debt crisis and analysts’ estimates showed
U.S. companies will report an eighth consecutive quarter of
earnings growth. Coca-Cola Co., Johnson & Johnson and Apple Inc.
are among the 101 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies
scheduled to release results this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Recession  No industry will shield investors from losses when the
decline resumes, according to Puru Saxena, who oversees about
$250 million as chief executive officer of Puru Saxena Wealth
Management. He predicted in December 2009, when gold averaged
$1,129.70 an ounce, that prices would reach $2,000. Futures on
the metal climbed to a record $1,923.70 on Sept. 6, 2011. His
October 2010 forecast for a bull market in  China  was too
optimistic. The MSCI China Index has lost 25 percent since then.  “We’re in an economic slowdown that could be quite
significant,” Saxena said in a telephone interview from  Hong
Kong  on Oct. 13. “In a big recession, all equities go down in
value. It doesn’t matter what sector or country.”  He bought exchange-traded funds that move in the opposite
direction of the  S&P 500  and the Nasdaq-100 Index. Saxena
forecasts a recession that may cut U.S. earnings by 15 to 20
percent and drive the S&P 500 to 750 from 1,224.58 last week.  Profit Forecasts  While MSCI World consumer staples sank 25 percent in 2008,
the most since data on the industry began in 1996, the decline
was the second smallest among 10 groups. Energy shares
collectively slumped 39 percent and financial shares plunged 56
percent that year as the global economy contracted for the first
time since World War II.  Producers of household goods may boost per-share profit 9.5
percent next year, according to the average analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg. Income for the MSCI World may increase 11
percent in 2012. The 18 companies in the global benchmark that
have reported quarterly results since Oct. 11 have increased
earnings by 11 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Manulife Asset Management ( Japan ) Ltd.’s Hidehiro Tomioka
owns Japan Tobacco and  Unicharm Corp. (8113) , a Tokyo-based maker of
toiletries. He’s betting the industry will benefit from sales to
faster-growing Asian markets such as  Indonesia , where gross
domestic product may increase 6.6 percent next year, economists’
estimates tracked by Bloomberg show.  Japan Tobacco  Japan Tobacco gained 23 percent in 2011 through last week
on speculation it will operate with fewer constraints should the
government sell its majority stake. The Tokyo-based company may
raise its dividend payout target, Executive Deputy President
Masakazu Shimizu said in an Oct. 12 interview. Its price-
earnings ratio of 24.4 is the highest since March 2010.  “The fundamentals for this industry are quite strong,”
Tomioka, who helps oversee $1.5 billion in  Tokyo , said in an
Oct. 13 phone interview. “The earnings have been stronger than
the street expectation, and given that the market will likely
muddle through the next few months, these shares are still
good.”  Hershey has rallied 27 percent this year after cocoa prices
sank to the lowest level since July 2009 amid record production
in Ivory Coast and  Ghana , the world’s largest growers. The
Hershey, Pennsylvania-based candy maker trades at 22.6 times
reported profit, compared with 12.7 for the MSCI World, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Places to Hide’  “Consumer staples have been one of the better places to
hide,” Tim Ghriskey, who oversees $2 billion as chief
investment officer of Solaris Group LLC in  Bedford Hills ,  New
York , said in an Oct. 12 phone interview. “If the market
reverses and continues to improve, this group will definitely be
sold.”  The S&P 500 rallied 6 percent last week, the most since
July 2009, compared with a 2.8 percent gain for consumer-staple
shares in the index. The U.S. equity benchmark has lost 2.6
percent in 2011, the second-best performance among 24 developed
markets after  New Zealand .  Harry Rady , who manages $260 million as chief executive
officer of La Jolla, California-based Rady Asset Management LLC,
said shares of food producers are vulnerable because profits may
shrink if commodities rise. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials rose 5.2 percent last week after wheat broke a six-
week losing streak and corn gained the most since July.  Short Candidates  “We’re looking at a number of short candidates in the
sector,” Rady said in a telephone interview on Oct. 12.
“Disappointment can come from many places and just a little bit
of it can cause the prices to drop precipitously.”  Cargill Inc., the Minneapolis-based grain distributor that
is the largest closely held company in the U.S., said on Oct. 10
that first-quarter profit from continuing operations fell 66
percent because of volatility in commodity markets. Purchase,
New York-based PepsiCo Inc., the world’s biggest snack-food
maker, rose 2 percent last week after beating profit estimates.  Producers of household goods have never been cheaper
relative to their bonds. Profit for the S&P 500 Consumer Staples
Index reached 6.80 percent of share prices this month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a record-low
yield of 2.48 percent for a Bank of America Corp. gauge of U.S.
consumer company debt that dates back to 1996. The S&P 500’s
earnings yield is 7.5 percent, close to the highest level since
2009.  Nestle Loan  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, received the
lowest rate on a European company loan in four years in
September. The maker of Nescafe agreed to pay 10 basis points
more than the euro interbank offered rate on a 4 billion euro
($5.55 billion) one-year revolving credit. The Vevey,
Switzerland-based company has a price-earnings ratio of 19.4,
versus the multiple of 11.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  BNY Mellon Wealth Management’s New York-based Chief
Investment Officer Leo Grohowski said his firm sold shares of
tobacco and packaged-food companies last quarter and bought
energy and technology stocks. Technology companies in the S&P
500 rallied 7.9 percent last week after falling as much as 17
percent between July and August. Energy producers advanced 8.8
percent, the most since January 2009, trimming the industry’s
year-to-date loss to 1.7 percent.  “The consumer-staples group has really done what it’s
supposed to do in a volatile market in attracting investors
looking for defensive places to park their money,” Grohowski,
whose firm oversees $171 billion, said in a telephone interview
on Oct. 13. “It just got a little bit ahead of itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  