-- 
Herman Cain Says 9-9-9 Tax Plan Will End ‘Invisible Taxes’

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-16T16:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/cain-says-9-9-9-plan-will-end-invisible-taxes-lower-costs.html
Herman Cain  said his proposed 9-9-9
tax overhaul will benefit poorer Americans by eliminating
“invisible taxes” that push up the price of goods.  “There are some people who are going to pay more taxes,”
said Cain in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today.
Most of those people, he said, will benefit from lower prices
caused by greater competition among businesses and fewer taxes
being embedded in production costs. “Those taxes go away, so
the price of goods won’t go up,” he said.  The plan offered by Cain would replace payroll taxes now
embedded in products, reducing prices to offset the new sales
tax, along with eliminating  capital gains  and inheritance taxes,
Cain said. The plan reflects his business-oriented, problem-
solving approach, he said.  The Sunday talk show appearance capped a week in which Cain
surpassed former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney at the top
of some Republican primary presidential polls. Cain, on a bus
tour, appeared at Tea Party-supported events on Oct. 14 and
yesterday in five small towns in  Tennessee  that each attracted
more than 500 people. One of the largest gatherings included
more than 1,500 people at an exhibition hall in Waverly, a town
of about 4,000 people 65 miles west of Nashville.  Ultra Conservative  Retired factory representative Jimmy Stevens of Waverly
said he decided Cain was his favorite candidate about three
weeks ago. “He is ultra conservative and that’s what I like,”
said Stevens, a spokesman for the Humphreys County Tea Party,
which helped organize the Oct. 14 event. “We don’t want
moderates or Republicans in name only.”  Brian Collins, a courier company owner in Cookeville, spent
$50 to attend a Cain breakfast fund-raiser yesterday at a local
country club.  “He’s not Washington, and he came up the way most
Americans do,” said Collins. “The fact he’s black is a bonus
because it shows anyone can succeed if they persevere.” Only a
handful of African-Americans attended the Cain events except in
Bartlett, where there were several dozen.  Cain said today his remark yesterday in Cookesville that
the U.S. should secure its border with  Mexico  by building a 20-
foot, barbed-wire, electrified fence with signs in English and
Spanish, saying “it will kill you,” was “a joke.”  Not Serious  “That’s not a serious plan,” he said, adding that an
immigration solution will require a combination of a physical
fence, better technology, U.S. troops in some areas, less
bureaucracy in current immigration processing and more power for
states to “do what the federal government can’t do.”  Cain said yesterday he was campaigning in Tennessee because
“the whole primary schedule has been tossed aside” with states
moving up their election dates. “It makes other states much
more important,” he said after speaking to about 1,000 people
in the parking lot of a strip shopping center in Jackson,
Tennessee.  Referring to the two states that traditionally kick off the
nomination process, Cain said he has already been to  Iowa  “two
or three times,” and also made numerous trips to  New Hampshire .
He plans to spend next weekend in Iowa.  Tennessee’s primary is scheduled for March 6, almost two
months after the expected Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3, and more than
a month after Florida will hold what may be a decisive primary
on Jan. 31.  Cain’s Message  Cain, who reported raising $2.6 million in the third
quarter, is gaining in the polls “because of the substance of
my message,” he said in the NBC interview.  Texas Governor Rick Perry led the Republican field in
fundraising in the third quarter, taking in $17.2 million,
 Federal Election Commission  reports show. Former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney raised $14.2 million from July to September
and Representative  Michele Bachmann , winner of the Iowa straw
poll, raised $3.9 million and had $1.3 million in the bank.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign has overwhelmed the
Republican field financially. He raised $42.1 million from July
through September.  Cain will have difficulty convincing people to accept a 9
percent  sales tax , especially residents of states such as New
Hampshire that have no sales tax, Republican competitor  Newt Gingrich  today said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  “As people look at 9-9-9 and disaggregate it, it gets to
be a lot harder sale, I think,” said Gingrich, a former speaker
of the U.S. House of Representatives.  Cain has gained in popularly because “Perry stumbled,”
Gingrich said. “Perry was the natural alternative to Romney and
if Perry had had a flawless campaign, he would have been the
nominee. He stumbled enough in the debates that there was a
vacuum created.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net 
David Mildenberg in Harriman, Tennessee at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 