-- 
Cameron Says He’s Determined to Cut British Power, Gas Bills

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-10-17T09:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/cameron-says-he-s-determined-to-cut-u-k-electricity-gas-bills.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he’s determined to do all he can to bring down energy bills
for Britons, as he prepares for a meeting today with gas and
electricity suppliers and consumer groups.  “Energy bills have increased by more than 100 pounds
($158) for most people since this summer,” Cameron wrote in an
article for the consumer website  www.moneysavingexpert.com .
“These price rises couldn’t come at a worse time for consumers
who are already feeling the pinch from rising petrol prices and
the cost of the weekly shop.”  Today’s meeting, hosted by Cameron and Energy Secretary
 Chris Huhne , will include representatives of Electricite de
France SA,  Centrica Plc (CNA) , SSE Plc, EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  Iberdrola
SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power. The six companies supply 99 percent of
Britain’s electricity and natural gas. Ofgem, the U.K. energy
regulator, will also be at the talks.  Ofgem said last week that “radical” changes are needed to
create a simpler, more competitive market for retail energy
customers. The regulator and the government are seeking to
encourage new companies to enter the market to put pressure on
the “big six,” as well as promote smarter energy use.  U.K. inflation probably accelerated in September to a
three-year high. Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 4.5 percent in August, according to the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Office
for National Statistics  will publish the data at 9:30 a.m.
tomorrow in London.  Bringing Bills Down  “Today we are bringing together the industry, consumer
groups and Ofgem for an energy summit that will focus on getting
people the help they need to reduce their bills in time for this
winter,” Cameron wrote in the article. “We are determined that
everything that can be done will be done to help people bring
their energy bills down.”  EDF was the last of the major energy companies to raise
prices in September. The utility increased standard residential
electricity tariffs by about 4.5 percent. This compares with an
11 percent rise in power bills announced by SSE in July and an
18 percent average increase in domestic gas rates by Centrica.  Npower, the U.K. unit of RWE, said it will freeze prices
through March 2013 and end doorstep sales. Centrica extended an
offer to install free insulation today and said it will “hold”
energy prices for all variable rate customers through the
winter.  “It’s an inconvenient truth that unit prices of energy are
going to go up,” British Gas Managing Director Phil Bentley
said in an interview on British Broadcasting Corp.’s Radio 4.
“To get a return from new nuclear today is hugely expensive.
Clean, green fuel costs more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in Berlin at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  