-- 
Central Banks Selling Most Treasuries Since 2007 Prove No Barrier to Rally

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-10-17T15:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/central-banks-selling-most-treasuries-since-2007-prove-no-barrier-to-rally.html
International central banks are
selling the most Treasuries since the credit crisis began just
as institutional investors load up on U.S. government bonds.  The  Federal Reserve  said its holdings of U.S. government
debt on behalf of central bankers and institutional investors
outside America has plunged $76.5 billion in the last seven
weeks, the most since August 2007. At the same time, bond mutual
funds are adding Treasuries, banks have increased their holdings
45 percent in the past five years and the Fed has added $656
billion to its balance sheet this year.  Rather than a referendum on the U.S.’s $1.3 trillion  budget
deficit  and rising debt burden, sales by foreign policy makers
may have more to do with supporting their currencies after the
Brazilian real weakened 11 percent and Taiwan’s dollar lost 4.4
percent against the  U.S. dollar  since June. With economists
forecasting inflation slowing to 2.1 percent in 2012 from 3.1
percent this year and the Fed’s commitment to keeping  interest
rates  near zero, investors say the demand that pushed government
bond yields to record lows last month will be sustained.  “Demand will come from banks, insurance companies and from
pension funds which are still massively underexposed to
Treasuries,”  Stuart Thomson , a fixed-income  fund manager  in
Glasgow at Ignis Asset Management, which oversees 75 billion
pounds ($118 billion), said in an Oct. 12 telephone interview.  Perceived Safety  Progress on a plan that may provide more funds for European
bailouts while imposing writedowns on Greek bonds damped demand
for the perceived safety of Treasuries for a third week in the
period ended Oct. 14. Germany’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
France’s President Nicolas Sarkozy set Nov. 3 as a deadline for
a plan to resolve the crisis. Slovakia, on Oct. 13, became the
last of the 17 euro countries to ratify the 440-billion euro
($607.9 billion) European Financial Stability Facility.  German officials said today that European Union leaders
won’t provide the complete fix to the debt crisis that policy
makers are pushing for at an Oct. 23 summit. Merkel has made it
clear that “dreams that are taking hold again now that with this
package everything will be solved and everything will be over on
Monday won’t be able to be fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s
chief spokesman, said at a briefing in Berlin today.  Yields on U.S. 10-year notes rose 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point to 2.25 percent last week, while the price of
the benchmark 2.125 percent security due August 2021 fell 1
16/32, or $15 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 29/32, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The yield was 2.18 percent at 10:53 a.m. in New York.  International Holdings  The latest Treasury Department data show holdings of U.S.
debt by foreign investors fell in June and July by 0.7 percent
to $4.48 trillion, paring the year-to-date gain to 1 percent,
the smallest increase since a decline in 2006. International
holdings of  U.S. government debt  rose 20 percent in 2009 and
2010 and have grown at a compound annual rate of 17 percent
since 2001. The next report on holdings is due tomorrow.  Dollar strength in September likely led emerging-market
central banks to sell Treasuries as they used foreign-exchange
reserves buy their own currencies, according to  Marc Chandler ,
global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
trading partners, rose 6.3 percent last month, the most since
October 2008, after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Intervention Reports  Reductions in reserves often match declines in Treasury
holdings.  Brazil ’s reserves fell 1 percent in September, the
first drop since April 2009, when the country reduced its
Treasury position 0.5 percent to $126 billion.  Taiwan ’s reserves
were down 2.8 percent, the biggest drop since August 2008 when
holdings of Treasuries fell 2.5 percent to $66.2 billion. Taiwan
held $154.3 billion of Treasuries in July, while Brazil owned
$210 billion, according to the Treasury.  “There have been multiple reports of intervention by
emerging market central banks to support their own currencies
against the dollar,”  Priya Misra  and Shyam Rajan, interest-rate
strategists at Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp., wrote in an Oct. 14 report to clients.  Sales by central banks have little to do with the
fundamentals of the world’s biggest economy and don’t take into
account the Fed’s pledge to keep its target rate for overnight
loans between banks near zero through 2013.  Unemployment held at 9.1 percent in September. The economy
almost stalled in the first six months of 2011, growing at an
annualized pace of 1.3 percent from April through June, after
0.4 percent in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said
last month.  Consumer Prices  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 1.7 percent this
year and 2 percent in the 2012, according to the median in
Bloomberg surveys of almost 100 economists. Inflation will slow
next year to 2.1 percent, from an annual average of 3.3 percent
over the past 30 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in September, the smallest
gain in three months, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before Labor Department
data on Oct. 19.  The Senate tabled President Barack Obama’s $447 billion
jobs bill last week. The legislation would have created 1.9
million jobs and supported growth in 2012, according to  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania .  Auction Demand  Congress and Obama agreed Aug. 1 to $2.4 trillion of budget
cuts during the next 10 years, though the President and House
Republican leaders haven’t come closer to compromising on
cutting the $1.3 trillion federal deficit.  “The economy is slowing and the federal government is
going to be borrowing less,”  Michael Cheah , who manages $2
billion in bonds at SunAmerica Asset Management in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey , said in an interview last week. “Given where we
are, where there is very little chance of the Fed tightening in
the next two or three years, and very little chance of inflation
going up, any selling will only lead to a temporary change in
the price. In the  bond market  the fundamentals always prevail.”  Demand at government auctions helps show why yields are at
about record lows. Treasury sold $13 billion of 30-year bonds
Oct. 13 at an all-time low yield of 3.12 percent even as demand
from the class of investors that includes foreign central banks
was below the average for the prior 10 sales. The ratio of total
bids to debt sold was 2.94 times, the most since March.  Fed Purchases  Investors bid $2.98 for each of the $1.68 trillion of
Treasury notes and bonds sold this year. That almost matches
last year’s record $2.99 in bids when the Treasury sold $2.2
trillion, and is up from $2.56 in 2007 when the U.S. issued $581
billion in notes and bonds, government data show.  The Fed’s purchases increased its holdings of Treasuries to
$1.67 trillion. That’s 17 percent of the $9.6 trillion of
outstanding public government debt, up from 11 percent at the
end of 2010.  Private investors have also stepped in, including Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s $242 billion Total Return Fund. Co-
manager Bill Gross has moved 16 percent of its assets into U.S.
government securities as of September after owning derivative
bets against the debt in March.  Taxable bond mutual funds that invest primarily in U.S.
debt markets held an average 12 percent of assets in Treasuries
last quarter, compared with a 34 percent weighting in the
Barclays Aggregate bond index against which they measure their
performance, according to Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  Untapped Demand  That gap suggests that there is more untapped demand that
will come from U.S. investors, said Amitabh Arora, an interest-
rate strategist in  New York  at Citigroup Inc., one of 22 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “Our indicators suggest money
managers are definitely underweight” U.S. government debt,
Arora said in an interview.  Demand from U.S. banks has also underpinned Treasuries.
Customer deposits at U.S. lenders have exceeded loans since
December 2008, reaching a record $1.61 trillion in September,
Fed data show. The wider gap and the deteriorating U.S. economy
is prompting banks to buy Treasuries, according to Akira Takei,
general manager of the international fixed-income investment
department at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo .  Banks’ holdings of Treasuries and government-related debt
totaled $1.67 trillion last month, approaching the record $1.69
trillion reached in May.  “There’s potentially substantial demand for Treasuries”
which will emerge over time, said Takei, whose company manages
the equivalent of $43 billion. “Bank lending is clearly not
rising, whereas deposits keep coming in, and most funds are
parked in cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  