-- 
China Growth May Top 9% as Slump Poses Risk

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-16T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/chinese-growth-may-exceed-9-with-global-recession-posing-biggest-risk-.html
China ’s economy probably grew more
than 9 percent in the third quarter, indicating the nation
remains an engine of global growth even as Europe grapples with
the sovereign debt crisis and the U.S. recovery falters.  Gross domestic product increased 9.3 percent from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. That would be the ninth straight quarter
of expansion above 9 percent and follow a 9.5 percent gain in
the previous three months. The data are due in Beijing tomorrow.  Weaker gains in exports and lending in September suggest
that Premier  Wen Jiabao  may need to weigh more measures to
support growth after the State Council this month announced aid
for small businesses. In Paris, attending a Group of 20 finance
ministers’ meeting,  Brazil ’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
Oct. 15 that signs of a “slight” slowdown in China, the
world’s biggest consumer of commodities, will become a concern
if the trend continues.  “The biggest risk China faces in the next 12 months is a
global downturn or recession,”  Wang Tao , an economist at UBS AG
in  Hong Kong . While elevated inflation remains a concern, a
“more visible” slowdown may lead to policy easing, said Wang,
who formerly worked for the  International Monetary Fund .  Industrial production rose 13.4 percent in September from a
year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey, compared with a
gain of 13.5 percent the previous month and 14.2 percent in the
first eight months.  Demand for Metal  Retail sales may have expanded 17 percent from a year
earlier, the same pace as in August, and fixed-asset investment
excluding rural households may have climbed 24.8 percent in the
first nine months after a 25.6 percent gain in the first half of
the year, separate surveys showed.  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , the world’s second-largest mining company,
expects demand from China, its biggest customer, will be
sustained even as growth moderates, Chief Executive Tom Albanese
said in an Oct. 11 interview, supporting plans for $27 billion
of spending on expansion.  “What we’ve seen over the past five years is that China
continues to climb a wall of worry,” Albanese said. “It
continues to see concerns, but it grows past those concerns.”  Moderating growth may help tame inflation after five
interest-rate increases in the past year and restrictions on
home purchases to cool the  property market . Consumer-price gains
exceeded 6 percent for a fourth month in September, compared
with a government target of 4 percent, statistics bureau data
showed.  Credit Squeeze  The State Council last week unveiled tax breaks and
financial support for small businesses after complaints of a
credit squeeze and increased reliance on so-called underground
lenders. The announcement followed a visit by Wen to Wenzhou
city in eastern Zhejiang province amid reports of surging
bankruptcies among private companies.  “This policy move, coupled with earlier measures to ease
funding constraints on public housing construction, signals the
beginning of targeted policy easing,” said  Qu Hongbin , a Hong
Kong-based economist with HSBC Holdings Plc. “We don’t expect
this to turn into a full-blown easing but it should help
mitigate the downside risks to growth.”  In the U.S., elevated unemployment and a collapsed housing
market are weighing on demand.  Europe ’s revamped strategy to beat its two-year crisis won
the backing of global finance chiefs meeting in Paris, who urged
the region’s leaders to deal “decisively” with the turmoil
when they meet for emergency talks on Oct. 23 in Brussels. The
approach includes writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50
percent, establishing a backstop for banks and multiplying the
strength of the newly enhanced European Financial Stability
Facility, people familiar with the matter said Oct. 14.  Weaker Europe  Weakened demand from Europe contributed to China’s exports
growing at the slowest pace in seven months in September, an
Oct. 13 report showed. The customs bureau warned of “severe”
challenges as the global economic outlook dims and yuan
appreciation erodes China’s competitiveness.  The yuan has gained 18 percent against the dollar in the
past four years, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies.  M2 money supply grew 13 percent last month, an almost
decade low, and new yuan lending was the smallest since December
2009, People’s Bank of China data showed last week. China’s
foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest, rose the least
in more than 10 years in the third quarter.  China’s government bond yields traded at an 11-month low
last week and the additional return investors demanded to hold
Chinese company debt over  government securities  surged to a
record on concern an economic slowdown at home and a recession
in Europe and the U.S. will hurt earnings.  Copper, Iron, Oil  China’s economy  expanded 10.4 percent last year. Qu
estimates the pace will be 8.9 percent this year and 8.6 percent
in 2012.  That growth may help sustain demand for commodities after
an index of six metals on the London Metal Exchange dropped 22
percent from the end of July amid a rout that wiped $7.6
trillion off the value of global stocks.  China accounted for all the growth in copper and iron ore
demand over the past decade and 90 percent of the increase in
global oil consumption, Credit Suisse AG said in an Oct. 4
report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  