-- 
China Currency Message May be Stronger Than Likelihood of U.S. Sanctions

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-17T09:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/china-currency-message-stronger-than-chance-of-u-s-sanctions.html
The U.S. Senate’s vote to punish
 China  for depressing its currency to promote cheap exports is
the latest legislative ritual in which the message may be as
important as the proposed sanction.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  practically declared the
measure dead on arrival in the Republican-run chamber after the
Senate’s 63-35  vote  last week to let U.S. manufacturers seek
duties on Chinese imports if they prove they were harmed by
manipulation of the renminbi. Boehner, of Ohio, voiced “grave
concerns” the measure may trigger a trade war.  Supporters of the sanctions say they are sending China a
message, whether the legislation becomes law or not. Their votes
also might pay domestic political dividends.  “A number of members” have said “it’s good politics, but
we don’t think it’s good policy” to punish China over the value
of its currency, said Republican Senator  Jeff Sessions  of
 Alabama , who said he co-sponsored the measure because it
“protects fair trade.”  Proponents say China subsidizes its exports, and therefore
undermines U.S. industries, by undervaluing its currency by at
least 20 percent.  Michigan Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Democrat, said
manufacturers of steel tube in her state have “been undercut
for years by China” because of currency manipulation. “They’ve
been laying off people for a long time,” she told reporters a
day after the Oct. 11 Senate vote.  Tool & Die Company  Automation Tool & Die Inc. in the Cleveland suburb of
Brunswick, Ohio, lost a $1 million contract in 2009 to provide
the seat base for long-haul trucks because the yuan’s depressed
value helped a Chinese competitor underbid by 20 percent,
according to co-owner Bill Bennett.  “We lost the bid due to price,” Bennett, who owns the
company with his brother, Randy, said in a telephone interview.
“We were told we were 20 percent higher than the next bid and
we were told that bid came from China.”  The price differential can only be explained by currency
manipulation because “there is no way on a metal part that
anybody ought to beat somebody else’s price by 20 percent,”
said Bill Gaskin, president of the  Precision Metalforming
Association . The trade group in Independence,  Ohio , represents
850 metal fabricating and stamping companies as well as tool and
die makers.  In the past, China has responded to pressure by allowing
the renminbi, or yuan, to appreciate in value. Before a G-20
economic summit last year in Toronto, China’s  Central Bank 
announced changes in the valuation of the yuan, and the currency
appreciated 0.43 percent.  ‘Example of Frustrations’  Lawmakers and analysts say Chinese authorities allowed the
yuan to appreciate 2.9 percent over the last half of 2010 when
the House, under Democratic control, passed similar legislation
348-79.  “The action you saw in the Senate, the currency bill, is
an example of frustrations,”  Francisco Sanchez , undersecretary
for international trade at the Commerce Department, told
reporters in  Hong Kong  today. “There’s a perception that China
doesn’t always promote policies that create a level-playing
field.”  If the Senate measure became law, China would most likely
retaliate by making large purchases from European companies
instead of U.S. manufacturers, said  Nicholas Lardy , an economist
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. Such retaliation need not be overt, he said.  Under this scenario Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , one of the
world’s largest airplane makers, “won’t get a contract for
years” to build Chinese airliners, Lardy said. “That’s why the
biggest businesses in the U.S.” with substantial investments in
China “are so dead set against this legislation,” he said.  Record Trade Deficit  The China currency issue also has resonance in the 2012
presidential campaign. Like  Barack Obama  and  George W. Bush  when
they were running for president, Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  has chided the White House incumbent for not being tough
on China’s currency policy. Obama, as president, hasn’t stated
an official position on the Senate measure.  The record $29 billion trade deficit with China in August
is reason enough to allow a floor vote on the measure, the lead
House sponsor, Michigan Democrat Sander Levin, said at an Oct.
14 news conference.  “The history of this is that when there
has been pressure, China has acted,” he said.  Boehner and other House Republican leaders “don’t want
this bill on the floor for one reason; it would pass,” Levin
said. Sixty-two Republicans are among the measure’s 225 sponsors,
a majority of the 435-member House.  Democratic Opposition  Boehner said Oct. 6 “the president agrees with me,” and
suggested that Obama’s silence on the issue was intended to
avoid offending fellow Democrats who back the bill.  “Has Representative Levin discussed this issue with
President Obama, who also opposes this bill?” Boehner spokesman
 Michael Steel  said in an e-mail.  Some Democrats oppose the sanctions. Democratic Senator
Claire McCaskill of Missouri said she voted against the measure
in part because she didn’t want to undercut her state’s attempt
to attract more Chinese cargo planes to use the St. Louis
airport as a hub for delivering goods to the U.S.  The Chinese “just landed their first plane two weeks
prior,” and “we are in competition with other states,” said
McCaskill, who faces re-election next year. If she had voted for
the measure, “I could see the whole thing tumbling down at my
feet.”  Washington  state’s two Democratic senators,  Maria Cantwell 
and  Patty Murray , a member of Senate leadership, voted no.  “One out of five jobs depends on trade from my state so we
are very conscious of the impact,” Murray said.  ‘Send a Message’  The Chinese government “plays the fear card” with U.S.
companies that do business in that country, telling them “you
better call a congressman” to lobby against any sanctions, said
South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican who voted
for the bill.  Last week’s vote marked the first time the Senate passed a
measure allowing sanctions against China. Fewer senators would
have backed it “if there was a realistic chance it would become
law,” said Douglas Irwin, a Dartmouth College economist in
Hanover,  New Hampshire . “The vote was to send a message,” he
said.  Economists disagree about the effect of the currency
disparity on U.S. jobs and how many would be created if
sanctions forced China to let the value of the yuan rise.  Create Jobs  Ending the currency misalignment would create 500,000 new
U.S. jobs, C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute,
 told  Congress last year.  “You’re not talking about an immediate benefit to
companies,” countered  Michael Moore , a George Washington
University trade economist and former member of Bush’s Council
of Economic Advisers.  It would take as much as a year to investigate U.S.
companies’ claims they were harmed by Chinese manipulation, and
companies would have to get support from half of their U.S.
competitors to show harm to the industry, Moore said.  There wouldn’t be an “immediate flood of cases,” Moore
said. It would more likely produce “trade friction,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  