-- 
Chorus Considering N.Z. Bond Offer to Build National Broadband

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-16T23:30:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/chorus-considering-n-z-bond-offer-to-build-national-broadband.html
Chorus, which owns  New Zealand ’s
largest telephone network, is considering a domestic bond sale
to help fund construction of a nationwide broadband network.  “We’re going to need to raise some more money and we’ll
look at the kiwi market,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Ratcliffe, 56, said in an interview in Wellington, using the
local currency’s nickname. “The board will look at that when
it’s appointed.”  Chorus is raising money as it prepares to split from
Telecom Corp. of New Zealand, the nation’s largest telephone
company, in order to partner the government in a NZ$1.6 billion
($1.3 billion) plan to deliver ultra-fast broadband plan to 75
percent of the country’s homes and offices. The company plans to
send invitation letters to banks next week as it starts to
market a NZ$1 billion loan to help finance the split, two people
familiar with the matter said Oct. 14.  Ratcliffe has been visiting foreign bond and share
investors over the past month to encourage them to revisit the
New Zealand market and back his new company’s plans. Any bond
sale will only occur if Telecom shareholders approve the
demerger, which must go ahead for Chorus to build the broadband
network, in a vote that will be held on Oct. 26.  “What we got to see was people who have not been
interested in Telecom for the last three or four years because
of all the uncertainty associated with the regulatory regime,”
he said. “We got to talk to a whole bunch of people who a year
ago wouldn’t have taken the call.”  Chorus has already set up a $2 billion medium-term note
program, through which it will issue the equivalent of NZ$600
million of bonds denominated in British pounds, as part of an
exchange offer for existing Telecom debt securities.  Corporate Sales  Non-financial corporate bond sales have shrunk this year in
New Zealand as the potential for a default by Greece roils
financial markets worldwide. Offerings from domestic issuers
excluding those by banks, overseas borrowers and municipalities
totaled NZ$925 million since Dec. 31, down 29 percent from
NZ$1.3 billion in the same period last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The decline has come even as total bond sales expanded to
NZ$7.6 billion, from NZ$5.7 billion, the data show.  Telecom, the nation’s largest phone company, has faced a
slide in profits amid price control on some services, increased
competition and the cost of operationally separating Chorus from
its retail units to satisfy  government regulation . The company
has also invested in new mobile and fiber networks.  Foreign Investors  New Zealand is becoming more attractive to foreign
investors amid the concerns about fiscal crises in  Europe  and
the U.S., Ratcliffe said. As a network operator, Chorus offers
predictable dividends and cash flows, he said.  “Even some of the more aggressive investors are probably
thinking, given all the uncertainty in the rest of the world,
this predictable thing over here looks like it could
outperform,” he said. “There is so much uncertainty out there
that New Zealand has been protected from because we haven’t had
the global meltdown.”  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s local unit  Bank of New
Zealand  is the leading corporate issuer in the nation in 2011,
selling NZ$1.4 billion of notes, the data show.  Genesis Power Ltd., Air New Zealand Ltd. and Z Energy Ltd.
are among non-financial companies to tap the local  bond market 
for funding this year, Bloomberg data show.  Under the terms of its partnership with the government,
Chorus will build a fiber network past about 830,000 premises
over the next eight years, including in Auckland, the nation’s
largest city, and Wellington.  The project will cost as much as NZ$1.6 billion and the
government will pay Chorus about NZ$929 million progressively
over the period. The difference, as well as routine investment
in the company’s existing fiber and copper wire network to about
1.8 million premises, must be funded by Chorus.  “We’ll invest a lot of money in the network,” Ratcliffe
said. “There is an initial requirement for NZ$1.7 billion of
debt. It’s possible that number might go up through the build
phase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  