-- 
Citigroup, Wells Fargo May Post Profit Jump on Credit Costs

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-10-16T23:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/citigroup-wells-fargo-may-post-profit-jump-on-credit-costs.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  may post better third-quarter results
as loan losses at the biggest U.S. lenders subside.  Citigroup may say that profit climbed 15 percent to $2.5
billion when it reports results at 8 a.m. in New York, according
to the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Wells
Fargo, scheduled to report at the same time, may say earnings
rose 18 percent to $3.9 billion. Bank of America, which reports
tomorrow, may report $2.7 billion in profit, compared with a
$7.3 billion net loss a year earlier.  “We expect banks to show further credit-quality
improvement, primarily in commercial and industrial unsecured
loans and credit-card loans,”  David Hilder , an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP, said in a Oct. 7 note.  Traditional lending may have to carry the companies instead
of investment banking, a role reversal from recent quarters, as
concern that  Greece  would default disrupted markets.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest U.S. bank by assets at midyear,
said Oct. 13 that a slump in investment banking and trading
pushed profit down 34 percent to $3.1 billion.  Commercial and residential loan growth fueled a 1.2 percent
rise in total loans at the biggest 25 U.S. banks in the third
quarter, Ed Najarian, analyst at International Strategy &
Investment Group Inc., said in an Oct. 9 note. Deposits rose by
6.8 percent as customers sought safer assets, he wrote.  Consumer Banking   “Investors are well aware that trading, investment
banking, and private-equity revenue at major U.S. banks was
especially weak in the third quarter,” Najarian wrote. “Many
investors may not be completely aware that core loan and deposit
trends were quite good.”  Still, concerns over the European debt crisis and the
possibility the  U.S. economy  may relapse into recession have
weighed on bank shares. The 24-company KBW Bank Index has
slumped 27 percent this year, and Bank of America, based in
Charlotte,  North Carolina  and the biggest U.S. lender as of
midyear, has plunged more than 50 percent.  A jump in borrowing costs at some banks, including New
York-based Morgan Stanley, subsided earlier this month as
investors became more optimistic that European Union policy
makers would solve the sovereign debt and banking crisis.  Bank of America may perform poorly compared with peers in
another U.S. recession, while New York-based JPMorgan may be
best positioned, John E. McDonald, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst, said in an Oct. 6 research note. Higher unemployment
would cause more foreclosure and mortgage-related costs, he
wrote.  Replacing Revenue  The third-quarter 2010 loss at Bank of America was fueled
by a $10.4 billion writedown of its credit-card division after
new U.S. regulations reduced its value. Last year, Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the bank would recoup
lost revenue, without providing details.  This year, the firm added fee-based checking and said some
debit-card users would be charged $5 per month. San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo is testing a $3 monthly fee, and similar
charges have been imposed by Regions Financial Corp. and
SunTrust Banks Inc.  Bank of America’s plan sparked objections from critics
including President Barack Obama. Five House Democrats asked
Attorney General Eric Holder on Oct. 13 to investigate whether
banks and trade groups colluded on decisions to impose new fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  