-- 
Dell Losing Out With PCs Transforms Citrix Into Target: Real M&A

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-10-16T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/dell-losing-out-with-pcs-transforms-citrix-into-target-real-m-a.html
Michael Dell  wants to use some of
his company’s $16 billion in cash for acquisitions to counter
slumping demand for personal computers. That may put  Citrix
Systems Inc. (CTXS)  and  Informatica Corp. (INFA)  on his shopping list.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the world’s third-largest PC maker, has lost
almost a quarter of its market share in the past five years as
Asian rivals introduced lower-priced models and eroded profits.
After reporting its biggest revenue decline in 2010, sales at
Dell will increase by 3 percent or less this fiscal year and
next, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While Dell made almost two dozen acquisitions that averaged
less than a billion dollars each in the past five years, it may
now need bigger takeovers to boost growth and expand in software
and networking, said Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. Citrix, which
sells programs that let companies cut the number of servers they
run, and Informatica, a provider of data integration software,
are among 14 U.S. software suppliers that analysts say will
generate twice as much sales growth this year of the median
American company after producing double the operating income per
dollar of revenue in the past year as Dell itself.  “Dell is suffering through the commoditization of
hardware,”  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $16.7 billion as chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati,
said in a telephone interview. Citrix and Informatica “make
sense. Dell needs to further diversify their array of products.
Software is a natural consideration. Citrix seems like a natural
just because of the nature of Citrix,” he said.  Relative Value  Dell, the 46-year-old founder and chief executive officer
of the namesake company, said at the inaugural ‘Dell World’
conference in Austin,  Texas , last week that the PC maker’s cash
gives it “plenty of capability” to make more acquisitions.  Emily Dunlop, a spokeswoman for the  Round Rock , Texas-based
company, declined to comment on potential takeover targets and
referred to Dell’s statements from the conference.  Worth almost $150 billion at its peak more than a decade
ago, Dell is turning to takeovers after losing more than half
its market value since the start of 2006. Over the same span,
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.9 percent, while the
average technology company in the benchmark gauge for American
common equity gained 28 percent.  Dell has stumbled as Asian competitors from Lenovo Group
Ltd. to  Acer Inc. (2353)  took a greater share of the PC business with
lower prices and consumers turned away from desktops and laptops
in favor of tablet computers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Plugging Holes  Once the world’s largest PC maker, Dell’s revenue from
desktops tumbled 32 percent in the past five years as the
average price of a personal computer fell more than 20 percent
to $726 each, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  During that time, the company’s share of the PC business by
unit shipments shrank almost a quarter to 12.5 percent.  Last quarter, Dell was supplanted as the second-largest PC
maker by global shipments as Lenovo, based in Beijing and
Morrisville,  North Carolina , rose to that position for the first
time, according to Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  Attempts by Dell to enter the mobile-computing market with
its Venue Pro smartphone and Streak tablet have also failed to
gain broad consumer acceptance.  Dell is in “a little bit of a box,” Anand Srinivasan, a
computer hardware analyst for Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,
 New Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “Software is the
hole that you need to plug. How do you fill it? That’s where
their acquisition strategy comes in,” he said.  ‘Tiny Acquisitions’  While David Johnson, Dell’s head for mergers and
acquisitions, said last week it would avoid “big, blockbuster”
deals in favor of buying smaller companies to build its
information-technology services, networking and data storage
businesses, that strategy has failed to forestall an almost 30
percent drop in its operating margin in the last half-decade.  Of the 20 deals that Dell has completed over that span,
only two have exceeded $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as Dell still relied on PCs for about half its $61.5
billion in sales last year.  “Instead of those tiny acquisitions that don’t ultimately
have enough critical mass to provide any kind of uptick to the
growth path that Dell is currently on, they do need to venture
into something,” Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages
$54 billion, said in a telephone interview. “Dell is in a
position where they have to do something transformative.”  Takeover Criteria  Among software and computer-services providers in the U.S.
between $1 billion and $15 billion in value, there are 14
companies that will increase sales twice as fast as the median
S&P 500 company this year based on analysts’ estimates, and had
operating margins that were more than double Dell’s 7.3 percent
in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sales at Citrix, the largest of the group with $11.9
billion in equity value, are projected to rise 16 percent this
year, versus 7.5 percent growth for the median S&P 500 company.  The provider of software that enables workers to use their
office applications from home via the Internet has also expanded
into so-called virtualization software and cloud computing,
which lets businesses run programs on servers in remote data
centers. In July, Citrix bought Cloud.com Inc., which helps
companies manage data traffic on their servers.  “This is an area where Dell needs to be stronger,” said
Shaw Wu, an analyst at  Sterne Agee  in  San Francisco , who cited
Citrix as a potential takeover target.  Data Integration  Eric Armstrong, a spokesman for Fort Lauderdale, Florida-
based Citrix, didn’t immediately return a telephone call or an
e-mail seeking comment.  Informatica could also be a takeover candidate because it
sells software that lets companies manage, integrate and analyze
data from different computer systems, Sterne Agee’s Wu said.  After tripling its adjusted net income in the past five
years, analysts now estimate that Informatica’s earnings will
jump 33 percent in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
$5.1 billion company has also earned 20 cents in operating
income for every dollar of sales in the past 12 months, almost
three times as much as Dell’s margin.  Deborah Wiltshire, a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Informatica, said the company doesn’t comment
on takeover rumors or speculation.  Dell may stick to smaller takeovers as it tries to cobble
together niche businesses and transform itself into a “one-stop
shop” for computer servers, networking gear and software, said
Ashok Kumar, an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC in  New York .  ‘Elephant Hunting’  The PC maker may also be avoiding bigger deals after it
boosted its stock-buyback program by $5 billion last month,
according to Barclays Plc. Prior to the announcement, Dell had
more than $2 billion remaining in authorized repurchases after
buying $1.6 billion of its stock in the first half of the year.  Dell would need more than $16 billion to acquire Citrix,
based on the average takeover premium of 36 percent for software
deals worth $5 billion or more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Informatica would cost almost $7 billion.  Both would exceed the $3.9 billion that Dell spent on Perot
Systems Corp. in 2009, its largest ever transaction.  “We do not think the company is going to go elephant
hunting,” said Rodman & Renshaw’s Kumar.  Dell could still benefit from targeting smaller businesses
in the health-care software industry, which would complement its
purchase of Perot Systems. Dell gained customers from hospitals
to health-insurers and the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention after acquiring the company founded by former U.S.
presidential candidate H.  Ross Perot .  Quality Systems  “Health care is a space that comes to mind because of the
significant services business through the Perot acquisition,”
said Bloomberg Industries’ Srinivasan. “To acquire a health
care-based software company would fit in very nicely with their
services offering and as a result it makes their health-care
vertical focus that much more important.”  That could make  Quality Systems Inc. (QSII) , which sells software
that manages health records for doctors and dentists, an
attractive target, according to Fifth Third’s Wirtz.  Irvine, California-based Quality Systems, which has a
market value of $2.6 billion, increased full-year revenue by at
least 18 percent each year since 2002, data compiled by
Bloomberg show, while its operating margin of 28 percent is
almost four times higher than Dell.  Quality Systems also announced an  agreement  in August that
allows Dell to market and sell some of its health-care products.  Moving the Needle  Susan Lewis, a spokeswoman for Quality Systems, declined to
comment on whether it had been approached by Dell about an
acquisition or is contemplating a sale.  Dell could even consider making a bid for  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, according
to  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl &
Gaynor Inc., which oversees $4.1 billion.  RIM is valued at $12.6 billion after plunging more than 80
percent from its all-time high in 2008. Marisa Conway, a
spokeswoman for the Waterloo, Ontario-based company, said it
doesn’t comment on takeover rumors or speculation.  Michael Dell “has to do something that is going to move
the needle,” Bahl & Gaynor’s McCormick said in a telephone
interview. “Something that’s going to make people say -- this
is different from the normal pattern, they are serious about
increasing their margins, increasing their earnings.”  Dell needs to “put the money to work,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at +1-415-617-7223 or  tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 