-- 
‘Real Steel’ Is No. 1 Film Again With Sales of $16.3 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-10-17T21:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/disney-s-real-steel-repeats-as-weekend-s-top-film-footloose-is-second.html
The boxing-robot movie “Real
Steel” finished atop the box-office rankings in U.S. and
Canadian theaters for a second week, generating $16.3 million in
receipts for DreamWorks SKG Inc. and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   “Footloose,” an update of the 1984 hit, was second in its
debut with $15.6 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office 
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Disney is fourth among studios this year with $1.07 billion
in ticket sales, trailing first-place  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner
Bros . with $1.49 billion, according to researcher Box Office
Mojo. “Real Steel” is Disney’s ninth No. 1 film this year.  “The word of mouth for ‘Real Steel’ has been pretty good,
and it attracted more women than ‘Footloose’ attracted men,”
said Gitesh Pandya, editor of boxofficeguru.com in New York.  Inspired by Richard Matheson’s short story, “Real Steel”
stars  Hugh Jackman  as an absentee father who trains robots for
the ring. The visual effects-laden movie, with  Steven Spielberg 
as executive producer, has taken in $51.7 million since it
opened on Oct. 7.  “Footloose,” from  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount Pictures , cost
$30 million to make, according to IMDB.com and was expected to
take in $18 million, the estimate of  Boxoffice.com .  ‘Footloose’ Remake  The picture tells the story of a big-city teenager, played
by Kenny Wormald, who is exceptionally skilled at dancing. He
moves to a small town where the local preacher discourages
dancing. The original film, featuring Kevin Bacon as the
disruptive newcomer, cost $8.2 million and generated $80 million
in domestic ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo.  “It’s a moderately good opening for a film that didn’t
really have a whole lot of excitement with the male audience,”
Pandya said. “It’s not an expensive movie, so between this and
later on DVD, they should be OK on this financially.”  Finishing third in its debut was “The Thing” from  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures , with $8.5 million. The movie is a
prequel to the 1982 John Carpenter film about scientists on a
remote expedition who encounter an alien being. Carpenter’s
version was itself inspired by the 1951 black-and-white release
 “The Thing From Another World,”  which followed a similar
storyline.  The new film, made for about $35 million, stars Mary
Elizabeth Winstead and Joel Edgerton.  Clooney’s ‘Ides’  The political thriller “The Ides of March” fell to fourth
from second with $7.1 million.  The movie features  Ryan Gosling  as the idealistic press
secretary to a governor, played by  George Clooney , who aspires
to be president.  Paul Giamatti , Philip Seymour Hoffman and Evan Rachel Wood co-star. Clooney is the director. The film from  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s Columbia Pictures has taken in $21.8 million since it
opened, according to Hollywood.com.  “Dolphin Tale,” based on the true story of a dolphin
whose tail was amputated after becoming entangled in a crab
trap, was fifth with $6.2 million for Warner Bros. The film
stars Harry Connick Jr. and  Morgan Freeman  and has taken in
$58.6 million since its release.  Also making a debut this week was “The Big Year” from
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 20th Century Fox, coming in ninth with $3.3
million. It stars  Owen Wilson ,  Jack Black  and  Steve Martin  as
bird-watchers who compete to spot the rarest birds.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 36 percent to $77
million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic box-
office receipts this year have declined 3.8 percent to $8.23
billion. Attendance is down 5.8 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Oct.
14 through today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  