-- 
ECB Won’t Tolerate Lehman Rerun, Bank of Finland Deputy Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-10-17T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/ecb-won-t-tolerate-lehman-rerun-bank-of-finland-deputy-says.html
The  European Central Bank  won’t
allow interbank markets to freeze as they did after the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and stands ready to
step up liquidity measures, Bank of Finland Deputy Head Pentti Hakkarainen said.  “When a credit crunch is perceived to be coming, measures
will be taken to stop it, such as strengthening banks’ capital
and maintaining the ability to transmit funding,” the deputy to
Governor and ECB Council member Erkki Liikanen said in an
interview in Helsinki. “The goal of course is to prevent it.”  As  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis threatens to engulf the
region’s banks, policy makers are groping for responses to avert
a rerun of the global liquidity freeze that followed Lehman’s
collapse. The Frankfurt-based ECB said this month it will
reintroduce yearlong loans, giving banks access to unlimited
cash through January 2013. The bank has secured extra dollar
liquidity as part of a range of measures aimed at preventing a
potential market seizure.  “The heat’s rising on the thermometer,” said,
Hakkarainen, who oversees financial markets at the Finnish
central bank. Even so, “we’re not at the Lehman levels. Markets
have confidence that a solvent financial institution can get
sufficient funding from the central bank against suitable
collateral.”  The Sept. 15, 2008, collapse of Lehman sent the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index plunging 43 percent through a trough in March
in the following year. Financial institutions lost or wrote off
close to $1 trillion. The  credit event  set the global economy
lurching into a crisis from which it has yet to emerge.  Creating Confidence  Three years on, the ECB’s measures “create confidence in
the market that the situation won’t freeze as badly as after
Lehman,” Hakkarainen said.  The bank’s facilities, which include purchases of covered
bonds, “will continue to ensure that euro-area banks are not
constrained on the liquidity side,” the ECB said on Oct. 13.
Europe’s banks know they have the ECB to fall back on as a
guarantor for liquidity, Hakkarainen said.  “When the money is in the central bank, you can always
access it,” he said. “When the interbank market freezes, it
may be difficult to get your money from the counterparty, no
matter how great they are. The ECB, in this regard, is always a
sure bet.”  Market Rates  The difference between the 12-month secured Eurepo and same
maturity unsecured Euribor rates that banks charge each other
was at 149 basis points on Oct. 14, or 81 basis points lower
than its high of 230 basis points on Oct. 31, 2008. The spread
was at a post-Lehman high of 164 basis points on Sept. 26. One
basis point is 0.01 percentage points.  According to  Nouriel Roubini , chairman and co-founder of
Roubini Global Economics LLC, European efforts to come up with a
plan to recapitalize the region’s banks are “behind the
curve,” he said at a speech in Helsinki today. The problems in
the euro area “are chronic” and “won’t go away,” he said.  He warned that a disorderly default by a nation in the euro
area, or a member’s exit from the currency bloc, could trigger a
shock of “Lehman magnitude” that would “reverberate through
the global economy.”  The euro lost as much as 1 percent against the dollar
before trading 0.9 percent lower at 1.3764 as of 3:58 p.m. in
 London .  One Week  European officials have one week to settle differences and
flesh out a strategy to get to grips with the turmoil, which has
propelled  Greece  to the brink of default, shaken world markets
and fueled speculation that the euro might not survive in its
current form.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central banks concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set an Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  Policy makers are alert to the prospect of less liquidity,
Hakkarainen said.  Hakkarainen, 53, is running for a third term on the board
of the 200-year-old central bank. Bank of Finland board members
have five-year terms, while Governor Liikanen is serving his
second seven-year term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  