-- 
Hedge Funds Add to Wagers in Biggest Rally of 2011

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-10-17T14:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/hedge-funds-add-to-wagers-in-biggest-rally-of-2011-commodities.html
Speculators boosted their wagers on
higher commodity prices for the first time in five weeks as
increasing confidence that the global economy will avoid another
recession spurred the biggest rally of the year.  Money managers boosted combined net-long positions across
18 U.S. futures and options by 0.2 percent to 656,691 contracts
in the week ended Oct. 11, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
rose 5.2 percent last week, the most since December and enough
to take the gauge out of the  bear market  it entered last month.
 Hedge funds  had cut their bets by 49 percent in the previous
four weeks.  The surge in prices mirrored the advance in global
equities, while Treasuries declined for a third consecutive
week, on mounting investor confidence. Leaders from the biggest
economies began talks to tame Europe’s debt crisis and Slovakia
provided the needed approval to enhance a euro region bailout
fund. U.S. retail sales rose the most in seven months.  “We’re not having the same kind of recession as 2008, so
we’re not going to have the same kind of drop in commodity
prices,” said Brett Hammond, a senior economist with TIAA-CREF,
a New York-based investment manager with $469 billion in
pensions and other assets. “Some of the air has come out of the
bubble, but overall, I think there’s a lot more room for
commodities to run.”  Crude Oil Jumps  Twenty one of 24 futures tracked by the S&P GSCI rose last
week, led by an 11 percent gain for sugar and the biggest
soybean rally since 1999. Crude oil jumped to a three-week high,
and cattle futures rallied to a record for the second time this
month. Cotton, nickel and aluminum fell.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 5.4
percent last week, the most since July, paring its decline from
this year’s peak in May to 16 percent. Treasuries lost 0.62
percent, Bank of America Corp. indexes show. The dollar weakened
2.7 percent against a basket of six major currencies, including
the euro, boosting the appeal of dollar-denominated commodities.  Group of 20 and International Monetary Fund officials said
Oct. 14 the IMF may bolster its lending resources to help stem
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Euro-zone leaders may complete a debt plan
at an Oct. 23 summit to present to a gathering of G-20 chiefs on
Nov. 3-4.  Retail sales rose 1.1 percent in September, the most in
seven months, the U.S. Commerce Department said Oct. 14, adding
to evidence that the world’s largest economy will avoid a
recession. A week earlier, the Labor Department reported the
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  Positive Surprises  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., a
measure of deviations from the median estimates of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, turned positive on Oct. 14 for the first
time since April 29. That indicates that reports on balance have
been better than expected.  The most bullish advances in speculators’ positions last
week were in energy, with a 39 percent gain in heating oil, a 23
percent increase in gasoline and a 7.8 percent advance in crude
oil, CFTC data show. Funds also boosted bullish bets in gold by
3.4 percent and those in silver by 1.3 percent.  Oil futures rose 4.6 percent to $86.80 a barrel in New York
last week, taking the two-week advance to 9.6 percent. The
contract dropped 0.8 percent to $86.13 at 10:51 a.m. New York
time today. While the  International Energy Agency  cut its
forecast for global crude demand in 2012 for a second month last
week, the Paris-based adviser to 28 nations is still
anticipating record consumption.  Bullish Bets  Speculators reduced bullish bets for crops including corn,
soybeans and coffee, even as prices appreciated. Soybeans rose
9.6 percent last week to $12.70 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  reported that
 China  bought U.S. corn, soybeans and wheat. The Asian nation is
the world’s largest soybean importer.  Bearish bets on copper rose 80 percent from a week earlier,
leaving investors with a net-short position of 9,489 contracts,
the most since June 2009. Copper futures advanced for a second
straight week, gaining 4.1 percent. The most-active contract
gained 0.3 percent to $3.418 a pound today.  “With the lack of potential economic growth in  Asia , it’s
very, very hard for copper prices to go up,” said David Stroud,
chief executive officer of TS Capital Partners, a New York-based
hedge fund.  Inflation in China, the world’s biggest copper consumer,
slowed to 6.1 percent in September, the lowest since May, the
Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics said Oct. 14.
China’s economic growth may decline to 8.7 percent next year,
from 9.3 percent in 2011, according to the median of nine
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Free-Trade Agreements  The  U.S. Congress  on Oct. 12 approved free-trade agreements
with  South Korea , Colombia and  Panama , bringing an end to years
of stalemate by lawmakers and offering what supporters said was
the biggest opportunity for exporters in decades.  The Denver-based U.S. Meat Export Federation expects beef
shipments to climb by about $517 million, or 13 percent, over
the next 15 years as duties on U.S. shipments are phased out.
Cattle futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange reached $1.243
a pound on Oct. 14, the highest ever for a most-active contract.
Hog futures jumped to a two-month high of 90.725 a pound on Oct.
14 and gained for a fourth consecutive week.  Investors pulled $275 million from commodity funds in the
week ended Oct. 12, the least in three weeks, according to
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. Funds focusing on
gold and precious metals got an extra $72 million, EPFR said.  ‘Burst of Optimism’  The outflow was “a fairly small one, which sort of
suggests a slowing down while people wait to see if this latest
burst of optimism has any legs,” said  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research at EPFR.  The S&P GSCI is up 7.7 percent since the end of September
and headed for its biggest monthly rally since December. Last
week’s advance extended a rebound that began Oct. 5 after
 Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central
bank may take further steps to shore up the recovery.  Twenty-two of 25 people surveyed by Bloomberg last week
said they expected gold to rise this week, the highest
proportion since mid-July. Traders also anticipate gains in
copper, sugar, corn and soybeans, separate surveys show.  Gold futures climbed 2.9 percent last week to $1,683 an
ounce in  New York , the biggest weekly increase since a rally
that drove prices to a record $1,923.70 in early September. The
Federal Reserve said in meeting minutes released Oct. 12 that
some officials last month wanted to keep further asset purchases
an option to boost the economy.  “Gold will respond the quickest to an expansion in  money
supply ,” said  Michael Pento , the president of Pento Portfolio
Strategies in Holmdel,  New Jersey , who correctly predicted the
collapse in commodities in 2008. “Gold is going to tread water
for a while, but the next major move is going to be higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  