-- 
EU Given a Week to Fix Crisis as G-20 Warns of Global Threat

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-17T08:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/eu-given-one-week-to-fix-crisis-as-g-20-warns-world-economy-is-threatened.html
European leaders have one week to
settle differences and flesh out a strategy to terminate their
sovereign debt crisis as global finance chiefs warn failure to
do so would endanger the world economy.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central banks concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set an Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  “The risk of a recession would be increased dramatically
were the Europeans to fail to accomplish goals that they’ve set
for themselves,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said
after the G-20 meeting, which ended Oct. 15.  Two years to the week since  Greece  triggered the turmoil by
revising its budget math, the inability of policy makers to
stamp it out has pushed the Greek government to the edge of
default and the European economy close to recession. Stocks and
the euro extended last week’s gains after the meeting.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index added 1.3 percent to 241.59 at
9:15 a.m. in  London . The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3904,
following a 3.8 percent weekly advance, the biggest since March
2009.  Greece’s Vote  Hurdles to overcome for an accord include resistance from
bankers to a deeper restructuring of Greek debt as well as
disagreements between Europe’s capitals over just how to
multiply the firepower of their bailout fund and recapitalize
financial institutions. Greece’s parliament faces another tight
vote on new fiscal measures as soon as this week, a showdown
that Prime Minister  George Papandreou  needs to win to ease the
way for more foreign financing.  The Brussels meeting “has the potential to turn into a
positive historic moment,”  Joachim Fels , London-based chief
economist at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “But it could also easily turn into a negative
catalyst.”  Europe’s plan, which has still to be made public, includes
writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50 percent, establishing
a backstop for banks and magnifying the strength of the 440
billion-euro ($611 billion) temporary rescue fund known as the
European Financial Stability Facility, people familiar with the
matter said last week.  “The plan has the right elements,” U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in Paris. “They clearly have
more work to do on the strategy and the details.”  Cannes Summit  The G-20 officials -- who met to prepare for a Nov. 3-4
gathering of leaders in Cannes,  France  -- said in a statement
that the world economy faces “heightened tensions and
significant downside risks.” European authorities must
“decisively address the current challenges through a
comprehensive plan,” they said.  The policy makers held out the possibility of rewarding
European action with more aid from the  International Monetary
Fund , while splitting over whether the Washington-based lender’s
$390 billion war chest needs topping up.  Europe’s latest strategy hinges on putting Greece, whose
government forecasts its debt to reach 172 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, on a sustainable path. Austerity has
plunged the country deeper into recession and provoked civil
unrest that threatens political stability.  Wage Cuts  Papandreou faces the latest test of his party’s unity as
soon as this week when he asks Parliament to approve steps
including bigger pension and wage cuts as well as plans that may
lead to the dismissal of 30,000 state workers. One ruling party
lawmaker, Thomas Robopoulos, said he may quit his seat ahead of
the vote, exposing the tensions in Papandreou’s socialist party.
It has 154 seats in the 300-member chamber.  Failure to limit the risk of a default to Greece led to
Portugal and Ireland requiring bailouts, and markets are now
targeting larger debt-strapped nations such as  Italy . Investors
are concerned that if the crisis keeps festering, the world
economy could face a repeat of the chaos that followed the 2008
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The euro area is
already set to suffer a renewed recession, say economists at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “We’re aware of our responsibility,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in Paris. “We’ll solve the
problems in the  euro zone .”  Crisis Plan  In the works is a five-point plan foreseeing a fix for
Greece, boosting of the rescue fund, fresh capital for banks, a
new push to increase competitiveness and consideration of
European treaty amendments to tighten economic management.  Proposals include revising a voluntary July accord struck
with investors for a 21 percent net-present-value reduction in
Greek debt holdings. One variant would take that reduction up to
50 percent, and a more aggressive suggestion is for investors to
exchange Greek bonds for new debt at a lower face value
collateralized by the euro area’s AAA-rated rescue fund, the
people said. The ultimate choice is a restructuring involving
writedowns without collateral.  Highlighting potential opposition from bankers this week,
 Charles Dallara , managing director of the Institute of
International Finance, told the Financial Times in an article
published Oct. 15 that he doesn’t “see a compelling case” to
reopen the July deal. The imposition of greater losses on
investors may prompt them to sell other European bonds, he said.
The  European Central Bank  has also signaled it doesn’t favor a
rewrite of the three-month old accord.  Bank Liabilities  The bank-aid model under discussion is to set up a
European-level backstop capitalized by the EFSF, the people
said. It would have the power to take direct equity stakes in
banks and provide guarantees on bank liabilities. Such ideas are
controversial in  Germany , which has called for recapitalization
on a country-by-country basis.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  told Bloomberg Television on Oct. 15 that euro-area
authorities are “close” to a pact. Banks may be required to
maintain a 9 percent capital buffer to absorb sovereign risks,
up from the 5 percent core capital level used in July’s stress
tests, a person with knowledge of discussions said last week.  How to magnify the strength of the EFSF may also sow
discord this week. Options include enabling it to borrow from
the ECB or using it to partly insure new bonds issued by
distressed governments. The ECB has all but ruled out the first
method, making bond guarantees more likely, the people said.  Bond Guarantees  The guarantees of new bonds sold by distressed euro-area
governments might range from 20 percent to 30 percent, a person
familiar with those deliberations said.  Recourse to bond insurance suggests the central bank will
need to maintain its secondary-market purchases for an
unspecified “interim” period, the people said. ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , who attended his last G-20 meeting before
he retires Oct. 31, reiterated the central bank hopes to stop
purchasing  government bonds  once the EFSF is able to take over.  A consensus is nevertheless emerging to accelerate the
birth of a permanent aid fund by a year to July 2012. This
week’s discussions will also look at easing unanimity rules that
permit solitary countries to block bailouts.  Morgan Stanley’s Fels said the steps could backfire because
investors may fail to be lured by the guarantees, harsher
writedowns could spark contagion and banks would likely prefer
to sell assets and reduce leverage than raise capital. What’s
really required is leaders to take a “big step” toward fiscal
integration, he said.  The coming weekend “is the moment people are expecting
something quite impressive,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Paris at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  