-- 
EU, Palestinians Criticize Israeli East Jerusalem Building Plans

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-10-16T13:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/eu-palestinians-criticize-israeli-east-jerusalem-building-plans.html
The European Union criticized
 Israel ’s plans to build more than 2,600 new homes in east
 Jerusalem , a project that Palestinians condemned.  “These initiatives run contrary to the current EU and
Quartet efforts to bring about the resumption of peace
negotiations,”  Catherine Ashton , the EU foreign policy chief,
said in a statement posted yesterday on her office’s website.
“I deplore the decision by the Israeli authorities to advance
the plan.”  The project at Givat Hamatos, north of Bethlehem, is the
latest of several construction plans that Palestinians are
fighting. The sites are located in parts of Jerusalem that
Israel annexed after capturing them from Jordan in the 1967
Middle East war. Palestinians consider east Jerusalem to be the
capital of a future state.  Palestinians condemned the Givat Hamatos project Oct. 14
after the Haaretz newspaper reported that Jerusalem municipal
authorities invited public review of the plans for 60 days, a
necessary step before authorizing construction. The Quartet, a
diplomatic group comprising the U.S., EU,  United Nations  and
Russia, has been trying to restart talks aimed at resolving the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said he won’t
stop construction in east Jerusalem, which he maintains should
be considered part of sovereign Israel, a position opposed by
the U.S. and most countries. He has also refused to renew a 10-
month construction freeze in the  West Bank .  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas says he won’t
return to negotiations with Israel unless construction in both
the West Bank and east Jerusalem is halted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  