-- 
Euro Declines as Germany Sees No Quick Resolution to Region’s Debt Turmoil

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-17T21:14:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/euro-nears-1-month-high-as-plan-takes-shape.html
The euro fell against the dollar,
following last week’s biggest advance in more than two years, as
Germany signaled that  Europe  may take longer to contain its
sovereign debt turmoil.  The dollar rose from a one-month low against the currencies
of major U.S. trading partners after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman spurred refuge demand when he said
“dreams” of an imminent resolution to the crisis aren’t likely
to be fulfilled at an Oct. 23 summit. Currencies tied to global
growth such as the Australian and Canadian dollars decreased
against the greenback as stocks and commodities fell.  “It’s the premise of what’s happening in Europe,” said
 Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New
York. “Higher-yielding currencies like the Canadian dollar and
Aussie tend to be a bit vulnerable in times of risk-off. There’s
still a back-and-forth.”  The euro dropped 1 percent to $1.3738 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time after rising to $1.3914, the highest level since Sept. 15.
It advanced 3.8 percent last week, the most since March 2009.
The shared European currency fell 1.5 percent to 105.55 yen
today after touching 107.68, the highest level since Sept. 9.
The dollar slid 0.5 percent to 76.83 yen.  The yen rallied from its lowest level in more than a month
against the euro and appreciated versus the dollar as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.9 percent and the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials slid 0.8 percent.  ‘Big Bazooka’  “There’s a little bit of risk-off that’s driving the
yen,” said  Mark McCormick , a foreign-exchange strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “A lot of it comes
down to Germany trying to manage everyone’s expectations. While
we could potentially avert a meltdown, we still aren’t likely to
get the big bazooka that we need to shore up all of Europe’s
banking problems.”  Canada ’s dollar fell 1.4 percent to C$1.0234 per greenback
as oil, the nation’s biggest export, dropped. Crude decreased 1
percent to $86.29 a barrel.  Australia’s currency may have trouble rising beyond its
200-day moving average against the  U.S. dollar , a point of
resistance, according to Citigroup Inc.  The Aussie has risen 5.1 percent so far this month, partly
erasing a 9.8 percent drop in September. It increased today to
as high as $1.0372, approaching the moving average of $1.0384,
before dropping 1.8 percent to $1.0157.  ‘Another Move Lower’  “Our sense is that this $1.0400 area is the level to fade
this rally for another move lower again,”  Tom Fitzpatrick ,
chief technical analyst at Citigroup in New York, wrote in a
note to clients. Resistance is a level where orders to sell a
currency may be clustered.  The South Korean won and  Taiwan dollar  were the best
performers against the dollar among the major currencies after
international funds added to holdings of Asian regional assets
to benefit from growth in those economies.  Global funds bought $1.5 billion more of Indonesian, South
Korean and Taiwanese shares than they sold last week, exchange
data show. The won rose 1.4 percent to 1,140.45 per dollar, and
 Taiwan ’s dollar appreciated 0.9 percent to 30.032.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced 0.8 percent to 77.21 on demand for
safety in the world’s main reserve currency. It fell earlier to
76.44, the lowest level since Sept. 16.  Germany ’s Stance  The euro decreased versus the dollar as Steffen Seibert,
the German chancellor’s chief spokesman, said at a news briefing
today in Berlin that Merkel has made it clear that “dreams that
are taking hold again now that with this package everything will
be solved and everything will be over on Monday won’t be able to
be fulfilled.”  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set the Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  Europe’s plan, which has yet to be made public, includes
writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50 percent, establishing
a backstop for banks and increasing the strength of the 440
billion-euro ($606 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility, people familiar with the matter said last week.  The euro’s rebound from its weakest levels since January is
in jeopardy as banks from UBS AG to Morgan Stanley say they see
money flowing out of the currency.  Foreigners were net sellers of European equities in the
past five weeks, according to Zurich-based UBS. Morgan Stanley
data show that investors have had a net short, or bearish,
position in the currency since September.  The euro has advanced 1.3 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies, trimming its loss
over the past six months to 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  