-- 
Texas Rangers Rout Detroit Tigers 15-5 to Reach Baseball’s World Series

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-16T04:25:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/texas-rangers-rout-detroit-tigers-15-5-to-reach-baseball-s-world-series.html
Nelson Cruz  hit a postseason record
sixth home run and Michael Young drove in five as the  Texas
Rangers  defeated the Detroit Tigers 15-5 to win their second
consecutive American League pennant and a spot in the World
Series.  The Rangers took the best-of-seven AL Championship Series
four games to two. They will meet the winner of the National
League Championship Series which goes to Game 6 tonight with the
St. Louis Cardinals up three games to two over the Milwaukee
Brewers.  “I couldn’t be prouder of this group of men who came
together this spring with a mission to win a world
championship,” said Nolan Ryan, president of the Rangers
organization.  Cruz, named the ALCS Most Valuable Player, blasted a two-
run homer in the seventh last night to give the Rangers a 15-4
advantage at his home park in Arlington, Texas. He has driven in
13 runs for another Major League Baseball postseason record.  “He’s going to do a lot of damage,”  Elvis Andrus  said of
his teammate Cruz in a televised interview. “He did it last
year.”  Last year, the Rangers beat the defending  World Series 
champion  New York Yankees  in six games in the ALCS and then lost
to the  San Francisco Giants  in five games.  ‘Hungry’ for Win  “We were hungry to get back,” Andrus said. “Now we have
another opportunity to get it all.”  The Tigers held a 2-0 lead after two innings on the first
of two home runs by Miguel Cabrera and Jhonny Peralta’s solo
homer.  The Rangers exploded in the third for nine runs as Michael
Young drove in four on two doubles,  Adrian Beltre  had a one-run
single, and  David Murphy  and Ian Kinsler each had two-run
singles. The Tigers needed four pitchers to get out of the
inning.  Detroit ’s Austin Jackson hit a two-run homer in the fifth
as the Tigers closed the gap to 9-4.  Kinsler scored on Josh Hamilton’s sacrifice fly in the
fifth for the Rangers, Beltre went home on Craig Gentry’s single
and Kinsler had a one-run single in the sixth. Young hit a home
run ahead of Cruz’s two-run homer in the seventh.  “We’re happy to be going to the World Series but we have a
lot of work to do,” Young said. “We’re happy but not
satisfied.”  The Rangers set franchise postseason records with 15 runs
and 17 hits.  “Everyone in the game know it’s not easy to get back to
this place,” manager Ron Washington said. “They had attitude,
they were committed. They believed in one another.”  Alexi Ogando got his second postseason win, allowing one
hit and striking out three in two innings. Detroit starter Max Scherzer gave up six runs on five hits in 2 1/3 innings.  The World Series begins Oct. 19.  “They’re the real deal,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland said
about the Rangers. “They’re talented and they go deep.  Texas  is
the team that should be representing the American League.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  