-- 
Gillard Growth Spurs Second-Worst Global Bonds: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-16T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/gillard-growth-revival-spurs-second-worst-global-bonds-australia-credit.html
Australian bonds are falling by the
most among developed nations outside of  Portugal  as signs the
South Pacific country’s economic rebound is strengthening drive
the steepest increase in inflation expectations since May.  Two-year bond yields climbed 42 basis points, or 0.42
percentage point, over the past month to 3.87 percent on Oct.
14. Only Portugal’s rates climbed more, surging 119 basis points
amid concern a possible Greek default would impose losses on the
creditors of other heavily-indebted European nations. Norway’s
two-year yield climbed 39 basis points.  Speculation that the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower
the developed world’s highest interest rates is fading after
reports this month showed the jobless rate fell in September for
the first time in six months, while business and  consumer
confidence  improved. Global stocks gained by the most in more
than two years last week after European leaders pledged to
support banks and U.S. employers added jobs for a 12th month.  “The data here doesn’t justify any cuts based on domestic
news and our view is the RBA will only cut if the worst outcome
emerges from Europe,” said Darren Langer, head of  portfolio
management  at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., where he helps
oversee A$15 billion in fixed income assets. “The U.S. will not
go into a double-dip recession and Europe will sort itself out
eventually.”  Debt Losses  Australian government debt lost 0.9 percent this month,
paring the gains that made the securities the developed world’s
best performers in the 12 months ended Sept. 30.  The nation’s bonds returned 9.6 percent over the past four
quarters, surpassing all 25 other markets tracked by
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes, as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
pledge to return the budget to surplus bolstered confidence
among fixed-income investors.  Benchmark 10-year government bond yields rose 19 basis
points to 4.44 percent last week and have advanced 42 since
Sept. 23, completing the biggest three-week advance since the
period ended Oct. 23, 2009.  Traders last week reduced to a two-month low bets that the
RBA will cut its benchmark rate from 4.75 percent.  Rates Bets  Futures contracts showed the cash rate will be at 4.33
percent by December on Oct. 13, the highest expectation since
Aug. 2, and up from as low as 3.47 percent on Aug. 9. Three of
21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict the RBA will
lower rates to 4.5 percent at the next policy meeting on Nov. 1,
with the rest expecting no change.  Australia ’s unemployment rate declined last month for the
first time since March as employers added double the workers
economists forecast, a report showed Oct. 13. The number of
people employed rose by 20,400 and the jobless rate fell to 5.2
percent from 5.3 percent, the statistics bureau said.  A National Australia Bank Ltd. survey of more than 400
companies released Oct. 11 showed Australian business confidence
strengthened last month by the most since January. A Westpac
Banking Corp. published the following day showed consumer
confidence rose for a second month. Retail sales rose more than
economists forecast for a second-straight month in August,
separate data showed Oct. 5.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer prices
will rise an average of 2.51 percent for the next five years, up
from 2011’s low of 2.37 percent on Oct. 4. Last week’s 10 basis-
point advance was the biggest since the five days to May 6.  “The generally better tone of domestic data has added to
the risk-on sentiment globally,” said  Joshua Williamson , a
senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “The market has
priced out some of its more extreme interest-rate expectations
for the next 12 months.”  Bank Recapitalization  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has left borrowing costs
unchanged for 11 months as policy makers wait to judge the
impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis on a domestic economy that
benefits from its commodity exports to  China  and  India . Stevens
signaled Oct. 4 that lower inflation would give the RBA more
scope to ease monetary policy “should that prove necessary.”  Bonds dropped after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  put recapitalization of the
region’s banks at the top of the priority list in a joint
declaration in Berlin this month as Greece edges closer to
default. Sarkozy said they would deliver a plan by the Group of
20 meeting on Nov. 3.  German Banks  German banks are preparing for losses of as much as 60
percent on their Greek holdings, three people with knowledge of
the matter, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private, said Oct. 13.  Perceptions of Australian corporate creditworthiness
improved for a second week.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 6.4 basis points
to 189 on Oct. 14 , the lowest since Sept. 19, according to CMA
prices. The index fell in back-to-back weeks for the first time
since April, the data show.  Contracts on QBE Insurance Group Ltd. fell the most of any
Australian firm last week, tumbling 73 basis points to 352,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate bonds instead of government debt shrank four basis
points to 246 on Oct. 14, the sharpest contraction in almost a
month, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. It
retreated from the highest level since August 2009, The spread
reached as wide as 433 in April 2009 amid the global credit
freeze sparked by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
the index data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default, and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  Aussie Surges  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, climbed 5.9 percent last week to $1.0340, the biggest
advance since February 2009. The currency reached $1.1081 on
July 27, the most since it was freely floated in 1983.  The MSCI All Country World Index of shares climbed 5.4
percent, the most since the week ended July 17, 2009.  A string of stronger-than-projected U.S. economic
statistics -- capped by the news on Oct. 7 of a 103,000 rise in
payrolls last month -- prompted economists at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Macroeconomic Advisers LLC to raise their
forecasts for third quarter growth to 2.5 percent from about 2
percent. That’s nearly double the second quarter’s 1.3 percent
rate and would be the fastest expansion in a year.  The U.S. manufacturing industry rebounded in September from
its lowest level since December 2009, with a gauge of sales
jumping to the highest since April, according to the National
Association of Credit Management’s monthly survey of 600
executives released Oct. 12.  “U.S. economic numbers continue to show strength, and
there’s also renewed optimism that the EU will provide a
definitive solution to the crisis in a few weeks time,” said
Jason Watts, National Australia Bank’s Sydney-based head of
credit trading. “We’ve seen a revisit of the risk-on trade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  