-- 
Military Force an Option Against Iran, U.S. Republican Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-10-17T10:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/military-force-an-option-against-iran-intelligence-chair-says.html
Military force shouldn’t be ruled
out as a response to an alleged Iranian assassination plot on
U.S. soil, the top House Republican on intelligence issues said.  “I don’t think you should take it off the table,”
Michigan Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of the House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, said yesterday on
ABC’s “This Week.” Rogers said other options include rallying
the international community against  Iran  or taking action
against Iranian operatives in Iraq.  Officials are considering what action to take following the
 Justice Department ’s Oct. 11 accusation that Iran sponsored a
plot to assassinate Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the U.S. The
conspiracy involved a secret Iranian military unit and a citizen
of the Islamic state with a U.S. passport, U.S. officials said.  President  Barack Obama  said this week that there were
“direct links” to Iran’s government, which has rejected the
allegation.  Two men were charged with conspiracy to use C-4 plastic
explosives to murder Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir and attack Saudi
installations in the U.S. Targets included “foreign government
facilities associated with Saudi Arabia and with another
country,” the U.S. said in a complaint filed in federal court
in  Manhattan .  Increased Economic Sanctions  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , the California Democrat who heads
the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she supports increased
economic sanctions including blacklists of any foreign country
or company that does business with Iran’s central bank.  United Nations Secretary General Ban ki-Moon acknowledged
receiving correspondence from Saudi Arabia, Iran and the U.S.
following the allegations of an assassination plot. Ban, who was
speaking today during a visit to the Swiss city of Bern, said he
referred the matter to the UN Security Council.  Without some discussions to force Iran to change its
policies, “We are on a collision course,” Feinstein said on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “If we want to avoid it, we
have to take action to avoid it.”  She rejected a call from retired U.S. General Jack Keane,
an architect of the troop surge in  Iraq , for the U.S. to engage
in covert operations to kill members of Iran’s Quds Force.
Feinstein said that, while Quds leaders were aware of the plot,
there’s no evidence that Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei,
the highest ranking religious and political authority in the
country, knew of it.  ‘Probably Would Escalate’  “It probably would escalate into a war, and the question
is: Do we want to go to war with Iran at this time?” Feinstein
said. “My judgment is no. We have our hands full with Iraq,
with  Afghanistan , with the deteriorating relationship with
 Pakistan .”  Feinstein said she had initial doubts before learning some
of the details learned by investigators.  “There should be no doubt, and the evidence is very
strong,” she said. “The FBI believes that the case is both
strong and good and will result in a conviction.”  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  rejected the U.S.
allegations. “Each day they try to campaign against Iran,”
Ahmadinejad said at a Tehran meeting yesterday, according to the
official  Islamic Republic News Agency .  Khamenei warned the U.S. yesterday that any action taken
will be met with a “firm” response.  “If U.S. officials are coming up with some ideas, they
should know that any inappropriate move, be it political or
security related, will be met with the Iranian nation’s firm
reaction,” he told supporters in the western Kermanshah
province, according to IRNA.  Sectarian Rifts  Iran says the Obama administration made up the allegations
to divert attention from unemployment, the Occupy Wall Street
movement and other economic problems in the U.S.  In an apparent reference to the U.S., Khamenei said today
that “enemies” are devising plots to fuel sectarian rifts
among Muslims in the  Middle East .  “We will not bow in the face of pressure,” Khamenei said
in a speech to a gathering of Iranians in the western city of
Paveh. Iran mustn’t “step back one inch in the face of enemies’
pressure. Any retreat will embolden them.”  The Sunni Muslim kingdom of  Saudi Arabia  and Iran, led by
Shiite Muslim clerics, are regional rivals. The U.S.
announcement of the alleged plot has led to an escalation of
tension between the two Gulf nations, the top producers in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal said on Oct. 13 that
the “dastardly act reflects the policies of Iran” and that his
country will hold Iran “accountable for any action taken.”  Rogue Nation  Senator  John McCain , the Arizona Republican who lost the
2008 presidential election to Democrat Obama, criticized the
administration’s handling of Iran, which McCain yesterday called
“a rogue nation.”  The administration’s “engagement with Iran has clearly
been a failure,” McCain said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  McCain said Obama should have done more when students
protested on the streets of Tehran in 2009. McCain called for
“severe sanctions” and said the U.S. should engage in “covert
activity” to undermine the current Iranian government.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a Republican
presidential candidate, said Obama is “absolutely clueless” in
his dealings with the Iranian government.  “Our goal should be the replacement of the Iranian
dictatorship,” Gingrich, from  Georgia , said on the CNN program.
“We have done nothing of consequence to systematically
undermine the regime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 