-- 
IndyCar Driver Dan Wheldon Dies of Injuries From 15-Car Crash in Las Vegas

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-17T05:03:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/indycar-driver-dan-wheldon-dies-of-injuries-from-15-car-crash-in-las-vegas.html
Dan Wheldon, who won his second
Indianapolis 500 title five months ago, died of injuries
suffered in yesterday’s 15-car crash that halted the  Las Vegas 
Indy 300 auto race. He was 33.  The Englishman’s car went airborne and struck part of the
fence outside Turn 2 on the 11th of 200 laps in the race.
Wheldon was transported by helicopter to University Hospital in
Las Vegas, where he was pronounced dead.  Other drivers and spectators were informed of Wheldon’s
death about two hours after the incident. IndyCar Chief
Executive Randy Bernard told reporters that Wheldon sustained
“unsurvivable injuries,” without being specific.  The race was canceled and Wheldon’s No. 77 was the only
number listed on the scoreboard at Las Vegas Motor Speedway,
where some drivers and crew members broke down in tears after
learning Wheldon had died. Wheldon won his second Indianapolis
500 title on May 29, with his first coming in 2005.  “I’m numb and speechless,” fellow driver Dario Franchitti, Wheldon’s former teammate and friend since the age
of 6, said at a news conference. “One minute you’re joking
around in driver intros and the next Dan’s gone.”  IndyCar racing features open-wheel cars in which drivers
top speeds of 220 mph (354 kph). Wheldon’s death is the first by
a driver on the IndyCar circuit since Paul Dana was killed in
2006 during a practice run ahead of a season-opening race in
Miami. Dale Earnhardt was the last driver to die during a top-
tier Nascar event, at the 2001 Daytona 500.  IndyCar Safety  Jeff Grange, the medical director at California Speedway
from 1995-2009, said IndyCar is “second to nobody” in ensuring
the sport is as safe as possible.  “In high-speed incidents, certain things like cervical
spine fractures or torn aortas are unsurvivable,” Grange, the
emergency medical services director at Loma Linda University
Medical Center, said in a telephone interview. “It’s certainly
a high-risk sport. We’ve continued to learn and make it better
and better to minimize tragedies, but I don’t think anything
will make it 100 percent safe.”  After receiving word of Wheldon’s death, 19 drivers
participated in a five-lap tribute, driving slowly around the
1.5-mile oval three-wide as crew members from the race teams
stood shoulder-to-shoulder along the pit row.  The crash involved 15 of the 34 cars at the rear of the
field in IndyCar’s season finale in Las Vegas.  “I could see within five laps people were starting to do
crazy stuff,” said Franchitti, who wasn’t involved in the
crash. “I love hard racing but that to me is not really what
it’s about.”  Chain Reaction  Contact on Turn 2 in the early stages of the race caused a
chain reaction of fiery collisions and Wheldon’s car was among
several that launched into the air after flying up and over
other cars. The track was left strewn with debris following the
crash, putting a stop to the race.  “I’ve never seen anything like it,” said driver Ryan Briscoe, who was ahead of the crash and drove through the
smoking wreckage as he came back around the track.  Wheldon had started at the rear of the pack in Las Vegas
and would have received a $5 million bonus if he’d won the race,
part of a promotion for the inaugural IndyCar World
Championships. He had moved into 24th place and couldn’t avoid
the cars wrecking in front of him at the time of the incident.  Wheldon, who was from Emberton,  England , and lived in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , is survived by his wife, Susie, and two
sons under the age of three. He had 16 victories in 134 IndyCar
series races, including his first Indy 500 win in 2005 with
Andretti Green racing.  ‘Infectious Personality’  “Dan brought such enthusiasm and passion to the sport not
often seen in motorsports,” Andretti Autosports said in a
statement. “We will remember Dan’s tremendous racing
accomplishments with our team as well his infectious
personality. Dan is one of IndyCar’s greatest champions.”  Wheldon in May won the 100th edition of the Indianapolis
500 when rookie J.R. Hildebrand struck a wall on the final
corner while in the lead. Wheldon was  photographed  the next day
kissing the bricks at the racetrack with the trophy behind him
and his infant son Sebastian sitting next to him.  “We put so much pressure on ourselves to win races and
championships, and it’s what we love to do. Days like today it
doesn’t matter,” Franchitti said yesterday. “I think everybody
in the IndyCar series considered Dan a friend. He was one of
those special, special people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  