-- 
Iran May Start Exporting Jet Fuel, Hopes for Gas Link to China, Media Say

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-10-16T12:51:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/iran-may-start-exporting-jet-fuel-hopes-for-gas-link-to-china-media-say.html
Iran  will soon start exporting
 aviation fuel  processed at its Bandar Abbas refinery in the
country’s south,  Fars  reported, citing an Oil Ministry official.  Several East Asian countries have shown interest in
supplies of Iranian  jet fuel , the state-run  news agency  cited
Deputy Oil Minister Alireza Zeighami as saying. He did not give
a date or identify potential buyers. “The jet fuel production
line has started in the Bandar Abbas oil refinery for the first
time,” and “initial steps” for exports have been taken, he
said.  Iran faces challenges in developing its energy resources
due to international sanctions over its nuclear program. The
U.S. and European governments accuse the country of seeking to
produce atomic weapons, while Iranian leaders say they want
nuclear power for domestic energy needs. The Persian Gulf nation
is the second-largest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, and its proven reserves of
natural gas rank second in size after  Russia ’s.  Iran says it is already self-sufficient in production of
gasoline. The country has exported 1.6 billion liters (422
million gallons) of refined oil products since the start of the
Iranian calendar year on March 21, the ministry’s news website
Shana  reported  yesterday, citing Jalil Salari, managing director
of the National Iranian Oil Refining & Distribution Co. Salari
attributed these exports to a decrease in domestic consumption
following cuts in energy subsidies in December, according to the
report.  Refining Priorities  Speaking today, the country’s oil minister, Rostam Qasemi,
said one of the ministry’s “priorities” is to convert Iran’s
crude to refined products, Shana  said  today. Qasemi also warned
that the country needs to sustain a “suitable” volume of oil
and gas output in the face of sanctions to avoid an economic
setback.  The government agreed in June 2010 to build a pipeline to
export 21.5 million cubic meters a day of gas to neighboring
 Pakistan . It hopes eventually to extend the link to China, Shana
reported on Oct. 14, citing Hossein Bidarmaghz, managing
director of National Iranian Gas Export Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  