-- 
Israeli Families Attempt to Block Palestinian Prisoner Exchange in Court

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-17T14:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/israeli-families-attempt-to-block-palestinian-prisoner-exchange-in-court.html
Israeli opponents of a planned
exchange of hundreds of Palestinian prisoners for a captive
Israeli soldier made a last-ditch legal attempt today to block
the deal.  Israel ’s High Court of Justice heard arguments to halt the
swap with the Islamic Hamas movement from lawyers representing
Israeli families whose relatives have been killed in Palestinian
attacks. The session was adjourned and a decision will be
announced later today, said court spokeswoman Ayelet Filo.  Barring a court injunction, Israel is expected to release
477 Palestinians tomorrow in exchange for Shalit, 25, who has
been held by Hamas since being captured more than five years
ago, Israel Prison Service spokeswoman Sivan Weizman said.
Another 550 Palestinian prisoners will be freed within the next
two months, according to the agreement. Hundreds of soldiers
were moved to the south yesterday to prepare for the exchange.  “Israelis generally support bringing Gilad Shalit home but
the people who oppose the deal have been hurt by terrorism and
are very passionate,” Efraim Kam, deputy director of  Tel Aviv 
University’s Institute for National Security Studies, said in an
interview. He said he expected the judges won’t block the
exchange.  Peace Talks  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Cabinet last week
approved the agreement, which comes amid U.S. attempts to revive
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks. Middle East envoy  Tony Blair 
has said the swap may facilitate efforts to restart negotiations
by creating a better atmosphere.  The agreement is supported by 79 percent of Israelis and
opposed by 14 percent, a poll published today by the Yediot
Aharonot newspaper showed. The telephone survey of 500 Israeli
adults conducted by the Tel Aviv-based Dahaf Public Opinion
Research Institute, had a margin of error of 4.4 percentage
points. Six percent had no opinion or declined to answer.  In Bern,  Switzerland ,  United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said at a news conference today that the prisoner
exchange “is very welcome.”  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  met with senior army
commanders yesterday to prepare for Shalit’s return and ensure
that the Palestinian prisoner release goes smoothly, his office
said in an e-mailed statement. Barak said that he anticipates
that Shalit will be freed tomorrow.  Prisoners Sent Abroad  Most of the prisoners expected to be released in the first
phase of the exchange have been brought to Israel’s maximum-
security Ketziot facility in the Negev desert, Weizman said. The
27 women among the detainees are being taken to Hasharon Prison
north of Tel Aviv.  Terms of the prisoner swap accord include sending about 40
of the Palestinian prisoners abroad. Others will be allowed to
return to their homes in the West Bank,  Gaza Strip  and east
 Jerusalem .  Among those due for release on a list made public by the
prison service are Walid Anajas, convicted for his involvement
in the 2002 bombing of the Moment Cafe in which 11 people were
killed, and Husam Badran, a Hamas commander responsible for the
2001 bombing of Tel Aviv’s Dolphinarium dance club in which 21
were killed.  Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip, is considered a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and European Union.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who controls
the West Bank, has refused to restart negotiations until Israel
halts settlement building and is instead pursuing statehood
recognition at the United Nations, a step that is popular in
Gaza and the  West Bank  and opposed by Israel and the U.S.  Shalit, who has both Israeli and French citizenship, was
abducted June 25, 2006, after Palestinian militants fired a
rocket-propelled grenade at the tank in which he was posted
outside Gaza. Two other Israeli soldiers were killed in the
cross-border raid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 