-- 
Issa Says Holder Not Telling All on ‘Fast and Furious’ Probe

-- B y   S u e   D e c k e r   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-16T15:34:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/issa-says-holder-not-telling-all-on-fast-and-furious-probe.html
Darrell Issa , chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said Attorney General
Eric Holder hasn’t revealed everything he knew about a program
that put illegal U.S. guns in the hands of Mexican criminals.  “He clearly knows more than he said,” Issa, a California
Republican, said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.
“We need to find all the places this should have been stopped
and wasn’t.”  House Republicans  and Democrats have fought over the role
of President Barack Obama’s administration in a law enforcement
program called Operation Fast and Furious that allowed illegal
U.S. gun purchases in an effort to link the weapons to Mexican
drug cartels. Issa, who said Holder provided misleading
testimony to his committee, subpoenaed the  Justice Department  on
Oct. 12.  Representative Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, said
Issa is engaging in a “witch hunt.”  “We have a situation where we’re not getting a responsible
and balanced investigation,” Cummings said on “Face the
Nation.” Issa has “come up with some very unfortunate
statements and then he goes in search of the facts,” Cummings
said.  Oct. 25 Deadline  The subpoena set an Oct. 25 deadline for the Justice
Department to produce 22 categories of documents, including
communications involving Holder and other top officials at the
department, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives, the White House and U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Arizona.  Cummings said the Inspector General is conducting an
independent investigation and it appears the program was limited
to the Phoenix office of the ATF. Kenneth Melson, who stepped
aside from his job running ATF, told Issa he never told Holder
about the program because he didn’t know either, Cummings said.  “The supervisors in the Phoenix office never communicated
with people higher up,” Cummings said. Critics “are accusing
the highest law enforcement officer of the land of being an
accessory to murder.”  Holder said in an Oct. 7 letter to lawmakers that his
testimony that he didn’t recall knowing about the program until
public controversy about it earlier this year was “truthful and
accurate.”  Two of about 2,000 guns that ATF allowed to be carried away
were found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S.
Border Patrol agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a
report released in June by Issa and Senator Chuck Grassley of
 Iowa , the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee.  Issa said there are indications there may have been a third
weapon involved in the shooting, and his committee is trying to
learn more.  “I’m not accusing anyone of a criminal cover-up but we
have a real obligation to follow this,” Issa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 