-- 
Jets, Submarines Lead Korea Push to Triple Defense Exports

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-10-17T08:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/jets-submarines-lead-south-korea-push-to-triple-defense-exports.html
Armored vehicles, trainer jets and
weapons will be on display this week at  South Korea ’s biggest
aerospace and defense exhibition, as the nation works to triple
annual military exports by the end of the decade.  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. will promote
submarines that are key to South Korea’s biggest defense-export
deal, while Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. will display its
T-50 trainer jet. The country plans to boost military exports to
$4 billion a year by 2020 as it challenges contractors like
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and Alenia Aermacchi SpA in  Southeast Asia , the
 Middle East  and Eastern Europe.  “The European and American defense industries are facing
increased competition from players like South Korea that have
emerged in the last 10 to 15 years,” said Tim Huxley, executive
director of International Institute for Strategic Studies  Asia 
in Singapore. The Korean defense sector “has developed
competences in a number of areas such as armored vehicles, naval
vessels and increasingly in aircraft,” he said.  The Seoul event, which officially opens tomorrow, will have
95 aircraft and other military equipment on display. That
includes overseas models such as  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s F-15C fighter, as
South Korea moves toward ordering new planes for its  air force .  The show organizer, the  Korea Aerospace Industries
Association , predicts $500 million in deals, up from $340
million the last time the event was held in 2009. About 90
defense officials from nine countries will attend, the group
said in an e-mail statement.  “South Korea is aiming to compete in niche markets for
defense orders,” Yoon Cha Young, the head of the exhibition,
said in an interview. “The event will provide an opportunity
for companies to showcase their products.”  Indonesia Deal  South Korea is developing its own line of products to
reduce its dependency on the U.S. on Western countries and to
boost overseas earnings.  The government is targeting arms exports of $1.6 billion
this year, an increase from $1.2 billion in 2010. The country
aims to boost annual weapons sales overseas to $4 billion and
expand total production to $10 billion in 2020, creating as many
as 50,000 jobs, according to the presidential office.  Submarine Deal  The country is close to winning its biggest overseas
defense order. Seoul-based  Daewoo Shipbuilding  is in discussions
with Indonesia to build three 1,400-ton submarines worth about
1.2 trillion won ($1 billion).  In May, the Southeast Asian country also agreed to buy 16
South Korean  T-50 trainer jets  for $400 million, the first sale
of the aircraft overseas. Korea Aerospace will deliver them by
2013.  Doosan Group, which builds armored vehicles at its Doosan
DST unit, also signed a memorandum of understanding last month
to develop 22 tanks under a joint production program with
Indonesia’s PT Pindad, according to the Indonesian government.
PT Palindo and Daewoo Logistics Corp. separately signed an
agreement to develop warships, the government said.  Korea Aerospace, the country’s only planemaker, developed
the T-50 trainer together with  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and may
sell it to the U.S. Air Force. The company is also developing
the  KUH-Surion  helicopter to sell overseas under a venture with
Eurocopter, and it plans to export the FA-10 jet fighter, which
goes into production next year. The fighter is based on the
T-50.  Fighter Jets  “The development of fighter jets is a challenging project
but I think there is a gap,” Huxley said. “A number of
developing countries’ air forces wish to re-equip but existing
western projects are very expensive. There is a market for a
relatively inexpensive but sophisticated combat aircraft.”  The Sacheon, South Korea-based company has already sold its
 KT-1  propeller training aircraft to  Indonesia  and  Turkey .  The planemaker announced today a provisional agreement to
supply $600 million of parts for Airbus SAS A320 planes. Korea
Aerospace gained 13 percent, the biggest rise since it started
trading shares on June 30, to close at 38,250 won in Seoul
trading. Daewoo Shipbuilding, the world’s third-largest
shipyard, climbed 1.5 percent.  The shipbuilder, the first South Korean company to make
submarines, is also bidding to supply vessels to the Canadian
Navy and Coast Guard. The company teamed up with Upper Lakes
Group Inc., a Toronto-based shipyard, and SNC-Lavalin Group Inc.
in July to complete for a C$35 billion ($34.4 billion) deal.  Not Big Enough  “We are looking at exporting more of our naval products
because the local market isn’t big enough,” Daewoo
Shipbuilding, which also makes commercial vessels, said in an e-
mailed response to Bloomberg News. “We are putting all efforts
to increase exports to increase the usage of our facilities.”  Daewoo Shipbuilding’s first submarine, delivered in 1994,
was built using technology from  Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft
GmbH , part of ThyssenKrupp. Almost two decades later, the
shipbuilder may beat German, French and Russian bids for the
Indonesian order. Daewoo and Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., owner
of the world’s biggest shipyard in Ulsan, South Korea, build
submarines and warships for the navy.  South Korea’s military will still look to Lockheed Martin,
Boeing and other major contractors to cope with regional
threats, primarily from  North Korea .  Kim Jong Il ’s regime
shelled a South Korean island in November, killing four people,
and is also blamed for the torpedoing of a South Korean warship
in March 2010 that claimed the lives of 46 sailors. The
peninsula has technically been in a state of war since the
1950-53 Korean war ended in a cease-fire, not a peace treaty.  Jet Fighter Tender  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government may issue a tender for
about 60 jet fighters in the first quarter of next year, Boeing
said in June, adding that it may propose its  F-15 Silent Eagle 
fighter for the contract.  South Korea, which ordered 61 F-15Ks from Boeing in 2002
and 2008, is aiming to become the world’s seventh-largest arms
exporter. The Asian nation raised $1.18 billion in overseas
sales last year, ranking it 18th-biggest, according to the
Defense Acquisition Program Administration.  “The best case scenario is that South Korea moves beyond
the very limited niche achieved by all the other countries that
went down this path and becomes a world class second-tier
aerospace producer, like  Italy ,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice
president of the Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based aviation
consulting firm. “But that would take a huge increase in
research and development money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Sabine Pirone in  London  at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  