-- 
Kinder Morgan to Buy El Paso for $21 Billion in Cash, Stock

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-10-17T20:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/kinder-to-buy-el-paso-for-21-1-billion-making-biggest-u-s-pipe-company.html
Kinder Morgan  Inc.’s agreement to
buy  El Paso Corp. (EP)  for $21.1 billion, the  energy industry ’s
biggest transaction in more than a year, would create the
largest natural-gas pipeline network in the U.S.  The cash and stock offer is valued at $26.87 per El Paso
share, or 37 percent more than the Oct. 14 closing price,
Houston-based Kinder Morgan said in a statement yesterday. The
combined company would have 67,000 miles (107,000 kilometers) of
gas lines and eclipse  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  as the
biggest U.S. pipeline operator.  The transaction strengthens Kinder Morgan’s position as a
major player in the U.S. gas industry, providing the
infrastructure to transport growing production from new fields
to new markets. Chief Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  is making
a bet that the need for pipelines will continue to grow, said
Bill Herbert, an analyst at Simmons & Co. International in
Houston.  “Rich Kinder continues to make history by shaping and
redefining the North American energy landscape,” Herbert said.
“And he is, once again, likely making the wise bet.”  Kinder, 66, will be chairman and CEO of the combined
company. The acquisition, once closed, would create immediate
 shareholder value  because of its  cash flow , he said in a
statement yesterday.  Kinder Morgan rose 4.8 percent to $28.19 at the close in
 New York . El Paso climbed 25 percent, the biggest gain in nine
years, to $24.45.  Barclays Loan  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to lend Kinder Morgan the entire $11.5
billion cash portion of the bid, the statement said. Kinder
Morgan’s current debt is held by its Kinder Morgan Kansas
subsidiary and is currently rated “BB” by  Standard & Poor’s ,
two notches below investment grade.  The total value of the acquisition, including debt assumed
from Houston-based El Paso, is $37.8 billion, Kinder Morgan said
in a document prepared for investors.  The acquisition is the largest ever proposed of a pipeline
company, surpassing the 2007 leveraged buyout of Kinder Morgan
itself by a group including Kinder and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
If completed, it will be the ninth-largest takeover in the
global energy industry and the biggest in more than a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kinder Morgan said it will try to sell El Paso’s
exploration and production business.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and
Barclays are advising Kinder Morgan on the effort, which may
reap $6 billion or more, said a person with knowledge of the
matter.  El Paso had announced in May that it would spin off the
unit to its shareholders. As a stand-alone company, the
business, known as EP Energy Corp., had $374 million of net
income in 2010, El Paso said in an August regulatory filing.  Offer Details  For each El Paso share, Kinder Morgan is offering $14.65 in
cash, 0.4187 share of Kinder Morgan, and 0.64 Kinder Morgan
warrant, which allows the holder to buy a Kinder Morgan share at
$40 within the next five years, the statement said.  The takeover values El Paso at about 13 times the last 12
months’ earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $2.67 billion, according to Bloomberg data. That
compares with the 14 times Ebitda that Dallas-based  Energy
Transfer Equity LP (ETE)  agreed in July to pay for  Southern Union Co. (SUG) ,
based in Houston, and the 27 times Ebitda that Richard Kinder
and his co-investors paid to take his company private in 2007,
the data show.  Growing Networks  Pipeline companies have been expanding their networks over
the last few years to move growing U.S. production of natural
gas, said Dan Spears, a  fund manager  at Swank Capital LLC in
 Dallas . More pipelines are needed to move gas to new markets,
particularly for power generation, and to accommodate supplies
from new gas fields such as the Marcellus Shale, Spears said.  Energy Transfer’s $5.1 billion bid for Southern Union is
one such effort to gain access to new markets in Florida and the
U.S. Midwest.  The El Paso acquisition will establish Kinder Morgan “as
the pre-eminent pipeline company in the United States,” and
will provide operational savings and increased cash flows,
 Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview yesterday. Bern said she
owns units in  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , an associated
master limited partnership.  Kinder approached El Paso CEO Douglas Foshee at the end of
August with a takeover proposal, Joe Hollier, a spokesman for
Kinder Morgan, said in an e-mail. That was about three months
after Foshee announced the plan to spin off El Paso’s
exploration and production assets.  Billionaire Investor  Two prominent shareholder activists may have profited from
the El Paso transaction. Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  held
about 58.3 million shares as of Aug. 5, or about 7.6 percent of
the company’s stock, according to a regulatory filing. That made
him the company’s largest shareholder, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Barry Rosenstein’s Jana Partners LLC held 24.2 million
shares as of June 30, the data show.  El Paso didn’t seek competing bids for the company because
it wanted to preserve its spinoff option in case the merger
talks collapsed, a person with knowledge of the talks said.
Under U.S. tax rules, holding discussions with potential buyers
prior to a spinoff might imperil the tax benefits of the
transaction if the division is later acquired.  Richard Kinder formed Kinder Morgan after leaving Enron
Corp. before the company went bankrupt in 2001.  In 2007, Kinder Morgan Inc. went private in a transaction
valued at $22 billion. Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP remained
publicly traded. Kinder took the parent company public again
with an IPO in February for 13 percent of its shares, which
raised $2.9 billion.  Fourth-Largest Company  Kinder Morgan and El Paso said they expect their deal to
close in the second quarter of 2012, creating the fourth-largest
energy company in North America.  “This once in a lifetime transaction is a win-win
opportunity for both companies,” Kinder said.  Evercore and Barclays served as financial advisers for
Kinder Morgan; Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and Bracewell &
Giuliani LLP acted as legal advisers.  Morgan Stanley acted as financial adviser for El Paso;
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was advising El Paso on its previous
spinoff. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz was El Paso’s legal
adviser.  Enterprise Products, which will become the second-largest
U.S. pipeline operator after the transaction closes, has about
50,000 miles of pipeline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  