-- 
Kodak Licenses Laser-Projection Patents to Imax to Add Cash

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-10-17T20:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/kodak-licenses-movie-projection-patents-to-imax-as-solvency-issues-mount.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  agreed to provide
laser-projection technology to  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , bolstering revenue as
the unprofitable 131-year-old camera company seeks to stave off
bankruptcy.  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , will receive an
upfront payment of more than $10 million, a milestone payment
and ongoing royalties, said a person with knowledge of the
matter. Imax gains technology letting it expand the use of
digital projection on its big-screen theaters, the Mississauga,
Ontario-based company said yesterday in a statement.  The 10-year deal helps Kodak narrow a cash shortfall and
advances a goal of generating $250 million to $350 million in
revenue this year from licensing intellectual property. The
company said on Sept. 30 that it has “no intention” of filing
for bankruptcy.  “This is the ordinary course of business and I think, if
anything, it demonstrates that they have intellectual property
other than the image capture and printing side,” said  Mark
Kaufman , an analyst at Rafferty Capital Markets in New York.  The cash will be used for general corporate purposes, said
Gerard Meuchner, a spokesman for Eastman Kodak. He declined to
disclose terms.  Digital Patents  Kodak rose 4.8 percent to $1.30 at the close in New York.
The shares have tumbled 76 percent this year.  Imax fell 4.3 percent to $16.64 and  RealD Inc. (RLD) , a maker of
competing projection technology, declined 6.7 percent to $10.07.  Kodak put a separate set of digital-imaging patents valued
at an estimated $3 billion up for sale in July. The company is
facing pressure from its bondholders to use cash from asset
sales to pay down debt, people familiar with the situation said
last week. Some bondholders have met with bankruptcy lawyers and
restructuring advisers to help ensure they are paid, the people
said.  The Kodak technology will enhance the brightness of digital
projection, Imax Chief Executive Officer  Rich Gelfond  said. This
will enable Imax to display pictures using digital images on its
screens larger than 80 feet (24 meters) instead of being
dependent on 70mm film, as well as in dome theaters, Imax said.
The technology is expected to debut by the second half of 2013,
the company said.  “The Eastman Kodak technology helps present a really
bright image,” Gelfond said in a telephone interview. “The
cost comes down and enables this to happen.”  Kodak’s Technology  Kodak engineers will work with Imax employees during the
next 18 months to bring the technology to Imax theaters, the
company said. Kodak’s technology is expected to illuminate
screens as large as 100 feet and dome theaters with a brightness
and clarity not currently available, Imax said.  Kodak’s operations used $847 million in cash during the
first half of this year, company filings show. At the end of the
second quarter, Kodak had $957 million in cash and near-cash
items.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  