-- 
Obama to Push for Plan to Rehire Teachers, Firefighters, Police

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/obama-to-push-for-rehiring-teachers-firefighters-police-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  will call on
Congress this week to send $35 billion to communities to rehire
teachers, firefighters and police, in the first stage of his
strategy to get some parts of his jobs plan enacted, White House
spokesman  Josh Earnest  said yesterday.  “It’s the president’s view that they should take up first
the proposal that’s included in the American Jobs Act to help
communities rehire teachers, police officers and firefighters,”
Earnest said on a conference call with reporters previewing the
president’s bus trip to  North Carolina  and  Virginia  Oct. 17 to
Oct. 19. “That’s where he believes the process should get
started and he believes that process should start this week.”  The Senate blocked the $447 billion comprehensive package
last week. Obama is blaming Republicans for lacking a plan and
blocking progress.  Earnest rejected the notion that the trip is politically
motivated, saying “there’s no specific reason” why the
president would “target” House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ’s
home state of Virginia.  If Cantor decides to support the plan because of the
president’s appeal to voters in his state then “that would be
an important priority of the trip accomplished,” Earnest said
on the call. Earnest said since the trip is considered official
business, no part of it is being paid for by his re-election
campaign.  $35 Billion  Earnest said the $35 billion in assistance to states and
communities would “support nearly 400,000 educator jobs
nationwide in addition to first responders.” He said that would
translate into more than $900 million for North Carolina and
would support 13,400 jobs across that state.  In his weekly radio and Internet address the president said
that he would give Republicans who control the House “another
chance” to approve his jobs plan, which he has said could be
brought to Congress piecemeal after the Senate blocked
consideration of the full plan on Oct. 11.  Obama said the plan, which includes spending on
infrastructure, tax cuts for small businesses and aid to states,
would “give the economy a jumpstart and lead to nearly 2
million new jobs.”  Obama is facing a re-election year with unemployment at 9.1
percent and is looking for ways to stimulate job growth. He is
taking his message across the nation, seeking to make the case
to middle class voters that he represents their interests.  When asked about the president’s message to protesters
involved in the Occupy Wall Street movement, Earnest said the
president will “continue to acknowledge the frustration that he
himself shares about the need for  Washington  to do more to
support our economic recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  