-- 
U.K. Mobile-Phone Purchases to Reach $30.5 Billion by 2021, Barclays Says

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-10-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/mobile-purchases-to-reach-30-5-billion-by-2021-barclays-says.html
British consumers will spend 19.3
billion pounds ($30.5 billion) by 2021 on purchases using their
mobile phones as technology advances and more people have
smartphones, Barclays Corporate estimated.  The figure will rise from 1.3 billion pounds now,
encouraged by systems such as Near Field Communications and
faster mobile data transmission, Barclays Corporate, a unit of
London-based banking group  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said in a report. Food
and groceries are the biggest category, with mobile sales of
almost 300 million pounds this year, according to the report.  “With little new shop space coming into play, the real
growth opportunities lie on the virtual high street,”  Richard
Lowe , Head of Retail and Wholesale at Barclays Corporate, said
in the statement. “Those retailers which are prepared to invest
will be at a significant advantage to the competition.”  Mobile commerce will grow by 55 percent over the next five
years, according to Barclays. It said just over half of shoppers
already use their mobiles at some stage of purchasing.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and other wireless operators said in
June they had agreed to create a common platform for mobile
payment systems to speed up the development of additional
services in the U.K.  Vodafone,  Telefonica SA (TEF) , and Everything Everywhere, the
partnership between  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and Deutsche Telekom AG,
will form a joint venture to help banks and advertisers access
the service, which will let people buy items from groceries to
clothes with a swipe of their smartphone, they said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  