-- 
Protests Show Wall Street Will Be a Campaign Issue, Axelrod Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/occupy-wall-street-shows-u-s-wants-a-fair-shake-axelrod-says.html
Occupy  Wall Street  demonstrations
that started in  New York  show Americans want a “financial
system that works” and don’t want new banking rules overturned,
a chief campaign strategist for President Barack Obama said.  “I don’t think any American is impressed when they see
Governor Romney and all the Republican candidates say the first
thing they’d do is roll back Wall Street reforms and go back to
where we were before the crisis and let Wall Street write its
own rules,” David Axelrod said in an interview on ABC’s “This
Week” program. “That will be an issue in this campaign.”  Backers of the movement say they represent “the 99
percent,” a nod to Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz ’s study showing the top 1 percent of Americans control
40 percent of U.S. wealth.  Obama said yesterday at an event dedicating a memorial to
Martin Luther King Jr. that if the civil rights leader were
alive today he would say that “the unemployed worker can
rightly challenge the excesses of Wall Street without demonizing
all who work there.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , who described anti-Wall
Street demonstrators as “growing mobs” earlier this month,
said yesterday the increasing frustration in the U.S. is
warranted. “Too many people are out of work,” the Virginia
Republican said on “Fox News Sunday.”  “Where I’m most concerned, is we have elected leaders in
this town who frankly are joining in an effort to blame others
rather than focusing on the policies that have brought about the
current situation,” Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said of the
anti-Wall Street protests.  In New York, participants marched past a  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  branch Oct. 15 and urged clients to close accounts. At least
6,000 gathered later in Times Square, the organizers estimated.
 Hong Kong , Sydney, Toronto and other cities also saw protests,
which yesterday turned violent in  Rome , in what organizers
called a “global day of action against Wall Street greed.” The
Occupy Wall Street protest has spread to U.S. cities including
Boston, Philadelphia and  San Francisco .  Axelrod also criticized Republican presidential candidate
Mitt Romney for shifting his positions on issues and said the
fund-raising leads held by Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor, and Texas Governor Rick Perry don’t guarantee they
will be the last candidates standing at the end of the 2012
Republican primary season.  “This is a funny year, so I don’t know” who the final
candidates are likely to be, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington
at   abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  