-- 
Oil Gains After Europe Pledges Debt Strategy; Bullish Bets Rise

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-10-17T05:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/oil-futures-open-68-cents-higher-in-new-york-extending-last-week-s-gains.html
Oil extended gains from the highest
close in almost a month after European leaders pledged to
deliver a plan to keep their debt crisis from leading to
recession and sapping demand for fuel.  Futures rose as much as 1.1 percent, adding to last week’s
4.6 percent climb, after Group of 20 finance ministers and
central banks set an Oct. 23 deadline for a plan to avoid a
Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion.  China  may say
tomorrow its economy grew more than 9 percent last quarter.  Oil
prices  are being driven by “bear fatigue” and may drop in the
first half of 2012, according to Morgan Stanley.  “It does look as if that extremely pessimistic view that
the world was heading into recession, if not depression, is now
changing and the overall investment view is what we’re looking
at is a low-growth environment,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief
market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. in
Sydney. “Confirmation of the growth story in China will be
important.”  Crude for November delivery gained as much as 91 cents to
$87.71 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $87.06 at 1:44 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract settled at $86.80 on Oct. 14, the highest close since
Sept. 20. Prices are down 4.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement climbed 2 cents to
$112.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. Front-month futures rose 7.8 percent last week.  Narrowing Spread  The spread between December West Texas and Brent oil was at
$25.02 a barrel today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price difference narrowed from $27.88 on Oct. 14 as the
London-traded future for November expired.  Crude surged on Oct. 14 after U.S. retail sales climbed 1.1
percent in September, the most since February, according to the
Commerce Department in  Washington . The median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.7 percent rise
in purchases last month.  Hedge funds  raised bullish oil bets by 7.8 percent in the
week ended Oct. 11, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on Oct. 14. Net-long
positions betting on rising prices in West Texas Intermediate
oil held by hedge funds, commodity pools and commodity-trading
advisers, in futures and options combined increased 11,389 to
157,693.  Important Juncture  The increase “may be important at this juncture given that
prices appear to be clawing their way up from multi-month lows
made earlier this month,” said Tom Pawlicki, analyst at MF
Global in a report today.  Crude may extend its rally in  New York  until futures
approach long-term technical resistance at $89.84 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the 50 percent
Fibonacci retracement of the drop to $32.40 in December 2008
from a record high of $147.27 in July that year. Investors tend
to buy contracts before prices reach chart-resistance levels.  Morgan Stanley forecasts lower oil prices through the first
half of 2012 amid “limited inventory draws” for crude and no
immediate resolution to Europe’s debt crisis, the bank said in
an Oct. 16 research note.  Libya’s Arabian Gulf Oil Co. will pump crude at its full
capacity of about 425,000 barrels a day by February after it
resumes production at some fields and boosts output at others,
Yousef Gherryo, a marketing manager at the company, said
yesterday in Benghazi.  Light, Sweet Crude  Fighting in  Libya  reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content. The country’s
output fell to 45,000 barrels a day in August, according to
Bloomberg estimates. The North African nation pumped 100,000
barrels a day last month.  Investors will be watching China’s demand for oil. Gross
domestic product in the nation, the world’s second-biggest
consumer of crude, increased 9.3 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 22
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the ninth
straight quarter of expansion above 9 percent and follow a 9.5
percent gain in the previous three months in China, the second
biggest crude-consuming nation behind the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  