-- 
Hollande Secures France’s Socialist Party Nomination to Challenge Sarkozy

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-16T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/hollande-wins-french-socialist-nomination-to-challenge-sarkozy.html
Francois Hollande , 57, won the
 Socialist Party  nomination to challenge President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the May 2012 French presidential elections.  Hollande, a  lawmaker  and a local council president, beat
 Martine Aubry , 61, a former Labor Minister, with more than 57
percent of the vote yesterday, the party said on its website
after a partial count. Aubry conceded defeat.  “Hollande’s victory is a big one; he has won by large
numbers in an election that was opened to millions of voters,”
said Bruno Cautres, an analyst at Cevipof, a political research
center in Paris. “He’ll have a few weeks to bank on this
victory before Sarkozy announces his candidacy. The weeks to
come will force him to clarify plans, to sharpen his profile.”  Hollande, who has never held a ministerial position, will
be challenging Sarkozy as  Europe  struggles to contain a
sovereign debt crisis that is threatening to cap global economic
growth and increase unemployment. A poll this month showed
Sarkozy would trail Hollande in the first round of next year’s
presidential vote. Sarkozy would get 21 percent at the April
2012 ballot compared with 32 percent for Hollande, according to
an Ipsos survey for Radio France and  Le Monde  newspaper.  “This is a considerable democratic success,” Hollande
said in a  speech  at the party’s Paris headquarters, citing the
nearly three million voters who participated.  He said the broad victory gave him “legitimacy” to
prepare for the 2012 vote. Hollande garnered more that 1.5
million votes across the country, in overseas territories and
from French expatriates.  Centrist Leanings  The Socialist Party’s candidate won its last presidential
vote in 1988 when  Francois Mitterrand  was elected.  Sarkozy, who may declare  his intention to run  in February
according to Le Figaro newspaper, is increasing travels across
France to meet voters and has intensified criticism of Socialist
Party programs, saying they include too much spending. He said
France may lose its AAA rating if the Socialists win.  “The public finance constraint is going to be extremely
binding on what the Socialists plausibly can do and I fear that
they will simply not be able to realize many of their cherished
ambitions,” Ian Begg, a professor at the  European Institute  of
the  London School  of Economics, told Bloomberg Television.  Hollande, who is more of a centrist figure in the Socialist
Party than Aubry -- the architect of the 35-hour work week --
pledged to unify the various segments of the party, ranging from
liberal to the hard left.  Capping Deficits  “Hollande would be regarded by the markets as a safer pair
of hands, not least because Aubry is associated with the 35-hour
work week, which business is very hostile to, and would see her
as being more inclined to favor leftier policies,” Begg said.  Aubry, who conceded defeat less than two hours after the
voting stations closed, said, “I will throw in all my energy
and my strength, and behind me all the Socialists, so that in
seven months he’ll be the new president.”  Hollande was supported by all candidates defeated in the
first round of the primaries, including his former partner and
the mother of his four children,  Segolene Royal , the party’s
candidate in the 2007 presidential vote, who lost to Sarkozy.  Hollande’s platform , which he has not unveiled, may include
a tax overhaul that would boost levies on companies delivering
high dividends. It would lower the pressure on small-and-mid-
sized companies. Hollande has pledged to lower the  budget
deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2013 and has
promised a balanced budget in 2017. He supports putting in place
laws for deficits-reduction targets.  ‘The Change’  Sarkozy’s 2010 pension reform, increasing the minimum
retirement age to 62 from 60, will be changed, Hollande said.  Workers who have 41 years of pension-system contributions
could retire at 60, he said. Hollande said last week the state
must take greater control of banks and that they should be under
state guardianship if they receive government aid. He also said
that he sees a Greek default before the end of the year.  The Socialist’s  common platform  he signed in April, dubbed
“The Change,” includes the creation of a public investment
bank, the construction of 150,000 public-housing units, changes
in corporate taxes, 300,000 state-aide jobs for the young,
legalization of same-sex marriage and adoption.  Hollande has said he will seek cut backs on the proportion
of electricity  France  gets from nuclear power to 50 percent by
2025 from 75 percent now, adding that he will halt plans to
build a second EPR reactor in Penly while finishing the building
of the first third-generation reactor in Flamanville.  Elite Schooling  Born in the western town of Rouen to a doctor and a social
worker, Hollande is the president of the county council of
Correze, a rural region of central France. He studied economics
at HEC, one the country’s top-rated business schools, and law at
Paris University. He’s also a graduate of the  Ecole Nationale
d’Administration , the elite school for civil servants.  Hollande, who takes pride in being a lawmaker from a
remote part of France, goes around Paris on his scooter, his
style markedly different from Sarkozy, who was once dubbed
“President Bling-Bling.”  Hollande was the mayor of  Tulle , a town of 16,000
inhabitants in rural France, from 2001 to 2008 and the Socialist
Party chief from 1997 to 2008. While he has never held a
government position, he worked at the beginning of his career in
1981 as an economic adviser to President Mitterrand. Aubry had
criticized his lack of experience during the primaries.  Hollande backed the former head of the European Union
Commission Jacques Delors, Aubry’s father, when he envisaged
running for French president before dropping the plan.  ‘French Dream’  In 2002, Hollande worked closely with Lionel Jospin, the
then Prime Minister, who sought also the top job, before being
eliminated in the first round. In 2005, Hollande voted in favor
of the EU constitution, unlike a majority of French voters and
some members of his party.  At a meeting to celebrate his victory yesterday, Hollande
was accompanied by his companion Valerie Trierweiler, a
journalist for Direct 8 cable television and Paris Match weekly
magazine.  Hollande said his challenge will be to bring France back to
its fundamental values of “Liberte, Egalite, Fraternite.”  “It’s the French Dream I want to reawaken in people,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  