-- 
Olympus Payments Should Be Probed, PWC Report Ordered by Ousted CEO Says

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-10-17T08:22:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/olympus-auditor-called-for-probe-into-acquisition-payments-report-shows.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  may face regulatory
and legal scrutiny because of payments made to advisers in a
2008 transaction, according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers report
commissioned by ousted president Michael C. Woodford.  Potential offenses include false accounting, financial
assistance and breaches of duties by the board, according to an
Oct. 11 report that Woodford provided to Bloomberg News.
Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa said at an Oct. 14 press conference
that the board fired Woodford, a 30-year veteran of the Japanese
company, because he “wouldn’t listen” to warnings from
Kikukawa. The British executive, who is now back in the U.K.,
said he was fired after he challenged the transactions.  “The whole board is contaminated and that company needs to
be cleaned up,” Woodford said in an interview yesterday. “The
whole board have had discussions and vote unanimously and no one
asks anything. It’s just complete and utter obedience to
Kikukawa.”  Kikukawa didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment and
the company declined to make him available.  $687 Million Fee  Olympus, a maker of cameras and medical equipment, paid
$687 million to two advisory companies related to its purchase
of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008, the report said. The fees were more
than a third of the $2 billion purchase price, according to the
report. One of the advisers, Cayman Islands-incorporated AXAM
Investments Ltd., was removed from the local registry in June
2010 for non-payment of license fees, according to the report.  Merger and acquisition advisory fees depend on individual
deals and usually range from 1 percent to 5 percent, two people
with knowledge of such deals said, declining to be named because
they weren’t authorized to talk to the media.  “The eventual cost of the Transaction to Olympus is
extremely significant and is as a result of a number of actions
taken by management which are questionable and which give cause
for concern,” the report says. “We were unable to confirm that
there has been improper conduct, however, given the sums of
money involved and some of the unusual decisions that have been
made it cannot be ruled out.”  Olympus Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori said the
report “is based on speculation,” when asked about it in a
telephone interview yesterday. Further calls to Mori today
weren’t answered.  Shares Plunge  Olympus has lost more than $3 billion in market
capitalization over the last two trading sessions. The stock
plunged 24 percent, the most since at least 1974, to 1,555 yen
as of the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo today. The stock fell
18 percent on Friday when the company fired Woodford.  “It is truly extraordinary and frankly unbelievable that
Olympus, a major Nikkei listed public company, made a series of
payments approaching USD 700 million in fees to a company in the
 Cayman Islands  whose ultimate ownership is still unknown to us,
preventing the auditors from verifying that no related parties
were involved,” Woodford wrote to Kikukawa in an Oct. 11
letter. “In putting the company first, the honorable way
forward would be for you and Mori-san to face the consequences
of what has taken place, which is a shameful saga by any stretch
of the imagination.”  PricewaterhouseCoopers spokesman Derek Nash said he “could
neither confirm or deny” that the firm had done any work for
Olympus.  Six Letters  Woodford showed Bloomberg News six letters he says he wrote
to Kikukawa and the board questioning the payments in the weeks
before he was fired. The advisers negotiated an increase in
completion fees to approximately $682 million from $189 million,
according to the PWC report.  There was no external legal advice on the increase and
there was no formal board approval for the second agreement,
according to Woodford.  “It is important that Olympus take appropriate steps to
fully investigate and understand the acquisition of Gyrus and
the arrangements made,” the PWC report said.  Japan ’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission,
the nation’s watchdog, declined to comment on individual
companies, according to an official.  Unanimous Vote  Woodford, 51, became president of Olympus in April. He
succeeded Kikukawa, who was president from October 2003 to March
2011. Woodford recommended Kikukawa and Mori resign from the
board in an Oct. 11 letter. Three days later Woodford was fired.  Kikukawa said at the Oct. 14 press conference that Woodford
was ousted “unanimously” at the 9 a.m. board meeting with 13
attendants. Woodford wasn’t allowed to vote because the matter
involved his own interests, according to the company. Kikukawa,
70, resumed the presidency in addition to being chairman.  “Most of the directors should retire, new management
should be brought in,” said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis
Investment Co. in  Tokyo .  Woodford, a graduate of Millbank Business School, joined
Olympus 30 years ago through a U.K. medical-equipment unit
called KeyMed, where he became managing director by the age of
30, according to Olympus’s website. He spent 27 years in the
medical operations before he became executive managing director
of Olympus Europa Holding GmbH in 2008 and consolidated all of
the company’s European businesses.  Third-Largest  Olympus was the third-largest company on the Nikkei 225
Stock Average to have a foreigner as chief executive after
Nissan Motor Co. and Sony Corp., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Olympus shares had risen 7.3 percent during Woodford’s
tenure as president before his ouster, outperforming the 9.6
percent decline by the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Olympus was formed in 1919 as a maker of microscopes and
thermometers. The company then expanded into cameras in the
1930s and began developing endoscopes in 1949. By the year ended
March 2011, medical systems accounted for 42 percent of overall
revenue, Olympus’s biggest division.  “There are various communications between the president
and those who are working for him,” Executive Vice President
Mori said in a phone interview late yesterday. “I don’t think I
need to speak about any more details than the fact there are
various communications.”  ‘Anti-Social’ Elements  Woodford wrote to Mori on Sept. 23 asking about the
company’s payments associated with the Gyrus acquisition and the
purchase of three other companies. His letter followed the
publication of two articles about the acquisitions in the
Japanese magazine FACTA.  “It not only raises many issues relating to the reputation
of Olympus, but also to the governance and internal controls
applied in the context of the company’s M&A activities over
recent years,” the letter said.  Woodford said he left Japan following the Oct. 14 meeting
as the recipients of the funds paid to AXES and AXAM couldn’t be
identified and a story by FACTA had referred to ‘anti-social’
elements.  “I was extremely concerned for my safety and well-being,”
he said. I “left Japan on the first available flight to  London 
via  Hong Kong  on Friday afternoon.”  Unlawful  As part of the payment AXAM received preferred shares in
Gyrus with a face value of $177 million on Sept. 30, 2008,
according to the PWC report. Less than two months later, on Nov.
28, Olympus agreed to pay $557 million to buy the preferred
shares from the adviser, the report said. AXAM subsequently
negotiated a further increase in the value of the shares and in
March 2010, Olympus paid $620 million for the securities,
according to the report. Gyrus stopped trading as of Jan. 30,
2008, according to Bloomberg data.  “We properly revealed all the information on the
acquisition of Gyrus,” said Yasutoshi Fujiwara, a spokesman for
Olympus. Further calls to Fujiwara were not answered.  “On the date the preference shares were issued by Gyrus,
the Companies Act 1985 made it unlawful for a private limited
company to give financial assistance for the purposes of
discharging a liability incurred by a purchaser in relation to
the acquisition of shares in that company,” the PWC report
said.  Additionally, Olympus paid about $773 million for three
closely held companies between 2006 and 2008, according to
Woodford’s letter. Subsequently, Olympus wrote down the value of
the acquisitions by $586 million, the letter said. The
acquisitions had little in common with Olympus’ main businesses,
according to Woodford.  “There were $800 million in payments to buy companies
making face cream and Tupperware,” said Woodford. “What the
hell were we doing paying $800 million for these companies?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler at 
 Bfowler@bloomberg.net  