-- 
Hong Kong Starts Trading Gold in Yuan to Tap ‘Triple Demand’

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-10-17T09:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/hong-kong-starts-trading-bullion-in-yuan-to-tap-triple-demand-.html
Hong Kong ’s  Chinese Gold & Silver
Exchange Society , a century-old bullion bourse, started trading
gold quoted in yuan, boosting the city’s status as an offshore
hub for the currency.  The contract may generate as much as HK$6 billion ($770
million) in trades a day, exchange President Haywood Cheung said
in an Oct. 14 interview. Daily bullion trading volume at the
society, which has 171 active members, has jumped to HK$136
billion this year from last year’s HK$31 billion on appetite for
gold as a haven from stock declines, he said.  “There’s triple demand for this yuan product,” said
Cheung. “Investors can enjoy the  bull market  in gold, the
yuan’s appreciation and hedge gold denominated in other
currencies against the yuan.”  Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged the nation’s
support for yuan business in Hong Kong two months ago. The
city’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing , sold Hong Kong’s first renminbi
shares in April and the city’s bond sales in the currency have
more than tripled this year. Yuan deposits in the former British
colony rose 93 percent this year to a record 609 billion yuan
($96 billion) in August.  “It’s part of a larger trend in Hong Kong to increase
investments priced in renminbi,” said Zhang Qiang, an analyst
in Shanghai at Haitong Futures Co.,  China ’s largest futures
brokerage by registered capital. “It’s a good proposition for
investors who want exposure to both gold and renminbi, however,
this would depend largely on the two moving in tandem.”  Yuan Appreciation  The contract traded at 349.32 yuan per gram, or the
equivalent of $1,680 an ounce, according to data on the
society’s website at 4:44 p.m. in Hong Kong. That compares with
348 yuan on the  Shanghai  Gold Exchange and $1,693.85 in  London .
In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.23 percent
to 6.4270 per dollar, a 0.9 percent discount to the onshore spot
rate. The currency rose 0.12 percent in Shanghai at 6.3706.  Twenty-five members will participate at the initial stage,
Cheung said, adding that banks and jewelers had pushed him to
start the contract. The society’s members include  Chow Sang Sang
Holdings International Ltd. (116) , the biggest Hong Kong-listed
jewelry maker and retailer, as well as HSBC Holdings Plc., the
city’s biggest lender, he said.  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (2388)  and
Wing Hang Bank are the clearing banks.  The yuan in Shanghai will advance 5.1 percent to 6.06 by
the end of 2012, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 18 analysts.  Europe ’s debt crisis triggered a 2.1
percent slide in the offshore yuan rate in Hong Kong last month.
The yuan is a denomination of China’s currency, the renminbi.  ‘Right Timing’  “It’s still the right timing,” Cheung said. “With the
depreciation of the dollar and problems in the Eurozone,
investors realize they want some other currencies that are safer
like the renminbi. Gold can be a way for people to bet on the
yuan.”  The Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange, backed by the world’s
largest lender, started trading dollar-denominated gold futures
on May 18, tapping demand for the metal from Asian investors. It
plans to offer products in yuan this year, Albert Helmig,
president of the exchange, said in a May 9 interview.  Bullion prices have jumped 19 percent this year, reaching a
record $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6. Gold prices fell from
their peak as investors sold the metal to cover losses in other
markets. The precious metal will likely trade between $1,500 and
$1,700 an ounce in the short term, Cheung said.  The society, started in 1910, will consider trading silver
in the Chinese currency later, Cheung said, declining to
identify the timeframe. The society has imposed a daily ceiling
of 300 kilos for physical delivery of gold denominated in yuan
to avoid depleting the currency pool in Hong Kong, he said.  “The sudden influx into gold bars may take away half of
the yuan liquidity in Hong Kong,” Cheung said. “The
uncertainties in the global economy are supporting gold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net 
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  