-- 
Peru President Humala’s Approval Rating Drops to 62% From 65%, Poll Says

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-16T13:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/peru-president-humala-s-approval-rating-drops-to-62-from-65-poll-says.html
Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala ’s
approval rating fell to 62 percent from 65 percent in September,
El Comercio reported, citing a poll by Ipsos Apoyo.  The Lima-based researcher questioned 1,200 people from Oct.
12-14. The poll, which was commissioned by El Comercio, had a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  Since taking office July 28, Humala, a former army rebel
and one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , has
distanced himself from a pledge made during the presidential
campaign to renegotiate free-trade agreements with the U.S. and
rewrite the constitution to boost state control of the economy.  Humala’s government negotiated an increase in mining
royalties worth about $1.1 billion a year in September to
finance increased spending on infrastructure. In the last month,
Humala has enticed investment pledges from  Brazil ’s Votorantim
Metais Ltda and Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  totaling as much as $6.2
billion over the next five years.  Consumer confidence  has risen since Humala won the June 6
runoff while business confidence has improved, though it remains
below pre-election levels.  Two legislators from Humala’s Gana Peru party have been
suspended since July 28 while congress investigates allegations
of corruption against them.  Aida Garcia, Humala’s minister for women, this week faced
calls from the opposition to step down following the death of
three children who allegedly consumed contaminated food provided
by the government.  Humala had 66 percent support in an Oct. 5-8 poll by Datum
Internacional.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  