-- 
Picasso, Matisse Paintings Dazzle in Paris Stein Show: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-10-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/picasso-matisse-paintings-dazzle-in-paris-stein-show-review.html
“Einstein was the creative
philosophical mind of the century, and I have been the creative
literary mind of the century.”  Few would agree with  Gertrude Stein ’s self-assured
statement. Her stylistic experiments remain an acquired taste.  Few, on the other hand, would deny that she played a key
role in the promotion of  modern art . At the Saturday night
parties in her Paris apartment, as  Woody Allen  reminds us in his
latest movie “Midnight in Paris,” Picasso and Matisse mingled
with Hemingway, Fitzgerald and other budding talents.  With her brothers Michael and Leo, Gertrude bought works of
the local avant-garde well before French collectors deigned to
notice them.  That’s the theme of the huge exhibition “Matisse, Cezanne,
Picasso -- The Adventure of the Steins,” which started in San
Francisco and is now on view at the  Grand Palais  in Paris before
traveling to  New York .  Thanks to a generous inheritance -- their father made a
fortune with cable cars and as a developer in  San Francisco  --
the siblings were able to indulge in their hobbies full-time.  In 1902, Leo moved to Paris to study the arts and become a
painter. The next year, Gertrude, who had flunked the entrance
exam at medical school, joined him. In 1904, Michael and his
wife Sarah followed, renting an apartment nearby.  Picasso’s Rubbish  They started collecting, yet their tastes differed.
Gertrude loved Picasso whom Leo dismissed as “God-almighty
rubbish.” When Leo moved to  Italy , in 1914, he kept the Renoirs
and Matisses, many of which he later sold to Dr. Albert C.
Barnes of Philadelphia.  One of the reasons for his departure was the increasingly
important role Alice B. Toklas played in Gertrude’s life. Hired
as a secretary, she quickly became Gertrude’s housekeeper, cook,
gardener, admiring public and lover.  Michael and Sarah moved, in 1928, to an ultramodern house
designed by Le Corbusier in a chic suburb. In 1935, the couple
returned to the U.S. Most of their collection had to be sold to
cover the gambling debts of their grandson.  Gertrude and Alice remained in  France  and, though enemy
aliens and Jewish, survived the Occupation unharmed in their
country house.  After Gertrude’s death, in 1946, the family seized her
collection in a cloak-and-dagger operation while Alice was away.
Many works ended up in New York’s  Museum of Modern Art .  Quirky Decor  The organizers of the exhibition haven’t tried to recreate
the atmosphere at the Rue de Fleurus apartment, with its highly
personal mix of masterpieces and second-raters, hung in two,
three or even four rows on the walls.  They have eliminated the names forgotten by history and
have grouped the show around the two stars, Matisse and Picasso,
with 63 and 43 works respectively -- including portraits of
Gertrude and Leo (by Picasso) and Michael and Sarah (by
Matisse).  Cezanne appears far behind in third place with just nine
works. Other artists, such as Toulouse-Lautrec, Bonnard, Juan
Gris and Andre Masson, play walk-on parts.  Photographs, letters and books strive to convey an
impression of the family’s intellectual background and artistic
ambitions.  You can listen to Gertrude reciting one of her repetitive
poems or inspect a model of the set of “Four Saints in Three
Acts,” Virgil Thomson’s plotless opera for which she wrote the
libretto.  What’s missing is the human side, the tensions and
jealousies behind the decorum. Gertrude had a talent for
quarreling with her proteges if they didn’t defer to her
superior insight.  Behind her back, Picasso cracked vicious jokes about her
majestic girth. In “A Moveable Feast,” Hemingway’s memories of
his life as an unknown writer in Paris, the writer tells an
indiscreet story about Gertrude’s lovemaking and describes her
as “a Roman emperor which was fine if you liked your women to
look like Roman emperors.”  “Matisse, Cezanne, Picasso -- L’Aventure des Stein,” which
is supported by  State Street Corp. (STT)  and Aurel BGC, is at the
Grand Palais through Jan. 16, 2012. The exhibition will be on
display at the  Metropolitan Museum  in New York from Feb. 1 to
June 3. Information:  http://www.rmngp.fr  or +33-1-4413-1717 and
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 