-- 
Preschoolers May Get Attention-Deficit Drugs Under Guidelines

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-10-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/preschool-children-may-be-prescribed-attention-deficit-drugs-doctors-say.html
Children as young as 4 years old may
now be treated with medications such as  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Ritalin
for  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , under new
guidelines from the  American Academy of Pediatrics .  The recommendations, the first in a decade, expand the age
range of kids who may be prescribed the drugs from preschoolers
through 18-year-olds. Earlier guidelines included children ages
6 to 12.  ADHD  affects about 8 percent of children and youth and
is the most common neurobehavioral disorder in kids, according
to the  American Academy of Pediatrics .  Expanding the age range will help ensure more children get
the appropriate therapy, according to the guidelines. Treating
preschoolers may increase their chances of succeeding in school
and targeting teens recognizes that ADHD is a long-term
condition that may even extend into adulthood.  “Because of greater awareness about ADHD and better ways
of diagnosing and treating this disorder, more children are
being helped,” said  Mark Wolraich , lead author of the report
and a professor of pediatrics at the University of Oklahoma
College of Medicine in  Oklahoma City , in a statement.  For preschoolers with the disorder, it’s recommended that
parents and teachers first try to manage children with behavior
therapy that uses a system of rewards and consequences. If that
doesn’t work, then doctors can prescribe medications, according
to the recommendations being presented today at the American
Academy of Pediatrics National Conference and Exhibition in
 Boston .  Early Intervention  Parents and doctors won’t rush out to give small children
medication before trying all other alternatives, said  Ruth
Hughes , chief executive officer of the Landover, Maryland-based
nonprofit Children and Adults with Attention-
Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, or CHADD.  “Most families come to medication as a last resort,”
Hughes, who supports the guidelines, said in an Oct. 14
telephone interview. “Behavioral intervention should be the
first line when we’re talking about kids who are younger than
school-aged. There are children out there with very severe ADHD
and very severe co-symptoms while their parents may have worked
closely with the therapist and done all the interventions, and
it may not be sufficient.”  Under the guidelines, primary-care doctors should start an
evaluation for ADHD in any children ages 4 through 18 who have
academic or behavioral problems and symptoms of hyperactivity,
inattention or impulsivity, the report said. During the
evaluation, doctors should consider other conditions that may
co-exist with ADHD, including anxiety, depression, oppositional
defiant disorders, developmental disorders and physical
conditions like sleep apnea.  Behavior Therapy First  For 4- and 5-year-olds with moderate to severe ADHD
symptoms who don’t see a significant improvement after their
parents first use behavior therapy, then treatment with
medicines is recommended. For elementary school children and
older kids, the academy recommends behavior therapy and FDA-
approved medicines, which include Ritalin, or  Shire Plc (SHP) ’s
Adderall and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Concerta.  Heidi Feldman , a professor of pediatrics at  Stanford
University  in  Palo Alto ,  California , and a member of the
subcommittee that developed the practice guidelines, said the
new recommendations are available for parents to review. She
said the guidelines don’t advise giving drugs to the youngest
children, but include it as a possibility when needed.  ADHD symptoms include fidgeting, excessive talking and
abandoning chores and homework. The condition is usually
diagnosed in childhood and can continue as an adult.  ADHD Diagnosis  Andrew Adesman , chief of Developmental and Behavioral
Pediatrics at Cohen Children’s Medical Center in  New Hyde Park ,
 New York , said to be diagnosed with ADHD, preschool children
must exhibit symptoms that cause problems not only at home but
in other settings.  “What the  American Academy  of Pediatrics is doing in a
helpful regard is acknowledging that hyperactivity has its roots
in preschool years and that clinicians are often encountering
concerns around behavior in the preschool years,” said Adesman,
who wasn’t an author of today’s guidelines. “It’s appropriate
for clinicians to be very selective in choosing when to use
these medications in very young children and they should be
reserved for children who have significant behavior issues that
are unresponsive to behavioral therapy.”  The guidelines will be published in the November issue of
the  journal Pediatrics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  