-- 
Rio Plans Sale of 13 Aluminum Assets in Australia, U.S.

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-10-17T17:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/rio-tinto-plans-to-divest-13-aluminum-group-assets-in-future.html
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-
biggest mining company, plans to sell 13 aluminum assets,
including smelters and alumina plants from  Australia  to the
U.S., to improve the group’s financial performance.  Rio’s stakes in six Australian and New Zealand assets will
be transferred to a new unit to be named Pacific Aluminium
before being sold, the London-based company said today in a
statement. Seven other operations in France,  Germany , the U.S.
and U.K. will also be sold, it said.  Rio’s share of the assets may be valued at as much as $8
billion, according to Deutsche Bank AG, which described the sale
as a “key catalyst” for the company. Rio has divested more
than $11 billion in assets since 2008 to reduce debt after its
$38 billion purchase of Alcan Inc.  “The move by Rio makes sense as it disposes of assets that
on a relative basis generate lower returns and have lower cash
margins than the overall aluminum group,”  Glyn Lawcock , a
Sydney-based analyst at UBS AG, said in a report today.
“However, the current environment is not conducive we believe
to a quick sale, and the process may take upwards of 18 months
to complete.”  Rio, which counts Aluminum Corp. of  China  as its largest
shareholder, fell 1.3 percent to 3,302 pence in London trading.
The stock rose 2.4 percent to A$69.95 at the close in Sydney,
compared with a 1.7 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index.  ‘Studying Opportunity’  Chinalco, as the Chinese state-owned company is known, is
the nation’s largest producer of the metal used in beverage
cans, cars and planes. Russia’s United Co. Rusal is the world’s
biggest aluminum maker.  “We saw Rio Tinto’s announcement today and at this stage
we can only say that we will study this opportunity,” Maxim Sokov, Rusal’s deputy chief executive officer for strategy, said
in an interview in Moscow.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. valued the aluminum assets at $7
billion, and said Rio’s share may be worth $5.5 billion, while
Investec Bank Plc values the assets at $4.3 billion and UBS said
they may be worth as much as $5.5 billion.  Pacific IPO?  Rio’s Pacific Aluminium unit “could be a candidate for in-
specie distribution or IPO rather than sale, as there could be
an appetite for another integrated aluminum producer,” UBS
said.  Of all industrial metals, aluminum will have the biggest
annual increase in demand through 2015 as the surplus supply
turns to a shortage, according to researcher CRU. Consumption
will outpace supply in 2015 as demand grows by an average of 7.6
percent a year,  Paul Robinson , CRU’s non-ferrous metals group
manager, said Oct. 3.  Rio plans to raise the profit margin at its aluminum unit
to 40 percent by 2014, Deutsche Bank said in a Sept. 19 report.
The margin was 39 percent in 2005, prior to the Alcan takeover,
and shrank to 4 percent in 2009, the bank said. It was 16
percent in 2010.  “The strength of our balance sheet means that we can
choose the most opportune method and timing to divest these
assets, which may not occur until the economic climate
improves,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said in today’s
statement. The operations to be sold “are no longer aligned
with our strategy.”  The $1 billion Tomago smelter in Australia and the $833
million Serbee smelter in the U.S. were the most valuable assets
identified last month by Deutsche Bank in a list of nine Rio
facilities singled out for possible sale.  Deutsche Bank also named the Lynemouth smelter in the U.K.
and the Gardanne refinery in  France  as possible assets for
disposal. They are on Rio’s list today. Rio may be able to
achieve sales at 80 percent of the valuation, the bank said at
the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  