-- 
Romney’s Fuzziness May Weigh on General Election: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-10-16T15:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/romney-s-fuzziness-may-weigh-on-general-election-albert-r-hunt.html
There is a possible scenario under
which  Mitt Romney  could lose the Republican presidential
nomination.  Rick Perry ,  Herman Cain  or  Michele Bachmann  galvanize
social-issue conservatives and might win the Iowa caucuses in
early January. A week later, the often contrarian and
independent-minded primary voters in  New Hampshire  could upset
the odds and vote for Cain, or more probably,  Jon Huntsman .  Most likely, though, Romney will win at least one of these
crucial contests and become the unstoppable front-runner.  That is why, not surprisingly, both the more establishment
centrist Republicans and the populist, movement conservatives
are now focused on figuring out exactly who is the real Romney.
Surprisingly, they pretty much agree: He’s a contemporary
version of President  George H.W. Bush , the 41st president,
slightly to the right of the political center, more inclined to
favor reasonable limits on the role of government than to want
to dismantle it, and preferring consensus to confrontation.  For the centrists, this definition of the potential nominee
brings hope; for conservatives, it breeds fear.  Everyone agrees he’s exceptionally intelligent; one
Democratic political operative who was a consultant to Romney on
the health-care measure he put in place as governor of
Massachusetts says he has never worked with a smarter politician
on policy. His personal integrity is exemplary.  Abortion Stance  Yet when it comes to policy, there are few national figures
who have so dramatically changed positions: Romney has gone from
a strong defender of reproductive rights to a foe of all
abortions, and from claiming to be a stronger advocate for gay
rights than his 1994 Senate opponent, the liberal Edward M. Kennedy, to his current support for a constitutional amendment
banning same-sex marriage.  The stakes, however, are much larger when it comes to the
economy. This was on display last week during the Bloomberg-
News/ Washington  Post candidate debate that focused on that topic.  Take the issue of the government’s role in the 2008
financial crisis -- and particularly the Troubled Asset Relief
Program -- which splits Republicans. The establishment types
believe the bank rescue saved the global financial system from
collapse, while more grassroots Republicans see it as an
unconscionable bailout of financial institutions deemed too big
to fail.  Financial Bailout  In his book, “No Apology,” Romney lends support to both
views. “It doesn’t make sense to bail out individual companies
or banks or financial institutions that get in trouble,” he
writes. “Creative destruction is part of a growing, productive
economy.”  He also says the Republican administration’s rescue efforts
in 2008 weren’t aimed at saving banks but at averting a “total
meltdown” of the economy. Later, he suggests that TARP under
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  was good, while under his Obama
administration successor,  Timothy Geithner , the same program was
bad.  When asked at the debate what he would do, as president, in
a similar situation, Romney tried to duck; ultimately, he
acknowledged that he probably would do the same thing.  He offers similar contortions on budgetary matters. During
the debate, and in his 59-point economic program, Romney vows to
oppose any tax increases and says deficit reduction should be
accomplished only through spending cuts.  Balanced Budget  He’s vague about the specific cuts to Social Security or
Medicare he would undertake, even as he calls for a balanced-
budget amendment to the Constitution, which would make such cuts
inevitable. (One of Romney’s judicial advisers, the conservative
Judge  Robert Bork , has warned that a balanced-budget requirement
would open the door “to hundreds, if not thousands of lawsuits
around the country,” leaving decisions about what to cut in the
hands of unelected judges.)  The Republican front-runner’s fiscal challenges are
compounded by his appeals to hard-line hawks within the party.
He would increase defense spending about $50 billion a year over
President Barack Obama’s request, add Navy vessels, revive the
missile-defense system and increase force levels by 100,000;
it’s not clear what he would do with the extra troops as the U.S.
is drawing down forces in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  When asked to make recommendations to the congressional
supercommittee that’s supposed to devise a deficit-reduction
plan in the next five weeks or trigger across-the-board spending
reductions, including in defense, Romney reiterates his mantra
of no additional revenue, no defense cutbacks, and no automatic
cuts.  That keeps him out of the crosshairs of populist
conservatives.  ‘Grand Bargain’  If he were to be confronted by the same partisan divide as
president, look again to the Bush 41 model, some of those who
know Romney well predict; that would mean some effort at a
“grand bargain” deficit-reduction package.  On immigration, Romney has taken a much tougher posture in
recent years. Similarly, this long-time advocate of free trade
now vows to label  China  a currency manipulator and impose
tariffs on its goods.  Establishment Republicans say that’s just campaign rhetoric
aimed at playing to public opinion. The populist conservatives,
many of whom are anti-immigrant and anti-China, worry they’re
right.  Health Care  Such contradictions pervade his defense of his health
measure in  Massachusetts . He is right in claiming that it
improved care in the Commonwealth.  It also, with its mandate requiring everyone to buy health
insurance, was a model for Obama’s 2010 measure, which rank-and-
file Republicans despise. Jonathan Gruber, a health-care expert
from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , who consulted
with both Romney and Obama, calls the ex-governor “the
intellectual father of national health reform.”  To date, thanks to the ineptitude of his primary opponents,
Romney has largely avoided unfair critiques of his signature
measure. In a general election, that’s not a charge Obama can
make.  A glance at Romney’s political standing underscores this
conundrum. He runs even with Obama in hypothetical general-
election matchups, a good spot for a challenger at this stage.
Few question his competency to be president.  In the Republican contest, however, Romney remains mired in
polls with about a quarter of the vote, while the flavors du
jour -- Bachmann two months ago, Perry last month, and now Cain
-- rise and fall. Most Republican voters prefer an alternative.  As the last candidate standing, Romney is likely to
overcome these doubts and then would be an even bet to win the
White House next autumn. If he reaches the Oval Office, he’ll
bring these conflicts with him.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 