-- 
Salvage Team to Start Emptying Oil From Ship Stranded on New Zealand Reef

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-10-17T04:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/salvage-team-to-start-emptying-oil-from-ship-stranded-on-new-zealand-reef.html
Salvage teams are emptying oil from
a stranded container ship off the northeastern coast of  New
Zealand  as the company leasing the vessel told the government it
would help pay for the response operation.  About 64 metric tons of oil has been pumped from the vessel
since yesterday, Transport Minister Steven Joyce told reporters
in Wellington today. While the oil spill’s cost has reached
around NZ$4 million ($3.2 million), it was possible that it
could eventually be in the tens of millions, he said.  The minister met with Mediterranean Shipping Co. SA, which
leases the ship from  Costamare Shipping Co. , in Wellington
today. The company’s management committed to providing both cash
and non-cash assistance, Joyce said.  Rena, the Athens-based Costamare’s vessel, remains “in a
precarious state” and more oil could wash up on beaches, Prime
Minister John Key told reporters at the same briefing. Cracks
appeared in the hull last week, raising concern the ship may
break apart more than a week after it ran aground near Tauranga,
100 miles (160 kilometers) southeast of Auckland.  The salvage team successfully attached four platforms to
the side of the vessel and set up equipment on Oct. 15,
according to Maritime New Zealand. The tanker Awanuia was
receiving oil pumped from the stricken ship.  “This is a hugely challenging and risky operation even in
full daylight,” the agency said today.  Ship’s Cargo  The Rena was carrying 1,368 containers and about 1,700
metric tons of  fuel oil , according to maritime officials. As
many as 350 tons of oil may have spilled from the vessel.  The cargo on the 32-year-old, Liberian-flagged Rena
includes four containers of ferrosilicon, a solid substance that
can be hazardous when in contact with water and can emit
hydrogen, according to the agency.  As many as 88 containers have fallen from the ship and
almost half of them are empty, it said on Oct. 15.  A part of the beach between Mount Maunganui and Moturiki
Island has been re-opened to public after as much as 618 tons of
oiled sandy waste was collected, the agency  said  yesterday.  “We’ve had beach clean-up teams there getting rid of the
oil” and environmental assessment teams digging down into the
sand to check for any buried oil, National On Scene Commander
Nick Quinn said in a statement. “They’ve dug a number of
trenches down into the sand and established that it’s clear.”  As many as 1,290 birds have been found dead and there are a
total of 207 oiled birds being cared for at a wildlife facility.  The ship’s master and the second officer in charge of the
navigational watch have both been charged under the Maritime Act
for operating a vessel in a manner causing unnecessary danger or
risk, the maritime agency said in a  statement  Oct. 13.  The charge carries a maximum penalty of NZ$10,000 ($7,900)
or 12 months’ imprisonment, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  