-- 
Saudi Arabian Inflation Accelerates to Fastest Since January

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-10-16T12:02:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/saudi-arabia-s-inflation-in-september-at-5-3-spa-reports.html
Saudi Arabian inflation accelerated
to 5.3 percent last month, its fastest pace since January, as
the world’s biggest oil exporter increases spending on housing
and jobs.  The inflation rate rose to 5.3 percent, the Saudi Press
Agency reported today, compared with 4.8 percent in the previous
month. The cost of living index increased 0.9 percent in
September from August, the report said. Annual inflation in
January was also 5.3 percent.  Saudi Arabia  announced earlier this year about $130 billion
in spending to create jobs and ward off the political unrest
sweeping through other Middle Eastern countries. The government
had already pledged a $384 billion, five-year development plan
to build new houses and expand non-oil industries.  “We’ve expected this now given higher  oil prices  as well
as the government stimulus package and overall recovery and
growth in the economy,” said Liz Martins, a senior economist
with HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd. She said the inflation rate is
not expected to climb much higher so long as the  U.S. dollar 
continues its recovery. The Saudi riyal is pegged to the US
dollar at a rate of 3.75 riyals.  Central bank Governor Muhammad Al-Jasser cut his forecast
for economic growth this year to 5 percent and said the
inflation rate had begun to stabilize, Asharq Al-Awsat newspaper
reported Sept. 28. The bank’s earlier forecast was for a 6
percent expansion. The central bank said in August that
inflation may accelerate during the third quarter on higher
 consumer spending .  West Texas Intermediate crude oil has increased 5 percent
over the last year, while Brent has gained 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  