-- 
HSBC to Halt U.A.E. Retail Brokerage Services After Volumes, Stocks Slump

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-17T11:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/hsbc-to-halt-u-a-e-retail-brokerage-after-volumes-stocks-slump.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, will stop offering brokerage services to retail investors
in the  United Arab Emirates  and focus on institutional clients
after local trading volumes and stocks plummeted.  “Given the market today, the limited volumes, the risk and
volatility for retail clients, we decided to primarily focus on
the institutional side of the business,” Georges Elhedery,
 Middle East  and North Africa Head of Global Markets, said in an
interview yesterday. “The investment required to make ourselves
visible in the retail space versus the opportunity that the
retail market offers us doesn’t make a lot of sense today.” The
bank will also stop offering retail banking services in Kuwait,
it said today.  Some brokerages have chosen to suspend licenses or cut
costs after political unrest in the Middle East and debt
restructurings reduced Dubai trading volumes to a six-year low.
Rasmala Holdings Ltd., which has a research venture with  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group PLC (RBS) , stopped retail brokerage in May.
 Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , the investment bank controlled by Dubai’s
ruler, plans to focus on institutional and high net-worth
clients, its new chief executive officer said last week.  Al Futtaim HC Securities LLC, a Dubai-based brokerage, is
discussing a possible suspension of its trading license with
owners, a person involved in the talks said Oct. 13.  Global Strategy  HSBC in 2007 became the first international bank to receive
approval to trade stocks in the U.A.E. The bank decided earlier
this month, after consulting with the  Securities & Commodities
Authority,  the U.A.E market regulator, that its HSBC Middle East
Securities LLC unit will only cater to institutional clients,
Elhedery said.  Retail operations in  Kuwait  will stop at the end of the
year as part of a strategic review of operations, HSBC said. The
London-based bank is cutting jobs and closing offices around the
world to reduce costs by as much as $3.5 billion over the next
two years as it tackles wage inflation in faster-growing
economies and prepares for stricter capital rules. It plans to
eliminate 30,000 positions globally.  Dubai’s benchmark index has slumped 84 percent from a
record in 2005 to 1,366.22 at the close today and the volume of
shares traded in the Persian Gulf business hub has dropped to a
daily average of about 109 million this year from 161 million in
the year-earlier period and 476 million in 2009.  Client Defaults  “Sources of revenue have been deteriorating since 2009,
with a sharp drop in trading volume, losses in investment
portfolios and clients defaulting on liabilities,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “The
current volume may be enough for seven brokers to break even.”  The number of “active and functioning” brokerages in the
U.A.E. has dropped 40 percent since the end of 2008 to 59,
according to the regulator’s  website.  HSBC Middle East
Securities was ranked  30th by value traded  in September,
according to the Dubai Financial Market PJSC’s website.  “There are too many brokers around,” Elhedery said. “The
consolidation or business exit by some of these smaller brokers
is inevitable.”  HSBC is helping its retail clients find alternative brokers
and the process should be completed by year-end, Elhedery said.
HSBC Middle East Securities employs seven people and there
shouldn’t be any job cuts, he said.  MSCI Upgrade  The brokerage’s  first-half loss  narrowed to 4.7 million
dirhams ($1.3 million) from 6.6 million dirhams in the year-
earlier period. It posted losses of 13.4 million dirhams and
14.2 million dirhams in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  “We expect that the restructuring proposal will allow us
to break even, and with a market pickup, start making money,”
Elhedery said. “Volumes are low, but significant market
developments, such as the hoped-for MSCI, are likely to see
these pick up and we need to be ready.”  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , whose stock indexes are tracked by investors
with about $3 trillion in assets, in June delayed its decision
on whether to raise the U.A.E. to emerging market status until
December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  