-- 
Sinohydro to List Shares in Shanghai Amid Market Slump

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-16T12:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/sinohydro-to-test-slumping-market-s-appetite-this-week-in-biggest-2011-ipo.html
Sinohydro Group Ltd.’s shares will
start trading in  Shanghai  on Oct. 18, according to a statement
to the stock exchange today. The initial public offering will
probably be the biggest in China this year.  The nation’s largest builder of hydroelectric dams raised
13.5 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) by selling the shares at the
bottom of a price range of 4.50 yuan to 4.80 yuan, surpassing
the 9.5 billion yuan raised by Sinovel Wind Group Co. in its IPO
in January.  The listing comes as China’s stock market slumps and
liquidity tightens with small companies in cities such as
Wenzhou facing a cash crunch. The benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index has fallen 13 percent this year, driving valuations to
near record low levels. The company cut the size of its IPO to 3
billion shares from 3.5 billion shares.  Beijing Jingkelong Co., a Hong Kong-listed supermarket
operator, said Oct. 14 its plan to sell shares in Shanghai was
rejected by the  China  Securities Regulatory Commission.  The securities regulator may slow approvals for share
sales, 21st Century Business Herald reported Sept. 22. The CSRC
aimed to support Sinohydro’s IPO, the paper said.  China’s bank lending last month was the least since 2009,
while M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , rose 13 percent
from a year earlier, the least in almost a decade, according to
economic reports released after the close of markets on Oct. 14.  Wenzhou will implement measures to “maintain financial
order” as it seeks to clamp down on illegal financing and keep
executives whose companies are saddled with bad debt from trying
to flee, the city’s public security bureau said in a statement
on its website Oct. 14.  Proceeds from Sinohydro’s share sale will help fund
construction of projects including a hydro-power dam in
southwestern Sichuan province and a wind farm in the northern
province of Gansu, the company said in July.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  