-- 
Spy Chief Rimington Sparks Backlash as Booker Judge: Interview

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-16T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/spy-chief-rimington-sparks-backlash-as-booker-judge-interview.html
Stella Rimington has stared down KGB
operatives and outwitted IRA militants. As the former director
general of  MI5  -- where she was both the first female boss and
the first to be publicly named -- she’s no stranger to media
scrutiny, either. Yet as head judge of this year’s  Man Booker
Prize , she finds herself flummoxed by the vitriol of London’s
literati.  It’s not that the 76-year-old Rimington is softening with
age. Since hanging up her trench coat in 1996, she has served as
a non-executive director of companies including Marks & Spencer,
published a bestselling memoir, “ Open Secret ,” and written a
series of novels featuring workaholic spy Liz Carlyle. (“ Rip
Tide,”  the latest, begins when a British Muslim is mysteriously
found among a gang of Somali pirates and culminates in a race to
foil a terrorist plot in the English Midlands.)  Rimington finds it hard to refuse interesting offers, which
is how she became involved with the Man Booker Prize and was
charged with reading 138 novels in six months.  “A wiser person might have said no,” she says with a
laugh over a lunch of heritage beets with goat’s curd and
roasted cobnuts at Hix, a restaurant in  London ’s Soho area.  The shortlist chosen by Rimington and her fellow judges has
literary London in such a flap that a new prize -- pointedly
dubbed the Literature Prize -- has been proposed. Many dismiss
the shortlist as lowbrow, and Rimington’s credentials in
particular have been called into question.  No Ghostwriters  “I don’t feel I’m an unconventional Man Booker chair. I
don’t think there is such a thing as a conventional one as
you’ll probably see if you look back at those who have been
chairs during its history,” she says, going on to rebut
accusations that she relies on a ghostwriter for her thrillers.  Rimington majored in English Literature at the  University
of Edinburgh  and was trained as an archivist before joining MI5,
initially as a secretary.  “The almost universal expectation was that women would
only work until they got married. If you wanted not to do that,
you had to do it in a more subtle way,” she says. This accounts
for her unassuming facade, behind which her green-eyed gaze
coolly appraises our fellow diners. She instinctively stops
talking when a waiter nears.  As she rose up through the ranks, becoming director of
counter-terrorism just before Pan Am flight 103 was brought down
over Lockerbie,  Scotland , Rimington nursed an ambition to write
espionage thrillers. They are what spies read for relaxation,
she says.  John le Carre  and  John Buchan  are among her favorite
authors.  Liz Carlyle  She was determined that her own protagonist be a woman.
“Part of the fun is enabling her, particularly when men try to
patronize her,” she says of Liz Carlyle, who manages a dynamic
love life and indulges a taste for vintage clothes. “She can
say things I might have felt but didn’t actually say.”  Despite having lived through plenty of plots, Rimington
likes to keep her novels up-to-date and says she takes her
storylines from the news rather than experience. This morning’s
headlines suggest she’s doing an uncannily prescient job: Six
Birmingham men are in court, accused of planning a terrorist
attack. The similarities to “Rip Tide” are striking.  Only as we leave the restaurant do I notice that her
business-like herringbone blazer and white shirt are paired with
bronze loafers and voluminous silk pants. As an ensemble, it
determinedly does not blend in -- the first sign that Rimington
has indeed left her service days behind her.  Security Clearance  Though she still submits her novels to MI5 for security
clearance, she notes that with time, the burden of official
secrets lessens. They either cease to be secrets or are simply
forgotten.  Meanwhile, her choice of winner for the Man  Booker Prize  is
one secret she is guarding closely until the announcement is
made tomorrow. Though she admires in passing the atmospheric
setting of A.D. Miller’s Moscow tale, “ Snowdrops ,” seems
lukewarm about Julian Barnes’s “ The Sense of an Ending ” and
confesses that WWII  -- the partial backdrop for Esi Edugyan’s
“ Half Blood Blues ” -- isn’t her favorite subject, she insists
that all six are “good reads.”  It’s a typically diplomatic response, and one that’s sure
to irk her critics all the more.  “Rip Tide” is published by Bloomsbury (369 pages, $25,
12.99 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 