-- 
Syrian Forces Arrest Protesters; Libya Rebels Hunt for Qaddafi Loyalists

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-16T20:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/syrian-forces-arrest-protesters-libya-rebels-hunt-for-qaddafi-loyalists.html
Syrian security forces carried out
raids and made arrests today as Arab foreign ministers met in
Cairo to discuss the violence.  Ahead of the emergency  Arab League  meeting, a group of
foreign ministers headed by Qatar’s representative debated ways
in which to pressure the regime of Syrian President Bashar al- Assad into ending its deadly crackdown against protesters,
 Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News Agency said.  “No doubt this is one of the most serious crises we face
right now,” Nabil El-Arabi, Arab League secretary-general, said
during a portion of the meeting broadcast on Egyptian
television. “We can’t keep silent toward the violence and the
killings in  Syria .”  The Arab League formed a committee to look into what it
called the “catastrophic and the sad situation in Syria,” the
league said in a statement today. The committee’s mission “is
to contact the Syrian leadership to stop the violence and to
start a dialogue between the Syrian government and opposition,”
the statement said. It said the dialogue should start within 15
days.  Protests demanding the ouster of Assad started in March
during a wave of unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa
that has unseated governments in Tunisia and Egypt and sent
Libya’s  Muammar Qaddafi  on the run. Assad has blamed the
demonstrations in Syria on foreign-backed extremists.  Fifteen people were killed yesterday across the country,
said Mahmoud Merei, Damascus-based head of the Arab Organization
for Human Rights, in a telephone interview.  Syrian Civilian Deaths  At least 4,000 Syrian civilians have been killed by
security forces, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. The  United Nations 
published a lower death toll on Oct. 14 of more than 3,000,
including at least 187 children.  Syria’s opposition is trying to follow the path taken by
 Libya ’s rebels, who formed a transitional council that became
the main governing authority in the North African country in
August after they seized Tripoli, the capital. Syrian activists
on Oct. 2 formed a council to coordinate efforts to end Assad’s
rule and stop his deadly crackdown.  In Libya, fighters searched neighborhoods in Tripoli for
armed supporters of Muammar Qaddafi, after a firefight broke out
between his loyalists and opponents in the capital.  Opposition Troops  Opposition troops combed apartment buildings for Qaddafi
fighters and weapons yesterday after a battle on Oct. 14, which
marked the first major fighting in the city since the rebels
took control in August, the  Associated Press  reported. Concern
over the looting of missiles and weapons has prompted the U.S.
State Department to send dozens of contractors to the country to
help aid in recovery efforts, the New York Times reported
yesterday.  The eight-month conflict interrupted oil production in
Libya, which has the largest crude reserves of any African
nation. National Oil Corp.’s Chairman Nuri Berruien said
yesterday that Libya’s Sharara field, which is operated by
Repsol YPF SA, is scheduled to start producing between 80,000
and 100,000 barrels a day of crude before the end of the month.  The North African country is currently producing 400,000
barrels a day of oil and is expected to meet its daily
production goal of 500,000 barrels by the end of the month,
Berruien said.  Libya’s Arabian Gulf Oil Co. will pump crude at its full
capacity of about 425,000 barrels a day by February, after it
resumes production at some fields and boosts output at others,
Yousef Gherryo, a marketing manager at the company, said in an
interview today in Benghazi.  In Yemen, the capital Sana’a was rocked by explosions and
gunfire as troops loyal to President Ali Abdullah Saleh battled
tribal forces.  Yemen has the eighth-largest crude reserves in the Middle
East and relies on oil sales for 90 percent of its hard currency
earnings, according to the U.S. Energy Information Oil
Administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  