-- 
Syrian Forces Arrest Protesters as Arab League Meets to Discusses Violence

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-16T16:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/syrian-forces-arrest-protesters-as-arab-league-meets-to-discusses-violence.html
Syrian security forces carried out
raids and made arrests today as Arab foreign ministers met in
Cairo to discuss the violence.  Ahead of today’s emergency  Arab League  meeting, a group of
foreign ministers headed by Qatar’s representative debated ways
in which to pressure the regime of Syrian President Bashar al- Assad into ending its deadly crackdown against protesters,
 Egypt ’s state-run  Middle East   News Agency  said. One proposal was
to suspend  Syria ’s membership, the news agency reported, citing
an unidentified diplomat.  Protests demanding the ouster of Assad started in March
during a wave of unrest across the Middle East and North Africa
that has unseated governments in Tunisia and Egypt and sent
Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi on the run. Assad has blamed the
demonstrations in Syria on foreign-backed extremists.  “There’s a wide campaign of arrests,” Mahmoud Merei,
Damascus-based head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said in a telephone interview. “We don’t have numbers yet
because it’s difficult to reach the various areas.” Fifteen
people were killed yesterday across the country, he said.  At least 4,000 Syrian civilians have been killed by
security forces, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. The  United Nations 
published a lower estimate on Oct. 14 of more than 3,000,
including at least 187 children.  Suspension Warning  “I expect the league to warn Syria that it may suspend its
membership,” Merei said. “A suspension would be an effective
and important tool. We were hoping that the Arab League could
mediate a dialogue between the Syrian opposition and the regime
but there was no response from the Syrian government.”  A group of opponents of the Syrian regime gathered outside
the Cairo headquarters of the Arab League today, chanting:
“Leave, Bashar.”  Emad Gad, an analyst at the Al Ahram Center for Political
and Strategic Studies in Cairo, said suspending Syria’s
membership would send a strong message. “This is a step that
Arabs only take when they realize that there’s no use in talking
to the regime. Suspending the membership is like washing their
hands of the regime.”  The effect of such a move “will depend on the reaction of
the Syrian regime,” and it is likely Assad’s government “will
not respond,” he said.  Suspension Request  The Arab Parliament, a body set up by the Arab League,
asked the League to suspend the membership of Syria due to its
violent crackdown against protesters, Al Arabiya television
reported on Sept. 20.  In February, the Arab League suspended the participation of
 Libya  in its council meetings, citing the North African
government’s crackdown on protesters.  Syria’s opposition is trying to follow the path taken by
Libya’s rebels, who formed a transitional council that became
the main governing authority in the North African country in
August after they seized Tripoli, the capital. Syrian activists
on Oct. 2 formed a council to coordinate efforts to end Assad’s
rule and stop his deadly crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  