-- 
Inflation Probably Eased in September

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-16T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/u-s-cost-of-living-probably-eased-underscoring-federal-reserve-forecast.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably eased in September and the pace of factory production
held steady, consistent with the  Federal Reserve ’s forecast of
moderating inflation and slow growth, economists said reports
will show this week.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent, the smallest gain in
three months, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before Labor Department data on Oct.
19. Industrial output increased 0.2 percent for a second month
in September, while sales of previously owned homes declined,
other reports may show.  Clothing retailer  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and supermarket chain  Safeway
Inc. (SWY)  said they are limited in how much they can raise prices to
make up for higher raw materials expenses as weak job and income
gains squeeze consumers. Contained inflation expectations and
labor costs gave Fed officials scope last month to pursue
monetary policy geared at stoking the economic recovery.  “The burden has shifted away from inflation,” said
Bricklin Dwyer, an economist at BNP Paribas in New York. “The
Fed’s concern right now is that growth slows too much. The
economy is just muddling along.”  The industry at the forefront of the recovery that began in
June 2009 -- manufacturing -- stumbled in the third quarter as
the global economy cooled and American consumers cut back.  The Fed’s data on September industrial production, or
output at factories, mines and utilities, is due tomorrow.  Regional reports this week may show manufacturing
contracted in October in some areas. The so-called Empire State
Index, which covers  New York , northern  New Jersey , and southern
 Connecticut , will also be released tomorrow. On Oct. 20, the Fed
will report on factory activity in the Philadelphia area.  Equipment Makers  The slowdown helps explain this year’s decline in shares of
equipment makers. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery
Index has fallen almost 14 percent this year compared with a 2.6
percent drop for the broader S&P 500 gauge.  The Labor Department report on consumer prices may also
show that the so-called core index, which excludes volatile food
and fuel costs, climbed 0.2 percent for a fifth consecutive
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Compared with the same month last year, the core CPI gauge
rose 2.1 percent, the most in three years, according to
economists’ median forecast. Fed policy makers aim for long-run
core inflation of about 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Most Fed officials at the Sept. 20-21 meeting anticipated
both core and headline inflation was “likely to settle, over
coming quarters, at or below the levels they see as most
consistent with their dual mandate,” according to minutes
released on Oct. 12.  ‘Decline Moderately’  “With stable inflation expectations, significant slack in
labor and product markets, slow wage growth, and little evidence
of pricing power among firms, inflation was likely to decline
moderately over time,” the minutes said. Participants also saw
“considerable uncertainty surrounding the outlook for a gradual
pickup in economic growth.”  The outlook on inflation is in sync with retailers’ moves.
A jump in cotton expenses hurt Gap’s Old Navy stores that sell
more clothing made of the material, yet it “chose not to raise
prices commensurate with cost given the impact of the tough
economy on our customers,” Chief Financial Officer Sabrina Simmons said on a conference call with analysts on Oct. 13.  Steven Burd, chairman and chief executive officer of
Safeway, said inflation was “predominantly in perishable
categories” and fuel, while there were “a couple of categories
that actually had deflation.” The ability to raise prices was
limited as shoppers at the Pleasanton, California-based company
remain “very conscious” of the price tag, he said.  Price ‘Sensitive’  “When we get a cost increase, we consistently pass it
along,” Burd said on a conference call on Oct. 13. At the same
time “we’re sensitive if we’re approaching a holiday and we’re
sensitive on the promotional price,” he said.  Some raw materials costs are still working their way
through the chain as businesses try to recoup oil and other
commodity expenses that have receded from earlier this year.
Economists forecast a report on Oct. 18 may show the prices paid
to producers rose 0.2 percent last month after no change in
August.  The import-price index, released last week, climbed 0.3
percent in September, reflecting a surge in metals and crude oil
costs from prior months. The CPI is the broadest of three price
gauges from the Labor Department.  While inflation concerns dissipate, housing is weighing on
the economy. Economists in the survey project sales of
previously owned houses dropped 2.1 percent last month, a sign
unemployment at 9.1 percent and persistent foreclosures are
delaying a rebound in the industry. The figures are due from the
National Association of Realtors on Oct. 20.  The Commerce Department may report on Oct. 19 that housing
starts rose 3.9 percent in September from a three-month low,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Permits, a sign of
future construction, probably declined 2.4 percent.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  