-- 
UAW Says 62% of Members Voting in Favor of Ford Agreement

-- B y   B i l l   K o e n i g   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-10-17T01:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/uaw-says-says-57-of-union-members-now-voting-in-favor-of-ford-contract.html
The  United Auto Workers  said 62
percent of its members have voted in favor of a tentative four-
year labor agreement with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  as of 8:30 p.m. New
York time.  The union said 14,845 members at Ford had cast ballots in
favor of the labor deal while 9,076 voted against. The UAW
didn’t specify the percentage of Ford’s 40,600 hourly employees
who have had a chance to vote. Balloting will run through Oct.
18.  The updated tally came after the union said UAW Local 600,
the biggest Ford local union, had voted 62 percent to 38 percent
in favor of the tentative agreement. Local 600 in 2009 voted
against concessions, including a strike ban during this year’s
labor negotiations. UAW members at a Claycomo, Missouri, plant
also voted 88 percent in favor. The union posted the results on
its Facebook page.  “This contract is close to a done deal,” said  Harley Shaiken , labor professor at  University of California  at
Berkeley. “Local 600 is pivotal because it’s the largest Ford
local and is closely watched by other Ford locals. Both the size
and visibility of Local 600 give this contract a major boost.”  Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, was the only U.S.
automaker that faced the possibility of a strike in this year’s
labor negotiations between the union and U.S. automakers. The
UAW agreed to strike bans at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC as part of the U.S.-backed bankruptcies at the
companies.  Fiat SpA (F)  owns a majority of Chrysler.  ‘No’ Votes  “We remain optimistic that the tentative agreement will be
approved,”   Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman, said today. Jimmy Settles, who heads the union’s Ford department, said in an e-
mailed statement that he’s “very optimistic” the tentative
contract will be ratified.  The proposed Ford agreement was rejected last week by
Ford’s  Chicago  assembly plant, which builds the Taurus sedan and
Explorer sport-utility vehicle, and a factory in Wayne,
Michigan, that produces the Focus small car. A metal-stamping
plant in Chicago and a parts plant in Saline, Michigan, also
turned it down.  On Oct. 14, the overall vote total flipped to approval from
rejection after workers at Ford’s Mustang factory in Flat Rock,
Michigan, voted in favor of the proposed agreement along with an
assembly plant in  Minnesota  and at a transmission factory in
Livonia, Michigan. The Flat Rock factory is to get a second
shift to produce the Fusion midsize sedan under the new
contract.  ‘Tough Times’  “These latest votes reflect workers feeling this is a very
good contract in very tough times,” Shaiken said. “If you’re
one of the early plants that votes, you’ve got the luxury of
saying no. If you’re one of the later plants, you’re looking at
a strike.”  Ford has not had a national strike since 1976.  UAW President  Bob King  said Oct. 12 that he expected
members to ratify the agreement reached with Ford on Oct. 4. The
company pledged 12,000 new jobs, $6.2 billion in factory
upgrades, and bonus and profit-sharing payments this year that
total as much as $10,000 per worker. It won’t give raises for
senior workers or restore cost-of-living pay increases workers
gave up to help Ford survive.  ‘Voting on Emotion’  “Times are obviously better for the company and the
executives are getting raises, but they don’t want to give
anything back to the workers,” Gary Walkowicz, a union official
with Local 600 who led a “Vote No” campaign, said Oct. 13.
“People feel they deserve more. There is a lot of anger out
here.”  The UAW’s Settles, in his statement tonight, said Ford
hourly employees had concluded the tentative accord was in their
interest.  “The Ford workers voting early on in the process were
voting on emotion, but workers in plants with voting later in
the process had a chance to learn everything about the agreement
and understood how much their votes counted,” Settles said in
the e-mail.  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two calendar years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. Ford Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s 2010 compensation rose 48
percent to $26.5 million. Ford also awarded him more than $56
million in stock in March for leading the company’s turnaround.  “In early votes, you can vote your anger,” Shaiken said.
“In later votes, you start asking, ’What are my options?’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Koenig in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  