-- 
Must Buy Wines From Campania Include $18 Hefty Red, Fizzy White

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-10-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/must-buy-wines-from-italy-s-campania-include-18-hefty-red-john-mariani.html
Nostalgia and local pride always
play a part in the love of regional wines, whether from the
Loire Valley or the banks of the Rhine. So it’s hard not to be
in thrall to a wine that you’d drink on the island of Capri
overlooking the Tyrrhenian Sea.  Yet until recently I would be hard put to defend the
overall quality of the wines my ancestors drank in Campania, the
region of Capri, Naples and the Amalfi Coast.  Prior to my great grandparents’ emigration to America in
1888, they hadn’t a clue what kind of wines they were drinking
back in the Old Country, where no one had ever tried to classify
one grape from another.  In those days, as in most of  Italy , most grapes were self
propagating, a condition called “promiscuous cultivation,” and
the vines had to compete with other plants for water and
nutrients, thereby producing wines of little character.
Oxidation was considered characteristic; wine was sold almost
exclusively from huge, old, oak barrels.  Even after Italy’s Ministry of Agriculture established its
denomination of wine origins in 1963, it was a frustrating job
to delineate the distinctions among dozens of Campanian grapes
like greco, fiano, falanghina, biancolella and coda di volpe
(tail of the fox).  The first Campanian winery of note was  Mastroberardino  in
Avellina, which in the 1970s pioneered the red wines of taurasi
and ancient near-defunct white varietals like fiano. Now, as
throughout Italy, modern viticulture and technology have allowed
a young breed of Campanian winemakers to reveal the
distinctiveness of their terroirs, from vineyards near Mount
Vesuvius to the island of Capri and the rocky hill towns of the
Picentini Mountains.  Italian Grapes  “What’s important about Campanian wines now,” says
restaurateur and wine writer  Joseph Bastianich , “is that they
are showing the potential of true indigenous Italian varietals
that are just beginning to express themselves.” He sells more
of them at his mid-range restaurants like Esca and Lupa than the
high-end Babbo and  Del Posto , all co-owned with  Mario Batali .  Currently Campania has three D.O.C.G. appellations, Italy’s
top quality guarantee -- fiano di avellino, greco di tufo, and
taurasi. Another 18 are D.O.C., or controlled origin, and there
are nine I.G.T. wines, similar to the French vins de pays,
making quality wines, but with non-traditional grape varieties.  Piney Woods  Fiano is said to taste of the piney woods of its region of
Irpinia; greco di tufo, imported from ancient  Greece , was
originally cultivated around Mount Vesuvius, where it later took
the name Lacryma Christi (“Tears of Christ”). Taurasi is a
big, robust, long-aging red made from aglianico, whose name may
have derived from ellenico, meaning Greek.  I bought a good selection of Campanian wines from a new
wine shop,  San Pietro Wine and Spirits  in Tuckahoe,  New York .
The owners, the Bruno brothers, who run New York’s San Pietro
and Caravaggio restaurants, are from Campania and therefore
proudly promote the wines of the region.  San Salvatore Paestum Fiano 2009 ($19.99)  Made near the sea around Salerno, this fiano has a
characteristic flinty crispness and a little brininess that
makes it ideal with Neapolitan seafood like branzino and orata.  Marisa Cuomo  Costa d’Amalfi Fiorduva 2008 ($62.99)  The price is astonishing for a white Campanian wine, but
Marisa Cuomo is one of the stars of the region, and this blend
of falanghina and biancolella, planted 500 meters above the sea,
is enormous and very rich. To appreciate fully its character,
I’d serve it with the simplest of seafood on the grill.  Marisa Cuomo Furore Blanco 2009 ($22.99)  If the price of the above puts you off, her “white fury”
is still a big mouthful, almost a little fizzy upon being
opened, and with 13.5 percent alcohol, excellent for a dish of
spaghetti with clam sauce. The estate’s red, Fuore Rosso 2009
($22.99) has the same bountiful release of fruit and a balance
of softened tannins. I loved this wine with a grilled
porterhouse steak done over a charcoal fire.  Luigi Maffini  Kratos 2010 ($21.99)  Another of Campania’s bright young lights, Luigi Maffini
modernized his father’s winery of four cultivated hectares,
which now produces about 40,000 bottles of reds and whites. His
Kratos vineyard produces a very pretty white wine in the sense
that it is light and well balanced between fruit and acid,
citrus and apple flavors, making it a wonderful wine with
linguine with garlic and oil or shellfish in a spicy tomato
sauce.  Villa Matilde  Falanghina 2010 ($14.99)  Usually this quite simple wine lacks body and texture, but
I found Villa Matilde’s -- with a big 14 percent alcohol -- to
have the perfume of the Mediterranean in its nose, sun-rich
fruit and a clean, acidic finish. The wine is so good on its
own, I’d serve it as an aperitif with slices of prosciutto or
with a Caprese salad of mozzarella and fresh tomatoes and basil.  Campi Flegrei Piedrosso 2008 ($17.99)  A dominant red varietal in Campania, piedrosso has weight
and heft, and Campi Flegrei, near Naples, respects that. Its
aromatic aroma lasts and lasts, and fruit and tannin flow easily
on the palate. This is an $18 wine I’d gladly pay double for.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 