-- 
Sana’a Rocked by Explosions as Saleh’s Troops Battle Yemen Tribal Forces

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-10-17T18:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-16/yemen-s-capital-rocked-by-explosions-arab-league-meets-on-syria-violence.html
Yemen’s capital was rocked by
explosions and gunfire as forces loyal to President Ali Abdullah Saleh battled tribal opponents and fired at demonstrators.  Four people died after a protest camp outside Sana’a
University was hit by shells, and at least 25 were injured,
Mohammed al-Qubati, a coordinator at the field clinic in the
capital’s central Taghyeer Square, said by phone today.  Eight supporters of Sadiq al-Ahmar, leader of Yemen’s
Hashid tribal confederation, were killed in shelling yesterday
and today in the capital, according to an e-mailed statement
from al-Ahmar’s office. Twenty supporters were wounded, and the
casualty count is expected to rise, his office said.  The army shelled several districts of Sana’a with artillery
and mortars,  Al Arabiya  television said. A civilian was killed
in the northern Hasaba neighborhood, al-Qaisi said. Saleh
accused the opposition of trying to grab power, and said his
government has proof of cooperation between the Muslim
Brotherhood and al-Qaeda to encourage unrest.  Violence in Yemen, the Arab world’s poorest country, has
escalated since Saleh returned to the country last month after
recuperating in Saudia Arabia from injuries sustained during a
rocket attack. Demonstrations have been held almost daily since
January demanding the removal of Saleh, a U.S. ally who has held
power for more than three decades.  GCC Peace Plan  The president says he still backs a Gulf Cooperation
Council plan for elections and a handover of power, which he has
failed to sign in the five months since it was first proposed.  The six-nation GCC has rejected a request by Saleh to make
changes to the proposed peace accord that would allow him to
remain in power until 2013, AP said, citing an unidentified
Yemeni Foreign Ministry official.  Thousands of women congregated in front of the Foreign
Ministry in Sana’a today, calling for the international
community to intervene and stop the violence after the death of
a woman yesterday in clashes in the southern city of Taiz.  Protesters also clashed with security forces and gunmen
loyal to the president in Sana’a yesterday, and at least 14
people died, according to Al Jazeera television.  Fighting in the capital began soon after midnight local
time, intensifying around 3 a.m. as explosions shook parts of
the capital, the  Associated Press  said. The blasts halted at
dawn with the Muslim call to prayer and resumed shortly after,
it said.  The Defense Ministry website reported today that a
tribesman loyal to Saleh was killed by Ahmar supporters. Al
Arabiya said that a brother of the tribal leader Saghir bin Ali,
a Saleh supporter, was among the dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  