-- ‘Ghost Rider’ Belongs to Marvel, Not Creator, U.S. Judge Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2011-12-29T07:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/-ghost-rider-copyright-belongs-to-marvel-not-creator-u-s-judge-says.html
Walt Disney Co.’s (DIS)  Marvel
Entertainment won a second challenge over the ownership of its
comic book characters, with a New York judge dismissing claims
from the creator of  “Ghost Rider”  of copyright infringement.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in  Manhattan  ruled
yesterday that Gary Friedrich, who conceived and wrote the 1972
story of the motorcycle-riding character with a blazing skull
for a head, signed over all rights to the character to Marvel in
1971 and again in 1978.  “Either of those contractual transfers would be sufficient
to resolve the question of ownership,” Forrest wrote.
“Together, they provide redundancy to the answer that leaves no
doubt as to its correctness.”  Copyright challenges to Marvel characters from their
creators have threatened to undermine Marvel’s movie projects
based on those creations. “Ghost Rider,” a 2007 film starring
Nicolas Cage, grossed $115.8 million in the U.S. and  Canada ,
according to researcher  Box Office Mojo . A sequel is scheduled
to be released next year.  In July, U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan
dismissed an ownership claim to the Incredible Hulk and X-Men by
the heirs of Jack Kirby, the superheroes’ co-creator.  Kirby, who died in 1994, also created or co-created the
Fantastic Four and the Avengers. His heirs said their father was
a freelance artist paid by the page who received no benefits
from Marvel. Stan Lee, who worked for Marvel as an editor, is
credited as co-author of the Hulk.  McMahon said Kirby’s creations were works-for-hire and as
such belonged to Marvel.  Forrest, in her ruling, said she didn’t need to determine
whether the Ghost Rider was a work-for-hire because it was clear
Friedrich granted Marvel the rights to the character in his
contracts.  The case is Gary Friedrich Enterprises v. Marvel
Enterprises, 08-cv-01533, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  