-- ‘Shocked’ Regulator to Review Indian Share Sale Rules
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2011-12-29T13:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/-shocked-regulator-to-review-indian-share-sale-rules-1-.html
India’s capital market  regulator  is
reviewing the initial public offering process to stop companies
from raising funds using falsified information, after seven
firms were found to have violated rules.  The  Securities and Exchange Board of India  will take some
“immediate measures” following its investigation into the
seven IPOs, Chairman U.K. Sinha said today. The regulator barred
the companies from raising more money from the  capital markets ,
according to separate  rulings  posted on its website.  The latest ruling is part of the authorities’ move to raise
corporate governance standards in the $1 trillion market and
attract more overseas investors. The SEBI order showed that the
companies including  Bharatiya Global  Infomedia Ltd (IFM)  (BGIL). and  PG
Electroplast Ltd (PGEL) . failed to make full disclosures and misused
the share sale proceeds.  “I am shocked at the audacity of the perpetrators of this
offense,” Sinha said in an interview to Bloomberg UTV. “While
the review of the initial public offer process may take some
time, we will come out with some immediate measures in light of
the learning we made from the investigations.”  Taksheel Solutions Ltd (TAKS) .,  Tijaria Polypipes Ltd (TPOL) .,  Brooks
Laboratories Ltd (BKL) ., Onelife Capital Advisors Ltd. and  RDB
Rasayans Ltd (RDBR) . were the other companies barred from accessing
public funds, according to the regulator’s statement. SEBI asked
the companies to place the unutilized money from their share
sales in an interest-bearing escrow account with a bank.  Shares Slump  All seven companies dropped at least 5 percent at close in
Mumbai today. PG Electroplast slumped 17 percent and Brooks
Laboratories sank 10 percent. Onelife plunged 8 percent.  The companies have lost at least half their market value
since their listing in the past six months.  Rakesh Bhhatia, chairman of Bharatiya Global, has been
associated with three listed companies, the regulator said in
the order. One of the companies, Pan  India  Corp., has fallen 98
percent since listing in 1994 and now trades at 45 paise.
Another company, SRG Financial & Management Consultants Ltd., of
which Bhhatia was chairman, no longer exists. He wasn’t
available at his office in Noida, near Delhi, when called for
comment.  Onelife Capital proposed to utilize 34 percent of its
initial share sale money to set up offices for its portfolio
management service business, without making “any
arrangements,” to set up the business at the time of filing the
final prospectus, the order said. During the IPO, Onelife
Capital took a loan to set up the business, without notifying
investors, SEBI said.  Investment Bankers  Sumit Gupta, an assistant vice president at Onelife
Capital, declined to comment, saying the company is studying the
order. Officials at the other six firms weren’t available to
comment when Bloomberg News called their offices.  “This order should be a strong deterrent for such IPOs and
the merchant bankers who handle them,” Prithvi Haldea, chairman
of PRIME Database, which tracks initial share offerings, told
Bloomberg UTV today.  The regulator also barred three investment bankers
including  Almondz Global Securities Ltd. (AGSL) , Atherstone Capital
Markets Ltd. and PNB Investment Services Ltd. which managed the
share sales, for failing to check facts.  Vinay Mehta, chief executive officer of Almondz Global
wasn’t immediately available for comment at his office in  New
Delhi , while Gurunath M Mudlapur, managing director, Atherstone
Capital, didn’t answer two calls to his cellphone. J. K.
Agarwal, chief operating officer at PNB Investment declined to
comment.  “We want the market to be a place where rules of the game
are followed,” SEBI’s Sinha said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  