-- Adele, Bon Iver Beat Coldplay, Chilis for 2011’s Top CD: Review
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2011-12-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/adele-bon-iver-beat-coldplay-chilis-for-2011-s-top-cd-review.html
The year started with Lady Gaga’s
forecast that her new CD would be the century’s best.  Now 2011 ends with Gaga’s “little monster” fans resorting
to Twitter sniping at her British rival Adele, whose “21” is the
best selling album in four years, shifting more than  13 million 
copies worldwide, according to her record label, XL.  Adele’s commercial success has alienated those critics who
shy away from recommending anything too obvious. Still, “21”
remains the finest of the 1,000 or so new CDs I’ve heard in
2011, and a strong pick for  Grammy  and  Brit  award success in
February. It’s retro in an Amy Winehouse way, right from
“Rolling in the Deep” through to the closing “Someone Like You.”  Gaga’s “Born This Way” has its moments, with the title
track all over the airwaves, and she certainly bettered  Britney Spears , peddling the same disco vibe as Rihanna and Katy Perry.  Two relatively obscure bands, the Fleet Foxes and Bon Iver,
returned with challenging second albums. I loved “Helplessness
Blues” by the Foxes from its first play and, like Adele’s, I
gave it a ***** rating. While I initially awarded a less
enthusiastic *** ½ to Bon Iver’s eponymous CD, I kept coming
back to its subtle charms, whatever else was on the review pile.
With a few months’ perspective, it’s a real grower.  No need for second thoughts on two U.S. veterans who
released their finest work in years. Tom Waits growls his way to
more greatness on “Bad as Me.” Ry Cooder gets rude about bankers
on the Woody Guthrie-like “Pull Up Some Dust and Sit Down.”  English Roses  Exceptional CDs by British chanteuses included “Let England
Shake,” P.J. Harvey’s concept album about war, which won the
Mercury Prize. Florence Welch blasted out on Florence & the
Machine’s poppy “Ceremonials” and Anna Calvi made an assured
self-titled debut.  Laura Marling ’s thoughtful “A Creature I
Don’t Know,” Kate Bush’s ambient “50 Words for Snow” and Katy
B’s danceable “On a Mission” weren’t far behind.  While Winehouse’s posthumous “Lioness” was a patchy
farewell, the great Gil Scott-Heron lived to hear the splendid
remix of his work by  Jamie XX , “ We’re New Here .” He died shortly
afterwards.  Those heading for the holiday sales won’t go far wrong by
buying any of these impressive CDs:  Paul Simon ’s literate “So
Beautiful or So What”; U.S. singer Eilen Jewell’s bluesy “Queen
of the Minor Key”; Drake’s crooned “Take Care’; Danger Mouse’s
filmic “Rome”; Leslie Feist’s moody “Metals” or pianist Jon
Regen’s jazzy “Revolution.”  Loud and Proud  All of the above are good for late-night introspection.
Those wanting something louder can opt for the Beastie Boys, who
made some noise with “Hot Sauce Committee Part Two” and
Mastodon, making even more with “The Hunter.” Just a notch
behind them, the Foo Fighters melted speakers with “Wasting
Light.”  For those who got past the hideous  Damien Hirst  fly cover,
the Red Hot Chili Peppers crank up their guitars on “I’m With
You.” For my money, the best offering from a U.S. group in 2011
was “The Whole Love” by indie darlings Wilco, while “The King Is
Dead” by the Decemberists was a pastoral delight.  There were some disappointments.  Lou Reed  and Metallica’s
“Lulu,”  Mick Jagger ’s “SuperHeavy” project and the Strokes’s
comeback fell short of their considerable hype. Jay-Z and Kanye West’s collaborative “Watch the Throne” failed to deliver on its
boasted brilliance.  Bickering Brothers  There was as much braggadocio from the Gallagher brothers
who used to be Oasis (and, it seems, will be again when they
have finished bickering). Liam struck first with the half-baked
Beady Eye. Noel did better with High Flying Birds.  British groups made some impressive music that’s worth a
listen. Try “Skying” by the Horrors, “A Different Kind of Fix”
by Bombay Bicycle Club, “The English Riviera” by Metronomy,
“Suck It and See” by the Arctic Monkeys and “Build a Rocket
Boys” by Elbow.  Coldplay’s “Mylo Xyloto” has little to dislike and much to
like. It’s professionally produced, tuneful and so safe as to be
a little dull. Radiohead’s “King of Limbs” is a little more edgy
-- the best rock is usually a little provocative. It’s what it’s
there for, right?  Prices start at $9.99 and download prices vary across
services.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 