-- Asia Crisis Haunts Thailand With Over $35B Debt
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2011-12-30T03:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/thai-central-bank-may-be-saddled-with-debt.html
Thailand ’s government will today
press the central bank chief to take on $35 billion of legacy
debt from bank bailouts as Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra
looks for fiscal scope to finance flood defenses.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul meets with
cabinet members in Bangkok over the proposal to shift the debt
to the BOT’s balance sheet. Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na- Ranong said yesterday the step would save the government as much
as 65 billion baht ($2 billion) in annual interest costs that
could be used to fund anti-flood measures.  The push risks deepening concern that Yingluck’s
administration is infringing on the central bank’s independence,
after Kittiratt in October said the BOT should lower  interest
rates  to help businesses cope with the country’s worst flooding
since 1942. The government itself lacks unanimity on the move,
with Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala warning it
could hurt investor confidence and stoke inflation.  “The weakening of the baht in the last few days may come
from this concern about inflation,” said Somprawin Manprasert,
an economist at Tisco Securities in Bangkok. “It’s not a good
thing to do at all and will hurt both fiscal and monetary
discipline. People will start to think that if the government
can do it one time, they can do it again when debts pile up.”  The baht yesterday fell the most in two months to 31.75 per
dollar, the weakest level since Aug. 16, 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was unchanged today as of 8:46 a.m. in
Bangkok, set for its biggest annual loss since 2005. The
benchmark  SET Index (SET)  has dropped 1.8 percent over the past six
days, the worst performer in  Asia  after  Vietnam  in that time.  ‘Quite Strange’  Thailand’s Cabinet resolved earlier this week to study
moving 1.1 trillion baht in debt incurred bailing out financial
institutions 14 years ago onto the central bank’s balance sheet.
Prasarn said this week it was “quite strange” that the
government didn’t discuss the debt transfer officially with the
central bank before bringing the issue to the Cabinet.  “Our losses on the balance sheet will be higher and that
may affect confidence,” Prasarn told reporters on Dec. 28.  The Financial Institutions Development Fund racked up a 1.4
trillion baht debt during the 1997 Asian financial crisis on
loans aimed at rescuing struggling lenders. The government
closed more than 60 non-bank financial companies and seized half
of the nation’s 14 commercial banks that received help from the
fund.  Under a  repayment agreement  in 2002, the  finance ministry 
makes interest payments while the central bank pays down the
principal whenever it earns a yearly profit. The Bank of
Thailand has reported annual net income  once since 2004 (BOT)  and last
year reported a net loss of 117 billion baht, mostly due to
losses on foreign exchange.  Proud to Repay  Since 1997, the principal on the debt has fallen by 300
billion baht, or about 21 billion baht per year. During that
time the government has paid as much as 65 billion baht in
interest annually, according to Kittiratt, who said yesterday
the central bank would report a “record high profit” for 2011.  “The central bank should be proud that they can take care
of part of the nation’s debts,” he told reporters in Bangkok
yesterday. “If we transfer the debt to the Bank of Thailand, it
will help reduce the government’s concerns.”  The move would reduce the public debt-to-gross domestic
product ratio by 10 percentage points from 40 percent now,
providing room for more  government borrowing , Kittiratt said.
Thailand’s Cabinet this week approved a proposal to borrow 350
billion baht to set up a fund for long-term water-management
projects following the floods.  ‘Amend the Bible’  The government’s move has more to do with sidestepping
restrictions on budget deficits than its ability to borrow, said
Sethaput Suthiwart-Narueput, managing partner of Advisor Co., a
Bangkok-based corporate advisory, and former executive vice
president of Siam Commercial Bank Pcl. Yingluck’s government
could spend more by passing a stimulus bill as the previous
administration did in 2009, he said.  Thailand’s  Budget Procedures Act  passed in 1959 prevents
the government from borrowing more than 20 percent of approved
annual budget expenditures plus 80 percent of expenses allocated
to government debt payments.  The government is “trying to get more spending out without
having to issue a new law,” he said. “They certainly don’t
want to amend the budget law because to do that it would be seen
as ‘Oh my God, they are undermining the fiscal discipline our
forefathers put in place.’ It’s like trying to amend the
Bible.”  Printing Money  Thirachai, the finance minister, suggested allowing the use
of interest from the country’s $167 billion in foreign reserves,
amounting to 25 billion baht this year, for debt payments. His
predecessor under the previous government, Korn Chatikavanij,
said such a move would “retain the prudency and accountability
and transparency of the current structure.”  The debt “is a burden for sure, but what would be worse is
trying to push it off the government balance sheet and pretend
it doesn’t exist,” Korn said in a telephone interview. “It
would also be detrimental to the central bank, which would have
no way to repay the debt except printing fresh money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  