-- Taiwan Extends Rate Pause as ‘Global Ructions’ Hurt Growth
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2011-12-29T10:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/taiwan-extends-rate-pause-as-global-ructions-hurt-growth-1-.html
Taiwan ’s central bank left interest
rates unchanged for a second straight quarter to support
domestic spending as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis hurts
exports and threatens jobs.  The central bank left the  discount rate on 10-day loans (TAREDSC)  to
banks at 1.875 percent, it said in Taipei today. Eleven of 15
economists predicted the decision in a Bloomberg News survey.
Four expected policy makers to cut the key rate to 1.75 percent
after keeping it unchanged in September for the first time in
six quarters.  Pressure is mounting on Asian policy makers to protect
their economies as Europe struggles to contain a two-year-old
crisis that began in  Greece , while the death of North Korean
leader  Kim Jong Il  this month raised the risk of political
instability. In Taiwan, President Ma Ying-jeou is seeking re-
election next month amid slowing growth, a stock market slump,
near-record  home prices  and stagnant wages.  “Global ructions have led the central bank to refrain from
tightening policy further,” Katrina Ell, a Sydney-based
economist at Moody’s Analytics, said before the decision. “If
the global environment deteriorates, rate cuts are expected.”  The  Taiex stock index (TWSE)  has tumbled 21 percent in 2011,
heading for its worst year since the 2008 global financial
crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The index ended
up 0.3 percent before today’s decision. The  Taiwan dollar  was
little changed at NT$30.29 against its U.S. counterpart at the 4
p.m. close, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  Inflation Concern  Central banks in  Indonesia (IDBIRATE) , the  Philippines (PPCBON)  and  South Korea (KORP7DR) 
all kept their benchmark rates unchanged this month as Europe’s
debt crisis dimmed the outlook of Asian exporters.  While Taiwan’s property prices have stabilized and currency
appreciation has helped eased imported inflation pressure, the
central bank is concerned about inflation next year, Governor
Perng Fai-nan said in a briefing in Taipei today.  Long and short-term  interest rates  remain low, and Taiwan
doesn’t have a credit-tightening crisis, the central bank said,
and Perng said it will continue to sell 364-day negotiable
certificates of deposit. The bank said it will keep its 2012 M2
growth target zone at 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent.  “The central bank is clearly concerned by the inflation
outlook,” said  Tony Phoo , a Taipei-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. “Housing rents and other costs are rising, which
is making the upside to inflation quite stubborn.”  Growth Forecast  Taiwan’s government last month cut its forecast for 2011
growth to 4.51 percent and said the economy’s expansion will
slow to 4.19 percent in 2012. The administration also lowered
its projection for inflation this year to 1.37 percent from 1.51
percent, and forecasts consumer prices will rise 1.14 percent in
2012.  Taiwan’s  inflation (TWCPIYOY)  eased to a 13-month low of 1.01 percent
in November, while industrial production declined 3.55 percent.
Exports are equivalent to about two-thirds of Taiwan’s economy,
which expanded at the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter.  Taipei-based  Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s fourth-biggest computer
maker, has lost money and market share for the past two quarters
amid stiffer competition and inventory write-offs in Europe.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , a Hsinchu, Taiwan-based maker of
liquid-crystal displays, last month cut the salaries of its
president and vice-presidents by 15 percent after posting a
third-quarter loss, while a total of 100 companies reached
agreements with 10,130 workers to take unpaid leave as of Dec.
15, the Council of Labor Affairs said this month.  The average price in existing homes in Taipei climbed 1.8
percent to NT$558,000 per ping, equivalent to 36 square feet, in
November, after declining the previous month from a record
NT$571,000 in September, according to Sinyi Realty Co., the
island’s biggest real-estate brokerage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  