-- Takeovers Slump to Lowest in Year as Europe Saps Confidence
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2011-12-29T16:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/takeovers-slump-to-lowest-in-year-as-debt-crisis-saps-confidence.html
The value of global takeovers
dropped to the lowest level in more than a year this quarter,
and dealmakers say Europe’s debt crisis may hamper a recovery in
2012 as cash-rich companies hold off on major purchases.  Mergers and acquisitions have slumped 15 percent from the
previous three months to $464 billion, making the fourth quarter
the slowest since mid-2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. For the year to date, announced takeover volume has
risen just 3.2 percent to $2.26 trillion after regulatory
hurdles scuttled  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s  bid (T)  for  T-Mobile USA , which would
have been 2011’s biggest deal.  Tightening credit markets, the risk of a euro-zone collapse
and stock-market  swings (MXWO)  have deterred companies from pursuing
transformational deals that would spur sales growth, M&A bankers
said. Earlier in 2011, more favorable conditions emboldened
acquirers to part with stockpiled cash, such as Johnson &
Johnson’s $21.3 billion bid for Synthes Inc. and Express Scripts
Inc.’s $29.1 billion offer for Medco Health Solutions Inc.  “There’s definitely pent-up demand for M&A as well-
capitalized companies continue to focus on opportunities for
strategic acquisitions,” said Yoel Zaoui, co-head of global M&A
at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “The key driver for M&A, however,
is confidence, and in Europe, at the moment, that is lacking.”  Seven of the year’s 10 biggest deals were announced before
August, when European markets fell the most since October 2008
amid a global stock rout and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.
credit rating. Goldman Sachs is the top adviser on global
takeovers for 2011, with $537 billion of deals this year,
followed by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley, Bloomberg
data show. This year’s growth in M&A volume compares with a 24
percent jump in 2010.  ‘Wait and See’  Europe’s financial crisis will stifle lending, push the
region into recession and weigh on the  U.S. economy  through
early 2012, Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs’s chief economist, said
on a Nov. 30 conference call. The euro zone’s unemployment rose
to 10.3 percent in October, the highest since the currency began
in 1999.  As the European crisis deepened, “dealmakers entered a
wait-and-see mode, and that’s where we are now,” said  Paul Parker , global head of M&A at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in  New York .
“Offsetting forces such as companies’ cash piles and low
valuations should drive the recovery of M&A activity in the
second half of the year.”  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of about 1,600 companies trades for
12.6 times reported earnings, showing equities in developed
economies are cheaper than they’ve been more than 95 percent of
the time since 1995, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Those companies are also sitting on $5.3 trillion in cash, the
data show.  Antitrust Hurdles  Companies that did tap funds this year may not be able to
complete their purchases as regulatory scrutiny threatens to
derail more takeovers. Express Scripts’s offer for Medco, which
would create the largest U.S. manager of pharmacy benefits for
employers, insurers and union health plans, has prompted state
inquiries over whether the combination would command too much
market power.  AT&T abandoned efforts to buy T-Mobile USA from  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  this month after the U.S. Justice Department sued the
companies in August, saying a combination would substantially
reduce competition. Companies contemplating similar deals may
hold off until the next presidential election in the hope that a
Republican White House would make it easier to win approval for
big transactions, said Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based policy
analyst with Medley Global Advisors.  European Deals  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext this week delayed the
deadline for completing their merger until March 31 as the
exchange operators try to persuade European Union regulators to
approve the deal. While the U.S. cleared the combination, the EU
has told the companies that concessions they offered to allay
antitrust concerns don’t go far enough, two people familiar with
the talks said this month.  Dealmaking involving European companies rose 2.6 percent
this year, bolstered by the first half. For the fourth quarter,
announced volume sank 13 percent from the previous three months
to $162.6 billion. Valuations have also dropped, making the  MSCI
Europe Index (MXEU)  even cheaper than the MSCI World Index at 10.8
times earnings. That may create opportunities for buyers from
nations such as  China .  “Chinese companies have been very successful at buying
natural resources in emerging markets, and they are now very
supportive of buying industrial assets in Europe,” said Thierry d’Argent, global head of M&A at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA in Paris.  Asia Pacific  French dairy-product maker Yoplait and the aviation unit of
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc both attracted interest from
Chinese bidders this year, according to people with knowledge of
those negotiations.  The value of acquisitions involving Asia Pacific companies
rose 4.2 percent to $701 billion this year, according to
Bloomberg data. The biggest deal was Nippon Steel Corp.’s
proposed takeover of Sumitomo Metal Industries for about $22
billion, including debt. That was followed by BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s purchase of Houston-based oil and gas explorer Petrohawk
Energy Corp.  Foreign buyers also spent more on Asia Pacific in 2011 than
any year since 2007, according to the data. The largest overseas
bid was SABMiller Plc’s $10 billion takeover of Australian beer
maker Fosters Group Ltd., the data show. Among Asian countries,
Japan overtook China as the biggest acquirer of foreign assets
for the first time since 2008 after the March 11 earthquake
spurred companies to retrench.  Japan’s Takeovers  “Japanese industries had been shrinking, and companies
needed growth drivers,” said Kenji Fujita, head of M&A advisory
at Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Securities Co., the Tokyo-based
investment banking venture of Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. “The earthquake raised the urgency for
that.”  Japan’s Kirin Holdings Co. bought Brazilian beermaker
Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes, and China
Petrochemical Corp., or Sinopec, agreed to purchase a 30 percent
stake in Galp Energia SGPS SA’s Brazilian unit.  Still, after a record-high volume of $161 billion in 2010,
the volume of announced deals involving Brazilian companies
tumbled to $99.6 billion this year as the Brazilian real
strengthened while the country’s economy slowed.  “I’m glad to leave 2011 behind,” said Flavio Tavares
Valadao, head of corporate finance at  Banco Santander  do Brasil
SA, based in Sao Paulo. “Deals are difficult to make and
companies are worried for the future.”  Brazilian Deals  Santander worked on  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s merger of its Brazilian
fixed line unit,  Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA (TLPP3) ’s with its
mobile unit, Vivo Participacoes SA. The Spanish bank also
advised Spain’s Iberdrola SA on the acquisition of Brazil’s
Elektro Eletricidade & Servicos SA for 1.77 billion euros ($2.3
billion).  Dealmakers predict that technology, industrials, natural
resources and health care will continue to be the sectors most
actively consolidating, especially if European policy makers can
prevent financial turmoil from spreading to more countries.  “Companies need to have more confidence that we aren’t
going to have a break-up of the euro,” said Mark Shafir, global
head of M&A at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  “If you got that cleared up, then
the first half of next year could be a lot better than the
second half of 2011 has been.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  