-- Alcoa Accused of Bribing Alba Officials in Aluminum Scheme
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-30T03:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/alcoa-bribed-alba-officials-in-aluminum-scheme-lawsuit-claims.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA)  was accused of using a
middleman to bribe officials at Bahrain’s state-owned aluminum
producer to reap more than $400 million in illegal profit,
according to new claims filed in a racketeering lawsuit.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, made tens of
millions of dollars in illegal payments through an intermediary
to an official at Aluminium Bahrain BSC, known as Alba, and the
government of Bahrain, according to court papers filed yesterday
in federal court in Pittsburgh. The company also paid more than
$5 million in bribes to former Alba Chief Executive Officer
Bruce Hall, according to the filing.  Alba sued Alcoa in February 2008 claiming the New York-
based company caused it to pay inflated prices for alumina, the
principal raw material in aluminum. The case was closed after
the U.S. Justice Department said it was investigating whether
Alcoa made corrupt payments in  Bahrain . It was reopened in
November after a judge ruled that Alba could file an amended
complaint and a statement laying out its racketeering case.  Mike Belwood, a spokesman for Alcoa, said the claims in
Alba’s case are “not supported by the facts.”  ‘Another Recitation’  “Nothing in the statement filed yesterday changes our
view,” Belwood said in a phone interview. “Alba’s statement is
yet another recitation of the alleged misdeed of Victor Dahdaleh
and Bahraini officials in an attempt to try and construct a
claim and survive Alcoa’s upcoming motion to dismiss.”  Alcoa asked to reopen the case in November and sought
permission to file a motion seeking its dismissal because
racketeering law “does not apply to the extraterritorial
conduct,” alleged by Alba, according to court papers.  Dahdaleh, a British and Canadian national who lives in
 London , was charged in October by the U.K.’s Serious Fraud
Office with paying bribes to officials of a smelting company in
Bahrain to win contracts for Alcoa to supply alumina. Dahdaleh
denies wrongdoing, according to his  law firm , Allen & Overy LLP.  Hall couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on the
filing.  Dahdaleh allegedly received the payments from Alcoa and
transferred those in the form of bribes to induce former
officers of Alba and the Bahrain government to ensure Alcoa
retained the business, according to the court filing. The
payments also pressured those officials to provide competing bid
information to Dahdaleh. Dahdaleh funneled the bribes through
numerous shell companies, according to the filing.  Alcoa said in an October court filing that it has
cooperated over the past three years in the Justice Department
probe and a related investigation by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The case is  Aluminium Bahrain BSC (ALBH)  v. Alcoa Inc., 08-
cv-00299, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania 
(Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  