-- Alibaba Hired Duberstein Group for Washington Lobbying Help
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2011-12-29T21:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/alibaba-hired-lobbying-firm-duberstein-group-to-aid-in-possible-yahoo-deal.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (ALIBABZ) . hired
 Washington  lobbying firm Duberstein Group Inc. earlier this year
as it explored potential transactions involving Yahoo! Inc.  Duberstein, founded by Kenneth Duberstein, a former chief
of staff under President  Ronald Reagan , disclosed its
affiliation with Alibaba’s legal representatives in  a filing 
this month.  Alibaba,  China ’s largest e-commerce business, has sought to
buy back a stake that Yahoo owns in the company. It stepped up
efforts to make a deal after the September ouster of Yahoo Chief
Executive Officer  Carol Bartz , who opposed a sale. Yahoo also is
considering proposals by private-equity firms seeking to buy
minority stakes, people with knowledge of the talks have said.  Yahoo’s 40 percent stake in Alibaba has given it a piece of
the fast-growing Chinese market, helping maintain the U.S.
Internet company’s value even as it loses ground to Google Inc.
and Facebook Inc. Yahoo acquired the stake in Hangzhou, China-
based Alibaba for about $1 billion in 2005.  Yahoo has considered offers for a minority stake from
bidders such as TPG Capital and a group led by  Silver Lake ,
people familiar with the matter have said. Silver Lake’s bid
valued Yahoo at about $16.60 a share, these people said. TPG
Capital’s offer was higher, they said.  Huawei’s Example  Alibaba’s involvement in a deal may draw scrutiny from the
U.S. government, especially because Yahoo handles online
communications for millions of Americans.  In 2008, China’s Huawei Technologies Co. dropped a bid for
Marlborough, Massachusetts-based computer-equipment maker 3Com
Corp. after the U.S. government began investigating whether a
deal would give China access to technology used by the Defense
Department.  John Spelich, an Alibaba spokesman, declined to comment, as
did Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo. The Duberstein Group said it doesn’t comment on its
clients.  Yahoo shares (YHOO)  rose 2.2 percent to $16.13 at the close in  New
York . The stock has declined 3 percent this year.  Alibaba hiring Duberstein was previously reported by
Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  