-- BP, Ally Financial, Comcast, Madoff, Actavis, Deutsche Bahn in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-29T13:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/ally-financial-madoff-actavis-deutsche-bahn-in-court-news.html
U.S. prosecutors are preparing what
would be the first criminal charges against  BP Plc (BP/)  staff after
the worst U.S. oil spill last year, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Prosecutors are focusing on whether some BP employees,
including several Houston-based engineers and at least one
supervisor, provided false information to regulators about the
risks linked to the drilling of the Macondo well in the Gulf of
Mexico, the Journal said.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP in Chicago, and David
Nicholas, a London-based spokesman for the company, declined to
comment on the report.  The U.S. government and BP are set to start a trial on Feb.
27 that will determine liability for the April 2010 well blast
that killed 11 workers and triggered the leak of millions of
gallons of crude. BP has agreed to settlements with four of six
companies involved and may make a similar arrangement with the
U.S. Justice Department, avoiding litigation as President Barack
Obama seeks re-election next year, RBC Capital Markets said.  “This increases the onus on all parties to reach a
settlement,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at RBC in  London .
“That would take the heat off the individuals involved. Obama
would like to put this fully to bed before the election.”  The well blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig led to
hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP. The company spent
$17.7 billion last year on its response to the spill and set up
a $20 billion compensation fund for victims. Most of the
lawsuits have been consolidated in New Orleans under U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier , who will decide who was at fault
before ruling on penalties in proceedings that may take years.  For more, click here.  New Suits  Ally Financial  Sued by Financial Guaranty Over Soured Loans  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  was sued by Financial Guaranty
Insurance Co. over soured mortgage loans backing securities sold
to investors and insured by Financial Guaranty.  Ally’s Residential Funding unit made “material
misrepresentations” about the loans, which were riskier than
promised, Financial Guaranty said in two lawsuits filed Dec. 27
in  New York  State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “The levels of defaults and losses, and therefore the
amount of claims presented to FGIC, have been overwhelming,”
the company said in court papers.  The lawsuits involve insurance policies issued by Financial
Guaranty in connection with about $1.9 billion in mortgage-
backed securities, according to court papers.  FGIC Corp. (3360Q) , the
New York-based holding company for Financial Guaranty, filed for
bankruptcy in 2010. Financial Guaranty previously sued Ally
units in November.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, said in
an e-mail that the transactions are those of its ResCap unit, a
separate legal entity, and there is “no merit” to Ally being
named in the complaint.  “We believe there are substantial legal and factual
defenses related to the FGIC claims against ResCap, and we
intend to defend that position aggressively,” she said.  The cases are Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. v. Ally
Financial Inc., 653621-2011, and Financial Guaranty Insurance
Co. v. Ally Financial, 653623-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Synthes Accuses Stryker of Raiding California Sales Force  A unit of  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , the world’s largest maker of bone-
related medical devices, accused Stryker Corp. in a lawsuit of
raiding its San Francisco sales force and using confidential
information from former employees.  Stryker seeks to obtain “an improper competitive
advantage” in the industry for medical implants and instruments
used in spinal surgery, Synthes USA Sales LLC said in the
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Philadelphia.
Synthes also accused three former sales employees of
misappropriating trade secrets and breaching their contractual
and fiduciary obligations to the company.  The former employees resigned from Synthes from August to
early October, according to the complaint. They immediately
began working for Stryker, one of the company’s direct
competitors, and are soliciting former customers, according to
the court filing.  Representatives of Kalamazoo, Michigan-based Stryker didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone message at the company
headquarters seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Synthes USA Sales LLC v.  Stryker Corp. (SYK) , 11-
cv-07876, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  Vulcan Materials Sued by Fund Over Martin Marietta Offer  Vulcan Materials Co.’s board was sued by KBC Asset
Management NV over accusations the directors are trying to
thwart a hostile takeover bid by  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)   Martin Marietta announced an all-stock bid for Vulcan Dec.
12 that was valued at more than $4 billion. The offer was made
directly to investors after Vulcan, the largest U.S. producer of
crushed stone, broke off merger negotiations.  “The exchange offer provides significant bird-in-hand
value to Vulcan’s shareholders in light of Vulcan’s poor
performance over the recent periods,” Belgium-based KBC, with
more than 44,000 Vulcan shares, contends in the complaint.  The lawsuit, filed Dec. 27 in federal court in Birmingham,
Alabama, is one of at least four being pursued in three states
over the deal. On Dec. 19, Birmingham-based Vulcan sued in the
same court asking a judge to block the takeover. Martin
Marietta, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, sued Vulcan in
Delaware Chancery Court Dec. 12 to try to validate the offer.
Martin also sued Vulcan Dec. 12 in Superior Court in Trenton,
New Jersey, to the same end.  KBC asks for a jury trial and an order that the board
seriously consider the offer, exclusive of self-dealing.  The latest case is KBC Asset Management NV v.  Vulcan
Materials Co. (VMC)  11-CV-4323, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Alabama, Southern Division (Birmingham).  Ex-NBA Team Official Sues Comcast Over 76ers Finder’s Fee  A  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  unit was sued by former Portland
Trailblazers President Bob Whitsitt over a finder’s fee related
to the sale of the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team.  Comcast-Spectacor LP refused to pay a $2 million fee to
Whitsitt and Thomas Shine, a senior vice president for Reebok
International Ltd., after they introduced the company to
potential buyers, according to a complaint filed Dec. 27 in
federal court in Philadelphia.  “The reasons articulated by defendants for their failure
to pay are patently frivolous and irrelevant as they impose
conditions for payment that do not exist in the agreement
between the parties,” Shine and Whitsitt said in the complaint.  A group led by Joshua Harris, the co-founder of  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , agreed to buy the National Basketball
Association team in July for about $280 million. The group,
which made the purchase as a personal investment, includes  David
Blitzer , who helped create the European office of  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , Art Wrubel and Jason Levien.  In the complaint, Shine claims he introduced Levien and
other potential buyers to Comcast-Spectacor Chairman Ed Snider
in November and December 2010. Levien was identified as a
potential buyer in a written agreement between the company,
Shine and Whitsitt in January, according to the complaint.  Ike Richman, a spokesman for Philadelphia-based Comcast-
Spectacor, said that the lawsuit is “without merit.”  “We will vigorously defend ourselves in court,” Richman
said in an e-mail.  The case is Whitsitt v. Comcast-Spectacor LP, 11-cv-07842,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  Yankees Co-Owner Steinbrenner Sued for $670,494 in Taxes  New York Yankees co-owner and managing partner Harold
Steinbrenner was sued by the U.S. Justice Department over an
“erroneous” $670,494 tax refund he received in 2009.  The complaint, filed Dec. 27 in Tampa, Florida, federal
court, seeks to reclaim the funds issued to Steinbrenner on Dec.
28, 2009. The refund stemmed from disputes between Steinbrenner
and the Internal Revenue Service over the 2001 tax year and
audits of the Major League Baseball team’s parent company for
2001 and 2002, according to court papers.  Harold Steinbrenner, known as Hal, is one of the children
of George Steinbrenner, the former Yankees owner who died in
2010. George Steinbrenner and the IRS settled the issues raised
in the audit in an agreement accepted on March 1, 2007,
according to the complaint.  That agreement resulted in adjustments to the tax returns
of the beneficiaries of a family trust, including  Hal
Steinbrenner ’s 25 percent share. According to the complaint, Hal
Steinbrenner paid his taxes in 2008, and then filed an amended
2001 tax return in 2009 seeking a refund because of a $6.8
million net operating loss carried back from 2002.  The IRS paid the refund -- and then said that the refund
claim should have been filed by March 1, 2009, more than five
months before Hal Steinbrenner sought the refund.  “Hal Steinbrenner’s representatives had no knowledge of
the lawsuit and had received no prior notices regarding this
matter from the IRS or any other governmental agency,” Alice
McGillion, a family spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Grant Williams, a spokesman for the IRS in Washington,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is U.S. v. Steinbrenner, 11-02840, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Son Must Face Trustee Suit in Bankruptcy Court  Bernard Madoff ’s son Andrew must submit to a bankruptcy
judge’s decision to permit a $198 million lawsuit to go forward
because he sought that court’s protection when he filed a claim
against his father’s estate, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan last week
declined to hear an appeal of the September decision in favor of
Irving Picard, the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, in his claim against Madoff family
members including  Andrew Madoff  and the estate of Mark Madoff,
who committed suicide in December 2010. Pauley’s written opinion
was filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  “Because Mark and Andrew invoked the aid of the bankruptcy
court by offering a proof of claim and demanding its allowance,
they must abide by the consequences of that procedure,” Pauley
said in his Dec. 22 decision, citing a  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  ruling
that also described limits to the power of bankruptcy judges.
“There is no basis for them to insist that the issue be
resolved” by a higher court, Pauley said.  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer for Andrew Madoff and Mark
Madoff’s estate, said Pauley’s decision to return the case to
bankruptcy court “is a procedural issue and has no bearing on
the merits of the dispute.”  Picard’s lawsuit is “wholly without merit,” Flumenbaum
said in an e-mail yesterday. “Mark and Andrew Madoff had no
prior knowledge of Bernard Madoff’s crimes and contacted the
U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC immediately after their
father told them he had defrauded his investment advisory
clients.”  The case is Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff, 11-Misc-379,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trial/Appeal  Allen Stanford Loses Bid to Delay His Fraud Trial in January  R. Allen Stanford lost his bid for more time to prepare to
face charges he led a $7 billion investment fraud scheme. Jury
selection will begin in Houston federal court on Jan. 23.  “This case needs to be tried,” U.S. District Judge David
Hittner said in an eight-page ruling yesterday. “This trial
will decide not just whether Stanford is guilty of the criminal
charges, but also whether hundreds of millions of dollars of
investor funds currently frozen may be forfeited and returned to
his alleged victims.”  Hittner ruled Dec. 22 that Stanford has sufficiently
recovered from a head injury suffered in a jailhouse assault and
an addiction to anxiety medications prescribed to him by prison
doctors after the attack.  The judge delayed Stanford’s original trial date last
January and ordered him into a prison rehabilitation program
after finding Stanford’s medical conditions had made him
incompetent to understand the proceedings or assist his defense
team.  “Our ability to defend our client has been consistently
limited by matters the court is well aware of,” Ali Fazel,
Stanford’s lead lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday
about the ruling. “We are now reviewing our options.”  Stanford, 61, has been detained as a flight risk since his
June 2009 indictment on charges he defrauded investors of more
than $7 billion through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit
at his Antiguan bank. The former financier has denied all
wrongdoing.  Stanford’s attorneys had asked to delay the trial until
late April to give them more time to review millions of pages of
company documents with Stanford. They argued they’d had only a
few days to review documents with Stanford while he was clear-
headed. They said they needed to search beyond the limited set
of papers the government has identified as critical to the case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  CDR Financial’s Rubin Can’t Delay Trial for Dying Wife  CDR Financial Products Inc.’s David Rubin, who says his
wife is in the final stages of terminal cancer, lost a bid to
postpone his trial on bid-rigging charges, which is scheduled to
begin next week in New York.  A federal appeals court in Manhattan declined Rubin’s
request that it order U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  to
grant the trial delay.  “While the circumstances here might well warrant an
adjournment of the trial, we cannot say that the experienced
trial judge’s refusal to grant a continuance constitutes an
exceptional circumstance amounting to a judicial usurpation of
power or a clear abuse of discretion,” a three-judge panel of
the court said in a one-paragraph order on Dec. 23.  The trial, which is scheduled to start with jury selection
Jan. 3, is expected to take two months. Gail Rubin, David
Rubin’s wife of 26 years and the mother of his seven children,
is in the final stages of pancreatic cancer in California, where
they live, his lawyers said in papers filed with the appeals
court. Rubin claims his wife’s illness and concerns for his
children will make it impossible for him to adequately
participate in his defense.  Rubin, the founder of Beverly Hills, California-based CDR,
and two other employees were charged along with the company as
part of an investigation into bid- and auction-rigging in the
municipal bond market. Rubin, the firm’s former chief financial
officer, took kickbacks for running sham auctions for the
investments, prosecutors said. All pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin, 1:09-cr-01058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Actavis to Pay $84 Million to End Medicaid Drug-Pricing Suit  Two units of  Actavis Group Hf (ACT)  will pay $84 million to
settle a lawsuit over drug pricing, Texas officials said, less
than half the amount an Austin jury said the company should pay.  The state accused Actavis Mid-Atlantic LLC and Actavis
Elizabeth LLC, subsidiaries of the Iceland-based company’s U.S.
division, of inflating billings to the Texas Medicaid program by
falsely reporting drug prices. The state court jury in February
ordered the units to pay the state $170 million.  The settlement resolves that litigation, Texas Attorney
General Greg Abbott said yesterday in a statement. The
settlement includes a $29.2 million recovery for the state’s
general fund, Abbott said.  “Actavis denies any and all wrongdoing, and denies that it
has any liability relating to the Texas judgment,” the company
and the state said in the settlement agreement. The parties
reached a settlement “to avoid the delay, uncertainty,
inconvenience and expense of continuing the litigation.”  The lawsuit is one of multiple claims by Texas and other
states alleging that pharmaceutical companies inflated Medicaid
billings for drugs through inaccurate price reporting.  “Actavis is pleased to have resolved this matter and looks
forward to providing continued access to our products to the
more than 3 million Texans who rely on Medicaid for their
medical coverage,” Doug Boothe, chief executive officer of
Actavis Inc., the company’s U.S. unit based in Morristown, New
Jersey, said yesterday in an e-mail.  The case is State of Texas ex. Rel. Ven-A-Care of the
Florida Keys Inc., D-1-GV-08-1566, District Court of Travis
County, Texas (Austin).  Deutsche Bahn Can Sell Assets Without Parliamentary Consent  Deutsche Bahn AG, Germany’s state-owned railway, doesn’t
need lawmakers’ approval to sell assets, the country’s top
constitutional court  ruled .  The constitution doesn’t require parliament to clear such a
transaction, the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe,
Germany, said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday. The judges
rejected the suit, brought by an opposition political party,
because its claim could “under no perceivable aspect” be
considered valid.  Parliament “has done its part by passing legislation”
governing the railway, the judges said. “Additional rights to
participate in Deutsche Bahn’s business decisions would gravely
impair the company to take actions according to a market economy
rationale, which the constitution wants it to do.”  Germany changed its constitution to allow privatization of
its railway system in the 1990s. Plans to have Deutsche Bahn
sell shares to the public were postponed in 2008 in the wake of
the financial crisis that froze credit markets. The government
has said it may sell assets as an alternative to an initial
public offering.  The suit, over Deutsche Bahn’s 2007 sale of a real-estate
unit, was filed after a six-month deadline and needed to be
rejected for that reason also, the court said.  The case is BVerfG 2 BvE 3/08.  AIG’s $450 Million Workers’ Compensation Settlement Is Approved  A $450 million settlement by  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  to resolve claims that it cheated a workers’ compensation
program was granted final approval by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Robert Gettleman in Chicago said the
settlement is “fair, reasonable and adequate,” according to an
order filed Dec. 21. He said the ruling won’t take effect until
he issues a written opinion.  AIG was accused of underreporting the premiums it collected
on workers’ compensation policies to reduce payments to an
industry fund.  The settlement reached in January is less than a third of
what Liberty Mutual Holding Co. requested. Preliminary approval
was granted in July. Safeco Insurance Co. of America and other
insurers sued in April 2009. Liberty Mutual, an intervening
plaintiff, filed objections to approval of the settlement in
October.  “Liberty Mutual is disappointed -- but not surprised --
with the judge’s order approving the settlement,” John
Cusolito, a spokesman for the Boston-based insurer, said in an
e-mail. “Liberty Mutual will review the judge’s final written
order, and anticipates an appeal.”  The case is Safeco Insurance Co. v. American International
Group, 09-cv-02026, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 