-- Amazon May Miss Sales Estimates, Goldman Sachs Predicts
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2011-12-29T21:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/amazon-shares-fall-as-goldman-sachs-says-retailer-may-miss-sales-estimates.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  may miss fourth-
quarter sales estimates, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted,
citing slower-than-expected e-commerce growth over the holidays.  Amazon’s revenue may rise 38 percent from a year earlier to
$17.9 billion,  Heather Bellini , an analyst at Goldman Sachs,
said today in a report. That’s less the $18.2 billion average
 analyst estimate (AMZN) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bellini based her projection on data from ComScore Inc.,
which found that total e-commerce sales rose 15 percent in the
November-December holiday shopping season. While Amazon
historically outpaces the broader market by 23 percentage
points, that still doesn’t get the company to the 40 percent
growth analysts were expecting, she said.  “While the ComScore numbers are just one data point, which
does not capture international sales or breakout individual
companies’ sales, taken alone they seem to suggest the potential
for downside risk,” Bellini said in the report.  Amazon’s bottom line also is suffering as the company steps
up spending on fulfillment centers and builds out Web services.
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  said in October the company
may post a loss in the fourth quarter. Operating margin may
narrow to 0.84 percent in the period, from 3.66 percent a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brighter Outlook  Gene Munster , an analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos. in
 Minneapolis , gave a more upbeat view on fourth-quarter sales. He
said in a report that Amazon may beat estimates, boosted by
sales of its new Kindle Fire tablet. Amazon said earlier today
that it sold “well over” 1 million Kindles a week in December,
thanks to record demand fueled by the Kindle Fire.  Amazon shares were little changed at $173.86 at today in
 New York . The stock has declined 3.4 percent this year.  Total online spending in the U.S.  increased  to $35.3
billion in the first 56 days of the holiday season, ComScore
said yesterday. The Reston, Virginia-based firm compiles Web-
traffic data from about 2 million consumers in 170 countries.  Amazon’s top three sellers over the holidays were the
Kindle Fire and two electronic-book readers, the Kindle Touch
and the basic Kindle, the Seattle-based company said today. The
company also reported a rise in people giving electronic books
to others. Kindle book gifts climbed 175 percent from a year
earlier in the period from Nov. 25 to Christmas Day, Amazon
said, without providing precise sales data.  ‘Positive Momentum’  The company began selling the $199 Kindle Fire on Nov. 14,
challenging  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad with a tablet that costs less than
half as much. The Kindle Fire is outpacing more established
products from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Barnes & Noble Inc.,
according to IHS Inc. Apple will remain the market leader,
shipping 18.6 million iPads in the fourth quarter, the research
firm estimates.  While Amazon is losing money on every Kindle Fire it sells,
according to IHS, the device helps encourage the ordering of
books, videos and other content.  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco, estimates that Amazon
will sell 5 million to 6 million Kindle Fires this quarter, as
does Munster.  “It shows positive momentum,” Sebastian said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  