-- AMR Seeks to Pay Rothschild $15 Million Fee as Adviser
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-29T22:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/amr-asks-permission-to-pay-rothschild-15-million-fee-as-financial-adviser.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) , the bankrupt parent of
 American Airlines , asked a federal judge to approve the hiring
of Rothschild Inc. as a financial adviser and investment banker,
with a promise of $15 million in fees for the firm when either a
bankruptcy plan or restructuring transaction is approved.  Rothschild, which is already working for AMR on a $400,000
retainer, would get a monthly fee of $200,000, so-called new
capital fees of 1 percent to 3 percent of the amount raised, and
reimbursed expenses, according to a court filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . The investment banking firm,
which advised AMR before it sought court protection, has
valuable knowledge of the company’s finances and creditors, AMR
said yesterday in its request to the judge.  Rothschild’s proposed fees fall within “the range of
investment banking fees in other large and complex Chapter 11
cases,” AMR said.  Once the world’s largest airline, AMR filed for bankruptcy
on Nov. 29 listing debt of almost $30 billion. AMR shares will
be removed from the  New York  Stock Exchange before trading
begins on Jan. 5, NYSE Euronext said today.  The stock has retreated 68 percent to 52 cents since  Fort
Worth , Texas-based AMR filed for Chapter 11, with an average of
73.7 million shares changing hands each day.  Monitors Bankruptcies  Bankrupt companies often hire advisers before getting a
judge’s permission. The U.S. Trustee who monitors bankruptcies
faulted  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  for hiring Gleacher & Co.
without first asking a judge. Lehman, which filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history in 2008, also said it planned to pay
Gleacher $15 million if a deal is consummated.  Rothschild has been advising AMR since 2006. The New York-
based firm said it was retained for “restructuring efforts” on
Oct. 17, more than a month before AMR’s bankruptcy filing.
Rothschild described itself in court papers as an experienced
adviser to “financially challenged” companies, including UAL
Corp. in its bankruptcy case.  Since then, Rothschild has reviewed AMR’s assets,
operations and strategies, analyzing its business plans and
financial projections in light of industry trends, according to
the declaration by David Resnick, chairman of Rothschild’s
global financing advisory services.  The firm also has assessed how much debt AMR can carry with
its projected cash flows, and has participated in board meetings
after preparing “materials” for the airline company, Resnick
said.  Flight Attendants  The Association of Professional Flight Attendants told
members today that it hired Jefferies & Co. to serve as its
financial adviser during the bankruptcy. Jefferies, a  New York- 
based investment banker, joins two law firms already hired by
the union, which represents 17,000 active American flight
attendants.  “There is no shortcut, there is no alternative,” APFA
President  Laura Glading  told members in an e-mail. “We have but
one choice -- to be equipped to fight as hard and as well as the
circumstances demand.”  The APFA, Allied Pilots Association and Transport Workers
Union all have seats on the unsecured creditors committee for
AMR’s bankruptcy. The pilots union earlier hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  as
its financial adviser for the case.  AMR this month won court permission to pursue a deal to buy
32 planes from  Boeing Co. (BA)  through 2012, and to reject leases on
some aircraft as it reorganizes with a more competitive fleet.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan is overseeing
the bankruptcy of AMR, now the third-largest U.S. airline
company.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 