-- Appeals Court Reinstates Celestica Shareholder Lawsuit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-29T17:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/appeals-court-reinstates-celestica-shareholder-lawsuit.html
Celestica Inc. (CLS) , a Canadian
electronics manufacturer, must face shareholder claims that it
misled them about the costs of a corporate restructuring, a U.S.
appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  today reversed a
lower-court’s dismissal of the fraud lawsuit. Celestica
investors, represented by a group of union pension funds, sued
the company and its former chief executive officer, Stephen Delaney, and former chief financial officer, Anthony Puppi, in
2007.  The three-judge appeals court panel ruled that the
shareholders alleged sufficient facts to support the defendants’
scienter, or knowledge that they knew they were misstating
Celestica’s earnings and financial prospects.  “The particular allegations that Delaney and Puppi were
specifically informed, and had reason to know, of the growing
inventory stockpile in Celestica’s Mexican and American
facilities are sufficient to establish the individual
defendants’ scienter,” the panel said in the ruling.
“Moreover, those allegations are sufficient to establish
corporate scienter on behalf of Celestica.”  The ruling reverses a 2010 decision by U.S. District Judge
George Daniels dismissing the suit.  Share Price  Celestica’s misstatements artificially inflated the
company’s share price, causing investors to lose money when the
true costs associated with the restructuring became public,
according to the shareholders’ lawsuit. The group seeks damages
on behalf of all those who bought the Toronto-based company’s
stock from Jan. 27, 2005, to Jan. 30, 2007.  Celestica representatives didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message to its media contact line seeking comment on
today’s ruling.  Celestica fell 1.2 percent to C$7.48 at 12:56 p.m. in
trading in Toronto.  The case is New Orleans Employees Retirement System v.
Celestica Inc., 10-4702,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  