-- Argentina to Keep Expanding Cash Supply at Current 26% Inflationary Pace
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-30T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/argentina-to-keep-expanding-cash-supply-at-current-26-inflationary-pace.html
Argentina ’s  central bank  plans to
keep injecting cash into the economy at the current pace, a move
that may further stoke inflation that’s already among the
fastest in the world.  The bank, in its  2012 monetary program  published yesterday,
said it aims to expand the M2 money supply, which includes cash
plus checking and savings accounts, by 26.4 percent in 2012.
This year it targeted 28 percent monetary growth.  South America ’s second-biggest economy should  expand (ARGDPYOX)  for a
10th straight year in 2012, by between 4.5 percent and 7.5
percent, the bank said.  “The bank is not fighting inflation and there’s a risk of
inflation shooting up” if the  money supply  continues to grow at
the current pace, said Fausto Spotorno, an economist at Buenos
Aires-based Orlando Ferreres & Asociados in Buenos Aires.  Consumer prices in Argentina rose about 25 percent this
year, according to private economists. That’s more than any
major global economy except  Venezuela  as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner increases  government spending  to spur
consumer demand and boost local production. The government says
inflation was running at 9.5 percent in November.  “The level of economic activity in 2012 will continue
being anchored by a robust internal market” sustained by higher
employment, wealth redistribution and public and private
investment, the central bank said in the nine-page report.  The central bank, which stepped up dollar purchases in
recent weeks to absorb revenue the government is forcing
exporters to repatriate, said it plans to buy $9 billion in the
foreign exchange market in 2012 to prevent excessive peso
volatility.  Policy makers have been able to offset decade-high capital
flight of $8.4 billion in the third quarter by increasing  money
supply (ARVAM2PS) , which grew 5.9 percent in the 30 days ended Dec. 16, the
fastest pace since January, according to central bank data. The
bank targeted M2 to reach 322.4 billion pesos ($75 billion) by
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  