-- Asia Risks 2012 ‘Policy Mistakes’ Through Efforts to Spur Growth: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2011-12-29T04:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/asia-risks-policy-mistakes-in-efforts-to-boost-slowing-growth-economy.html
Asian policy makers eager to sustain
growth in 2012 may put their economies at risk with interest-
rate cuts or fiscal stimulus that some can ill-afford.  The likelihood of “policy mistakes” in 2012 may increase
as a slowing global expansion puts pressure on officials to
lower borrowing costs even as inflation remains elevated in some
economies, said Lim Su Sian, a Singapore-based strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. In  India , where the central
bank has paused raising rates, monthly inflation has held above
9 percent; prices in China exceeded the government’s full-year
target of 4 percent every month this year.  Asian nations from Thailand to Indonesia and  Malaysia  have
reduced interest rates or left them unchanged in recent meetings
to shield their economies from the protracted European debt
crisis.  Fitch Ratings  raised its forecasts for price gains for
the region for this year and next even as it lowered growth
estimates, and said while many Asian economies have scope for
policy responses, China and India are “exceptions.”  “There will be central banks that feel they have to cut
but whether or not they can is an entirely different issue,”
said Lim. “For some of these countries, they are going to feel
a little challenged because on the one hand, growth is clearly
slowing but on the other hand, inflation is still not yet coming
off. That creates the potential for policy mistakes.”  Highlighting the risks from  Europe ’s debt crisis, South
 Korea ’s  industrial production  unexpectedly fell in November for
a second straight month. Output dropped 0.4 percent compared
with October when it declined a revised 0.6 percent, Statistics
Korea said today. The Bank of Korea refrained from raising
interest rates for a sixth month in December to support growth.  Inflation Risks  Inflation risks eroding the purchasing power of consumers
when Asian economies are depending on domestic demand to boost
growth as exports weaken. The volume of global trade will
increase 5.8 percent in 2012 compared with 7.5 percent this
year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in September, damping
the outlook for a region estimated by the World Trade
Organization to have exported $4.69 trillion of goods in 2010.  Asian stocks dropped for a third day after a surge in the
 European Central Bank ’s balance sheet underscored financial
stresses in the euro zone.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.7 percent to 111.96 as
of 10:28 a.m. in  Tokyo  with all but one of the gauge’s 10
industry groups falling. For the month, the index is heading for
a 1.2 percent decline. The measure has dropped 19 percent this
year, the most since 2008.  Europe Concerns  In Europe today, reports may show retail sales in  Spain 
fell last month, Sweden’s trade surplus narrowed in November
from a month ago and Italian business confidence weakened this
month, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Germany ’s
consumer price index may have gained 0.8 percent in December
from a month earlier, according to the median forecast of 26
economists surveyed.  In the U.S., first-time claims for  unemployment  benefits
may have totaled 375,000 in the week ended Dec. 24, compared
with an initially reported gain of 364,000 a week earlier, a
survey of economists showed ahead of a Labor Department data on
recipients of government jobless benefits.  Business activity in the U.S. may have expanded at a slower
pace, according to figures to be released today by the Institute
for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. For a view of the housing
industry, a National Association of Realtors report may show
pending home sales rose 1.5 percent in November from a month
earlier, a slowdown from a 10.4 percent rise a month earlier.  Growth Estimates  Emerging East Asian economies may grow 7.2 percent next
year after expanding 7.5 percent in 2011, the Asian Development
Bank says. Fitch raised its 2011 inflation estimate for Emerging
 Asia  by 0.3 percentage points to 5.9 percent and its 2012 price
forecast to 4.9 percent from 4.7 percent.  Indonesia cut borrowing costs by 0.75 of a percentage point
in October and November to a record low even as its economy grew
more than 6 percent for a fourth straight quarter. India held
off tightening in December after raising  interest rates  by a
record pace.  China’s central bank cut the amount of cash that lenders
must set aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 this
month after inflation eased to the slowest in 14 months in
November. China should be prepared for a possible inflation
rebound next year, Xinhua News Agency said this month, citing
Yang Weimin, vice chairman of the Office of the Central Leading
Group on Financial and Economic Affairs.  Weakening Currencies  Most Asian policy makers have allowed their currencies to
depreciate this year to defend exports. The Indian rupee has
lost about 16 percent, followed by the Thai baht and the
Taiwanese dollar.  Sri Lanka  devalued its currency in November.  With the Indonesian central bank’s defense of its currency
unsustainable, the country’s assets will be “vulnerable,” RBS
says, recommending investors buy five-year credit default swaps
at 225 basis points. Bank  Indonesia  plans to boost
“intervention” to support the rupiah, Governor Darmin Nasution
said on Nov. 30 after the currency touched a 17-month low of
9,240 a day earlier.  “Currencies have weakened so imported price pressures are
still building,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a regional economist at
Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “Officials will remain a bit more
vigilant on inflation because inflation expectations are still
elevated” especially Singapore, Malaysia and  South Korea , where
labor markets are tight.  Stimulus Spending  Asian policy makers spent about $1 trillion in stimulus
measures during the global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 to
stave off deep recessions or sharp slowdowns in their economies.
Malaysia and the  Philippines  have unveiled stimulus measures for
their economies, and others may follow in an attempt to spur
consumption as overseas demand slows.  “The growth bias is starting to creep in and there will
probably be a more proactive use of fiscal policy in 2012 than
monetary policy because the pass-through is faster,” Bajoria
said.  Still, India may have less room to deploy fiscal stimulus,
while any such steps in  China  won’t be as large as the 4
trillion-yuan package introduced in 2008, Bajoria said. India’s
“fiscal stress” may deteriorate on widening subsidies and
slowing taxes, the central bank said Dec. 22.  China’s banking system is still working through the
consequences of the credit-led stimulus of 2009 and 2010 and
“may struggle to repeat the effort,” according to Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  