-- Australia Defeats India by 122 Runs in Opening Cricket Test in Melbourne
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-12-29T07:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/australia-defeats-india-by-122-runs-in-opening-cricket-test-in-melbourne.html
Australia  beat India by 122 runs in
the first cricket Test in Melbourne, ending an eight-match
winless run against its opponent to go 1-0 up in their best-of-
four contest.  Man-of-the-match  James Pattinson  took 4-53 and fellow fast
bowler Peter Siddle claimed 3-42 as India slumped to 169 all out
after tea on day four chasing 292 for victory. Sachin Tendulkar
top scored for the Indians with 32.  It was Australia’s first Test win against India since
January 2008. India holds the Border-Gavaskar Trophy contested
by the teams after winning its last two home Test series against
the Australians.  “It’s great to get a win in this first Test match but we
know they are going to come hard at us in Sydney,” Australia
captain  Michael Clarke  said at the presentation ceremony.  The second Test starts Jan. 3 at the Sydney Cricket Ground,
with matches in Perth and Adelaide to follow.  Australia secured victory in the series opener with a day
to spare after resuming its second innings at 179-8. After
 Zaheer Khan  removed  Mike Hussey  for 89, Pattinson and Ben Hilfenhaus put on 43 runs for the last wicket as the home team
added 61 to its overnight total.  “In both innings their lower order scored a few runs,”
said India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni. “That really made the
difference. If we had got them out, maybe we would have been
chasing 60-70 runs less.”  Middle Session Slump  With India seeking the highest successful fourth-innings
run chase at the  Melbourne  Cricket Ground since 1953, Hilfenhaus
removed opener  Virender Sehwag  before the lunch break. India
then lost five wickets for 42 runs in the middle session,
falling to 81-6 with Tendulkar’s dismissal.  Australia got the remaining four wickets after tea. Spin
bowler Nathan Lyon secured his only wicket of the match to seal
the victory when  David Warner  leapt to take a catch on the
boundary to dismiss Umesh Yadav.  Pattinson, 21, took his second man-of-the-match award in
three Tests after taking six wickets and hitting not out scores
of 18 and 37 with the bat. He lifted his tally of wickets to 20
from his first three matches at cricket’s elite level.  “It’s a pretty surreal sort of feeling for me at the
moment,” Pattinson said. “To come here and win the Boxing Day
Test, it’s just unbelievable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  