-- Bachmann Stands by Her Paul Bribery Charge in Iowa Campaign
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-29T23:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/bachmann-stands-by-bribery-charge-against-paul-amid-iowa-caucus-campaign.html
Michele Bachmann pressed her
allegations that the former head of her  Iowa  presidential bid
was bribed by the campaign of rival Ron Paul to endorse him,
even as one of her own aides denied the charge.  The aide who issued the denial later quit Bachmann’s
campaign, the candidate said.  The dispute centered on the decision yesterday of Kent Sorenson, an Iowa state senator who was Bachmann’s campaign
chairman in the state, to abandon her effort and endorse Paul, a
Texas congressman. Paul is a leading contender to win Iowa’s
Jan. 3 Republican caucuses.  “He told me that he was offered money, he was offered a
lot of money by the Ron Paul campaign,” Bachmann said of
Sorenson in comments to reporters today in a parking lot
adjacent to a funeral home near downtown  Des Moines . “No one
else knows about that conversation other than Kent Sorenson and
myself.”  Bachmann, a Minnesota congresswomen who polls show is in the
back of the pack in the Iowa race, said Sorenson told her during
a Dec. 27 phone call that he was offered money to support Paul.
As she spoke outside the studios of WHO-AM radio in Des Moines,
she declined to say how much money was involved.  Sorenson’s Denial  Sorenson yesterday resigned as Bachmann’s state chairman
and announced his backing of Paul. Following her comments today,
he issued a statement through Paul’s campaign denying what he
termed Bachmann’s “ridiculous allegations.”  “I was never offered money from the  Ron Paul  campaign
or anyone associated with them and certainly would never accept
any,” Sorenson said in the statement  Paul’s campaign earlier had sent out a statement by Wes
Enos, Bachmann’s Iowa political director, also denying the
bribery charge.  “I can say unequivocally that Kent Sorenson’s decision
was, in no way financially motivated,” Enos said in his
statement. “While I personally disagree with Kent’s decision,
and plan to stay with Michele Bachmann because I truly believe
in her, I cannot, in good conscious watch a good man like Kent
Sorenson be attacked as a ‘sell-out.’”  Bachmann said in a later interview with CNN that Enos has
now quit her campaign and been replaced as political director.  Sorenson’s Reasoning  Sorenson, in a statement released yesterday by Paul’s
campaign, said he made the switch because he believes Bachmann
can’t win her party’s contest.  “There is a clear top tier in the race for the Republican
nomination for president, both here in Iowa and nationally,” he
said. “Ron Paul is easily the most conservative of this
group.”  Bachmann in her comments in Des Moines also targeted Paul
for criticism on other fronts, including the Texas congressman’s
calls to withdraw U.S. troops from overseas commitments and to
 legalize  drugs as a way to better regulate their sale and reduce
profits to violent drug cartels.  She termed Paul’s foreign policy “dangerous,” and said he
is “willing to legalize drugs in the  United States , including
heroin and cocaine.”  Bachmann denied that her campaign is struggling in Iowa,
where she has placed her greatest emphasis. She also said she
would finish he quest to visit all of the state’s 99 counties
today.  ‘Like a Publisher’  Paul, speaking later on WHO-AM, played down his role in the
publication of incendiary statements in newsletters produced
under his name in the mid-1990s. He said he wasn’t aware of all
the content at the time of publication.  “It wasn’t a reflection of my views at all,” he said. “I
was not an editor. I’m like a publisher.”  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , vying with Paul
for the lead in Iowa in recent polls, today dismissed the
Texan’s political prospects. “Ron Paul’s not going to be our
nominee” he said in an  interview  aboard his campaign bus in
Iowa with the RealClearPolitics website.  A  CNN /Time/ORC International  poll  on the Republican race in
Iowa released yesterday showed Romney with the support of 25
percent of likely caucus participants, followed by Paul with 22
percent. Running third was former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of
 Pennsylvania  with 16 percent. Bachmann was backed by 9 percent.  Gingrich Drops  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , after weathering
televised attacks from opponents within his party, lost
significant support in the poll of likely caucus-goers, falling
to 14 percent in the survey that was conducted Dec. 21-27 and
has an margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  A month ago, Gingrich had 33 percent support in a similar
poll, topping Romney’s 20 percent. Santorum has surged from 5
percent in that Nov. 29-Dec. 6 poll.  Gingrich said that he won’t drop out of the race, even if
he finishes fourth in Iowa.  “There are more than three tickets” out of Iowa, he told
reporters today in Sioux City as he visited his campaign office
there. “Considering that I’m 20 points ahead in some other
states, it would be fairly foolish for me not to stay in the
race. It is a long way from here to picking the nominee.”  While reiterating plans to keep his television commercials
positive, Gingrich is stepping up criticisms of Romney and Paul.  ‘Turmoil’  “It’s all going to be turmoil until Tuesday night,” he
said, referring to the caucus vote. “On Tuesday, probably a
third to half the people that walk in will be open to changing
their minds about all of us.”  Santorum, who had been mostly ignored by his rivals
throughout the campaign, is receiving some attacks now that he
has risen in the polls and has the potential to coalesce the
votes of social conservatives, who are a prominent bloc in the
state’s  Republican Party .  “Senator Santorum, Congressmen Ron Paul and Newt Gingrich
and Congresswoman  Michele Bachmann  have long backed
congressional earmarks and pork,”  Ray Sullivan , a spokesman for
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , said in a statement today that
referred to federal spending for local projects. “Expecting
them to overhaul  Washington  is asking a fox to guard the
henhouse.”  Perry, who was backed by 11 percent in the CNN poll, said
at an Iowa event today that Santorum had a taste for
“Pennsylvania pork” while in the Senate.  Santorum’s Defense  In a Fox News interview, Santorum defended his use of
earmarks while in Congress.  “I’m proud of the money that I did set aside for things
that were priorities in my state,” he said.  Santorum also stood by a comment he made about Paul’s age
at an earlier event, saying he did it in a “joking way” as he
suggested the congressman wouldn’t change his foreign policy
views if he made it to the White House.  “My comment was, you know, how many 78-year-old men do you
know who change their opinions?” he said of Paul, who is 76.
“People are pretty set in their ways.”  Romney, who has intensified his efforts in Iowa as polls
have shown he could win the caucuses, campaigned today across
the state’s northern tier.  In Mason City, Romney urged voters to think carefully about
which candidate could beat President  Barack Obama  in the general
election.  “This is a process not just of putting your name or your
hand next to someone who you kind of like,” he told several
hundred voters gathered at the town’s Music Man Square. “It’s
also selecting who our nominee ought to be, who you think could
beat Barack Obama.”  Romney’s Schedule  Continuing his newly aggressive push in the state, Romney
unveiled a busy schedule of events for the final days before the
caucuses. After traveling tomorrow to  New Hampshire  -- site of a
Jan. 10 primary -- he plans to return to Iowa the next day for a
series of appearances and remain in the state through the
caucuses.  His campaign also announced he will remain in Des Moines
the morning after the caucuses to do a number of television
interviews, a sign of confidence that they will perform well in
the voting.  “Sure I want to win Iowa. Everybody wants to win Iowa,”
he told voters standing in front of a replica of the set from
the 1962 movie version of “The Music Man,” a story set in a
fictionalized version of Mason City.  Romney took questions from the audience. “Is it hard
running for the president?” asked eight-year-old Ben Navratil.  “The answer is yes, and no,” Romney responded. “Ha, ha,
ha. Sounds like a politician, I apologize.”  Romney, who also sought the Republican nomination in 2008,
said it’s hard for him to wake up early in the morning after
staying in a different hotel every night.  Still, he called running for president “the greatest
opportunity” to meet new people and expand his network of
friends.  “So if you get the chance to do it, make sure and do it,”
he said. “Win or lose, it’s a great thing to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in  Cedar Falls , Iowa, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  