-- Backtracking U.S. Lawmakers Expand Federal Role in Mortgages
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2011-12-29T16:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/backtracking-lawmakers-expand-u-s-government-role-in-mortgages.html
Washington lawmakers, who began 2011
with sweeping plans to shrink the U.S. government’s role in
mortgage finance, are heading into 2012 after enacting policies
that expand it.  An 11th-hour payroll tax cut extension signed into law last
week will for the first time divert funds directly from  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage-finance companies under
U.S. conservatorship, to pay for general government expenses.  That move came after two others that also could increase
government involvement: Lawmakers allowed a tax break on private
mortgage insurance to expire and raised loan limits for
mortgages insured by the  Federal Housing Administration .
Advocates of private mortgage finance say they are concerned
that using fees from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is setting a
precedent that will keep the government in the mortgage business
for a decade or more.  “The goal was, at the beginning of the year, how do we
wind these down?” said  Edward Pinto , a resident fellow at the
 American Enterprise Institute , a Washington-based research
organization that favors limited government. “And at the end of
the year we have further entrenched them and made it more
difficult to wind them down, which is classic Washington.”  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which oversees Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , today directed the companies to increase
fees on new mortgages by an average of 10 basis points, or .1
percentage point, effective April 1, to comply with the law.  10 Basis Points  “The average guarantee fees charged in 2012 need to be at
least 10 basis points greater than the average guarantee fees
charged in 2011,” with the additional revenue remitted to the
U.S. Treasury Department, FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco
said in a written statement.  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA currently back more
than 90 percent of loan originations, about double what they did
during the subprime lending boom, according to Inside Mortgage
Finance, a trade publication.  Earlier in the year, the Obama administration and members
of Congress outlined plans to reverse that trend. In February,
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  released three
options for reducing government’s role in housing finance.
Shortly afterward, Republicans introduced bills to wind down
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, which have cost taxpayers about $153
billion since 2008 because of defaults on loans they guaranteed.
The legislation never advanced because there was no agreement
even within the Republican caucus on the best way to proceed.  Decade-Long Increase  In December, in a search to find about $36 billion to
finance a two-month payroll tax cut, Congress ordered a decade-
long increase in the premiums that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
charge lenders to guarantee principal and interest on home
loans. Lenders typically pass on the cost of the premiums, known
as guarantee fees or g fees, to borrowers as higher  interest
rates .  The move is drawing criticism: It relies on long-term
revenues from entities that Democrats and Republicans want to
shrink, and the money won’t be spent to offset the risk of loan
defaults.  “In effect, this is a tax on Fannie and Freddie
mortgages,” said Bert Ely, a banking consultant in Alexandria,
Virginia. “When you go to privatize or take any action to wind
them down, you have a budget effect that you didn’t have
before.”  ‘Inherent Contradiction’  “It seems to be an inherent contradiction counting on
revenue from a 10-year increase in guarantee fees from agencies
that might not be around in 10 years,” said Joe Pigg, vice
president of mortgage finance at the  American Bankers
Association , an industry trade group in  Washington .  Housing analysts say they are concerned that lawmakers
will now start looking to the government-sponsored enterprises
as sources of funds for purposes unrelated to housing.  “Using the g fees as a funding source for general revenues
sets a bad precedent for how you’re going to raise revenues,”
said Ethan Handelman, vice president for policy and advocacy at
the National Housing Conference, which advocates for government
policies that support affordable housing.  The controversy over g fees comes on top of other policy
changes that housing analysts say could keep the government
entrenched in the mortgage market.  In November, House and Senate lawmakers increased the
maximum size of FHA-insured loans to $729,750 from $625,500, a
move opposed by Republican leaders including Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas .  Insurance Tax Break  Congress also failed to extend a tax break on private
 mortgage insurance  for low-downpayment borrowers that expires
Dec. 31. Private mortgage insurers indemnify lenders against
loan defaults, with the cost of premiums passed to homeowners.
Eliminating the tax deduction raises the cost of private
insurance and makes FHA insurance a more attractive alternative.  Congress’s rush to solve fiscal problems at the end of the
year allows decisions to be made without going through the
normal deliberative channels that might have produced outcomes
more in line with the goal of reducing the government footprint
in housing, Pinto said.  “You have these policies being made that aren’t really
going through the regular order, and they’re not being discussed
and hearings held and testimony taken,” he said. “They’re just
being done as an expedient.”  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  are also implementing plans of
their own to raise guarantee fees even higher. DeMarco said the
companies would gradually increase their rates as a way to
reduce losses at the companies and limit their cost to
taxpayers.  Those fee increases, which have already begun, are intended
to better reflect the degree of risk that the GSEs are assuming
when they guarantee mortgages, DeMarco said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 