-- Billabong Left Behind as Thrifty Shoppers Sit Out Australia Boom: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2011-12-30T08:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/billabong-left-behind-as-thrifty-shoppers-sit-out-australia-boom-retail.html
Australia’s mining boom, which has
powered the nation’s economy to faster growth than the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Japan , isn’t filtering down to the country’s A$250
billion ($252 billion) retail sector. One reason: a national
savings rate near a quarter-century high.  Shares in electronics retailer  JB Hi-Fi Ltd. (JBH) , clothing
chain  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  and camping-gear seller
 Kathmandu Holdings Ltd. (KMD)  have all slumped by more than a quarter
this month after the companies said first-half earnings will
miss forecasts.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , the nation’s biggest
department store chain, is shutting a store, reviewing other
outlets and moving forward clearance sales.  Households are cutting spending as prices for food and
utilities surge amid borrowing costs that were the highest in
the developed world until last month. Retailers are responding
with discounts of as much as 80 percent in post-Christmas
promotions to make up for disappointing December sales.  “This year has been a very tight Christmas,” said Reidell
Bragg, 34, an office administrator from Sydney browsing through
the city’s  Queen Victoria Building , a Romanesque sandstone mall
built in 1898. “I just can’t afford it this year. Rent, bills,
everything seems to have gone up.”  Prices for electricity, water and heating gas have risen 40
percent in the past three years, and food is 11 percent more
expensive, according to government data. That compares with an 8
percent gain in the broader  consumer price index (AUCPIYOY)  that includes
those components.  Savings Boost  Instead of spending at stores, Australians since the 2008
financial crisis have been saving at a rate last seen in 1987.
In the September quarter, the  ratio of net household savings (AUNAHSR)  to
disposable income rose to about 10 percent from 9 percent in
June. By contrast, the U.S. personal savings  rate (PIDSDPS)  was 3.5
percent in November, and hit a 19-year peak of 8.3 percent in
May 2008.  The retail slump contrasts with a national economy buoyed
by demand from China and India for  iron ore , coal and other
commodities. Australian gross domestic product is rising at 2.5
percent per year, compared with 1.5 percent in the U.S., 1.4
percent in the euro region and 0.5 percent in the U.K. The
 unemployment rate  is 5.3 percent, compared with 8.6 percent in
the U.S.  The effect was clear on Boxing Day, the day after
Christmas. Australian retailers typically use the public holiday
to kick off sales. This year the discounts are increasing.  Deep Discounts  Myer, which has 67 stores, moved forward its clearance sale
to Christmas Eve for members of its  loyalty program , and is
offering 40 percent off Samsonite luggage.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , the
second-biggest chain, is dropping the price of Royal Doulton
glass sets by 60 percent. Victoria’s Basement, a Sydney
housewares store, has marked down products by 80 percent to
clear out inventory.  “It continues to be a very challenging trading
environment,” Myer Chief Executive Officer Bernie Brookes said
in an e-mailed statement. The Melbourne-based group is
experiencing “some good days and some tough days.”  Consumer confidence dropped to a four-month low in December
as concern mounted that Europe’s debt crisis would hurt the
global economy, according to a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
Melbourne Institute survey released Dec. 14. A quarter of
respondents said the best use of savings was to reduce debt.  Rising Currency  “I paid cash this year because I don’t want to use the
 credit card ,” said Luanne Bassan, a 46-year-old housewife from
Sydney. “If I don’t have the cash, I just don’t want it.”  Adding to the challenge for retailers is the Australian
dollar, which this year reached the highest level against its
U.S. counterpart since the end of exchange controls in 1983,
making it cheaper to buy from overseas-based websites.  Online shopping rose 37 percent in the 12 months ended
October and now accounts for about 8 percent of discretionary
retail purchases, Andrew McLennan, an analyst at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in a Dec. 8 report.  That trend will probably continue, putting particular
pressure on Billabong, Myer, David Jones and clothing retailers
who compete with international websites as “consumers are
moving without them,” McLennan said.  Billabong has dropped 52 percent this month and JB Hi-Fi 27
percent, making them the worst performers in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index. Kathmandu has dropped 30 percent, Myer 19
percent and David Jones 16 percent.  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , which is Australia’s biggest retailer and
gets three-quarters of sales from food and liquor, rose 2
percent while the index has declined 1.5 percent.  Online Threat  Anna Martins, a 51-year-old office administrator, now only
goes to physical stores to buy clothes, after shopping for
Christmas gift hampers, electronics and sunglasses online.  “As the kids get older I like to give them something
trendy, and that’s where the online comes in,” she said. “The
stuff is just there on the page.”  Consumer pessimism about the world economy is blunting the
impact of two successive interest rate cuts that brought
official borrowing costs to 4.25 percent, according to Ben Jarman, an economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  While Australian
rates are now at their lowest in 18 months, they compare with
0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.5 percent in the U.K.  “You see the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cutting rates, but
that’s just validating the bad signal you’re getting from the
news that, globally, we’re on a quite uncertain footing,” he
said. “The consumer, for whatever reason, is re-evaluating the
type of spending they’re doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  