-- BP Staff May Face U.S. Criminal Charges After Spill, WSJ Reports
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2011-12-29T09:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/bp-staff-may-face-u-s-criminal-charges-after-spill-wsj-says.html
U.S. prosecutors are preparing what
would be the first criminal charges against  BP Plc (BP/)  staff after
the worst U.S.  oil spill  last year, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Prosecutors are focusing on whether some BP employees,
including several Houston-based engineers and at least one
supervisor, provided false information to regulators about the
risks linked to the drilling of the Macondo well in the Gulf of
Mexico, the Journal said.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP in Chicago, and David Nicholas, a London-based spokesman for the company, declined to
comment on the report.  The U.S. government and BP are set to start a trial on Feb.
27 that will determine liability for the April 2010 well blast
that killed 11 workers and triggered the leak of millions of
gallons of crude. BP has agreed to settlements with four of six
companies involved and may make a similar arrangement with the
U.S.  Justice Department , avoiding litigation as President Barack Obama seeks re-election next year,  RBC Capital Markets  said.  “This increases the onus on all parties to reach a
settlement,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at RBC in London.
“That would take the heat off the individuals involved. Obama
would like to put this fully to bed before the election.”  New Orleans Trial  The well blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig led to
hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP. The company spent
$17.7 billion last year on its response to the spill and set up
a $20 billion compensation fund for victims. Most of the
lawsuits have been consolidated in New Orleans under U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier , who will decide who was at fault
before ruling on penalties in proceedings that may take years.  Any criminal charges against individuals may be brought
early next year, with a conviction carrying a penalty of five
years in prison, the Wall Street Journal reported. The Justice
Department may still decide not to bring charges against BP’s
employees, the Journal said, citing the unidentified people.  BP has yet to settle with rig-owner Transocean Ltd. or
cement contractor  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  Cameron International Corp.,
the maker of the failed blowout preventer device, this week lost
an appeal to derail the non-jury trial under Barbier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 