-- Brazil's Economy Now Matches Its Soccer Prowess: The Ticker
-- B y   M a y a r a   V i l a s   B o a s
-- 2011-12-29T13:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/brazil-s-economy-now-matches-its-soccer-prowess-the-ticker.html
Brazil  has moved up one place in the rankings of the world's largest
economies, displacing the U.K. for the No. 6 spot, according to a study by the
London-based Center for Economics and Business Research Ltd. Said CEBR Chief Executive Officer Douglas McWilliams: "Brazil has beaten the
European countries at soccer for a long time, but beating them at economics is a
new phenomenon. Our world economic league table shows how the economic map is
changing, with Asian countries and commodity-producing economies climbing up the
league while we in Europe fall back." Brazil's finance minister,  Guido Mantega , said earlier this week that if the
economy's growth trajectory doesn't falter, the country might become "the
world's fifth-largest economy by 2015" taking  France 's place and, in the future,
"maybe even Germany's." Mantega said he expects that Brazil will continue to
grow twice as fast as the European nations. Although Brazil's growth has slowed
in recent months because of the European debt crisis, Mantega predicted that the
economy would expand between 3 percent and 3.5 percent this year and 4 percent
to 5 percent in 2012. Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  also is optimistic about growth in 2012
and has said that one goal in the coming year will be to reduce the nation's
wealth inequality gap, which is one of the world's widest. The Brazilian
government is considering easing credit by lowering interest rates and has
raised the minimum wage to 622 reais ($332) a month from 545 reais. The increase
goes into effect Jan. 1. The CEBR's report cited a number of strengths underpinning growth in Brazil,
which is Latin America's largest economy. It is a major exporter of commodities
such as coffee and iron ore as well as manufactured goods. Companies such as
state-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , or Petrobras, and mining
concern  Vale SA (VALE3)  rank among the world's largest raw materials producers. Because
of its prudent fiscal management, the central government has been able to
implement policies to counter the European crisis and stimulate consumption. A
strengthening currency has given Brazilians extra purchasing power to shop for
 consumer goods  in Brazil and to invest in real estate overseas. Inflation has
averaged about 5 percent a year since 2005 and infrastructure investment is
surging as the country prepares to host the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Summer
 Olympic Games . A decade ago Goldman Sachs enshrined Brazil as one of the BRIC countries
(China, India and Russia were the others) with bright economic prospects.
Goldman now says the best may be over for this foursome. Those with a dark sense
of humor used to say that Brazil was the country of the future -- and always
would be. The question now is whether the skeptics are making a mistaken return
to the past. (Mayara Vilas Boas is on the staff of Bloomberg View.)      