-- California Barred by Judge From Cutting Medi-Cal Rates
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2011-12-29T19:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/california-can-t-cut-hospitals-medi-cal-reimbursement-rates-judge-says.html
California  can’t cut reimbursements
hospitals receive for the skilled-nursing services they provide
to low-income people, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Christina Snyder in Los Angeles
yesterday granted the request from the California Hospital
Association for an order to stop California from imposing the
reductions, saying the hospitals had shown there would be
irreparable harm if she didn’t halt the cuts temporarily.  “The state’s fiscal crisis does not outweigh the serious
irreparable injury the plaintiffs would suffer absent the
issuance of an injunction,” the judge said in her ruling.  The hospital group said in a Nov. 1 complaint that the cuts
of more than 20 percent would resurrect previous reductions that
the courts have found to be in violation of the federal Medicaid
Act. The cuts would threaten the ability of many hospitals to
operate skilled nursing units, the group said.  The California Department of Health Care Services said Oct.
27 that the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
approved the state’s proposal to reduce Medi-Cal reimbursement
rates. The cuts are part of the state’s 2011-12 budget and would
save $623 million, according to the Oct. 27 statement.  Norman Williams, a spokesman for the state’s Health Care
Services Department, said yesterday in an e-mail that the state
“strongly disagrees with the ruling” and will appeal it.  Sufficient Access  Williams said last month that the department submitted an
analysis to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that
showed the reductions would allow sufficient access for
beneficiaries and that it would monitor access after the cuts
were implemented.  Snyder said in her decision that the monitoring plan “at
best presents a potential remedy after an access or quality
problem has been detected.” The judge said irreparable harm is
adequately demonstrated if there’s evidence that at least some
Medi-Cal recipients might lose services as a result of the cuts.  In a separate ruling yesterday, the judge also blocked the
state from cutting Medi-Cal reimbursement rates for pharmacies
by 10 percent, saying there was enough evidence that pharmacies
may have to reduce services or shutter their doors and that
Medi-Cal beneficiaries would lose access to medication. Both the
hospital and pharmacy cuts were to be retroactive to June 1.  The cases are California Hospital Association v. Douglas,
11-09078, and Managed Pharmacy Care v. Sebelius, 11-9211, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  