-- California Controller Finds ‘Fiscal Abuse’ in Southern California Audit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/california-controller-finds-fiscal-abuse-in-southern-california-audit.html
State auditors, capping a year of
reviews, found signs of “fiscal abuse” including pension
spiking and lax internal financial controls in the Southern
California city of  Montebello (8693MF) , Controller John Chiang said.  The report found flaws in financial integrity and ethics,
competence and management of the community of 62,500 people,
located 11 miles (18 kilometers) southeast of  downtown Los
Angeles , according to a statement.  Montebello is among several California cities where
politicians and administrators have been accused or convicted of
financial abuses, including Bell, where the city manager was
paid almost $800,000 annually. After audits in 2010 revealed
unlawful spending and illegal property taxes in Bell, Chiang
said his office was  flooded  with requests for reviews of more
than 200 local governments in the state.  “While the roots of Montebello’s problems are different
from Bell’s, they both share the common trouble of having little
or, at times, no accountability in their spending of public
dollars,” Chiang said the statement.  September audits of Montebello’s gas-tax fund and
redevelopment agency revealed $31 million in “questionable”
spending, loans and transfers, including a business lunch at
Chuck E. Cheese’s, a restaurant chain known for hosting
children’s parties.  Of 74 control measures reviewed, only eight were considered
adequate, according to a statement from the controller.  Fired and Rehired  Montebello’s City Council terminated a city manager in
2007, allowed him to continue to collect $10,930 in monthly
salary and rehired him in 2008 with a 49 percent increase in
pay, according to the controller’s report. Chiang has asked the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  to look into the
matter.  “This could be a large case of pension spiking,” he said
in the statement, referring to a method of inflating future
retirement payments by manipulating overtime, unused vacation
and special compensation.  The city was recently made aware of two “off-the-books”
bank accounts for its redevelopment agency, the report said.  Chiang also found Montebello inappropriately reported $2
million of bonus payments and awarded engineering contracts that
should have been bid for competitively.  “There were four city administrator turnovers in five
years and four city council recalls,” said Larry Kosmont, the
interim city administrator who’s been working since May to turn
around Montebello’s finances.  “I saw Bell as having an absolute march to corruption
every day,” he said in an interview. “In Montebello, it was
more ineptitude and poor leadership than absolute corruption.”  The city said it concurred with the controller’s findings
in a response attached to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  