-- California High Court Allows Agency Dissolution While Blocking Exemptions
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2011-12-29T19:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/california-court-strikes-down-laws-allowing-seizure-of-redevelopment-funds.html
A  California (STOCA1)  statute allowing the
state to use funds from redevelopment agencies to avoid a
shortfall of cash for schools and other projects was struck down
by the California Supreme Court, which simultaneously upheld
another law that allows the dissolution of the agencies.  The ruling allows Governor  Jerry Brown  to eliminate 400
agencies and use some of their funds for education, roads and
fire departments. The court majority held unconstitutional the
other statute because it conditioned the ability of the agencies
to conduct new business on agreeing to an annual payment plan
based on a portion of property tax revenues allocated to them.  The court explained that this opt-in plan violated
California’s Proposition 22, which “expressly forbids the
legislature from requiring such payments.”  At stake in the court fight is $1.7 billion in funds from
the agencies that Brown wants put to other uses. By striking
down the law that allowed the state to redirect redevelopment
money, the court doesn’t allow it to seize the $1.7 billion,
said Steven Mayer, an attorney for the agencies.  “That’s not going to happen,” said Mayer.  In a statement, Brown disputed that argument, saying
“Today’s ruling by the  California  Supreme Court validates a key
component of the state budget and guarantees more than a billion
dollars of ongoing funding for schools and public safety.”  Elimination Necessary  “Redevelopment elimination was necessary to protect core
services, such as schools and public safety,” Steve Glazer,
Brown’s political adviser, said after the ruling.  State officials had argued redevelopment agencies that
control billions of dollars of public money had to be revamped
to allow California to divert the money for education, roads and
fire departments.  The California Redevelopment Association, the League of
California Cities and the cities of  San Jose  and Union City had
urged the court to overturn the laws, saying they violate
Proposition 22, a ballot measure approved by voters last year
that prevents the state from seizing revenue dedicated to local
government.  Brown, a Democrat who took office in January, had counted
on the money to balance the 2011-2012 budget and avoid deeper
cuts to education.  Redevelopment agencies provide funding for road, sewer,
lighting and affordable-housing projects across the state. Under
California’s 65-year-old redevelopment law, if a city or county
creates a redevelopment area to address urban blight, the agency
receives related property-tax revenue increases that may result,
known as the tax increment.  The California Supreme Court delayed enforcement of the
laws in August and ordered the state to explain why the seizure
of the funds shouldn’t be blocked. The funds diversion is
scheduled to begin Jan. 15.  The case is California Redevelopment Association v.
Matosantos, S194861, California Supreme Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  