-- U.S. Business Activity, Home Sales Beat Forecasts: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-29T21:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-declined-to-62-5-in-december-from-62-6.html
Companies cranked out more goods in
December and pending sales of existing homes jumped in November
for a second month, pointing to a pickup in U.S. economic growth
as 2011 comes to a close.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer (CHPMINDX)  was little changed at 62.5 from a seven-
month high of 62.6 in November. The index of  signed contracts (USPHTMOM)  to
buy previously owned houses rose 7.3 percent after climbing 10.4
percent the prior month, the National Association of Realtors
said. Both figures surpassed the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “2011 is ending on a solid note,” said  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , who forecast a reading of 63 for the Chicago
index. “Manufacturing has some momentum,” he said, and “we’re
starting to see some signs of life in housing.”  Combined with a drop in firings over the past month and
improving  consumer confidence , the data show the world’s largest
economy may be strengthening enough to fend off major damage
from the European debt crisis. Stocks rallied, buoyed by the
stronger-than-projected readings and by a decline in Italian
borrowing costs.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.1 percent to
1,263.02 at the close in New York, sending the measure up 0.4
percent for the year.  Treasury securities  rose, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 1.9 percent from
1.92 percent late yesterday.  Inflation Outlook  A report from  Europe  today showed the sovereign debt crisis
is damping inflation pressures. The rate of growth in M3  money
supply , which the  European Central Bank  uses as a gauge of
future price pressures, fell to 2 percent in November from 2.6
percent a month earlier, the central bank said. The decline may
give policy makers more room to reduce  interest rates  to a
record low early next year.  In  Asia , industrial production in  South Korea  unexpectedly
fell last month. The 0.4 percent decline followed a 0.6 percent
drop in October, Statistics Korea said today.  The number of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits
dropped to 375,000  on average (INJCJC4)  over the past four weeks, the
fewest since June 2008, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington.  Applications (INJCJC)  rose for the first time in a month for
the week ended Dec. 24, climbing by a more-than-forecast 15,000
to 381,000.  More Jobs  Last week’s increase says more about their volatility
during this time of year than about the state of the job market,
according to economists like  Eric Green . Their recent decline
has stoked speculation the U.S. is on the cusp of showing bigger
gains in employment.  “The labor market is improving,” said Green, chief market
economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York . “You should expect
to see stronger payroll numbers going forward.”  The economy generated 150,000 jobs in December, up from
120,000 the prior month, economists forecast the Labor
Department’s monthly jobs report on Jan. 6 will show.  Consumer confidence last week eased from a five-month high,
showing an improvement in sentiment will take time to develop,
another report showed. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (COMFCOMF)  fell
to minus 47.5 in the period ended Dec. 24 from minus 45 the
prior week, the highest reading since July.  “While consumer sentiment has shown signs of stabilizing,
it is still quite fragile,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “Households remain
stressed, and it would not be surprising to see further declines
in sentiment in early 2012 once the bill for the recent increase
in  consumer spending  comes due.”  Survey Results  Readings greater than 50 for the Chicago index signal
growth. Economists forecast the gauge would fall to 61,
according to the  median (CHPMINDX)  of 49 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Projections ranged from 59 to 65.  Gains in car sales and holiday spending on other goods and
services at a time when companies are holding lean inventories
may pave the way for stronger factory orders.  The Chicago group’s measures of employment and order
backlogs climbed, while production and new orders grew at a
slower pace than in November.  Moline, Illinois-based  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s biggest
farm machinery makers, is forecasting 2012 will see another
increase in sales as the global farm industry thrives and the
world economy expands.  ‘Charge Ahead’  “John Deere enters 2012 on a very strong pace,” head of
investor relations Susan Karlix said on a conference call last
month. “We’re looking for further improvement in the year ahead
as a result of some pickup in overall economic conditions, and a
global farm sector that shows every sign of continuing to charge
ahead.”  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  The ISM’s national  factory index (NAPMPMI)  climbed in December to
53.2 from 52.7 the prior month, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey ahead of the group’s report
Jan. 3. Like the Chicago survey, a reading greater than 50
signals expansion.  The back-to-back jump in pending home sales brought the
real-estate agents’ index to the highest level since April 2010.
Economists forecast a 1.5 percent gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “Housing affordability conditions are at a record high and
there is a pent-up demand from buyers who’ve been on the
sidelines, but contract failures have been running unusually
high,” NAR chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a statement
accompanying the release. “Some of the increase in pending
sales appears to be from buyers recommitting after an initial
contract ran into problems, often with the mortgage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 