-- Chilean Student Protests Claim Second Ministerial Victim as Bulnes Resigns
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-29T19:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/chilean-student-protests-claim-second-ministerial-victim-as-bulnes-resigns.html
Chile ’s student protest movement
claimed its second ministerial victim today when President
Sebastian Pinera named Harald Beyer to replace Felipe Bulnes as
education minister.  Bulnes took over from Joaquin Lavin in July, a month after
the start of protests that shuttered hundreds of state schools
and led to almost weekly clashes with police in the streets of
Santiago in the second half of the year.  While the scale of protests has subsided, Beyer will face
an increasingly radicalized student movement. Earlier this
month, University of Chile students ousted Communist Party
member Camila Vallejo as president in favor of Gabriel Boric,
who advocates a harder line against the government. The protests
helped push Pinera’s approval rating to 23 percent, the lowest
for any president since the return of democracy two decades ago,
according to an opinion poll released today. Pinera also named
Luis Mayol as the new agriculture minister today.  “This was motivated by resignations for personal and
private reasons and not political factors,” government
spokesman Andres Chadwick told reporters today in Santiago.
“The president decided to make the replacements immediately
after resignations were submitted.”  Bulnes had responded to student protests by proposing
increased access to credit and improved supervision of
universities.  ‘Good Job’  “Generally speaking, Bulnes did a pretty good job,”
Robert Funk, a political scientist at the University of Chile,
said today. “He brought some order to the mess.”  Protest leaders have suspended demonstrations as Chile
enters its summer vacation period. Students last week abandoned
a seven-month occupation of the University of Chile’s central
campus in downtown Santiago, vowing to resume protests in 2012
for lower cost and higher quality schooling.  “At the end of the day, it seems that the student movement
was more defeated -- it sort of fizzled out -- and the
government didn’t really hand over very much,” Funk said.  That success came at a political cost and not only for the
education ministers. Pinera’s approval rating fell to 23 percent
in a poll conducted between Nov. 11 and Dec. 11 from 26 percent
in June and July, Santiago-based pollster CEP said in a report
today.  The survey  of 1,559 people has a margin of error of 3
percentage points.  Radicalized  “Chile needs deep educational reforms that are cost-
effective and build on the system already in place,” Beyer
wrote in an article published last week in Que Pasa magazine and
reprinted on his think tank’s website. Education is key to a
more equal society, he said, advocating the greater use of
income-assessed  student loans  to finance university education
for pupils who cannot afford it.  Student leader Boric said the movement would resume in
March, after taking the summer to come up with new tactics.  “There’s a perception among citizens that we haven’t done
enough to come to agreements, and we have to be capable of
asking ourselves what more we must do and to evaluate ourselves
critically,” Boric said in an interview on CNN Chile. “We’ll
be in that process in January and February so in March we can
start with all our strength and energy renewed to take up topics
that remain unresolved.”  While the election of new student leaders will further
polarize the dispute, their capacity to mobilize students is in
doubt, said Mauricio Morales, a political scientist at Diego
Portales University in Santiago  “I don’t know if students are willing to miss a second
school year,” Morales said by phone. “We’ll likely see a very
active movement that probably won’t have the extended number of
activities we saw this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 