-- Chilean Rate Swaps Fall as Industrial Output Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-29T15:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/chilean-rate-swaps-fall-as-industrial-output-exceeds-estimates.html
(Corrects direction of swap move in headline.)  Chilean interest-rate swaps climbed
as data showing industrial production expanded faster than
expected in November tamed expectations of rate rises.  The one-year rate rose the most in three weeks to 4.32
percent as of 11:37 a.m. in Santiago. The two-year swap rate
rose two basis points to 4.23 percent.  Chile ’s peso pared earlier losses after data showed
industrial output grew 2 percent while unemployment fell and
retail sales jumped 8.5 percent. Traders had been pricing in
rate cuts after central bank minutes published yesterday showed
policy makers discussed lowering borrowing costs earlier this
month.  “The economic data were positive and rates fell yesterday,
so it’s logical that you see a correction,” said Jose Miguel Gredilla, a trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “We
expect a rate cut in January: that’s almost pre-announced. But
that doesn’t mean the bank keeps cutting hard in February and
March.”  A liquidity squeeze last week in the short-term  debt market 
where banks finance themselves prompted policy makers to open a
so-called repo window twice a week that allows lenders to
exchange bonds for cash on the promise of buying them back for a
fee. The decision to open the facility increases the odds of a
central  bank rate  cut next month, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economist  Alberto Ramos  wrote in a note to clients on Dec. 22.  The central bank didn’t accept any assets when it last
opened the window on Dec. 27. It  opened  it again today.  The swaps market is biased towards discounting lower
 interest rates  because of the risk that a deepening of the
European debt crisis triggers emergency monetary loosening in
Chile, Gredilla said.  Peso Gains  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 521.35 per  U.S. dollar . It
earlier slid 0.6 percent to 524.65.  The annualized rate banks pay to borrow for between one and
three months fell to a two-week low of 6.12 percent on Dec. 27,
according to central bank data. Offshore investors in the
Chilean peso forwards market reduced bets against the currency
to $5.8 billion from $6 billion.  Yields on long-dated Chilean inflation-linked bonds fell
today. The yield on a 3 percent Chilean government bond due in
2030 fell eight basis points to 2.74 percent. The yield on
inflation-linked central bank bonds due in 2031 fell six basis
points to 2.75 percent. The yield on similar bonds due in 2041
fell six basis points to 2.92 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  