-- Chinese Billionaire Huang Seeks Denmark, Finland Investments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-29T09:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/chinese-billionaire-spurned-by-iceland-seeks-denmark-finland-investments.html
Huang Nubo, the Chinese billionaire
who’s in talks with  Iceland  on alternative proposals after a
$200 million investment in the nation was rejected, said he’s
looking for similar tourism projects in Finland and Denmark.  The developer is planning to spend “tens of millions” of
U.S. dollars for so-called holiday villages in the two countries,
he said in  Shanghai . The investments will be scaled down because
the site in Iceland was a lot bigger, he said.  Huang is expanding outside China to take advantage of
declining global asset prices amid a market rout triggered by
the European debt crisis. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  has fallen 8.8
percent this year, set for its first decline in three years.  “Right now, the Iceland government is still deciding on
the investment, but I won’t wait either,” Huang said, speaking
after an event at the China Europe International Business School,
known as CEIBS. “I am now in talks with Finland and  Denmark 
about investing there.”  Huang, 55, founder and chairman of  Beijing Zhongkun
Investment Group Co.  told reporters that he’s still in talks
with Iceland on alternative proposals, including leasing the
land for a similar project. While some government officials are
keen on his investment, it faces opposition from others taking a
nationalistic stance, he said.  Huang said in September he was in talks to buy the land in
the north of Iceland for $8.8 million from a group of farmers.
Huang had planned to invest about $200 million to build a resort
with a hotel, golf course and racecourse. The bid was rejected
as the transfer of property would be “incompatible” with the
country’s laws, the Reykjavik-based Internal Affairs Ministry
said last month.  Investing in Iceland  “They still hope that  China  will invest in the country,”
Huang said today. “They feel that they haven’t had such a big
investment in a long while.”  Iceland, which is emerging from the failure of its bank
industry in 2008, is now enjoying faster economic growth than
the average in the euro area, the International Monetary Fund
estimates. Iceland’s gross domestic product will expand 2.5
percent next year, more than double the 1.1 percent the IMF
estimates the 17-member euro area will expand.  The developer said in September that he would expand in
other Nordic countries if he was able to buy the site in Iceland.
He said today that he’s considering investing in  Norway .  Huang is estimated by Forbes magazine to have a fortune of
$1.02 billion, an amount he said is too low.  In China, Huang is known for helping restore the 200-year-
old villages Xidi and Hongcun around Huangshan mountain in
eastern Anhui province, which are now included on the UNESCO
world heritage list. He later built and operates resorts near
the villages.  --Liza Lin, with assistance from Bonnie Cao in Shanghai. Editors:
Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at   llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  