-- China-Japan Currency Deal Points Way to New Monetary Order: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-29T00:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/china-japan-currency-deal-points-way-to-a-new-world-monetary-order-view.html
The agreement announced between
China and  Japan  to strengthen financial ties and promote
yuan-yen trade is a small, but notable, step toward a new
global economy. Its immediate practical significance is
limited, yet the deal signals that a deeper transformation
is under way -- and one that the world should welcome.  The plan was a surprise: It marks a warming of
relations that had been chilly of late. The accord still
lacks a timetable for implementation, but once in force it
will let Chinese and Japanese trading companies switch
between yuan and yen without converting to dollars first.
This will encourage commerce by reducing  currency risk  and
trading costs.  The agreement will let a Japanese-backed institution
sell yuan bonds in  China , helping to open China’s capital
market. In return, Japan will convert some of its foreign-
exchange reserves into Chinese bonds. China has signed
financial pacts with other nations, mainly in  Asia , but the
size of China-Japan trade -- $340 billion last year, and
growing fast -- makes this deal the most important by far.  Warmer relations and short-term benefits for regional
trade, though, are not the main reasons the agreement
matters. China seeks a bigger role for its currency in
global markets, and wants power in international forums
that is commensurate with its  economic might . The sooner
its currency is fully convertible and its economy is open
to global investment, the sooner this will happen.  Nudging the Yuan  The deal points the way, nudging the yuan toward its
inevitable status as a global reserve currency alongside
the dollar, yen and euro. For all parties, this process has
both benefits and costs, but in the end all stand to gain.  A fully internationalized yuan would be free to
appreciate. China’s trade surplus, a destabilizing force in
the world economy, would then be self-correcting, and the
friction in U.S.-China economic diplomacy would subside.  The U.S. had a $273 billion deficit in the trading of
goods with China last year, a figure that U.S. politicians
of all stripes find intolerable. On Dec. 27, the U.S.
decided not to designate China a “currency manipulator,”
and instead pointedly criticized China’s resistance to
greater exchange-rate flexibility. Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  isn’t so reticent: As one of his
first actions in office, he says, he would bring a
currency-manipulation case against China at the  World Trade
Organization .  The risk for the U.S., if the yuan strengthened
abruptly, would be higher  interest rates  and  inflation ,
reflecting the shift by investors away from the dollar to
the yuan, and the steeper cost of Chinese goods.  The risk for China would be a too-sudden squeeze on
its exporters. Over the longer term, though, avoiding the
huge imbalances caused by China’s undervalued currency
would be good for everybody, and not least China, where the
cheap-yuan policy misallocates investment and suppresses
living standards.  When the dollar loses its pre-eminence as a global
currency, the U.S. will need to adjust. Dollar bills in
circulation are, in effect, a gift to the U.S. -- they cost
cents to print yet they buy a dollar’s worth of goods and
services, a hidden form of payment that economists call
seigniorage. A stronger yuan will transfer some of this
seigniorage to China.  More important, creditors may look more cautiously at
U.S. bonds if the dollar becomes just another currency. If
by then America hasn’t beaten its addiction to public
borrowing, this change would force the U.S. to do so, and
the experience could be unpleasant.  Badge of Leadership  Not to be discounted are the symbolic, as well as
material, benefits associated with printing the world’s
leading currency. It is a mark of prestige and a badge of
global leadership, which is precisely why China longs to
share it. America might be tempted to resist or resent this
development, but that would be a mistake.  A grown-up yuan means a more stable world economy,
which would hugely benefit the U.S. In any case, China’s
size and vitality assure both its geopolitical strength and
the yuan’s eventual standing as a global currency.
Resistance is pointless.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 