-- China Stops Encouraging Foreign Investment in Auto Manufacturing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-29T11:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/china-stops-encouraging-investment-in-auto-manufacturing-after-sales-slow.html
China  will stop encouraging foreign
investment in car manufacturing to allow for “healthy
development” of a market that saw sales growth plummet to a
tenth of last year’s pace.  The change ends seven years of foreign-investor benefits
including reduced tariffs on imported plant equipment, said
Jenny Gu, a senior market analyst at LMC Automotive in Shanghai.
Foreign investment in more fuel-efficient vehicles will still be
encouraged, the National Development and Reform Commission and
the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement.  “It might be more difficult for carmakers to get approval
for new plants in the future unless they have an investment in
new-energy vehicles,” Gu said.  SAIC Motor Corp., the nation’s largest listed automaker,
rose 4.1 percent to 13.88 yuan in  Shanghai  trading today, it’s
biggest gain in almost two weeks.  The country needs to focus on nurturing strategic new
industries to make its manufacturing more sophisticated and be
more competitive globally, the National Development and Reform
Commission in the  statement .  Vehicle sales in China rose 2.6 percent during the first 11
months of this year, with passenger car sales increasing 5.3
percent to 13.1 million units, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. China’s vehicle sales
gained by a record 32 percent in 2010.  Slowing Deliveries  The nation’s automobile manufacturers association estimated
that 2011 deliveries may grow by the least in 13 years as a
rollback in policies aimed at encouraging buyers curtailed
purchases.  LMC estimates that China’s light vehicle capacity, which
doesn’t include production of minivans and trucks, may grow more
than 40 percent to 27 million units annually between 2010 and
2012. The automobile manufacturers association’s category for
passenger cars includes minivans.  The decision to continue encouraging investment in new-
energy vehicles also comes as the world’s largest polluter
pushes for more alternative-energy vehicles on its roads.  Wan Gang, China’s Science and Technology Minister, said
this week that China needs to improve its research and
development of electric cars, and should establish standards for
 car batteries  as soon as possible, the Science and Technology
Daily reported on Dec. 26. The government has set a goal of 1
million electric-powered vehicles on the road by 2015, according
to the Ministry of Science.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  