-- Rakoff Orders SEC, Citigroup to Alert Him of Appeals Filings
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-29T23:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/citigroup-sec-ordered-by-judge-to-notify-him-of-appeals-filings-in-suit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission must notify U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff of any filings they make with the appeals court
in  Manhattan  in a lawsuit between the parties, he said.  Rakoff issued an order today in which he laid out the
history of the litigation since his refusal last month to
approve an accord resolving claims that New York-based Citigroup
misled investors in a $1 billion financial product linked to
risky mortgages. The parties didn’t allow him time to rule on a
request to halt the litigation during an appeal of that order,
he said. They went to the appeals court and obtained a stay
before he issued his own decision Dec. 27.  “The parties are hereby ordered to promptly notify this
court of any filings in the Court of Appeals by faxing copies of
any such filings to this court immediately after they are filed
in the Court of Appeals,” Rakoff wrote.  Because of the federal appeals court’s ruling, the suit
will remain on hold while the higher court considers whether to
review Rakoff’s rejection of a $285 million settlement in the
case. The appeals court agreed to the SEC’s request to delay the
case until at least Jan. 17. The agency said halting the case
was necessary because Rakoff told Citigroup to respond to the
SEC’s complaint next week.  On Hold  The court said the SEC’s request to stay the case in the
lower court and to expedite the appeal will be submitted to a
motions panel of the court Jan. 17. The case will be kept on
hold until the panel decides whether to grant the requests, the
court said in a two-sentence order.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Rakoff’s order.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement that “we will respond as
appropriate in the proceedings before the court of appeals.”  In his Nov. 28 ruling, Rakoff criticized the agency’s
practice of settling without requiring the subject of the
allegations to admit wrongdoing. The Manhattan judge said the
Citigroup settlement didn’t provide him with “any proven or
admitted facts” to inform his judgment.  The SEC said it wanted to preserve agency resources by
putting the case on hold while the appeals court considers
Rakoff’s ruling.  ‘Imminent’ Decision  Rakoff said today that his Dec. 27 order denying a request
from the SEC that he halt the case during the appeal was issued
one minute after the Court of Appeals granted the SEC’s request.  He said the SEC filed its emergency motion with the appeals
court without notifying him and without telling the higher court
that his decision was imminent.  By not telling him of the emergency motion, Citigroup and
the SEC “held back from this court material information it
needed to do its job,” Rakoff said.  He said one reason for his order today was to apprise the
appeals court of what had transpired “and to attempt to prevent
similar recurrences.”  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit ( New York ). The district court case is
11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 