-- Angelo Gordon Sues to Halt ‘Brazen Scheme’ to Steal $60 Million From CMBS
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2011-12-29T23:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/cmbs-holders-allege-brazen-scheme-to-steal-60-million-in-suit.html
A group of commercial-mortgage
backed securities investors including Angelo Gordon & Co. and
Winthrop Realty Trust sued a junior lender and other parties,
alleging a “brazen scheme,” to steal more than $60 million
from bondholders, according to a New York court filing.  The investors, three collateralized debt obligations and
TCG Holdings I LLC, hold pieces of a $1.26 billion deal sold by
Credit Suisse Group AG in 2007, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analysts led by  Richard Hill  wrote in a report today. They are
seeking to block Galante Holdings Inc. from purchasing a $150
million loan on the J.W. Marriott Summerlin Hotel, Resort, Spa
and Casino in Las Vegas for less than $85 million, according to
the court filing.  “This action seeks to stop in its tracks the brazen scheme
of a junior lender who here attempts to steal more than $60
million in value from a group of senior lenders,” according to
the complaint filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan . “Galante’s bid to seize control of the mortgage loan
and abscond with more than $60 million in value, as well as with
critical control rights, fails for numerous reasons.”  Special Servicer  The suit names TriMont Real Estate Advisors as the so-
called special servicer. Special servicers, firms that handle
troubled property loans packaged into securities, have the
option to buy defaulted loans provided the value is deemed fair.
According to the complaint, Galante, which owns $10 million in
junior obligations against the property, “conspired” with the
servicer to purchase the debt for less than it’s worth, the RBS
analysts wrote.  “The lawsuit highlights how complicated the fair-value-
purchase option can be,” Hill, who is based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.  A message left for Atlanta-based TriMont wasn’t returned.  “The case was just filed, and at this point we think the
allegations speak for themselves and don’t want to make any
additional comment,” said Allan Krinsman, senior counsel at
Angelo Gordon, the investment firm that manages one of the CDOs.  Galante acquired the junior debt from Citadel Securities
Trading LLC on Feb. 9, and then “hand picked” TriMont as the
special servicer, according to the complaint. The servicer
didn’t make an attempt to work out the loan, nor did it hire a
broker to market the debt in order to determine its true value,
the plaintiffs alleged.  ‘Not an Affiliate’  Douglas Rohrer, a principal at advisory firm Aberdeen
Realty Holdings Ltd., was named as a defendant in the suit,
along with Aberdeen. Rohrer has worked for, owns, or has formed
several of the defendants including Aberdeen, Citadel and
Galante, according to the filing.  “Aberdeen is not an affiliate of Galante and is not a
principal in the transaction despite what others may say,”
Rohrer said in a telephone interview. Aberdeen “has no
authority to enter into this transaction or make decisions with
regard to this transaction.”  Rohrer was employed at Citadel from July 2010 to August of
this year, according to records from the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Katie Spring, a spokeswoman for Citadel,
declined to comment.  While Rohrer claims no affiliation with the principals of
this transaction, he’s been connected with the debt since he
originated the mortgage as a lender at Credit Suisse, according
to Michael Ashner, chairman and chief executive officer of
Winthrop.  “We are not known for taking these abuses lightly,”
Ashner said in a telephone interview.  The 54.6-acre  Las Vegas  hotel consists of 548 guest rooms
and a full-service casino, according to the complaint.  The case is Cedarwoods CRE CDO II Ltd. v. Galante Holdings
Inc., 11-653624, New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan (New
York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  