-- Colombia Cites Slowing Economic Growth and Europe Risks in Holding Rates
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2011-12-29T16:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/colombia-cites-slowing-economic-growth-and-europe-risks-in-holding-rates.html
Colombia’s central bank cited risks
of a “disorderly adjustment” in European debt markets and
signs that the domestic economy is slowing in its decision to
leave  interest rates  unchanged this month.  The board of directors, led by Governor Jose Dario Uribe,
voted six-to-one to hold the overnight interest rate at 4.75
percent, after raising it a quarter point in November, according
to the minutes of the Dec. 16 policy meeting published today.  “If a disorderly adjustment should materialize in  Europe ,
the worldwide economy will grow considerably less than
expected, the international prices for commodities could fall,
and global  risk aversion  would be exacerbated,” policy makers
said. “All of this would adversely affect the Colombian
economy.”  President  Juan Manuel Santos  said Dec. 6 said that it
wouldn’t be “appropriate” for Banco de la Republica to raise
rates again at a time when other central banks are cutting them.
Colombia is the only major Latin American economy to have
increased borrowing costs in recent months. Policy makers in
Chile and  Mexico  this month said they may cut borrowing costs if
the European crisis worsens, while  Brazil  has been reducing
rates since August in anticipation of a downturn.  Fourth quarter data show signs the economy may now be
cooling, after growing 7.7 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, its fastest pace since 2006. The urban
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose in November, to 10.3
percent, while vehicle sales fell 5.1 percent from a year
earlier.  The minutes noted signs that “even if the Colombian
economy remains strong, this momentum could be moderating.”  Annual  inflation (COCPIYOY)  slowed more than expected in November, to
3.96 percent, after breaching the upper limit of the target
range in October for the first time since 2009.  Colombia  targets
inflation of 2-4 percent.  The bank said that inflation expectations are increasingly
dominated by supply shocks related to bad weather,  weather,
which it lacks “appropriate tools” to deal with.  Floods this year and in 2010 damaged crops and choked off
farmers’ supply routes, pushing food prices higher.
Heavier-than-average rain, caused by the La Nina weather
pattern, will last through the first quarter of next year, the
government has said.  The peso was almost unchanged at 1941.00 per dollar at
11.18 a.m. New York time. The currency has gained 0.4 percent
this month, the best performance among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
investors’ price increase expectations, rose to 3.8 percentage
points this week, from 3.6 percent the day before the central
bank’s rate decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  