-- Commercial Paper Drops to 2-Month Low as Funds Cut Bank Holdings, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2011-12-29T16:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/commercial-paper-hits-two-month-low-as-funds-cut-bank-holdings-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through U.S.  commercial paper (FCPOTOTS)  dropped to the lowest level in two
months as investors reduced holdings of banks’ short-term IOUs
on concern that Europe’s fiscal crisis is spreading.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding fell $27.2 billion to $959.3 billion in the week
ended Dec. 28, the fourth consecutive decline, the  Federal
Reserve  said today on its website. That’s the biggest weekly
decrease since the period ended Sept. 7, bringing the market to
the lowest since Oct. 19.  U.S. money-market mutual funds, among the biggest buyers of
commercial paper, are reducing short-term obligations from
financial institutions, which are also increasingly wary of the
risks of lending to each other. Euro-area banks parked 452
billion euros ($591 billion) of overnight deposits with the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  on Dec. 27, the most since
the euro’s introduction in 1999 as financial strains in the
region persisted.  Money funds are selling riskier assets and stockpiling
Treasury bills, which are perceived to be safer, as year-end
approaches, said Raymond Stone, an economist at Stone & McCarthy
Research Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey . Funds “want to
hold the least risky assets,” he said.  Commercial paper issued by U.S.-based banks (FCPOFDS)  fell for a
fourth week, decreasing $11.7 billion to $283.1 billion, the
biggest decline since the period ended Nov. 9, according to Fed
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Securities sold by non-U.S.
financial institutions (FCPOFFS)  fell $6.7 billion to $152.7 billion, the
lowest level since August 2009.  ‘More Vulnerable’  “Financial institutions in  Europe  are thought to be more
vulnerable than those in the  United States , but those in the
U.S. are thought to be more vulnerable than non-financial
institutions,” Stone said.  Corporations sell commercial paper to fund everyday
operations such as paying rent and salaries. IOUs issued by non-
financial companies declined $5.8 billion to $195.3 billion
outstanding, the lowest level since the period ended Oct. 19 the
Fed said.  The London interbank offered rate that banks say they pay
for three-month loans in dollars climbed to 0.581 percent today,
according to the British Bankers’ Association, the most since
July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  