-- Credit Agricole Squeezed With BNP by Slide in French Bond Sales
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2011-12-29T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/credit-agricole-squeezed-with-bnp-by-slide-in-french-corporate-bond-sales.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and BNP Paribas
SA, the top arrangers of French corporate debt sales this year,
are girding for a slowdown in 2012 after companies raised the
least amount in the second half since 2007.  Bond sales by French companies have fallen 22 percent since
July 1 compared with the year-earlier period to 62.6 billion
euros ($81 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The market may shrink more as  Standard & Poor’s  considers
whether to strip  France  of its AAA credit rating and Europe’s
second-biggest economy enters a recession.  “2012 will be challenging,” said Bernard du Boislouveau,
co-head of financial institutions debt capital markets at Credit
Agricole CIB in Paris. “Macro risk is combined with the
sovereign-debt risk and that’s far from being resolved.”  Credit Agricole CIB, the corporate and investment banking
unit of France’s third-largest bank, was the biggest arranger
with about 20 percent of the market in the period, followed by
BNP Paribas with about 13 percent, Bloomberg data show. Natixis
was in third place ahead of  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   “The second half was complicated because of high levels of
volatility,” said Felix Orsini, co-global head of debt capital
markets corporates origination at Paris-based Societe Generale.
“We are telling issuers to remain cautious. Markets are very
nervous.”  Excluding sales by banks and financial companies, Societe
Generale took the top position, managing 2.5 billion euros of
corporate debt in the second half, or 15 percent of issues.  Bumper Year  Capping borrowing further, French companies bulked up in
2009, raising the most funds through bond issues since Bloomberg
began compiling such data in 1999. They raised 231 billion euros
that year.  “Companies have a lot of cash and there has been less M&A
activity,” said Laurent Attali, head of debt capital markets
for French corporates at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  in Paris. “If companies
needed to finance, they have been able to do so, but for those
that have already done it, they didn’t face the pressure to
finance in a volatile market.”  Other avenues for raising funds have closed off. France’s
benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  has lost 18 percent this year as the euro
area’s debt crisis spread to  Italy  and  Spain  and economic growth
slowed. About 13 percent of value has been wiped from world
markets since the start of the year. French companies raised 5.4
billion euros from the stock markets in 2011, the smallest
amount since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 1999.  ‘One Leg’  Although that may have driven some companies to the  bond
market  in the first six months of the year, debt capital market
sales slowed in the second half, the bankers said. That is
particularly true for financial institutions, with BNP Paribas
and Societe Generale saying they haven’t tapped the bond market
since the summer. Credit Agricole declined to comment on when it
last sold bonds.  French financial institutions had the biggest sovereign and
private debt holdings in  Europe ’s five troubled economies --
 Greece ,  Portugal , Italy, Ireland and Spain -- at $681 billion as
of June, according to the Basle, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements. French banks’ credit ratings were cut
this month by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited funding
constraints and a worsening European debt crisis.  “Banks are highly correlated with the macro environment
and the sovereign-debt crisis, so volume has declined,” said
Credit Agricole’s du Boislouveau. “Since June, the market has
been hobbling along on one leg.”  Du Boislouveau said banks and financial companies raised
about 40 billion euros a month between January and May. Issuance
has since more than halved to 17 billion euros a month, he said.  Vinci,  Vivendi (VIV)   Non-financial corporates that raised funds in the bond
market in the second half include  Vinci SA (DG)  and Vivendi SA.  Vinci, Europe’s biggest builder, on Dec. 8 sold 750 million
euros of bonds due in February 2017 priced to yield 230 basis
points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate. BNP Paribas,
Credit Agricole, Natixis and Societe Generale were among
arrangers of the deal.  Vinci’s yield was almost triple the 88 basis points above
the mid-swap rate its wholly owned unit Autoroutes du Sud de la
France paid last year to sell 500 million euros of bonds due in
April 2020.  Vivendi, owner of the world’s largest music and video-game
companies, on Nov. 22 sold 500 million euros of bonds due in
November of 2018. They were priced to yield 365 basis points
over the mid-swap rate, with BNP Paribas,  Credit Agricole  and
Societe Generale among banks arranging the deal.  That’s more than double the yield of 125 basis points above
the mid-swap rate that Vivendi paid last year to sell 750
million euros of bonds due in March 2017.  Shortened Focus  Investors were more willing to buy investment grade debt in
the second half, although increasing volatility meant that
windows to complete the operations were narrow, said Societe
Generale’s Orsini. For example, French companies completed 12
sales during a seven-day period in September, he said.  “We’ve often had to manage several operations in one
day,” Orsini said. “With market windows becoming shorter, the
execution procedure has accelerated and deals have to be wrapped
up quickly. There are also fewer long-term operations and that
is linked to the crisis.”  With questions emerging about the survivability of the euro
and markets roiled by the two-year-old debt crisis, investors
have opted for shorter-term debt.  Globally, only 3 percent of deals this year have been bonds
of more than 10 years, compared with 13 percent in 2010,
according to Societe Generale.  ‘Quality Investments’  France’s credit outlook was cut by  Fitch Ratings  on Dec. 16
on the “heightened risk of contingent liabilities” from the
escalating euro-region crisis. S&P and Moody’s are reviewing
France’s top rating. The French economy is probably already in a
recession that will last through March, national statistics
office Insee said this month.  That may mean only the least risky companies will be able
to sell debt next year, said Credit Agricole’s du Boislouveau.  “Investors have a lot of liquidity to put to work,” he
said. “They have to find support for quality investments. There
will be deals, but the eligible names will be few.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  