-- Oil Advances on U.S. Economic Data, Tension in Middle East
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-12-29T21:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/crude-oil-decreases-amid-increasing-risks-from-european-credit-crisis.html
Oil rose on signs the  U.S. economy 
is weathering  Europe ’s debt crisis and amid speculation that
escalating tension in the Middle East may disrupt supplies.  Crude advanced for the seventh time in eight days after a
measure of U.S. jobless claims fell to a three-year low and
pending sales of existing homes jumped for a second month.  Iran 
threatened this week to block crude shipments through the Strait
of Hormuz if sanctions are imposed on its oil exports.  “We are getting support from the U.S. economic data,”
said James Williams, an economist at WTRG Economics, an energy
research firm in  London ,  Arkansas . “More than anything else, a
possible confrontation with Iran is pushing up oil.”  Crude oil for February delivery gained 29 cents, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $99.65 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have increased 9.1 percent this year.  Brent oil for February settlement rose 45 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $108.01 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The four-week moving average for jobless claims dropped to
375,000 last week, the lowest level since June 2008, Labor
Department data showed in  Washington . The index of  signed
contracts (USPHTMOM)  to buy previously owned houses rose 7.3 percent in
November, the National Association of Realtors said today.  Iran Threat  Iran is showing “irrational behavior” with its threat to
shut the Strait of Hormuz,  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State
Department spokeswoman, said today in Washington. Iranian Vice
President Mohammad Reza Rahimi issued the warning in a Dec. 27
report published by the state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency .  A U.S. aircraft carrier was spotted in the area where Iran
is conducting naval exercises, IRNA reported today, citing navy
Deputy Commander Mahmoud Mousavi. The maneuvers, announced Dec.
24, are scheduled to run through Jan. 4.  The U.S. Navy won’t tolerate a disruption to shipping in
the strait, Rebecca Rebarich, a Navy spokeswoman, said yesterday
in an e-mail.  “The Iranian connection in the  Middle East  is the powder
keg,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder
of Iitrader.com in Chicago.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, passes through the Strait of Hormuz between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the Persian Gulf, according to the
U.S. Energy Department.  Iran (OPCRIRAN)  pumped 3.56 million barrels a day of crude in
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, making it the
second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia .  Euro Rebounds  Oil also increased as the euro rebounded from the lowest
level in 15 months against the dollar.  The single European currency was little changed at $1.2943
from $1.2941 yesterday. Earlier, it touched $1.2858, the lowest
price since September 2010, after  Italy  auctioned 7.02 billion
euros ($9 billion) of bonds, short of a target. A stronger euro
and weaker dollar increase oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  “All traders are looking at the same thing,” Ilczyszyn
said. “They are looking at the euro-dollar connection and what
equities are doing.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.8 percent at 3:05
p.m. and the Dow Jones Industrial Average increased 0.9 percent.  Crude rebounded after falling as much as 1.1 percent in
intraday trading on a government report that showed U.S.
stockpiles unexpectedly increased as demand declined.  Inventory Report  Inventories (DOESCRUD)  rose 3.9 million barrels to 327.5 million in
the week ended Dec. 23, the Energy Department reported. Supplies
were forecast to drop 2.5 million barrels, based on the median
of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The American
Petroleum Institute said late yesterday that crude supplies
climbed 9.57 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied (DOEDTPRD)  decreased 825,000 barrels a day to
18.5 million, falling for the first time in four weeks, the
Energy Department reported.  “The number was bearish and should bring the price down,”
said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group
in  New York .  The U.S. is the world’s biggest oil consumer, accounting
for about 21 percent of global consumption, according to BP
Plc’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy. The 27 member
states of the European Union accounted for 16 percent.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 263,030
contracts as of 3:06 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 293,202
yesterday, 53 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.33 million contracts.  -- With assistance from  Bob Willis  in Washington, Alessandra
Migliaccio in  Rome  and Shaji Mathew in Dubai. Editors: Margot
Habiby, Bill Banker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  