-- Cutting Buffett Helps Sequoia Fund Top Rankings
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2011-12-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/cutting-buffett-helps-sequoia-fund-top-value-investor-rankings.html
Sequoia Fund Inc., (SEQUX)  recommended by
Warren Buffett when it opened, beat the U.S. stock market over
the past four decades, in part because a large piece of the fund
was invested in his company,  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Heeding Buffett’s warning that Berkshire wouldn’t grow as
fast as it once did, the managers of the $4.7 billion fund cut
their reliance on the stock almost in half in 2010 and put the
cash into companies such as  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX) , a drug distributor. Sequoia is beating the
pack again this year, gaining 14 percent through Dec. 27, better
than 99 percent of value stock funds, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “They have the kind of portfolio Buffett might have if he
ran a mutual fund,” Steven Roge, a portfolio manager with
Bohemia, New York-based R.W. Roge & Co., said in a telephone
interview. His firm, which oversees $200 million, holds shares
in Sequoia.  Like Buffett, the managers of Sequoia look for high-quality
companies with competitive advantages that the fund can hang
onto for long periods. While the scale of Buffett’s $68 billion
stock portfolio forces him to buy mainly the largest companies,
Sequoia is small enough to benefit from investments in mid-sized
businesses.  The fund beat  97 percent of peers over the past 10  and 15
years, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago. From 1970 to
2010 the fund returned 14 percent annually, compared with 11
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. In its best year,
1976, the fund gained 72 percent, according to “The Warren
Buffett Way” (John Wiley & Sons, 1994) by Robert Hagstrom. It
lost 27 percent in its worst year, 2008.  Buffett’s Praise  Sequoia Fund was co-founded in 1970 by Richard Cunniff and
William Ruane, a friend of Buffett since both studied under
legendary value investor  Benjamin Graham  at Columbia University
in 1951. When Buffett shut down his investment partnership in
1969 to concentrate on Berkshire Hathaway, he recommended that
his clients invest with Ruane.  “Bill formed Sequoia Fund to take care of the smaller
investor,” Buffett wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.
“A significant percentage of my former partners went with him
and many of those still living have their holdings of Sequoia.”  Ruane ran an unconventional fund, closing Sequoia to new
investors in 1982 because he didn’t want its size to limit what
the fund could buy. It opened again in 2008, three years after
Ruane’s death.  Ruane also held a concentrated portfolio. In 2003, Sequoia
had 75 percent of its money in its top six holdings, according
to a regulatory filing.  ‘Six Best Ideas’  Ruane believed that “your six best ideas in life are going
to do the best,” David Poppe, who now runs the fund together
with Robert Goldfarb, said at a May 2011 investor day for Ruane,
Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc., the New York firm that advises Sequoia.  Poppe and Goldfarb didn’t respond to a request to be
interviewed. The two were named domestic stock managers of the
year for 2010 by Morningstar. They are finalists for the same
award for 2011.  Since Ruane’s death, the firm has hired more analysts and
added more holdings to the portfolio. At the end of 2010,
Sequoia held 34 stocks, an all-time high, according to a letter
to shareholders in the fund’s 2010 annual report. The same
letter explained why Sequoia reduced its stake in  Berkshire
Hathaway .  Cutting Berkshire  “When  Warren Buffett  tells the public that Berkshire’s
growth rate will slow in the future, it behooves one to
listen,” the fund’s managers wrote. Buffett has said on a
number of occasions that a company of Berkshire’s size can’t
grow at the pace it did when it was smaller.  “We know we can’t do remotely as well in the future as we
have in the past,” Buffett said on April 30 at Berkshire’s
annual meeting in Omaha.  Berkshire represented 11 percent of Sequoia’s holdings as
of Sept. 30, down from 20 percent at the end of 2009 and 35
percent in 2004, according to fund reports.  Sequoia’s Berkshire stake has been a drag on the fund’s
returns in recent years, said Kevin McDevitt, an analyst for
Morningstar. Over the past five years, Sequoia rose 4.3 percent
a year compared with an annual gain of 1  percent for Berkshire .
Over 20 years through November, Berkshire outperformed Sequoia
by 2.6 percentage points a year.  “There was a time when you could have said they were
riding Buffett’s coattails,” McDevitt said in a telephone
interview. “That’s not the case anymore.”  Long-Term Investor  A reduced Berkshire stake hasn’t stopped the fund from
investing in a style similar to Buffett’s. In 2011, Buffett
bought shares of  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , two companies Sequoia already owned.  Buffett’s  portfolio  contains stocks, such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , that he has owned for more than 20 years.
Sequoia has holdings, including  TJX Cos. (TJX)  and  Fastenal Co. (FAST) , that
have been in the fund for at least 10 years, regulatory filings
show.  TJX, a Framingham, Massachusetts-based discount retailer,
has appreciated at a rate of 14 percent a year in the 10 years
ended Nov. 30, compared with 2.9 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Fastenal, an industrial supplier based in Winona, Minnesota,
gained 20 percent a year.  “As an investor, if you get the people and the business
right, you can let a company do the hard work for you for a long
time,”  Thomas Russo , a partner at Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based
Gardner Russo & Gardner, said in a telephone interview. Russo,
who worked at Ruane’s firm from 1984 to 1989, manages $4
billion.  ‘Good and Bad’  Sequoia’s patience hasn’t always paid off.  Mohawk
Industries Inc. (MHK) , a carpet maker based in Calhoun, Georgia, and a
longtime Sequoia holding, lost 19 percent of its value in the
past five years as the housing slump depressed carpet sales.  “In the short term, holding Mohawk has been a really poor
decision,” Poppe said at the 2009 investor meeting.  Such self-criticism is common at the meetings. At one
session, an investment in  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3) , the
German automaker, was described as a “disaster.” At another, a
manager admitted the firm was too timid about buying MasterCard
after it went public in 2006.  “They give you the good and the bad,” said Roge, who has
attended several of the firm’s investor meetings.  Sequoia’s managers don’t buy many of the largest stocks
because the companies are too well-known and too heavily
followed on  Wall Street . Their preference is to own businesses
“where we believe, not always correctly, that we have an edge
in information,” they wrote in their 2009 letter to
shareholders.  Valeant Stake  Valeant Pharmaceuticals, the fund’s largest holding, had a
market value of  less than $7.5 billion (VRX)  when Sequoia purchased it
in the third quarter of 2010, Bloomberg data show. The
Mississauga, Ontario, drug company gained 62 percent this year.  At the 2011 investor meeting, the fund’s managers
emphasized Valeant’s unusual business model, which focuses on
acquiring drugs with a proven track record rather than spending
money on research and development. They also praised the firm’s
chief executive officer, J. Michael Pearson.  Goldfarb told investors that over time he has become
convinced that the right executive is crucial to a business’s
success. “We’re betting more on the jockey and a little less on
the horse,” he said in May at the fund’s annual meeting.  Sequoia typically has far more cash than the 3.7 percent
held by the average U.S. domestic stock fund. At the end of the
third quarter, cash represented 27 percent of the fund’s assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Holding Cash  Other well-known value investors, such as Seth Klarman,
founder of Baupost Group LLC, a Boston-based hedge fund, and
 Robert Rodriguez , the longtime manager of FPA Capital Fund and
current CEO of Los Angeles-based First Pacific Advisors, let
cash build up when they can’t find enough attractive
investments.  “In good markets cash can be a drag, but we have not had
many good markets lately,” Dan Teed, president of Wedgewood
Investors Inc. in Erie, Pennsylvania, said in a telephone
interview. Teed, whose firm manages more than $100 million,
including shares of Sequoia, said the fund’s cash was a plus
because it means they “aren’t afraid to take a defensive
position.”  Debt Dangers  Klarman and Rodriguez have written about the dangers of the
increase in U.S. government debt, warning that it could pose a
threat to the economy and the stock market if it is not whittled
down.  Goldfarb normally ducks questions about macroeconomic
issues at annual meetings, saying he has no special insight into
the future of the economy,  interest rates  or the prices of oil
and gold.  At the 2011 annual meeting, in response to an investor
question, he sounded a gloomy note about deficits.  “My own feeling is that we’re just repeating the housing
bubble in a different form,” he said. “We’ve substituted an
unsustainable buildup of government debt for what is an
unsustainable buildup of  consumer debt . This one really feels
worse to me and more dangerous. I think we’re living in a time
of false prosperity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  