-- Death Princess Casts Spell as Cocteau’s Poet Returns to Hell: Peter Rainer
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/death-princess-casts-spell-as-cocteau-s-poet-returns-to-hell-peter-rainer.html
Jean Cocteau’s “Orpheus,” newly
restored by Criterion in a terrific two-disc DVD set, presents
his deeply personal version of the mythological Greek poet whose
songs could charm wild beasts.  In Cocteau’s masterful 1950 film, set in an otherworldly
postwar  France , Orpheus (Jean Marais) is a celebrity poet whose
success is denigrated by a younger generation.  Eurydice (Marie Dea), his homespun wife, bores him. His
descent into Hades is more about his fascination with the sultry
Death Princess (Maria Casares) than with Eurydice.  Cocteau was a supreme fabulist, but he understood the need
to anchor his magic in realism.  In the film, Orpheus receives word from the underworld
through mysterious short-wave bulletins issued from a car radio.
The angels of Death are leather-jacketed sentries on
motorcycles. The Furies, who in the original telling of the
legend tear Orpheus apart, are here represented by a frenzy of
female autograph hounds.  The shadowy tribunal in Hades that interrogates both Death
and Orpheus draws comparisons to the French Resistance and the
Nazis. (The set he used to stage the extraordinary trance-like
sequences in Hades was actually the bombed-out remnants of the
St. Cyr military academy founded by Napoleon Bonaparte).  Jazzy Score  To heat up the action during crucial confrontations,
Cocteau puts jazz drums on the soundtrack. He was a lifelong
jazz lover and often compared his writing to musical
improvisation.  Fundamental to Cocteau’s artistry is the merging of the
everyday and the mysterious. This is true of all his films,
especially his famous avant-garde debut “Blood of a Poet”
(1930) and his last movie, “Testament of Orpheus” (1960), in
which he himself plays the poet.  In “Orpheus,” the mundane adorations of Eurydice can’t
compete with the Death Princess, who watches silently over the
sleeping poet and sacrifices herself to give him a kind of
immortality.  Mirrors are central to the imagery in “Orpheus,” the
portals through which the dead and the undead pass between
realms. Cocteau was a pioneer in the use of slow-motion,
reverse-motion and all sorts of other techniques that in the
hands of lesser directors might seem like routine magic acts. (I
wouldn’t be surprised if the Wachowski brothers took a long look
at “Orpheus” before they made “The Matrix.”)  The shattering and reforming of the mirrors in “Orpheus”
have great symbolic power.  “We watch ourselves grow old in mirrors,” Cocteau says in
one of several fascinating documentaries included in the DVD
extras. “They bring us closer to death.”  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1l2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  