-- The Iowa Republican Caucuses: Questions and Answers
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2011-12-30T17:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/the-iowa-republican-caucuses-questions-and-answers.html
(Corrects date of the  Iowa  caucuses in first and fourth
paragraphs. The date of the caucuses is Jan. 3)  The caucuses in Iowa on Jan. 3 kick
off the voting that will determine the Republican opponent for
President  Barack Obama  in November’s election. Here’s a look at
how they work:  What is a caucus?  A caucus is a meeting of local political activists to
discuss party business. It differs from a primary election, in
which voters go to polling places to cast ballots for candidates
between early morning and evening hours.  What will happen at the gatherings on Jan. 3?  At 7 p.m. Iowa time, the state’s Republicans will
participate in 1,774 precinct caucuses at about 800 locations --
schools, community centers, churches and other public places --
to discuss the party platform, elect delegates to county
conventions and cast a presidential preference vote. State
Republican officials in  Des Moines , the state’s capital, collect
the vote totals from the precinct caucuses and announce the
results.  The non-binding vote doesn’t award delegates to
presidential candidates. Delegates to the national party’s
nominating convention aren’t selected until district and state
meetings in June. Still, the Jan. 3 preference vote draws
attention because it’s the first balloting of the Republican
campaign.  Democratic caucuses run under different procedures.
Participants don’t directly vote for a presidential favorite and
instead organize into preference groups that must meet viability
thresholds to secure delegate support for candidates. The 2012
Democratic caucuses aren’t competitive because Obama doesn’t
face opposition for renomination.  Who may participate in the caucuses?  The Republican gatherings are open to registered party
voters who will be at least 18 years old by next November’s
election. Caucus-night registration is permitted.  The 2008 Iowa caucuses drew about 119,000 Republicans, or
about 21 percent of the 576,000 active registered Republicans at
that time. There were about 614,000 active registered
Republicans in Iowa as of Dec. 1, according to the Iowa
Secretary of State’s office.  Where do the Republican voters live?  About 79,000 Iowa Republicans, 13 percent of the statewide
total, live in Polk County in and around Des Moines. About
31,000 Republicans live in either Dallas County, a fast-growing
area just west of Des Moines, or in Story County, which includes
Ames and other communities just north of Polk.  After Polk, the largest concentrations of Republican voters
are in Linn County, where 38,000 live in the Cedar Rapids area,
and in Scott County, where 31,000 Republicans live in the
Davenport area.  Northwestern Iowa may be the state’s most Republican-
friendly area, so it will wield influence disproportionate to
its population. Sioux County, located on the Nebraska border,
has 36 percent of the population of Dubuque County, a
Democratic-leaning area in the east, yet has more registered
Republicans.  Why does Iowa vote first?  Iowa’s primacy in the presidential selection process dates
to the 1972 election, when Democrats revised the multi-step
caucus schedule to allow at least 30 days between each event.
Iowa’s prominence owes more to accident than political savvy:
because the venue for the 1972 Democratic state convention was
available only on May 20, party officials scheduled the first-
round caucuses for Jan. 24, much earlier than their normal March
or April date and ahead of the New Hampshire primary.  Forty years ago, Iowa officials never anticipated that the
precinct caucuses would attract such a high profile. They now
guard their first-in-the-nation status for the national
attention the caucuses attract and on the grounds that voters in
the nation’s 30th most-populous state are responsive to one-on-
one “retail” campaigning. The national political parties have
allowed Iowa to leapfrog other states.  Why do the caucuses receive so much national attention?  George McGovern in 1972 and  Jimmy Carter  in 1976 performed
well in the Iowa caucuses, presaging their victories for the
Democratic presidential nomination. White House hopefuls ever
since have made repeated trips to Iowa, hoping for a boost in a
state where the caucuses are an early test of candidates’
organizational strength and viability.  The caucuses can reveal candidates’ strengths and
weaknesses. Those who perform well or exceed expectations often
gain momentum and fundraising at the expense of candidates who
don’t.  In 2008, the Republican caucuses wounded the candidacy of
 Mitt Romney , a former Massachusetts governor who spent heavily
on the caucuses and lost to former Arkansas Governor  Mike
Huckabee . Obama’s win in the Democratic caucuses boosted his
campaign and demonstrated his ability to win white voters ten
months before he was elected as the nation’s first black
president.  How many national convention delegates does Iowa have and
when will they be selected?  Iowa will send 28 delegates to the Republicans’ national
convention in Tampa,  Florida , next August. There are 12
delegates who will be elected at congressional district
conventions -- three for each of the four districts -- and 13
more who are elected at-large at the state convention. Three
party activists -- the state chairman, the national committeeman
and national committeewoman -- automatically are delegates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bob Drummond at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net  