-- Leap, MetroPCS May Be Buyout Targets for AT&T, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n
-- 2011-12-29T21:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/leap-wireless-metropcs-may-be-takeover-targets-for-at-t-jpmorgan-says.html
Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  and
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  may be takeover targets for bigger
rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  or  T-Mobile USA  after the larger companies’ $39
billion merger plan collapsed, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  The pay-as-you-go carriers could be suitable “near-term”
sources of spectrum for a buyer, Phil Cusick, a JPMorgan analyst
in New York, said in a note to clients today. AT&T cited a need
for more spectrum as a reason for its attempt to buy T-Mobile.  Leap’s spectrum and certain potential cash-flow benefits
following a takeover could be worth more than $13 a share to a
buyer, said Cusick, who reiterated his “overweight”  rating (LEAP)  on
both stocks. MetroPCS’s airwaves and some potential cash-flow
benefits could be worth more than $6 a share, the analyst said.
Leap’s spectrum alone is worth $1.9 billion and MetroPCS’s
airwaves $2.6 billion, he said.  There is a “strong likelihood” that regulators would
approve the purchase of San Diego-based Leap or Richardson,
Texas-based MetroPCS by a larger national carrier, Cusick said.
Dallas-based AT&T abandoned its nine-month campaign to acquire
T-Mobile this month amid opposition from regulators, which said
the combination would reduce competition.  Leap advanced 4.3 percent to $8.49 at the close in  New
York . MetroPCS rose 2.5 percent to $8.24.  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for AT&T, and  Greg Lund , a
spokesman for Leap, declined to comment. Andreas Fuchs, a
spokesman for T-Mobile’s parent, Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom,
wasn’t available to comment. Calls to MetroPCS representatives
weren’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  