-- ECB Has More Scope to Cut Rates as Prices Wane
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2011-12-29T13:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/ecb-has-more-scope-to-cut-rates-as-price-pressure-wanes-economy.html
The  European Central Bank  has more
room to cut  interest rates  to a record low early next year after
reports showed the sovereign debt crisis is damping inflation
pressures.  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, fell to 2 percent in November
from 2.6 percent in October, the Frankfurt-based central bank
said today. Growth in loans to households and companies across
the 17-nation euro area also slowed, while inflation in Germany,
the region’s largest economy, decelerated in December.  The data reinforce the view “that underlying inflationary
pressures are easing and that the ECB has ample scope to cut
interest rates again in the early months of 2012,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London . “Euro-zone inflation is poised to retreat markedly over
the coming months.”  The ECB lowered its  benchmark rate (EURR002W)  to 1 percent in
December, matching the record low, and stepped up efforts to
flood the banking system with cash as the debt crisis threatened
to engulf Italy and  Spain . It may take its key rate into
uncharted territory within months as the economy teeters on the
brink of recession, according to economists such as  Jacques Cailloux  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Italian Confidence  Italian business confidence fell to the lowest in two years
this month as the region’s third-largest economy probably
entered its fourth recession in the past decade amid a wave of
austerity measures designed to fight the debt crisis. The
manufacturing-sentiment index dropped to 92.5, the lowest since
December 2009, from 94 in November, Rome-based national
statistics institute Istat said today.  The euro slid to a decade low against the yen and the
lowest against the dollar since September 2010 as  Italy  sold
three- and 10-year government bonds. European stocks erased
gains, leaving the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  little changed at 1
p.m. in London.  The euro and global stocks fell yesterday after the ECB
published a report showing its balance sheet swelled to a record
2.73 trillion euros ($3.55 trillion) on increased lending to
euro-area banks, highlighting risks from the debt crisis.  ECB policy makers next decide on interest rates on Jan. 12.
All but one of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey (EURR002W)  expect
them to hold rates steady at that meeting.  The central bank on Dec. 8 predicted that growth will slow
to just 0.3 percent in 2012 from 1.6 percent in 2011. Inflation
will average 2 percent next year -- its definition of  price
stability  -- after 2.7 percent this year.  German Inflation  German  inflation (GRCP2HYY)  eased to 2.4 percent this month from 2.8
percent in November, the nation’s statistics office said today.  “German inflation will come down pretty rapidly now and
will probably be lower than the euro-area average next year,”
said Cailloux, chief European economist at RBS in London. “This
will make it easier for the ECB to keep cutting interest
rates.”  Cailloux forecasts policy makers will lower the key rate to
0.5 percent by the end of the first quarter, with two quarter-
point steps in February and March.  The annual growth rate in loans to European households and
companies slowed to 1.7 percent in November from 2.7 percent in
October, the ECB said today.  Euro-Area Inflation  Euro-area inflation will slow to 2.8 percent this month
from 3 percent last month, according to the median of 24
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. That report is due on Jan. 4.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. New
York time may show that initial jobless claims climbed to
375,000 last week after falling to the lowest since April 2008
in the previous period, according to the median forecast of 32
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Separate data may show U.S. pending sales of previously
owned homes rose 1.5 percent in November after a 10 percent jump
in the prior month, economists said before the report at 10 a.m.
from the National Association of Realtors.  In  Germany , the economy will probably avoid a recession
even as orders from its main euro-area trading partners wane
during the debt crisis, two economic institutes that advise
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government said on Dec. 20.  “If the economic outlook darkens further, interest rate
reductions toward 0.5 percent are conceivable,” said Marina Luetje, an economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “Our main
scenario for interest rates is that the economic outlook doesn’t
worsen further, in which case the ECB will leave its main rate
at 1 percent until the middle of 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  