-- EDF Abandons Request for Exemption From General Offer for Edison
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2011-12-29T14:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/edf-abandons-request-for-exemption-from-general-offer-for-edison.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF)  abandoned a
request for an exemption from making a general offer for  Edison
SpA (EDN)  as part of the biggest European power generator’s proposal
to increase its holding in the Italian utility.  EDF, the Paris-based state nuclear operator, had sought the
exemption or, if regulators still demanded an offer, a maximum
price of 84 euro cents per Edison share, under a previous deal
reached in October. It’s now asking markets watchdog Consob only
for the price ceiling, according to a Dec. 27 statement.  “There is no longer a request for an exemption,”  Carole Trivi , a spokeswoman for the nuclear power producer, said by
telephone today. “We are awaiting a decision on the price.”  Representatives of Italian shareholders of Edison and EDF
will meet with Consob tomorrow to answer its questions, said A2A
supervisory board Chairman Graziano Tarantini, Ansa reported.  EDF made Consob’s approval of the ceiling a condition of an
agreement to raise its stake in Edison to 80.7 percent for about
700 million euros ($903 million). The French power company would
effectively exchange half of Edipower, an Edison subsidiary, for
the Italian shareholders’ 50 percent holding in Edison.  EDF, with half of Edison already, has been trying to take
full control for more than a year to get natural-gas resources
and markets in southeastern  Europe  and the Mediterranean basin.  Edison is the latest Italian company to be taken over by
the French after Groupe Lactalis won control of Parmalat SpA and
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA bought Bulgari SpA in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net 
Alessandra Migliaccio at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  