-- Carbon Disclosure, Deutsche Bahn Sale, Madoff: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-29T15:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/eib-carbon-disclosure-fed-briefings-deutsche-bahn-sale-compliance.html
The  European Investment Bank , which
may have started selling 2013 carbon allowances in a 1.8
billion-euro ($2.4-billion) program, may strive for more timely
market disclosure, said a trader at  Standard Bank Plc (SBK) .  Geoff Sinclair, London-based head of carbon trading at
Standard Bank, said by e-mail on Dec. 21 that the U.S.
government’s practice of announcing up to a month in advance
when it intends to lend volume from the strategic reserve and
exactly what volume will be lent in the oil market is an
“appropriate level of transparency.”  The EIB received the permits from the  European Commission ,
the regulator of the world’s largest emissions market, at the
beginning of December and has to sell them within 10 months.
Prices fell to a record 12 days later amid uncertainty about
whether the sales had started. EIB spokesmen including Nick
Antonovics didn’t immediately reply to e-mails and calls.  Companies buying 2013 European Union carbon permits
directly from the EIB may have “privileged” information that
other traders don’t have, according to an emissions trading
lobby group. The lack of public information about the
commencement of the sales means that “if you are a recipient of
a large volume you are in a privileged position,” Simone Ruiz,
Brussels-based European policy director at the  International
Emissions Trading Association,  said Dec. 16.  The EIB’s over-the-counter transactions “will be
structured in a way to ensure best competition and limit any
information advantage to the amount executed with each market
counterpart,” the bank  said in a statement  on its website
updated Dec. 2.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Bernanke Drive for Openness May Include More Briefings  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  could double press
briefings to improve understanding of policy changes that may
include signaling  interest rates  will stay near zero longer,
economists said.  Boosting the frequency of press conferences would give
Bernanke more opportunities to explain shifts in policy and the
Fed’s outlook for the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 6 percent over two days following the Fed’s statement in
September that the economy faced “significant downside risks,”
an assessment that wasn’t followed by a more detailed
explanation.  Fed policy makers may decide on changes as soon as their
two-day meeting ending Jan. 25, the first of the year, when
Bernanke gives a press conference a few weeks ahead of his
semiannual testimony to Congress.  While adding press conferences isn’t one of the options
mentioned in minutes of Fed discussions of the new
communications strategy since September,  Diane Swonk , chief
economist in Chicago at Mesirow Financial Inc., said she
wouldn’t be surprised if policy makers took such a step.  Fed policy makers meet eight times a year. The Fed
announced last March that Bernanke, 58, would hold press
conferences four times, following each two-day meeting, where
governors and regional presidents present revised projections
for economic growth, inflation and unemployment.  Bernanke and his colleagues are trying to protect the U.S.
from fallout from the European debt crisis.  For more, click here.  China  Plans Rules to Curb Illegal Foreign Workers, Xinhua Says  China is reviewing amendments to its immigration laws that
would make it more difficult for foreign workers to find jobs in
the world’s second-biggest economy without government approval.  A draft of the amendments would require foreign nationals
to obtain work permits, the official  Xinhua News Agency 
reported. Foreign nationals suspected of having entered the
country without authorization, of having overstayed visas or of
working illegally may be detained, repatriated and barred from
returning to China for five years, according to the Dec. 26
report.  Lawmakers conducted their first review of the amendments to
the laws governing entry by foreigners and departures of Chinese
nationals on Dec. 26, according to Xinhua. It didn’t say when
the changes might be passed into law.  China Stops Encouraging Foreign Investment in Auto Manufacturing  China will stop encouraging foreign investment in car
manufacturing to allow for “healthy development” of a market
that saw sales growth plummet to a tenth of last year’s pace.  The change ends seven years of foreign-investor benefits
including reduced tariffs on imported plant equipment, said
Jenny Gu, a senior market analyst at LMC Automotive in Shanghai.
Foreign investment in more fuel-efficient vehicles will still be
encouraged, the National Development and Reform Commission and
the  Ministry of Commerce  said in a statement.  The country needs to focus on nurturing strategic new
industries to make its manufacturing more sophisticated and be
more competitive globally, the National Development and Reform
Commission in the  statement .  For more, click here.  Backtracking Lawmakers Expand U.S. Government Role in Mortgages  Washington  lawmakers, who began 2011 with sweeping plans to
shrink the U.S. government’s role in mortgage finance, are
heading into 2012 after enacting policies that expand it.  An 11th-hour payroll tax cut extension signed into law last
week would for the first time divert funds directly from  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the two mortgage-finance companies under
U.S. conservatorship, to pay for general government expenses.  That move came after two others that also are expected to
increase government involvement: Lawmakers allowed a tax break
on private mortgage insurance to expire and raised loan limits
for mortgages insured by the  Federal Housing Administration .
Advocates of private mortgage finance say they are concerned
that using fees from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is setting a
precedent that will keep the government in the mortgage business
for a decade or more.  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA currently back more
than 90 percent of loan originations, about double what they did
during the subprime lending boom, according to Inside Mortgage
Finance, a trade publication.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Lukoil Fined More Than $19 Million for Diesel Fuel Price-Fixing  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  was fined more than 600 million rubles ($19
million) for “abusing its monopoly position” on the domestic
market for diesel fuel in the fourth quarter of last year and
January 2011, Russia’s  Federal Anti-Monopoly Service  said
yesterday on its website.  Courts  Deutsche Bahn Can Sell Assets Without Parliamentary Consent  Deutsche Bahn AG, Germany’s state-owned railway, doesn’t
need lawmakers’ approval to sell assets, the country’s top
constitutional court  ruled .  The constitution doesn’t require parliament to clear such a
transaction, the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe,
Germany, said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday. The judges
rejected the suit, brought by an opposition political party,
because its claim could “under no perceivable aspect” be
considered valid.  Parliament “has done its part by passing legislation”
governing the railway, the judges said. “Additional rights to
participate in Deutsche Bahn’s business decisions would gravely
impair the company to take actions according to a market economy
rationale, which the constitution wants it to do.”  Germany changed its constitution to allow privatization of
its railway system in the 1990s. Plans to have Deutsche Bahn
sell shares to the public were postponed in 2008 in the wake of
the financial crisis that froze credit markets. The government
has said it may sell assets as an alternative to an initial
public offering.  The suit, over Deutsche Bahn’s 2007 sale of a real-estate
unit, was filed after a six-month deadline and needed to be
rejected for that reason also, the court said.  The case is BVerfG 2 BvE 3/08.  Madoff Son Must Face $198 Million Suit in Bankruptcy Court  Bernard Madoff ’s son Andrew must submit to a bankruptcy
judge’s decision to permit a $198 million lawsuit to go forward
because he sought that court’s protection when he filed a claim
against his father’s estate, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan last week
declined to hear an appeal of the September decision in favor of
 Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, in his claim against Madoff family
members including  Andrew Madoff  and the estate of Mark Madoff,
who committed suicide in December 2010. Pauley’s written opinion
was filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “Because Mark and Andrew invoked the aid of the bankruptcy
court by offering a proof of claim and demanding its allowance,
they must abide by the consequences of that procedure,” Pauley
said in his Dec. 22 decision, citing a  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  ruling
that also described limits to the power of bankruptcy judges.  In court papers filed in his own behalf and as executor of
his late brother’s estate, Andrew Madoff said the judge’s
decision would result in a “massive expansion of liability”
for managers of banks and large corporations for the wrongs of
individual units.  Picard’s lawsuit is “wholly without merit,”  Martin
Flumenbaum , a lawyer for Andrew Madoff and Mark Madoff’s estate,
said in an e-mail yesterday. He said the brothers had “no prior
knowledge” of their father’s crimes and contacted authorities
immediately after he told them of the fraud.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff took a different view from
Pauley last month when he began reviewing five so-called
clawback lawsuits brought by Picard, faulting him for trying to
keep the cases in bankruptcy court on the basis that the
defendants had filed claims against the estate.  The case is Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff, 11-Misc-379,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Sanchez Wins Dismissal of Potash Trading Case, Reuters Says  Luis Martin Caro Sanchez won dismissal of a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging he traded on inside
information in Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Reuters
reported.  Sanchez, 37, made the trades before the Canadian fertilizer
company became the target of a $38.6 billion unsolicited
takeover bid by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the SEC said in the
complaint.  The SEC failed to show that Sanchez had any direct link to
an insider or that his discarded laptop computer contained
relevant information about his trades, U.S. District Judge
Marvin Aspen in Chicago said yesterday, according to Reuters.  The SEC in August 2010 accused Sanchez and former Banco
Santander SA research analyst Juan Jose Fernandez Garcia of
using material non-public information in buying Potash call
options before the company revealed that it had received and
rejected the BHP bid, Reuters said.  Garcia agreed in April to pay more than $625,000 to settle
U.S. regulatory claims. Santander was an adviser on the bid to
BHP, the world’s largest mining company.  China Textile Machinery’s Stake in Jingwei Textile Frozen  China Textile Machinery’s 34 percent stake in  Jingwei
Textile Machinery (000666)  was frozen by a Chinese court, Jingwei Textile
said yesterday.  The Shanghai No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court froze the
shares on Dec. 21 for two years, the company said in a filing to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  The judicial freezing follows an action brought to the
court by  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  in July 2011 concerning a
49 million renminbi loan guarantee contract it entered into with
 China Worldbest Group Co. (CWGZ) , according to the statement.  Allen Stanford’s Bid to Delay His January Fraud Trial Denied  R. Allen Stanford’s request for more time to prepare to
face charges he led a $7 billion investment fraud scheme was
denied by the judge who declared him mentally fit for trial.  Jury selection will begin in Houston federal court on Jan.
23.  “This case needs to be tried,” U.S. District Judge David
Hittner said in an eight-page ruling yesterday. “This trial
will decide not just whether Stanford is guilty of the criminal
charges, but also whether hundreds of millions of dollars of
investor funds currently frozen may be forfeited and returned to
his alleged victims.”  Hittner ruled Dec. 22 that Stanford has sufficiently
recovered from a head injury suffered in a jailhouse assault and
an addiction to anxiety medications prescribed to him by prison
doctors after the attack.  The judge delayed Stanford’s original trial date last
January and ordered him into a prison rehabilitation program
after finding Stanford’s medical conditions had made him
incompetent to understand the proceedings or assist his defense
team.  “Our ability to defend our client has been consistently
limited by matters the court is well aware of,” Ali Fazel,
Stanford’s lead lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday
about the ruling. “We are now reviewing our options.”  Interviews/Speeches  Blanchflower Says Central Banks Can ‘Do More QE’  David Blanchflower, a professor at Dartmouth College and a
Bloomberg Television contributing editor, talked about the need
for more quantitative easing by central banks and the outlook
for emerging-market economies.  Blanchflower spoke with Sara Eisen and Scarlet Fu on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Obama Plans Nominations of Powell, Stein for Fed Board  President Barack Obama said he will nominate two former
U.S. Treasury Department officials for the Federal Reserve
Board, including one who served in a Republican administration.  Jerome Powell, an attorney who was a Treasury
undersecretary for former President George H.W. Bush, and  Jeremy
Stein , a Harvard University economist who has advised the
current administration, are Obama’s picks.  Pairing candidates who served under both parties may help
ease approval by a Senate where the Democrats’ majority narrowed
last year, letting Republicans block administration nominees.
The Fed’s seven-member Board of Governors has two vacancies.
While the term of Elizabeth Duke, an appointee of President
George W. Bush, expires Jan. 31, she can continue to serve until
a successor is appointed.  Senate Banking Committee  Chairman Tim Johnson, a South
Dakota Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement that he plans to
move the nominations “in a timely manner” and wants to
schedule a hearing soon after lawmakers reconvene in Washington.
Senators plan to return to business Jan. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  