-- Elpida Memory Falls in Tokyo on Report of Delay of Public Funds Repayment
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2011-12-29T06:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/elpida-memory-shares-fall-in-tokyo-on-asahi-report-of-delay-in-repayment.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the Japanese
computer-chip maker being reorganized with government support,
fell in Tokyo trading after the Asahi newspaper said it may seek
a delay in repaying public funds.
　　Elpida, the nation’s largest maker of dynamic random access
memory, dropped 5.1 percent to 351 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading, the biggest decline since Dec. 19. The company, whose
shares have tumbled 63 percent this year, declined to comment in
an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News.
　　“If the report is true, the thought that Elpida is having
difficulty with financial arrangements led investors to sell,”
said Yuichi Ishida, an analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities
Co. in Tokyo.
　　Elpida received 30 billion yen ($386 million) of public
funds through the state-run  Development Bank  of  Japan  to
restructure its business, in addition to 100 billion yen in
loans from private banks. The company will consider asking the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to extend the timeline
for repayment of the public funds, Asahi reported today, without
citing anyone.
　　“We don’t comment on rumors or speculation,” Elpida said
in the e-mailed statement.
　　Tetsuro Okita, a spokesman at the Development Bank, declined
to comment, citing the bank’s policy not to discuss individual
company matters.  Yield Spread  　　The extra yield investors demand to own Elpida’s convertible
bonds due October 2015 over the yen swap rate jumped 418.3 basis
points to 1,498 today on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Elpida has
about 240 billion yen of debt due next year, according to
Bloomberg data.
　　The company reported a net loss of 56.8 billion yen in the
six months ended September, compared with a profit of 39.9
billion yen a year earlier, partly due to the worsening market
for DRAM chips and the stronger yen, which reduces the value of
repatriated earnings from overseas.
　　The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM fell 52
percent this year to 88 cents, according to data from Taipei-
based Dramexchange Technology Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story: Yuki Yamaguchi in  Tokyo 
at   yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Anand
Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  