-- Emerging Stocks Advance on U.S. Business Activity Data, Europe
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2011-12-29T22:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/emerging-stocks-fall-for-fourth-day-on-european-debt-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks rose as
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will hurt global growth eased after
Italian borrowing costs declined at an auction and a U.S. report
showed business activity expanded more than forecast.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.1 percent to 914.21
at the close in  New York , as 442 companies gained and 312 fell.
 Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose 0.4 percent while Mumbai’s Sensitive
Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , retreated 1.2 percent. The  FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index (JALSH)  fell 0.3 percent in Johannesburg.  Russia ’s Micex
advanced for the first time in three days.  Italy sold 7.02 billion euros ($9.06 billion) of debt due
from 2014 to 2022, less than its original target of as much as
8.5 billion euros, as borrowing costs declined in its final debt
sale of the year. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc.’s business barometer signaled continued growth in the
world’s largest economy.  “People are still generally cautious with what is
happening in Europe,” said Bharat Joshi, who helps manage $5
billion at Kuala Lumpur-based Aberdeen Asset Management Sdn.
“People are waiting at the sidelines. The U.S. recovery has
been showing signs of positive traction.”  The MSCI Emerging Market Index has lost 21 percent this
year as Europe’s debt problems compounded concerns about slowing
global growth. Shares on the developing nation index are trading
at 10 times estimated earnings, compared with 12.1 times on the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO) , which has fallen 8 percent this year.  Brazil, Russia  The Bovespa advanced, paring its first annual decline since
2008, after Brazil’s broadest price index fell in December. The
benchmark ended the year with an 18 percent retreat.  Lupatech SA (LUPA3) , Brazil’s biggest provider of oil equipment and
services, advanced 3.5 percent after saying it will sell as much
as 700 million reais ($374 million) of new stock.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the iron-ore miner controlled
by billionaire Eike Batista, rose to a three-week high after
signing a shipment agreement.  The Micex Index climbed 0.4 percent in Moscow.  OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , Russia’s largest miner, rose 2.9 percent after
the company said on its website it plans to increase  capital
spending  at least 7 percent in 2012.  The ruble weakened 1 percent while the rand appreciated 0.5
percent against the dollar.  Gold  Anglo American Plc (AGL) , a mining company that accounts for more
than 9 percent of  South Africa ’s benchmark stock index, fell 0.9
percent as gold tumbled.  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.2 percent,
reversing an earlier loss of 0.6 percent, as low valuations and
anticipation of policy easing boosted buying interest, according
to Wang Zheng, Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi
Investment Management Co.  The People’s Bank of China may reduce lenders’ reserve
requirements after New Year’s Day, according to a commentary in
the China Securities Journal today. The central bank last cut
reserve ratios by 50 basis points to 21 percent with effect from
Dec. 5.  The extra  yield (JPEGSOSD)  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 418, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  