-- Mengniu Shares Continue Decline After Website Hacked Over Tainted Milk
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-29T08:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/mengniu-shares-fall-after-website-hacked-over-toxin-contaminated-milk.html
China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319) , the
nation’s largest milk producer, fell to the lowest in more than
two years in Hong Kong trading after hackers accessed its
website amid a scandal over contaminated milk from the company.  Mengniu dropped 7.4 percent to HK$18.52, the lowest since
Sept. 4, 2009, at the 4 p.m. close of trading on the city’s
stock exchange. The  Hang Seng Index  lost 0.7 percent.  Investors are selling the stock on expectations consumers
will stay away from Mengniu’s products, according to Jason Yuan,
an analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. Mengniu shares plunged
24 percent yesterday, the biggest one-day drop since September
2008, after Chinese regulators found excessive levels of a toxin
in its milk.  “ Internet users  have called for a boycott of Mengniu’s
products,” Yuan said in a telephone interview from  Shanghai .
“We believe some consumers could give up drinking milk or
switch to other brands, which will affect Mengniu’s sales.”  Mengniu’s  website  showed that it had been affected by
unauthorized access as early as 11:26 p.m. local time yesterday
and was restored to normal after midnight. Hackers changed the
title of mengniu.com.cn to “Hacked By:Drift” and posted a
message saying “Mengniu once made the Chinese people strong and
proud, but now it’s doing harm to its own people.”  A call to the mobile phone of Lu Jianjun, a Mengniu
spokesman, was answered by a woman, who said Lu was in a
meeting. She declined to be identified or comment further.  Above-Standard Levels  China ’s General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine found above-standard amounts of a
toxin in a batch of Mengniu milk products and another from
closely held Fujian Changfu Dairy Industry Group Co. during a
random inspection, according to test results released on the
regulator’s website Dec. 24.  Moldy feed given to cows led to the excessive levels,
Mengniu said Dec. 28. The company has destroyed the contaminated
products and will strengthen its quality control, Mengniu said.  The discovery adds to food scandals in China that include
an illegal additive to pork products this year and melamine-
tainted formula milk in 2008 that killed at least six infants
and sickened 300,000 nationwide. China’s government has shut
5,000 companies, arrested 2,000 people, and handed down at least
one death sentence in a crackdown on  food safety  in 2011.  China Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. (1117) , a milk  supplier (2319)  that got
97 percent of revenue from Mengniu in the year ended June. 30,
rose 1.9 percent to HK$1.58, after falling 13 percent yesterday.  The company believes its products aren’t involved in the
Mengniu contamination incident, Modern Dairy said today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  