-- Zell Company Seeks to Intervene in Lehman’s Archstone Case
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-29T22:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/equity-residential-affiliate-seeks-to-intervene-in-lehman-s-archstone-case.html
Sam Zell ’s  Equity Residential (EQR)  told a
judge it urgently needed to intervene in court proceedings over
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Archstone to protect its right
to buy half of a stake in the real estate company held by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   An Equity Residential affiliate, ERP, this month got a
30-day right to set the price for the second 26.5 percent of the
banks’ stake, according to a filing today in federal court in
 New York . Lehman said in a lawsuit it is entitled to take over
that right without compensating ERP, said in the filing.  “ERP seeks to intervene in this action to protect
contractual rights it holds that are directly threatened by the
relief Lehman is seeking,” it said. ERP said it is entitled to
a so-called breakup free if Lehman buys the bank’s whole 53
percent stake.  The dispute over bankrupt Lehman’s largest real estate
asset intensified on Dec. 15, when Lehman sued the banks for
breach of contract, saying they colluded to sell a stake to
Zell’s company, Archstone’s “largest competitor” in the
apartment business. Barclays and Bank of America failed to
inform Lehman about all the terms of the deal, said Lehman,
which currently owns 47 percent of Archstone.  Second Piece  Lehman a day earlier told the banks it would buy the first
half of their Archstone stake for about $1.3 billion, meeting a
deadline to do so after Zell offered to buy that piece of the
banks’ stake. That left Zell with an option on the second piece
of the banks’ stake.  If Zell chooses, he could set the price for the second
piece higher than $1.3 billion, according to today’s filing.
That would make it more expensive for Lehman to buy the banks’
entire stake. Lehman aims to sell Archstone for $6 billion to
help pay creditors with claims of about $370 billion, and to do
that must gain control of the company, according to a person
familiar with the plan.  ERP’s breakup fee would rise as the price of the second
tranche rose. The fee is set at $1 for every dollar of price
increase between $1.325 billion and $1.365 billion, falling to
50 cents for every dollar of increase up to $1.445 billion,
according to the filing.  Court Hearings  The Zell company is the “elephant in the room,” U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said at a Dec. 21 court hearing in
 Manhattan . If Lehman buys the first half of the banks’ Archstone
stake, and not the second half, that would saddle Lehman with an
asset whose biggest rival had a stake in the company, he said.  At the same time, Lehman would have to spend at least $2.6
billion to buy the banks’ whole stake in Archstone, Peck said.
That would force it to own 100 percent of the real estate
company, which might not be in the best interests of creditors
waiting for a payout, he said.  By striking the deal with Zell, the banks “have put Lehman
in a box,” he said.  Lawyers for Barclays and Bank of America told Peck that
Lehman hadn’t placed restrictions on any type of buyer in the
Archstone agreements it helped to draw up. The defunct firm put
itself in a box, Bank of America lawyer Lawrence Friedman told
Peck.  Peck scheduled more hearings on the dispute for January. He
said today that he must receive objections to the Zell company’s
request by Jan. 4 at 5 p.m. New York time.  Ownership Interest  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from  Washington 
and New York to  San Francisco .  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to comment
on today’s filing.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 