-- European Banks Said to Seek Buyers for Middle East Loan Books
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2011-12-29T10:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/european-banks-said-to-seek-buyers-for-middle-east-loan-books.html
European banks, led by those from
 France  and Belgium, are seeking to sell Persian Gulf loan books
to Arab banks to help raise cash as the sovereign-debt crisis
drags on, bankers familiar with the offerings said.  France’s  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , Belgium-
based  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , and  Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are among lenders seeking buyers for project
finance and corporate loans in the region, five bankers who were
approached with deals said, declining to be identified because
the information is private. The offers were made over the past
six months, they said.  Europe’s banks are curtailing some types of lending and
selling businesses to meet regulators’ demands for higher
capital as the debt crisis worsens. Banks across  Europe  have
pledged to cut more than 950 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) of
assets over the next two years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There have been some large transactions in recent
months,” Ahmad Alanani, the Dubai-based director for the Middle
East at investment bank Exotix Ltd., which trades debt, said in
a phone interview. “Cash rich banks from Qatar, Abu Dhabi and
even some banks from  Kuwait  are natural buyers of these
assets.”  BNP Paribas, Societe Generale, Unicredit and Intesa
spokespersons declined to comment, while Dexia didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  “International project finance is one of the activities
that are gradually being wound down at KBC,” Stef Leunens, a
spokesman for KBC Groep in Brussels, said in an e-mail. “It’s
logical that we get expressions of interest for some of the run-
off parts of this portfolio from time to time.”  Diversifying Economy  Qatar, Abu Dhabi and Kuwait, among the biggest oil
producers in the world, are spending billions of dollars to
build homes, infrastructure and energy facilities to diversify
their economies and create jobs. These countries have also been
spared the political unrest that has swept through the  Middle
East  and toppled rulers in Tunisia,  Egypt  and Libya.  “A lot of these European banks are selling their premium
assets to realize higher recoveries and generate some
liquidity,” Alanani said. “We see a large offering of Middle
East project finance portfolios as the cost of dollar funding
has increased making these long-term assets less attractive.”  Dollar Funding  European continental banks, especially the French lenders,
are seeking to reduce their U.S. dollar funding needs after
access to the U.S. money-market dried up. The eight largest
prime U.S. money market mutual funds have slashed their holdings
of French bank debt by $76.8 billion in the past 12 months. They
cut them by 68 percent in November alone.  Borrowing costs for European banks have climbed as European
governments struggled to contain the sovereign-debt crisis, with
the  three-month London interbank offered rate (US0003M) , or Libor, jumping
33 basis points from a low of 0.245 percent on June 15 to an
annual high of 0.579 percent on Dec. 28. European banks have
more than 1.7 trillion euros of non-core and non-performing
assets on their balance sheets, according to Deloitte LLP.  Three of the bankers said they didn’t find the discounts
offered on loans they had seen as sufficiently attractive. The
loans offered a net interest margin, a measure of profitability,
of 0.7 percent to 0.8 percent, less than the 1.5 percent to 2
percent they are seeking, said one of the bankers, who declined
to identify which lender had offered the loans. Discounts may
increase next year as the pressure grows on the European banks
to free cash and raise capital, the bankers said.  Capital Rules  European regulators have asked their banks to boost core
capital to 9 percent by the end of June. Most are reluctant to
raise equity because their share prices are too low.  In the Middle East and North Africa, banks have arranged
$32 billion in syndicated loans this year, about half the $61
billion raised in 2010 and less than a third of the 2007 peak of
$109.2 billion. European banks arranged about 42 percent of the
loans this year compared with about 39 percent in 2010.  Half of the top 10 mandated banks this year are lenders
based in the Arab world, such as National Bank of Egypt, up from
three in 2010 and 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks in the Persian Gulf region are recovering from the
global credit crisis, which slowed lending and hurt investment
banking. Institutions in Qatar,  Abu Dhabi  and Saudi Arabia are
seeking to boost lending to support  government spending  to
diversify their economies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  