-- Europe’s Biggest Solar Park Completed With Russian Bank Debt
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2011-12-29T14:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/europe-s-biggest-solar-park-completed-with-russian-bank-debt-1-.html
Europe’s biggest solar park was
completed today after its Vienna-based developer,  Activ Solar
GmbH , obtained financing from two Russian banks.  Activ Chief Executive Officer Kaveh Ertefai said his
company finished building the 100-megawatt photovoltaic plant in
Perovo in the Crimea with funding from Moscow-based  VTB Bank
OJSC (VTBR)  and  Sberbank of Russia. (SBER)  A project of this size typically
costs about 300 million euros ($387 million), he said.  “We have completed one of the largest solar projects in
the world while pioneering  project financing  in the  Ukraine ,”
Ertefai said in an interview today by phone. “Availability of
long-term finance is extremely tight.”  The company, which owns a polysilicon manufacturing plant
in Ukraine, also developed the country’s first utility-scale
solar facility in early 2011 and completed eastern Europe’s
largest plant last month in Ohotnikovo in four phases each with
20-megawatts. It announced the completion the last 20 megawatt
phase at Perovo yesterday.  Ukraine is seeking to increase its wind and solar capacity
to reduce its dependence on coal and nuclear power, which
provide 90 percent of its electricity. The country established a 
feed-in tariff until 2030, or fixed premium for power from clean 
sources, for large solar projects of 0.46 euros per kilowatt
hour in late 2009.  Cost of Finance  Activ, which is the only company that has completed
utility-scale solar parks in the country, developed the project
for institutional investors in  Europe , the chief executive said.
Equity amounted to 30 percent to 40 percent of the total cost,
he said.  While feed-in tariffs are higher than in most markets, the
cost of finance is “much higher” in Ukraine because of the
risks of doing business in the country, Ertefai said. Interest
rates on loans are at least 10 percent there, he said.  The Perovo plant consists of 440,000 crystalline solar
panels from four different suppliers and spans 200 hectares.
Once connected to the grid, it will generate enough peak-load
power to cover the electrical needs of Simferopol, Crimea’s
capital.  The next-largest solar parks in Europe, both about to be
connected, are in  Germany .  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  developed a 91-megawatt
plant in Brandenburg-Briest and Moehring Energie GmbH built an
84-megawatt project at Eggebek near the Danish border.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  