-- European Sovereign Debt ‘Toxic’ Amid Fiscal Crisis, Pimco’s Crescenzi Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2011-12-29T18:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/european-sovereign-debt-is-toxic-amid-turmoil-pimco-s-crescenzi-says.html
European sovereign debt has just
about the same status that was bestowed on subprime mortgage
bonds during the depths of the financial crisis, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Anthony Crescenzi .  “It’s almost like 2008, when in the United States banks
and investors didn’t want to be seen as having holdings, or
known to have holdings, in subprime mortgages and other so-
called toxic assets,” Crescenzi, executive vice president at
Pimco, said in an interview today on Bloomberg Radio’s “On the
Economy” with Sara Eisen. The company, based in  Newport Beach ,
 California , operates the world’s biggest bond fund.  Italian government securities have lost 5.7 percent this
year, compared with a 9.6 percent return on America’s
Treasuries, a three-year high, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch bond indexes.  Euro-area nations agreed at a summit this month on
automatic sanctions for members that breach deficit limits,
though how the penalties will work hasn’t been decided, and also
supported bringing forward to mid-2012 the start of a permanent
rescue fund. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  resisted a push by
French President Nicolas Sarkozy for the  European Central Bank 
to step up purchases of public debt.  ‘Signing a Prenup’  “What  Europe  is trying to do is form a union, a marriage,
a fiscal union in a year,” said Crescenzi, 47. “You could say
they’re signing a prenup,” he said, referring to a contract
between spouses on how financial affairs are to be handled
during their marriage and in the event of a divorce. “There’s
still a lack of clarity about whether they’ll actually get to
the altar and form this union.”  The euro fell today to a 10-year low against the yen and
 Italy ’s 10-year bond yields increased to above 7 percent after
the Rome-based Treasury sold less than its maximum target at a
bond auction.  The 17-nation currency tumbled yesterday as the ECB’s
balance sheet soared to a record 2.73 trillion euros ($3.55
trillion) after it loaned financial institutions more money last
week to keep credit flowing during the debt crisis.  “They’re trying to find ways to support the banking
system,” according to Crescenzi, who said the ECB is unlikely
to follow the example of the  Federal Reserve ’s bond purchases
known as quantitative easing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  