-- Teva Heads for Biggest Decline in Five Years: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2011-12-29T22:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/teva-heads-to-biggest-drop-since-2006-on-new-competition-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, is headed for its
biggest annual loss since 2006 as competition mounts.  Teva’s American depositary receipts  plunged (TEVA)  22 percent this
year, sending the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest
Israeli companies traded in New York 19 percent lower. Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva’s decline has pushed  valuations (TEVA)  to 7.27
estimated earnings, below the 12.6 level for  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
and 11.5 ratio for  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)   New rivals emerged for Teva’s multiple sclerosis treatment
Copaxone, and the company introduced fewer drugs this year. An
approval for unrestricted over-the-counter access to Teva’s
emergency contraceptive pill was overruled earlier this month by
the Obama administration, the first time a Food and Drug
Administration ruling was reversed.  “2011 was extremely challenging for Teva,” said  Randall Stanicky , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in New York, who rates
Teva as its “top pick.” “A lot of those negatives will turn
into positive in 2012. Teva, which has diversified-based
revenue, is now trading at a relative discount.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index rose 0.1 percent yesterday
to 84.58.  Teva’s profit  will rise (TEVA)  22 percent in 2012 to $4.9 billion,
according to the median estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Most analysts are recommending adding shares of Teva,
with 75 percent  rating (TEVA)  the company “buy,” according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This compares with 17 percent for
Indianapolis-based Lilly and 55 percent for  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J.  Generic Version  Teva said yesterday that it’s shipping its generic version
of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Combivir for treatment of HIV in the
U.S. The sales will add as much as 3 cents to earnings per share
in the next 180 days, according to Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst
at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd.  “The earnings will be fine,” said Ronny Gal, an analyst
at  Sanford Bernstein  in New York, who has an “outperform”
rating on the shares. “There are a lot of catalysts for Teva.
The odds are in their favor.”  Teva will buy back as much as $3 billion worth of its own
shares to return money to investors, Chief Executive Officer
Shlomo Yanai said on a call with investors on Dec. 21.  Copaxone’s annual sales will probably peak at $3.8 billion,
and a generic competitor will take a while to reach the market,
Teva executives said on the call.  Plan B  Teva’s ADRs climbed 0.1 percent to $40.83 yesterday. The
shares in  Tel Aviv   dropped (TEVA)  3 percent to 153.40 shekels, or the
equivalent of $40.29, boosting its annual decline to 18 percent
this year, also the worst since 2006.  Copaxone, an injected treatment that accounted for 23
percent of Teva’s $4.21 billion revenue in the second quarter,
is facing competition from the first approved multiple sclerosis
pill of Novartis AG. Teva on Aug. 1 said laquinimod, its planned
successor to the older multiple sclerosis drug, failed to reduce
relapses more than placebo in a clinical trial.  Secretary of Health and Human Services  Kathleen Sebelius 
ordered Margaret Hamburg, the Food and Drug Administration
chief, to reject the application for Plan B by Teva, citing
potential sales to girls younger than age 17. Hamburg said she
was ready to approve sales of Plan B One-Step without a
prescription to women of all ages based on “science-based
evidence.”  The drug reduces pregnancy risk if taken within three days
of sex.  IPO  The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  retreated 18 percent this year, the worst
annual performance since 2008, led by Partner Communications
Co.,  Israel ’s second-largest mobile phone provider.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq ,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also
home to the largest number of startup companies per capita in
the world.  Siano Mobile Silicon Ltd., an Israeli maker of TV chips for
mobile devices, is planning a push into the U.S. next year,
setting the stage for an initial public offering as early as
2012.  Siano, whose chips let gadgets receive digital TV signals,
has had conversations with bankers and is weighing a U.S. filing
next year or in 2013, Chief Executive Officer Alon Ironi said in
an interview yesterday. The company hasn’t set a date for the
move, and the timing may depend on how quickly digital mobile TV
takes off with Americans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  