-- Ex-HP Chief Hurd’s Letter From Lawyer Ruled Public Document
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-29T19:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/ex-hp-chief-hurd-s-letter-from-lawyer-must-be-unsealed-in-delaware-lawsuit.html
A letter about former  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd ’s relationship
with a female contractor must be made public, a court ruled.
Hurd’s lawyers petitioned for continued secrecy.  The letter to Hurd, from lawyer  Gloria Allred , concerned
“allegedly inappropriate conduct” by Hurd toward Jodie Fisher,
the Delaware Supreme Court said in an opinion released today in
Dover.  “The Supreme Court did not issue a mandate to the trial
court ‘forthwith’ with it decision, and thus the parties are
permitted 15 days” under court rules to seek re-argument, Hurd
lawyer Rolin P. Bissell wrote in papers filed today.  Shareholder Ernesto Espinoza sought the letter along with
company books and records in his lawsuit aimed at investigating
possible corporate wrongdoing.  “We conclude that the Court of Chancery acted well within
its discretion in holding that the Allred letter (as redacted)
should be unsealed,” the justices wrote.  The justices said that “although the letter goes into
embarrassing detail about Hurd’s behavior, it does not describe
any intimate conversations or conduct.”  The decision came after arguments in Dover Oct. 12
challenging a ruling in March by  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge
Donald Parsons Jr. that most of the letter should be released.  The letter contains accusations of sexual harassment and
details of Hurd’s alleged advances toward Fisher and her
rejection of them, according to Parsons’s ruling.  August 2010 Resignation  Hurd, now president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
resigned from  Palo Alto , California-based HP in August 2010
after a company investigation determined he violated its
standards of business conduct.  HP said it didn’t find that Hurd had violated the company’s
sexual-harassment policy. The company granted him a severance
package of as much as $40 million, according to court papers.  The letter was sent to Hurd by Allred in an attempt to
arrange private mediation with Fisher. It includes allegations
that Hurd misused corporate funds to “wine and dine Fisher”
and leaked potential non-public information about the company to
her, Parsons said in his ruling.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for HP; and  Deborah Hellinger ,
a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to comment on the ruling.
Representatives for Hurd and Allred weren’t immediately
available to comment or wouldn’t immediately comment on the
ruling.  Brief Passages  In his unsealing order, Parsons specified brief passages
that should be blanked-out. One involves, “the words
immediately following the phrase, “You told Ms. Fisher that you
were married with two daughters. . . . ”  Parsons also omitted “the entire final sentence following
the sentence ending with “talked for about an hour,” and
another phrase after the words, “a married man,” according to
the order.  The Chancery case is Espinoza v. Hewlett-Packard Co.,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The appeal is Hurd
v. Espinoza and Hewlett-Packard Co., 167, 2001, Delaware  Supreme
Court  (Dover).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 