-- Fed Says Dealers Tighten Terms on Hedge-Fund Security Trades
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2011-12-29T23:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/fed-says-dealers-tighten-terms-on-hedge-fund-securities-trades.html
Wall Street dealers made it tougher
for hedge funds to finance trading of securities and derivatives
in the three months through November, a  Federal Reserve   survey 
showed today.  Responses “indicated a broad but moderate tightening of
credit terms applicable to important classes of
counterparties,” especially hedge-fund clients, trading real
estate investment trusts and nonfinancial corporations,
according to the quarterly survey of senior credit officers at
20 dealers covering the period of September to November. The
central bank released the report in Washington.  The report adds to evidence of stress in the financial
system from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis. Investor concern
about the continent’s turmoil has helped drive the premium banks
pay to borrow dollars to the highest in more than two years. The
Fed survey didn’t discuss causes of the tighter financing terms.  Respondents reporting tougher borrowing terms for  hedge
funds  “most frequently pointed to a worsening in general market
liquidity and functioning and to reduced willingness to take on
risk and, to a lesser extent, adoption of more-stringent market
conventions and deterioration in the strength of counterparties
as the reasons,” the Fed said.  Credit Limits  The Fed’s Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer
Financing Terms was conducted from Nov. 15 to Nov. 28.
Respondents, who aren’t identified, “account for almost all of
the dealer financing of dollar-denominated securities for
nondealers and are the most active intermediaries” in over-the-
counter  derivatives (OTCDTOTL)  markets, the Fed said.  Measures of stress in credit markets soared during the
three-month period surveyed to the worst levels in more than two
years as  Europe ’s fiscal imbalances intensified, fueling concern
that the region’s upheaval would taint bank balance sheets
globally,  The U.S. 2-year  swap spread (USSP2)  rose 40 percent in the three-
month period to 41.55 basis points as of Nov. 30 after peaking
at 59.25 on Nov. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity U.S. Treasury note yield expanded to 48.63
basis points today.  Another signal of weakness in the banking system, the
spread between the three-month London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, and the overnight index swap rate, has more than doubled
in four months to 0.49 percentage point today. That’s the widest
since May 2009, as financial markets were still recovering from
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Interbank Lending Divergence  While the Fed said today that 80 percent of dealers
reported lowering credit limits for some specific financial-
institution counterparties, evidence grew that banks were
growing more wary of lending to each other.  The gap between the highest and the lowest rates that banks
say they can borrow from each other in dollars is close to a
2.5-year high.  The divergence from reported fixings by the 18 banks
contributing to the three-month London interbank offered rate
reached 28 basis points today, within two basis points of the
widest since May 2009.  Libor (US0003M)  for three-month loans climbed to
0.581 percent, the most since July 2009, even as central banks
injected cash into the market.  U.S. economic data released today may point to some easing
of terms for bank customers as the world’s largest economy
improves. Companies cranked out more goods in December and
pending sales of existing homes jumped in November for a second
month.  ‘Signs of Life’  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
 business barometer (CHPMINDX)  was little changed at 62.5 from a seven-month
high of 62.6 in November. The  index (SPX)  of  signed contracts (USPHTMOM)  to buy
previously owned houses rose 7.3 percent after climbing 10.4
percent the prior month, the National Association of Realtors
said. Both figures surpassed the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “2011 is ending on a solid note,” said  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , who forecast a reading of 63 for the Chicago
index. “Manufacturing has some momentum,” he said, and “we’re
starting to see some signs of life in housing.”  Combined with a drop in firings over the past month and
improving  consumer confidence , the data show the world’s largest
economy may be strengthening enough to fend off major damage
from the European debt crisis. Stocks rallied, buoyed by the
stronger-than-projected readings and by a decline in Italian
borrowing costs and a benchmark gauge of U.S. company credit
risk dropped to a three-week low.  Corporate Credit Risk  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 2 basis points to a mid-price of 119.9 basis points at
4:52 p.m. in  New York , according to data provider Markit Group
Ltd.  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
from 127.8 on Nov. 30. It rose from 114.5 at the end of August
to 150.1 on Oct. 3, the highest level since May 2009.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent to
1,263.02 at 4:33 p.m. in New York. The yield on the benchmark
 10-year Treasury (USGG10YR)  note fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.9 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  Dealer Report  The Federal Reserve began querying dealers in 2010 as part
of efforts to boost surveillance of financial markets following
the panic of 2007-2008 that caused the worst economic downturn
since the Great Depression.  The  prior survey , covering June through August, showed that
86 percent of respondents reported that the number of dealers
tightening financing rates outnumbered those easing.  The latest responses “reflect an apparent continuation and
intensification of developments already in evidence in the
September survey,” the Fed said today. About one-third of
respondents tightened pricing terms, such as financing rates, to
hedge funds, while one-fourth reported tightening nonprice terms
including maximum maturity, the central bank said.  Hedge Fund Leverage  At the same time, more than half of dealers “indicated
that hedge funds’ use of financial leverage, considering the
entire range of transactions with such clients, had decreased
somewhat over the past three months,” the Fed said.  The Fed survey also found that liquidity and functioning
were little changed in the U.S. Treasury securities market since
the second quarter, while one-fifth of respondents said equity-
market functioning had “deteriorated somewhat.”  The  European Central Bank ’s balance sheet ballooned this
month to a record 2.73 trillion euros ($3.53 trillion) on a
surge in loans to financial institutions. The ECB last week
awarded 523 banks three-year loans totaling 489 billion euros to
encourage lending to companies and households and prevent a
credit shortage.  The Fed’s  balance sheet (FARBAST)  has also increased this month to a
record, reaching $2.92 trillion last week, on dollar loans to
European banks through currency-swap lines.  The ECB this month cut its benchmark  interest rate  to 1
percent, matching a record low, as the debt crisis threatened to
engulf Italy and  Spain , the euro area’s third- and fourth-
largest economies. The Fed has been considering further measures
to ease U.S. borrowing costs and protect the economy from the
European turmoil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Carlos Torres  at   ctorres2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  