-- Fisker Recalls Karmas After A123 Reports Battery Defect
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2011-12-29T19:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/fisker-recalls-karmas-after-a123-reports-battery-defect-2-.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., which is
beginning to sell plug-in electric  sports cars , said it is
recalling 239 Karma cars in the U.S. because of a battery defect
supplier  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  announced last week.  Misplaced hose clamps in the batteries could cause coolant
to leak and potentially cause fires in all Karmas produced so
far, Fisker, based in Anaheim,  California , said in a notice
posted today to the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration’s website. A123 disclosed the defect Dec. 23.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s electric Chevrolet Volt, which is
under U.S. investigation over fires that started after crash
tests, uses a different battery supplier than Fisker. GM said
earlier this month it would buy A123 batteries for its electric
Chevy Spark that use a less volatile chemistry than the Volt
batteries supplied by LG Chem Ltd.  Fisker, whose Karma sedan retails for $102,000, had sent
225 of the cars to dealers and had 1,200 “in the pipeline,”
Chief Executive Officer Henrik Fisker said in a Dec. 21
interview.  The company in 2009 received a $529 million U.S. Energy
Department low-interest loan that has drawn scrutiny after the
failure of Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel maker that received a
loan guarantee from a different department program. A123
received a $249.1 million department grant for electric-battery
development, the second-largest award from economic-stimulus
money allocated for advanced batteries.  Fisker has contacted buyers of all the cars purchased so
far, Roger Ormisher, a company spokesman, said in a telephone
interview.  “We identified very quickly what the problem was, and
there have been no incidents whatsoever,” he said. “It’s
really important that we actually fixed everything before it
became an issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  