-- Forint Hits Month Low as Hungary Bond Sale Raises Less Than Half of Target
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-12-29T16:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/forint-falls-to-month-low-as-hungary-cuts-auction-by-more-than-half-on-imf.html
Hungary  raised less than half as
much as planned at a debt auction and the forint dropped to a
month low on concern the government may not obtain international
aid after two credit downgrades to junk status.  The government sold 15 billion forint ($62 million) in
bonds, 18 billion forint less than the target, at the auction
today as borrowing costs rose to the  highest (HUAB5YAY)  in more than two
years, while the state rejected all bids for three-year notes.
The forint depreciated as much as 1.2 percent and traded 0.6
percent weaker at 310.7 per euro, the weakest on a closing basis
since Nov. 25, at 5 p.m. in Budapest.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Hungary to non-investment grade last
week, following a similar downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service
a month earlier, after the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union suspended bailout talks with Hungary, citing
proposed bills curbing the central bank’s independence.
Lawmakers are scheduled to vote on the bills tomorrow.  “Hungary can’t finance itself from the market for long
unless things begin to normalize,” Antero Atilla, a Copenhagen-
based economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg. “With two downgrades
already as kicks below the belt, it will be all the more
difficult to climb back on the horse.”  The Debt Management Agency, known as AKK, sold 10 billion
forint in 2017 securities at 9.63 percent from 8.72 percent on
Dec. 15, and the highest cost since June 2009. The agency raised
5 billion forint in 2022 notes at 9.70 percent from 8.78 percent
on Dec. 1 when that maturity was last sold, according to auction
results published on Bloomberg. Investors bid for a total 45
billion forint in debt at today’s auction.  ‘Policy Issues’  The IMF has yet to decide on returning to Hungary for
formal aid talks as the decision depends on the government
engaging on key “policy issues,” Reuters reported yesterday,
citing an IMF official.  “The chance of an IMF-EU credit deal is receding,” Jozsef Miro and Gergely Gabler, Budapest-based analysts at Erste Group
Bank AG, wrote in research reports today. “As long as there is
no IMF credit line, the country will need to finance itself from
the market and yields may be heading toward double digits after
today’s unsuccessful auction.”  The secondary-market yield on the three-year bonds rose 30
basis points, or 0.30 percentage point, to 9.20 percent while
the 10-year yield jumped 27 basis points to 9.9 percent.  The forint has lost 14 percent versus the euro since June,
the biggest drop among more than 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg for the second half. Hungary’s currency has declined
10 percent this year, its worst performance since 2003, the year
before the country joined the European Union. A weaker forint
boosts repayments on foreign-currency debt for the government
and households and risks driving banks’ losses.  ‘Unorthodox’ Measures  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  shunned IMF aid after taking
office last year to protect what he called “unorthodox”
measures from oversight, including the effective nationalization
of $13 billion of private pension-fund assets, extraordinary
industry taxes and forcing banks to swallow losses on foreign-
currency home loans.  Failure to obtain an international bailout wouldn’t be “so
significant,” Orban said in a HirTV interview last week. Orban
added that he rejected European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso’s request to withdraw legislations concerning the
central bank.  The central bank bill criticized by the EU and IMF would
take away Magyar Nemzeti Bank President  Andras Simor ’s right to
name deputies, expand the rate-setting Monetary Council and add
a new vice president. A separate bill would make it possible to
demote the central bank president if the institution is combined
with the financial regulator.  ‘Concrete Steps’  “Early next year, we need to see concrete steps forward in
both talks with IMF” and the government refraining from further
unorthodox economic measures, Danske’s Atilla said. The credit
downgrades and the criticism from the EU and IMF “leave little
choice for the government,” Atilla added.  The central bank on Dec. 20 lifted the main two-week
deposit rate by a half-point for a second month to 7 percent and
signaled it may tighten policy further. Investors in interest-
rate derivatives have raised bets that Hungary’s benchmark rate,
the EU’s highest, will increase again next year.  Forward-rate agreements fixing three-month interest costs
in a month rose to 7.56 percent, the highest in more than two
years, from 7.265 percent the day before the S&P downgrade. The
contract traded 32 basis points above the three-month Budapest
Interbank Offered Rate to which it settles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net  