-- Former FIFA Executive Jack Warner Says He Got World Cup TV Rights for $1
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2011-12-29T19:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/former-fifa-executive-says-he-got-world-cup-tv-rights-for-1.html
Former  FIFA  Vice President  Jack Warner  said he got the  World Cup  television rights for  Trinidad
& Tobago  for $1 after helping Sepp Blatter get elected president
of the soccer ruling body.  Warner, who quit world soccer’s governing body in June
after accusations of bribery, said today in a statement that he
got the rights from FIFA in 1998 via a Mexican company and also
acquired them for the 2002, 2006, 2010 and 2014 editions. He
used the revenue from selling on the rights to develop the sport
in the Caribbean, where he’s from, according to the statement.  Warner quit during a FIFA investigation into allegations
about him and another vice president, Mohamed Bin Hamman. The
pair was accused of giving Caribbean officials $40,000 in cash
to gain support for Bin Hammam’s presidential campaign against
Blatter. At the time, Warner denied wrongdoing and said he’d
been “hung out to dry” after 30 years with FIFA.  Zurich-based FIFA said in an e-mail today “it will look
into” Warner’s comments, and the organization’s London-based
spokesman  Brian Alexander  declined to make any immediate
response.  FIFA normally sells World Cup television rights directly to
broadcasters, or sub-contracts companies to negotiate sales.  Warner said he refused to endorse Blatter in the June
election even though he was offered the rights to the 2018 and
2022 World Cup for a nominal fee. He also alleged that he was
offered other “inducements” to develop soccer in the region,
including relaying turf at a stadium in Trinidad & Tobago and $1
million in grants, according to the statement.  Past Agreements  FIFA rescinded an agreement with International Media
Content Ltd.’s SportsMax cable channel to broadcast the 2014
World Cup in the Caribbean after “only recently” becoming
aware that a company owned by Warner negotiated the sale on
behalf of the regional soccer association, the  BBC  reported
Sept. 8, citing a FIFA letter to the association.  IMC had paid as much as $20 million for the rights to the
2010 and 2014 tournaments, the BBC said.  Hammam withdrew his candidacy in May, and Blatter was re-
elected on June 1 as the only candidate. Hammam denies
wrongdoing and is appealing a life ban from soccer at the Court
of Arbitration for Sport.  Blatter in October announced plans to reform FIFA, which
governs the sport and oversees the World Cup. The soccer
showpiece tournament generates about $4 billion in television
rights, sponsorship and other income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  