-- Four People Arrested in Beating, Robbery of Poker Champ Jonathan Duhamel
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2011-12-29T17:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/four-people-arrested-in-beating-robbery-of-poker-champ-jonathan-duhamel.html
Four people were arrested in the
Dec. 21 beating and home invasion of Jonathan Duhamel that left
the  World Series  of Poker champion without his winner’s
bracelet, a Rolex watch and an undisclosed amount of cash.  Police arrested three men and a woman, Mark David, a
spokesman for the Agglomeration de Longueuil police department
said today in a telephone interview.  The 24-year-old Duhamel, who won the No-Limit Texas Hold’Em
world championship, $8.9 million and the diamond-encrusted gold
bracelet in November 2010, was attacked by two masked men at his
home in Boucherville,  Quebec , at around 9 a.m. local time on
Dec. 21, Yves Bouchard, Duhamel’s agent, said in a telephone
interview last week.  The men took the bracelet, a Rolex watch given to Duhamel
by PokerStars.com in honor of his tournament win and cash,
Bouchard said.  A 20-year-old woman arrested on Dec. 24 is facing charges
of conspiracy, according to David. Two men, ages 22 and 26, were
arrested two days later in a Montreal suburb, and are facing
charges of breaking and entering, assault, forcible confinement
and possession of stolen goods, he said.  A fourth suspect, a 20-year-old man, was arrested this
morning and is being questioned by detectives. David, who called
the investigation “on-going,” declined to provide names for
any of the suspects.  “The initial call was that two men had gone to Duhamel’s
home,” David said. “They rang the doorbell, and when he opened
the door they beat him up and they stole goods from his house.
So conspiracy would be setting this up or planning the event.
There’s four people in this event, so somebody at some point
planned this.”  Watch Recovered  Duhamel’s watch was recovered, and the bracelet is still
missing, David said.  “I won’t hide the fact that these two items have a much
larger value for me than their commercial value, and I really
hope we will be able to retrieve them,” Duhamel said in a news
release following the attack.  Duhamel became  Canada ’s first World Series of Poker main-
event champion when he won the tournament after two hours of
heads-up play in  Las Vegas  to outlast a field that began with
7,319 participants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  