-- France Says Two of Its Soldiers Were Killed in Afghanistan
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2011-12-29T13:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/france-says-two-of-its-soldiers-were-killed-in-afghanistan-1-.html
Two French soldiers were killed in
 Afghanistan  by a man wearing an Afghan National Army uniform.  The Taliban took credit for the attack, saying that three
soldiers were killed. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization
said in a statement that it is “investigating the incident.”  Separately, 10 Afghan police officers were killed by a
roadside bomb in the south, an Afghan official said.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s office said in a
statement today the military personnel were hit by
“deliberate” shots from a member of the ANA. The NATO
statement said “an individual wearing an Afghan National Army
uniform turned his weapon against” two NATO soldiers.  “A man named Mohammed Ibrahim, who was a personnel of
Afghan National Army, opened fire on French soldiers today in
Tagab district of Kapisa province, killing three troops,”
Taliban’s spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahed  said in a telephone
interview.  The man was shot dead by other NATO troops, Jason Waggoner,
a NATO spokesman in Kabul, said in a phone interview.  The victims were engineers from a Foreign Legion regiment,
Sarkozy’s e-mailed statement said. It didn’t provide further
details about the incident.  The deaths bring to 78 the number of French soldiers killed
in Afghanistan since their arrival in 2001.  France  has about
3,950 troops in Afghanistan, the fourth-largest contingent in
NATO’s mission.  The 10 Afghan police officers were killed by a bomb as they
returned home from training, Dawood Ahmadi, a spokesman for
Helmand province, said today in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  