-- LG Display China Strike Ends as Fresh Guangzhou Labor Protest Reported
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-29T04:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/lg-display-china-strike-ends-as-fresh-labor-protest-reported.html
LG Display Co. (034220)  factory workers in
the eastern Chinese city of Nanjing returned to work after the
company agreed to double year-end bonuses, as a new protest
reportedly broke out in a car parts plant in southern China.  More than 2,000 workers of the South Korean electronics
company took part in a strike after their bonuses were cut to
one-third of last year’s amount, Xinhua News Agency said today,
citing Cheng Shijun, an official at the Nanjing Economic and
Technological Development Zone, where the factory is located.  A separate protest also started over such payments at an
auto parts factory in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou on
Dec. 27, worker rights group  China  Labor Watch said in an e-
mailed statement today.  China is seeking to alleviate social unrest and ordered all
levels of governments to help needy people while maintaining
social harmony ahead of New Year’s Day and the Chinese New Year
after a two-week protest by residents of a southern Chinese
village this month. Strikes, demonstrations and other protests
in China doubled to at least 180,000 in 2010 from 2006,
according to Sun Liping, a sociology professor at Beijing’s
Tsinghua University.  At LG Display, the workers were unhappy about their year-
end bonuses, equivalent to a monthly salary of 1,400 yuan ($221),
Cheng was cited as saying by Xinhua. The report didn’t say what
their bonuses have been raised to.  About 8,000 Chinese workers went on strike, Sina.com and
QQ.com, a news website run by  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , reported
yesterday. LG Display said in an e-mail that operations have
returned to normal as employees returned beginning the night of
Dec. 28 after an agreement was reached.  Toyota, Honda  Workers at Guangzhou Aries Auto Parts Corp., wholly owned
by  Japan ’s  Ahresty Corp. (5852)  and whose clients include Honda Motor
Co. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , were unhappy over a reduction in
year-end bonuses even as they had been made to work longer hours,
China Labor Watch said.  An officer at Guangzhou Aries, who would only give her
surname as Wang, declined to comment on whether there was a
strike when contacted by phone. Calls to Ahresty, Honda and
Toyota weren’t answered and their voicemails said they were
closed for holidays.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Liza Lin in
Shanghai at   llin15@bloomberg.net ; Shunichi
Ozasa in Tokyo at   sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  