-- Gates Global Aims Played Down in Design of $500 Million Campus
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/gates-global-aims-played-down-in-design-of-500-million-campus.html
An aerodynamically curved building
wing zooms over the entrance court at the new $500 million
campus of the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  in  Seattle . Such
future-focused imagery suggests an aggressive corporation on the
move.  Bill Gates , the  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder, and his wife,
Melinda, pursue their philanthropic goals with the same
impatient fervor that he brought to achieving world domination
by Windows. With $33.5 billion in assets (which is growing
quickly through gifts from  Warren Buffett ), the foundation aims
to transform global health, agriculture and education.  By contrast, the 900,000-square-foot campus located near
the foot of the Space Needle north of downtown seems designed to
play down the urgency and breadth of that mission. The Seattle-
based architecture firm on NBBJ supplies a generic glass-and-
metal corporate niceness with comforting wood floors and neutral
carpeting. From the street, it looks like a standard-spec office
building.  The lofty glassy lobby overlooks an alluring plaza that
unites two six-story boomerang-shaped buildings with lush
plantings heavy on native ferns and ponds spanned by wooden
bridges. The ponds, designed by landscape architect  Gustafson
Guthrie Nichol  Ltd., store rain runoff to water plants in dry
months. Cool underground water storage reduces power demand for
air-conditioning.  Sharing Ideas  I strolled down sun-filled corridors that run along the
tightly curved inside face of the buildings. Lined by small
meeting spaces and lounges, these hallways subtly encourage
people to stop and share ideas. Coffee and snack areas are
organized around spacious stairways showered in daylight at the
apex of the boomerangs, so that people trying to end AIDS will
cross paths with education reformers.  Most people work near a window because the buildings’
profiles are narrow, and the light quality is superb compared to
your average cubicle farm. Gates people call this “daylight
equity.” It also saves lighting energy.  From a high balcony I gazed into a huge space that serves
as a cafeteria and “civic room,” as NBBJ managing partner Steve
McConnell calls it, because it also hosts large meetings of
grantees and other global partners. Receptions spill outside to
the lush plaza. In addition, there’s a large conference center.  The planned and informal socializing aspires to lead to
eureka moments. Too bad they feel ticked off a checklist rather
than exuding engagement with the necessary passion and urgency.  Default to Blandness  Artifacts from many countries hang on the wall and
strategically placed screens play videos of work being done, but
they are background ambience, not front and center. The place is
almost aggressively impersonal, as if any meaningful
architectural gesture might offend someone or be read as
colonialist bullying.  A visitor center will open next year, but it’s conceived as
a museum, and may feel like a defense against interested
citizens rather than an invitation to them.  The default to blandness is a lost opportunity.  It put me in mind of  Livestrong , Lance Armstrong
Foundation, whose recently built home in Austin I had toured not
long ago.  Founded by the bicycling champion, the organization
supports people with cancer. The San Antonio architecture firm
 Lake/Flato  remodeled an old metal warehouse, and bathed its
cavernous interior with daylight from bands of windows built
into the roof. Informally arranged cubicles flow around boxlike
wooden structures enclosing conference spaces.  Joy of Giving  Touching testimonials from grateful partners and supporters
-- heavily bicycle-themed -- clutter the place. The joy of
giving and the connection to people served is palpable.  Livestrong offers conference space free to nonprofits
around the city. In this way it builds community connections not
only through its core mission but by mingling with other
charitable organizations.  At 30,000 square feet, Livestrong is tiny compared to
Gates, with a simpler mission focused on people in deep
distress. Rather than fence off emotion, the foundation and its
architecture invite it in, with the result that the place has a
cheerful energy utterly invisible at the posh, sober Gates.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 