-- Germany May Speed Bailout-Fund Payments to Help Lift Ratings, Barthle Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2011-12-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/germany-may-speed-bailout-fund-payments-to-help-lift-ratings-barthle-says.html
Germany ’s plan to speed up payments
into  Europe ’s future permanent bailout fund with cash is aimed
at securing the highest ratings for its bonds, said a senior
lawmaker from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party.  Germany may pay 8.6 billion euros ($11.1 billion) into the
European Stability Mechanism in 2012, twice the amount slated in
the budget, providing it can persuade other euro-region states
to double their payments,  Norbert Barthle , the  Christian
Democratic Union ’s budget spokesman, said yesterday in an
interview.  German coalition lawmakers see no scope to increase the 500
billion euro ESM, while its lending power may be maximized by
reducing costs influenced by ratings, said Barthle, speaking by
phone. Germany in July agreed to pay a quarter or about 20
billion euros of the fund’s so-called paid-in cash stock over
five years.  Speeding up the payments is “definitely conceivable while
a German go-it-alone will definitely not work,” said Barthle.
“The aim is to secure good ratings for the fund and win a
little independence from the rating agencies.”  Euro-region leaders are holding parallel talks on shaping
the euro’s temporary and permanent rescue funds after the costs
borne by Spain and  Italy  to sell debt soared this year and
prompted calls to bring forward creation of the ESM.  Sarkozy-Merkel Meeting  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  may be confronted with the
proposal in talks with Merkel in Berlin on Jan. 9, adding to
discussion on leveraging the euro’s temporary rescue fund amid
risk of a downgrading of their sovereign ratings.  Ratings company Standard & Poor’s on Dec. 5 put Germany,
 France  and 13 other euro-area nations on review for a downgrade,
saying “continuing disagreements among European policy makers
on how to tackle” the region’s debt crisis risk damaging their
financial stability.  S&P followed up the threat a day later by saying that the
temporary fund, called the European Financial Stability
Facility, may lose its top  credit rating  if any of six AAA-rated
guarantors face a downgrade.  Germany may be in better fiscal shape than some of its euro
region partners to pay more into the ESM in 2012 due to rising
tax revenue. A May tax review may show that it doesn’t need to
reopen the budget to pay more into the ESM, Barthle said. The
country’s bank-rescue fund, to be reactivated on Jan. 1, relies
on off-budget finance, he said.  Euro-region finance ministers plan to finalize the accord
to set up the ESM at a meeting in Brussels on Jan. 23, said
German Finance Ministry spokeswoman Silke Bruns in an interview
yesterday. “It would be helpful to build market confidence if
more capital could be paid into the fund than envisaged
currently,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  