-- Six German States Say Inflation Rates Declined in December
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2011-12-29T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/german-states-of-saxony-nrw-say-inflation-slowed-in-december.html
Inflation (GRCP2SAY)  in six German states
slowed in December as heating-oil and fuel costs declined.  The inflation rate eased to 2.2 percent from 2.5 percent in
Baden-Wuerttemberg and to 2.4 percent from 2.5 percent in
Bavaria, the states’ statistics offices said today. Inflation
also slowed in Hesse, Saxony, Brandenburg and North Rhine-
Westphalia. Economists forecast that German  inflation (GRCP2HYY) ,
calculated using a harmonized European Union method, will slow
to 2.4 percent from 2.8 percent, the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey (GRCP2HYY)  shows. The Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden will release that report, based on data from the six
states, later today.  The 17-member euro region faces recession as cash-strapped
governments cut spending to contain the sovereign debt crisis.
The  European Central Bank  lowered its  benchmark interest rate (EURR002W) 
for a second straight month in December, saying economic
activity is subdued and price pressures will ease.  “German inflation will come down pretty rapidly now and
will probably be lower than the euro-area average next year,”
said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London . “This will make it easier for the
ECB to keep cutting interest rates.”  Cailloux forecasts policy makers will lower the key rate to
0.5 percent by the end of the first quarter from its current 1
percent.  Euro-Area Inflation  Euro-area inflation will slow to 2.8 percent this month
from 3 percent in November, according to the median of 24
estimates in another Bloomberg survey. That report is due on
Jan. 4.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities has
retreated 15 percent from its 32-month high in April as  Europe ’s
debt crisis curbed prospects for global growth. In London,  hedge
funds  and other money managers reduced bullish bets on  Brent
crude  by 11,121 contracts in the week ended Dec. 20, according
to data from ICE Futures Europe.  In Saxony, fuel prices fell 1.5 percent in December and
heating oil was 3.1 percent cheaper. Consumer prices rose 0.7
percent in the month on higher seasonal food and accommodation
costs.  “Cost, wage and price pressures in the euro area should
remain modest over the policy-relevant horizon,” the ECB said
Dec. 15 in its monthly bulletin. “Inflation is likely to stay
above 2 percent for several months to come, before declining to
below 2 percent,” the bank’s inflation ceiling, it said.  The German economy will probably avoid a recession even as
orders from its main euro-area trading partners wane during the
debt crisis, two economic institutes that advise Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government said on Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  