-- Gingrich ‘Loophole’ Offers Lobbyist Access for Consultant Cash
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/gingrich-loophole-offers-lobbyist-access-for-consultant-cash.html
Testifying before Senate committees
in 2003 and 2006,  Newt Gingrich  commanded attention as a former
House speaker. He used the opportunities to share his vision of
the future of health care -- and to mention a few clients.  Both times he singled out HealthTrio LLC, an electronic
health-care record company and an early member of Gingrich’s
Center for Health Transformation. As a member, the Denver-based
company would have paid as much as $200,000 a year to the for-
profit center.  HealthTrio was one of dozens of companies that benefited
from its relationship with Gingrich, who had access to lawmakers
and opportunities to advance their interests that go well beyond
those of a standard Washington lobbyist. Gingrich insists he
never lobbied, and he never registered as a lobbyist.  “I call it the Gingrich loophole,” said Howard Marlowe,
president of the  American League  of Lobbyists in Alexandria,
Virginia. “It’s not lobbying under the law, he’s right about
that. It is lobbying in reality.”  Lobbyists must register their work with Congress if they
have a paying client, make at least two contacts on behalf of
the client and spend at least 20 percent of their time working
for that client during a three-month period. Gingrich’s work
often dovetailed with the work lobbyists do, even though he
probably didn’t hit the 20 percent threshold, Marlowe said.  Providing Information  While lobbyists sometimes work behind closed doors to make
deals and help draft legislation, much of their time is spent
simply providing information to lawmakers and clients or trying
to raise a client’s profile before agencies and congressional
offices that can affect their interests. Often that means
getting a meeting with a legislative director or chief of staff
for a senator or representative.  Top lobbyists can more easily access lawmakers themselves,
and Gingrich had a natural open door. The expectation that
Republicans would respond to his support helped spur the
government-backed home mortgage company  Freddie Mac  to hire
Gingrich for a second contract in 2006, according to people
familiar with the discussions. All told, McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac paid the Gingrich Group at least $1.6 million for
“strategic advice.”  “You don’t need to be within the technical definition of
being a lobbyist to still be  influence-peddling  with senior
Republicans in  Washington ,” Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  said during a debate with Gingrich and other
presidential hopefuls on Dec. 15.  Affecting Legislation  In 2003, Gingrich gathered about two dozen Republican House
members who opposed a $395 billion Medicare prescription drug
benefit to pitch them on why they should support it, former
Representative C.L. “Butch” Otter, who said he was in the
room, said in an e-mail.  Otter, who supports  Mitt Romney  in the Republican
presidential primaries and is now governor of  Idaho , said it was
“obvious” to him and others in the room that they were being
lobbied. The meeting occured as Gingrich was building the Center
for Health Transformation, which was seeking financing from
drugmakers.  Gingrich has also bragged of killing legislation, often a
goal of lobbyists. During a Dec. 10 Republican presidential
debate, he said he “helped defeat” a proposal to lower  carbon
emissions  known as “cap and trade” through a nonprofit
advocacy group he founded called American Solutions.  ’Influence Peddling’  “Gingrich’s boasting reveals, truly, what he was doing: He
was working for and against specific legislation. That’s
lobbying,” said  Craig Holman , who pushes for tougher lobbying
and campaign finance laws as a lobbyist for Washington-based
 Public Citizen . “When it comes to promoting or attacking or
defeating legislation, that is influence peddling.”  Energy companies are among the top donors to American
Solutions. The group took in more than $1.3 million from two of
them,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , during the
last two election cycles, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, which tracks political money in Washington.  Devon Energy’s spending on lobbying jumped to $2.5 million
in 2009 as the House took up the cap-and-trade legislation; the
Oklahoma City-based company spent another $1.4 million in 2010,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  The majority of the company’s lobbying was done by in-house
company lobbyists; it also paid Research-able Inc. and  Jackson
Lewis LLP  in 2009.  Patton Boggs LLP  registered Devon as a
client, saying it earned less than $5,000 a quarter.  ’ Energy Tax ’ Opposed  Gingrich called the legislation “a giant energy tax”
during an April 12, 2010 Fox News appearance, delivering the
same argument made on the network by Devon Energy President John
Richels a month later.  Peabody Energy, based in  St. Louis , spent almost $2 million
on lobbying in 2009 with 12 firms registering as lobbyists,
according to center data. They included former Representative
Dick Gephardt’s Gephardt Group and  Dickstein Shapiro LLP . The
company spent a similar $1.9 million in 2010.  In an April 14, 2010 appearance at a House energy committee
hearing, Gregory Boyce, Peabody’s chief executive officer, said
the cap-and-trade program “will result in punishing cost to
economies and family budgets.”  Gingrich also said he “fought against Obamacare every step
of the way” as his health center “actively campaigned against
it.” The center’s members included insurers, who campaigned
against the legislation, and drugmakers, who supported it.  Center’s Efforts  The center dispatched a dozen press releases critical of
President Barack Obama’s health-care plan in 2009 and 2010,
according to an archive on its website. In a March 5, 2010,
release, Gingrich lauded a congressman for staying in office
“to help defeat a proposal that would ruin the American health
care system and increase the national debt.”  While Gingrich was critical of Obama’s $787 billion
economic stimulus package in 2009, he supported the inclusion of
money for health information technology. And Gingrich and his
team over the years took every opportunity to push for more
investments, often bringing up HealthTrio.  In 2004, Gingrich and one of the center’s executives, Laura
Linn, wrote a paper calling for the creation of electronic
health records that extolled HealthTrio’s model. Center
executives met with a former top U.K. health official along with
HealthTrio and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  executives,
according to the report.  Gingrich Writings  Gingrich wrote of HealthTrio’s work in 2007 in the Journal
of the  American Enterprise Institute . And in 2010, Gingrich co-
wrote a commentary in the American Journal of Managed Care with
Malik Hasan, chairman and chief executive officer of HealthTrio,
saying the stimulus package provided a road map to greater use
of electronic records.  Dave Syposs, a HealthTrio spokesman, didn’t return calls or
e-mails seeking comment. HealthTrio in the last two years has
also hired the Ross Group LLC and the Federal Group Inc. to
lobby on a pilot program for personal health records.  Edward Barbini, an IBM spokesman, declined to comment. The
Armonk, New York-based computer services provider was also a
member of the center.  The center signs nondisclosure agreements and can’t talk
about “the things we provide our members,” said Susan Meyers,
a spokeswoman for the center.  Marlowe estimates that a few thousand people in Washington
are billing themselves as consultants and really should be
registered as lobbyists. And Gingrich is far from alone among
former elected officials walking that fine line.  Image Problem  “Lobbying has an image of wining and dining and back-room
deal-making,” Holman said. “It’s not a very positive image,
and it’s one that those who have their sights on public office
try to avoid.”  Former Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle drew fire in
2009 when Obama nominated him as his Health and Human Services
secretary after Daschle served as an adviser to health-care
companies. Daschle isn’t registered as a lobbyist.  Other ex-lawmakers have embraced the lobbying designation,
including former Louisiana Representative Robert Livingston, a
Republican who supports Gingrich’s presidential bid. The
principle of “freedom of speech” in the First Amendment
applies to former politicians, too, Livingston said.  “If I want to make a living advocating, I shouldn’t not be
able to do it just because of my background,” Livingston said
in an interview. “And to say that Newt can’t advise? That’s
totally contrary to our Constitution.”  Attack Fodder  Gingrich’s work after leaving office in 1999 has been the
focus of attacks ads that may be taking a toll on his standing
in the polls. He’s slipped from the top spot in CNN’s Iowa poll
to fourth place in the latest survey, as former Massachusetts
GovernorRomney and others have run ads against Gingrich.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  posted a spot last week that says
Gingrich hails from “K Street, the lobbyist hangout in
Washington.” The ad continues, “Newt got rich, made millions
off of  Freddie Mac. (FMCC) ” Texas Representative Ron Paul targeted
Gingrich with a video called “Selling Access.”  Presidential candidate  Jon Huntsman  earlier this month said
Gingrich would be the nation’s “lobbyist-in-chief” if elected.
And Romney has called on Gingrich to return the money he
received from Freddie Mac.  Gingrich on Dec. 19 said he received only about $35,000 a
year from the Freddie contracts, “less than I was making per
speech.” According to three people familiar with Gingrich’s
contract with Freddie Mac, the former speaker’s consulting firm
was paid between $25,000 and $30,000 a month for his services.  In an interview with Bloomberg News last month, Gingrich
said that he wasn’t selling access. “We didn’t use the
connections,” he said. “I explicitly do no lobbying.”  Romney ridiculed that, when asked about Gingrich’s work.  “I’m going to let the lawyers decide what is and what
isn’t lobbying,” Romney said in  South Carolina . “But when it
walks like a duck, and it quacks like a duck, typically it’s a
duck.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  