-- Google Backs Israel Entrepreneurs as Local Financing Drops: Tech
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2011-12-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/google-backs-israeli-startups-as-local-financing-hits-12-year-low-tech.html
The  Google Inc. (GOOG)  executive with his
bright yellow vest was impossible to miss in the middle of the
Israeli startup owners seeking cash in a rusty boathouse at Tel
Aviv’s Jaffa port.  David Lawee , Google’s mergers and acquisitions chief, used
the early November session, called Garage Geeks, to round out
his contact list. “I’ve met about 100 Israeli companies in two
days and that’s, like, super-efficient,” he said between
conversations at the corporate speed-dating-style event arranged
by startup investor Yossi Vardi that introduced local businesses
to multinationals.  Google set up a funding program two weeks later for Israeli
entrepreneurs, part of an acceleration in U.S. technology
companies’ backing in late 2011 that has included  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
buying a company in the country for the first time, according to
business newspaper Calcalist.  The foreign investments are important to Israel, where the
high-tech industry accounts for 47 percent of manufactured
exports, and could be a new source of innovation for giants like
Google because of the  Mountain View , California-based company’s
strength in technology startups.  Money from Google and others is making up for a decline in
local financing that Avi Sasson, Israel’s state research-grant
provider, says could hurt industry growth.  Venture Capital  Slump  “The minute the Israeli venture-capital funds aren’t
helping in the early stage, there won’t be a new generation of
companies for the foreign investors to invest in three or four
years down the road,” said Koby Simana, head of the  Israel
Venture Capital Research Center , in an interview. “Israeli
startups won’t exist if there is no Israeli venture capital.”  Of the $522 million raised by Israeli technology companies
in the third quarter, $96 million came from domestic venture-
capital funds, a drop of 40 percent from the second quarter and
12 percent from a year earlier, according to the research
center. The proportion coming from  Israel , at 18 percent, was
the lowest since the center started covering the industry in
1999, Simana said.  Many Israeli venture capital funds, hurt by the global
recession, have been unable to raise money, and 2012 will be
“crucial” for their recovery, Simana said. “For some, it will
be a make or break year because they haven’t raised funds since
2007 or 2006 and if they don’t raise any money this year or
next, many will cease to operate,” he said.  State Funding  The Israeli government’s annual research-funding allocation
has been cut by 1 billion shekels ($262 million) over the past
decade, Sasson, who oversees the  Ministry of Industry and
Trade ’s development financing for local companies, said this
month at a conference in  Tel Aviv . That represents a decrease of
56 percent to a yearly budget of about 800 million shekels.  Israel, with a population similar to  Switzerland ’s at 7.7
million people, was dubbed the “startup nation” in a 2009 book
of that name by  Saul Singer  and Dan Senor. It has 64 companies
on the  Nasdaq (CCMP)  Stock Market, the most of any country outside
 North America  after  China , with 56 percent focused on
technology.  Google’s investments in fledgling Israeli companies in the
past two years include  takeovers (GOOG)  of LabPixies, a developer of
game applications, for $25 million, and Quiksee, which makes
software for posting three-dimensional video online, for an
undisclosed price. Other U.S. investors that have acquired
Israeli assets include social-networking site Facebook Inc. and
online marketplace  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   Netanyahu on Twitter  Apple agreed to buy semiconductor designer Anobit
Technologies Ltd., Calcalist reported Dec. 20. On the same day,
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office posted on its Twitter
account a message congratulating Apple “on your  first
acquisition  here,” without naming the target company.  Mark Regev , a spokesman for Netanyahu, declined to elaborate.  Anobit, founded in 2006 and based in Herzliya Pituach, and
investor Pitango Venture Capital declined to comment. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based Apple,
declined to comment on “rumor and speculation.”  International investments may not be the answer to the
needs of Israel’s startups because the smaller number of local
financiers poses a risk to the industry’s independence, said
Abraham Peled, executive chairman of Staines, England-based
digital-television coding developer NDS Group Plc.  “The minute Israeli high-tech is primarily based on
development centers of major companies, their fortune will be
tied to that of those companies so that, if they are cutting
staff, they will cut in Israel as well,” Peled said.  ‘Nimble’ Startups  Israel’s “nimble” startup model can still thrive even as
government funds drop because Internet companies only need small
amounts of money, Vardi said. The city of Tel Aviv recently
opened a working space called the Library for young technology
entrepreneurs, he said.  The hour-long Garage Geeks event closed the Tel Aviv part
of Digital Life Design, an international technology industry
convention held in Munich. The Israeli edition attracted 300
visitors from outside the country, Vardi said.  “Somehow the word is out that this is where everyone has
to be,” said Vardi, co-chairman of the global conference and a
founding investor in the former Mirabilis Ltd., which developed
the ICQ online-chat system.  Top executives from Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Paris-
based Alcatel-Lucent and  Russia ’s Yandex NV were among nine
potential benefactors at Garage Geeks who donned yellow vests.
About 300 startup founders, clustering in groups as large as 
30, roamed from suitor to suitor making appeals under loose 
rules that urged “short” presentations.  “When you make a connection with an entrepreneur who’s
really excited, whether you do a deal with him or not, that’s
kind of the juice of the job,” Google’s Lawee said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 