-- Gulf Lease Sales Will Reduce U.S. Oil Dependence, Agency Finds
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2011-12-29T17:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/gulf-lease-sales-will-reduce-u-s-oil-dependence-agency-finds.html
Ten planned lease sales in the  Gulf
of Mexico  will reduce dependence on foreign oil, the U.S.
Interior Department said in a draft environmental review.  The sales, planned for 2012 to 2017, will be off the coasts
of  Texas ,  Louisiana , Mississippi and  Alabama , the department’s
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management said in the proposed
environmental-impact statement released today.  President Barack Obama has set a target of reducing oil
imports by a third by 2025.  BP Plc’s (BP/)  offshore oil spill in 2010,
the worst in U.S. waters, caused the administration to postpone
lease sales to toughen offshore regulations. Republican
presidential candidates including Texas Governor Rick Perry have
said Obama isn’t permitting enough drilling to create jobs and
reduce imports.  Bureau director Tommy Beaudreau said in a statement today
that the release of the draft was “an important step” toward
implementing the administration’s offshore-leasing plans.  The analysis covers the western and central parts of the
Gulf, which cover more than 95 million acres combined, according
to the report.  Five lease sales are planned for each area. Each lease sale
in the western Gulf may yield as much as 200 million barrels of
oil, while central leases may contain as much as 894 million
barrels apiece, according to the draft analysis.  Among new regulatory standards imposed after the BP spill,
which poured about 4.9 million barrels of crude into the gulf,
are requirements to certify that the well design is appropriate
and that shear rams in a blowout preventer can cut pipe to
prevent a spill.  The department announced three public hearings on the
draft, starting on Jan. 10 in Houston. Sessions are also
scheduled for Jan. 11 in  New Orleans  and Jan. 12 in Spanish
Fort, Alabama.  The public has 45 days to submit written comments to the
department before release of a final version.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  