-- Liberty Criticizes Harleysville Merger After Its Bid Said to Be Rejected
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2011-12-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/liberty-criticizes-harleysville-merger-after-bid-said-to-fail.html
Liberty Mutual  Holding Co. is asking
regulators to scrutinize the sale of Harleysville Mutual
Insurance Co. to a competitor after its own bid for the company
was rejected, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The offer was described in a Harleysville regulatory filing
last week, with Liberty identified only as “Company B,” said
the person, who requested anonymity as the negotiations were
private. The insurer turned down the offer, which included a
payout of $250 million to its customers, and instead agreed to a
sale to Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in September with no
customer payout.  Weeks later, Liberty told regulators the Nationwide deal
may enrich Harleysville executives, who own  shares (HGIC)  in the
insurer’s Nasdaq-listed subsidiary, at the expense of the
customers who own the parent company. Mutual insurance companies
are owned by their policyholders. Four Harleysville
policyholders are suing to block the proposed takeover.  "Policyholders are looking to get a piece of the action,
waiting for some kind of payout," said  Sachin Shah , a merger
arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc, who is based in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Outside shareholders stand to get $60 a share, or about
$840 million, from Nationwide, more than twice what the stock
traded at before Bloomberg News reported the takeover talks.  Harleysville, based in Pennsylvania, said last week that
Company B’s offer was $42 a share for the stockholders of
 Harleysville Group Inc. (HGIC) , which together with the payout to
policyholders would amount to more than $800 million.  Harleysville Group shares are trading 5.6 percent below the
offer price. They  fell (HGIC)  1.2 percent to $56.64 yesterday in New
York.  Jobs Concern  Harleysville rejected the offer from Company B partly
because of concern that the bidder planned to cut jobs and close
offices at Harleysville, General Counsel  Robert Kauffman  said in
an interview. The structure of that proposed transaction was
more complicated and might have taken longer to complete, he
said.  Company B offered payouts to senior executives that would
have made its offer “comparable” to what they would get in the
Nationwide deal, Kauffman said.  The deal has attracted scrutiny partly because the parent
and the subsidiary share the same executives. William Scranton III, a former lieutenant governor, is the chairman of both
Harleysville boards. Most of the executives own stock in the
publicly traded unit, while none has an economic interest in the
parent beyond that of policyholder. The parent owns about 54
percent of the subsidiary’s stock.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Browne, a former insurance
commissioner, has stock and options that would be worth about
$27.9 million in the sale to Columbus, Ohio-based Nationwide at
$60, according to last week’s filing. They would be worth about
$13.9 million under the Liberty proposal.  ‘Inherent Conflict’  The planned sale to Nationwide involves an “inherent
conflict of interest” between Harleysville policyholders and
shareholders in its publicly listed subsidiary, Boston-based
Liberty said in an Oct. 12  filing  with  Pennsylvania  regulators.
Harleysville rejected the assertions in its own filing last
month, saying the deal is fair.  Liberty said yesterday in a statement that it stands by its
letter to Pennsylvania regulators and that the Nationwide
transaction “should receive the appropriate regulatory
review.” The insurer declined to comment further.  “We dispute virtually all the contentions” made by
Liberty Mutual, Harleysville said in the  response  filed with the
Pennsylvania Insurance Department. Under Pennsylvania law, a
board must balance the interests of several constituencies
rather than maximize a payout for a company’s policyholders,
Kauffman said in the filing.  Customers will gain by being part of a larger mutual
company with a better financial-strength rating, Kauffman said
in the filing. Two directors of Harleysville Mutual who don’t
serve on the subsidiary’s board formed a special committee that
approved the deal, and got advice from a separate financial
adviser, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  