-- IBM, LVMH, Bahamas Copyright Fund: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-12-29T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/ibm-lvmh-bahamas-copyright-fund-intellectual-property-1-.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services company, received a
patent on a method of paying people to eat more healthily.  Patent 8,078,492, issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office Dec. 13, covers a computer system that can detect a
consumable item and provide the consumer with an electronic
monetary incentive based on the item and the consumer’s health
history.  The system could also include exercise records for the
individual and recipes for healthy items, according to the
patent.  The patent has taken more than 10 years to be issued.
Armonk, New York-based IBM applied for the patent in October
2001, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  For more patent news, click here.  LVMH Sues Over Use of Fake Vuitton Luggage in ‘Hangover’ Film  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  sued  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
Warner Brothers Entertainment unit for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed Dec. 22 in federal court in  New York , is
related to Warner’s “The Hangover: Part II” movie. The French
luxury-goods maker claims that a travel bag used in the film and
referred to as a genuine piece of Louis Vuitton luggage is a
fake.  By referring to the fake as a Louis Vuitton bag, Warner
Brothers is “explicitly misleading the public about the
source” of the counterfeit product, Vuitton said in its
pleadings. While the fake uses the color scheme of genuine
Vuitton bags, it lacks the LV trademark, the company said in its
pleadings.  The bag used in the movie is actually from a company
against which Vuitton brought an action before the U.S.
International Trade Commission, a body with the power to ban the
import of infringing items, the luxury-goods company said.  Vuitton does authorize product placement in movies, only
with its permission and only with genuine products, according to
court papers. Warner is accused of stepping outside the general
practice in the movie industry of clearing the use of a branded
product with the brand owner.  In addition to seeking an order barring the advertising,
promotion and distribution of the film containing any scenes
with the allegedly infringing bag, Vuitton asked the court to
order the destruction of all copies of the film that contain
images of the counterfeit bag and represent it as a genuine
Louis Vuitton product.  Additionally, Vuitton asked for an award of Warner
Brother’s profits related to its alleged false designation or
origin, money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  This isn’t the first time the film has been the target of
an infringement suit. In April, the tattoo artist who created
 Mike Tyson ’s distinctive tattoo sued over the use of that design
in the film. That case settled in June for undisclosed terms.  That case was Whitmill v. Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.,
4:11-cv-00752-DCP, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Missouri  ( St. Louis ).  In the new case, Vuitton is represented by  Theodore C. Max 
of Los Angeles-based  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP (1215L) , and
 Robert E. Shapiro ,  Wendi E. Sloane  and  Vito S. Solitro  of
 Chicago ’s  Barack Ferrazzano Kirschbaum & Nagelberg LLP .  The case is Louis Vuitton Malletier SA v. Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc., 1:11-cv-09436-ALC, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Japanese Police Say  China  Source of Most Counterfeit Goods  Japan ’s  National Police Agency  has identified almost 450
websites advertising in the Japanese language counterfeit
fashion items such as handbags, with most of them originating in
China, the  Mainichi Daily News reported .  Most of the sites use such phrases as “It’s a super copy -
- looks just like the original,” according to the newspaper.  While the police have shut down 28 websites in Japan, 14 of
them reappeared soon after having changed from domestic servers
to overseas, the newspaper reported.  Before 2006, most of the fake fashion items originated in
 Korea . China now leads, producing 92 percent of all seized
counterfeit items in 2010, according to Mainichi News.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Singapore Press Says Yahoo! ‘Deliberately’ Committed Plagiarism  Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) , embroiled in a legal tussle
with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  as both accused each other of copyright
infringement, said the  Internet company  “deliberately”
reproduced its news content without permission.  “Yahoo had over an extended period of time consistently
and deliberately committed plagiarism by substantially
reproducing the words and expressions used in SPH’s articles
without permission,” Singapore Press said in a statement to the
stock exchange yesterday. Yahoo was “free-riding” on the
newspaper publisher to boost its website page views and
advertising revenue, according to the statement.  Singapore Press sued Yahoo’s Southeast Asia unit Nov. 18,
claiming the company reproduced 23 articles from newspapers
including the Straits Times from November 2010 to October 2011
without authorization. On Dec. 13, Yahoo denied breaching
copyright laws and counter-sued  Singapore  Press for wrongly
using its images and articles on a website.  “SPH is determined to pursue this suit vigorously and to
protect its copyrighted works,” the newspaper publisher said
after filing its defense to the Singapore High Court yesterday
in response to Yahoo’s countersuit.  Yahoo said in a defense filed to the Singapore court Dec.
13 the articles that Singapore Press claimed were reproduced
without authorization were insubstantial and insignificant.  “There is an important public interest in respect of the
right of the public to be informed of current events in
Singapore,” the Sunnyvale, California-based Internet company
said. “Copyright law does not protect facts and information.”  Yahoo approached Singapore Press in April 2009 for a
license to reproduce news content, and negotiations between the
two companies broke down last year, according to the publisher’s
lawsuit. The Internet company relied on Singapore Press’s
articles to provide content on its website to raise traffic and
build readership without having to expend financial resources,
according to the lawsuit.  “These acts of infringement were committed by Yahoo to
direct and maximize traffic to its website in order to drive up
its page views and advertising revenue,” Singapore Press said
today. “This was not done for the public interest, as claimed
by Yahoo, but instead in furtherance of its own vested financial
interest.”  Singapore Press deliberately kept silent until a letter
from its lawyers Nov. 4, causing Yahoo to continue with the
alleged infringement for a year as it believed the publisher had
no complaints, according to the Internet company’s filing.  The case is Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. v Yahoo!
Southeast Asia Ltd., S831/2011, Singapore High Court.  Japanese Court Upholds Acquittal of Software Developer  Japan’s highest court upheld a lower court’s ruling
clearing the developer of the Winny file-sharing software of
enabling criminal copyright infringement, the Mainichi News
 reported .  The court said the users are the ones who decide whether to
use the program legally or illegally, according to the
newspaper.  Isamu Kaneko, 41, was first accused of aiding criminal
infringement in 2003 and was found guilty in 2006 and fined 1.5
million yen ($13,000), Mainichi News reported. The guilty
verdict was reversed by an intermediate court.  Kaneko’s case was the first in Japan to test the liability
of a software developer for illegal use of the file-sharing
software he created, according to Mainichi News.  Korean Music Companies Win Damages in U.S. Court Against Aussie  A federal court in  San Jose ,  California , entered a $645,000
judgment against an Australian defendant in a copyright
infringement suit brought by a group of Korean music companies.  Six Korean music companies sued Kenny Tran, the operator of
the 1honeyjoo.com and 1honedew.com websites, for copyright
infringement in March 2011.  They accused Tran, an Australian defendant, of operating
websites to disseminate unauthorized copies of their music,
calling him “one of the biggest illegal uploaders and free
download link providers of Korean music in the world.”  They filed court documents in March attesting that Tran had
properly been served with a copy of the complaint. Tran has
never responded to the filing, according to the case docket.  In her order granting the music companies a default
judgment against Tran, U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh addressed
the issue of whether her court was an appropriate forum for a
dispute between the two foreign defendants.  She said that Tran used California companies -- including
Facebook Inc., Google Inc.’s YouTube and Twitter Inc. -- to
advertise and direct people to his websites, and that his sites
encouraged Californians to download music without authorization.
She also noted that Tran had failed to come forward and ask for
an alternative forum.  She found her court to be appropriate and issued a
permanent order barring Tran from further infringement of the
companies’ copyrights, and awarded the companies the $645,000 in
damages they requested.  The case is DFSB Kollective Vo. Ltd. v. Tran, 5:11-
cv-01049-LHK, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  Bahamas Copyright Fund to Get Royalty-Payout Regulations  While the Bahamas Copyright Royalty Fund hasn’t paid
performers any royalties in its 11 years of existence, the
situation is about to change with the establishment of
regulations governing payment rates, the Bahamas Tribune
newspaper reported.  The Bahamas Attorney General’s Office has appointed an IP
specialist to develop the regulations and rates so the Copyright
Royalties Tribunal could begin to make payments from the fund,
according to the Tribune.  The fund was established in 2000 to provide payments to
television performers and artists by Cable Bahamas, the
newspaper reported.  The London-based  Performing Rights Society for Music , which
represents Bahamian music creators and rights holders, sent the
chairman of the tribunal a letter raising concerns about the
lack of payouts from the fund, according to the Tribune.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets   Synthes Accuses Stryker of Raiding California Sales Force  A unit of Synthes Inc., the world’s largest maker of bone-
related medical devices, accused Stryker Corp. in a lawsuit of
raiding its San Francisco sales force and using confidential
information from former employees.  Stryker seeks to obtain “an improper competitive
advantage” in the industry for medical implants and instruments
used in spinal surgery, Synthes USA Sales LLC said in the
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Philadelphia.
Synthes also accused three former sales employees of
misappropriating trade secrets and breaching their contractual
and fiduciary obligations to the company.  The former employees resigned from Synthes from August to
early October, according to the complaint. They immediately
began working for Stryker, one of the company’s direct
competitors, and are soliciting former customers, according to
the court filing.  Representatives of Kalamazoo, Michigan-based Stryker didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail and phone message at the
company headquarters seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Even though all three employees live and work in
California, the suit alleged the three ex-employees violated
 Pennsylvania  trade-secrets law rather than California’s. Courts
in California have tended to look less kindly than those in
other states on employment contracts that limit future
employment in the same industry.  Johnson & Johnson agreed to buy Synthes, based in West
Chester, Pennsylvania, in April for $21.3 billion to become the
leader in the $5.5 billion market for devices to treat trauma
victims.  The case is Synthes USA Sales LLC v. Stryker Corp., 2:11-
cv-07876-TJS, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 