-- India’s Upper House Debates Anti-Corruption Law as Singh Nears Policy Goal
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2011-12-29T08:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/india-s-upper-house-debates-anti-corruption-law-as-singh-nears-policy-goal.html
Indian upper house lawmakers debated
a bill to curb corruption as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
fights to secure its passage after activist  Anna Hazare  ended
his public fast early amid signs he may be losing support.  Approval in the upper chamber, where the ruling coalition
is 28 seats short of a majority, is the final hurdle for
legislation Singh is seeking to end a year of protests over
alleged graft that have weakened his government, stalled policy
making as  Asia ’s third largest economy slowed and led to the
jailing of a minister and business executives.  “The government has wasted an enormous amount of time
trying to pass this bill at the expense of other policies,”
said  Sudha Pai , a professor at the Centre for Political Studies
at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. “It highlights
their weakness.”  The government must win the support of independent and
regional lawmakers to clear the bill in the upper house, or
Rajya Sabha. The bill, known as the Lokpal, passed in the lower
house Dec. 27. An extended session of parliament ends today.  Opening the debate in Parliament,  Arun Jaitley , a leader of
the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party , branded the bill
“half-hearted” legislation. “Are they only willing to
proclaim or are they ready to strike” against the corrupt,
Jaitley said in a speech.  Singh’s government defeated Dec. 27 attempts by lower house
lawmakers from several parties to give the proposed anti-graft
ombudsman overall control of the country’s main criminal
investigation agency, also a key demand of Hazare who argues it
is the only way to ensure the new body has the powers to probe
and punish those accused of corruption.  Junior Officials  The anti-graft agency Singh’s government wants to create
will be able to scrutinize the prime minister except over issues
of national security. It won’t have direct oversight of junior
bureaucrats responsible for everyday acts of petty corruption
that hinder business and effective governance.  Senior Congress politician Abhishek Manu Singhvi defended
that decision in today’s debate, warning against creating a
Lokpal so bloated it would itself become a “breeding ground for
corruption.”  The bill passed by the lower house included changes that
require the assent of state governments before a Lokpal agency
can be set up at the provincial level. It was unclear if this
would be enough for government allies like Mamata Banerjee’s
Trinamool Congress who fear a dilution of state powers.  Hazare, 73, called off his protest yesterday as supporters
expressed concerns over his health and crowds at the fast venue
in Mumbai fell to a few thousand people.  Fast Tactics  Hazare, who based his campaign on the hunger strikes used
by independence icon  Mahatma Gandhi  leading to charges he was
holding a democratic government to ransom, dismissed the graft
bill as too weak and vowed to protest against those who had
“betrayed the nation.” His supporters will target Singh’s
Congress party before elections early next year, he said.  As polls loom in five states, including in the country’s
most populous province of  Uttar Pradesh  where Congress heir
apparent  Rahul Gandhi  is leading campaigning, Singh needs to cap
the damage done by graft scandals. They have included charges
linked to a 2008 sale of mobile-phone airwaves, for which former
telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja  is among those on
trial, and last year’s Commonwealth Games.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled on
Dec. 16 that the country’s $1.7 trillion economy may expand less
than an earlier estimate of 7.6 percent this fiscal year.
Factory output fell 5.1 percent in October from a year earlier,
the first contraction since 2009, data showed Dec. 12.  Defeat Options  If the government is defeated in the upper house it will
either have to shelve the legislation or call a rare joint
session of parliament to forge a consensus. If the bill is
passed with some changes, Singh will need to take it back to the
lower house for approval.  Singh’s administration will need a repeat of events in the
lower house Dec. 27 when lawmakers of the Samajwadi Party,
Bahujan Samaj Party and Rashtriya Janata Dal walked out of the
chamber before voting began.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  