-- India to Exceed Its Record Borrowing Target
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2011-12-29T10:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/india-to-exceed-its-record-borrowing-target-as-economy-slows.html
India (INGDPY)  will exceed its unprecedented
borrowing target in the year ending March 31 as it attempts to
close a budget shortfall amid slowing revenue collections, a
 finance ministry  official said today.  The ministry will unveil a new calendar for borrowings on
Jan. 2, the official said, declining to be identified before a
public announcement. The government hasn’t finalized the size of
additional borrowings, the official said.  Indian 10-year benchmark bond yields have jumped the most
in  Asia  after  Vietnam , as the government sold more debt to meet
its target of keeping the budget gap to 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product. The  Reserve Bank of India (RBI)  has said the
government must rein in borrowings to help check price gains and
boost economic growth.  “The revenue front is not looking good and a pick-up in
collections is unlikely this year,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, a Mumbai-based economist at ICICI Securities
Primary Dealership Ltd. He expects the  budget deficit  between
5.5 percent and 6 percent of GDP this year.  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 rose
six basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.54 percent at
3:53 p.m. in Mumbai. The rupee declined 0.7 percent to 53.4238
per dollar while the BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , which has lost
more than a fifth of its value this year, dropped 1.2 percent.  The government may borrow an additional 400 billion
rupees ($7.5 billion), said N.S. Venkatesh, head of treasury at
Mumbai-based  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  He predicts the 10-year bond yield
will climb to 8.70 percent if the extra borrowing is as he
estimates.  Stock Slump  Achieving the goal to lower the government’s  revenue (INDFFISC) 
shortfall to a four-year low of 4.6 percent by March “will not
be easy” as a cooling economy curbs tax collections and state
asset sales have stalled due to the fall in the stock markets,
the finance ministry said this month. India expanded its annual
borrowing program in September by 13 percent to a record 4.7
trillion rupees.  India is selling more debt as a stock market slump forced
state-owned companies including  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONCG)  and
 Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)  to delay share sales. The
government has raised only 11.4 billion rupees from asset sales
compared with a target of 400 billion rupees by March 31.  The nation’s indirect tax revenue rose 16.9 percent in the
eight months through November from a year earlier, S.K. Goel,
chairman of the Central Board of Excise and Customs, said Dec.
9. That compares with a target for a 17.3 percent increase this
fiscal year.  The government also plans to borrow as much as 500 billion
rupees ($9.5 billion) using land and shares as collateral, two
government officials with direct knowledge of the matter said
earlier this month.  The central bank has boosted the  repurchase (INRPYLDP)  rate by 375
basis points in 13 moves since the start of 2010, the most
aggressive tightening since the monetary authority was
established in 1935, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  