-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Hit Three-Year Low
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-29T13:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/initial-unemployment-claims-in-u-s-fell-to-a-three-year-low-in-past-month.html
Fewer Americans filed applications
for  unemployment benefits  over the past month than at any time
in the past three years, a sign the U.S. labor market is on the
mend heading into the new year.  The four-week moving average for claims, a less volatile
measure than the weekly figures, dropped to 375,000 last week,
the lowest level since June 2008, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington.  Applications (INJCJC)  rose for the first time
in a month in the week ended Dec. 24, climbing by a more-than-
forecast 15,000 to 381,000.  The jump in claims last week may say more about their
volatility during this time of year than about the state of the
job market, according to economists like  Eric Green . Their
recent decline has stoked speculation the world’s largest
economy was on the cusp of showing bigger gains in employment.  “The labor market is improving,” said Green, chief
market economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York . “You
should expect to see stronger payroll numbers going forward.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March climbed 0.3 percent to 1,247.9 at 8:40 a.m. in New York.  States Estimated  A Labor Department spokesman said there was nothing unusual
in the state-level data last week. Claims were estimated for six
states and the  District of Columbia  as the holiday-shortened
week prevented offices from completing their counts, the
spokesman said. The estimates are usually close to the actual
figures and therefore rarely lead to large revisions, he said.  The median forecast of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected an increase to 375,000 from 364,000 initially
reported for the prior week. Estimates ranged from 350,000 to
385,000. The government revised the previous week up to 366,000.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
rose by 34,000 in the week ended Dec. 17 to 3.6 million. Those
figures do not include the number of Americans receiving
extended benefits under federal programs.  The number of workers who’ve used up their traditional
benefits and are now collecting emergency and extended payments
fell by about 7,800 to 3.5 million in the week ended Dec. 10.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, climbed to 2.9 percent
from 2.8 percent, today’s report showed.  State Breakdown  Twenty-three states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 30 reported a decrease. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  The economy generated 150,000 jobs in December, economists
forecast the Labor Department’s monthly jobs report on Jan. 6
will show.  Financial services providers are among companies still
trimming staff.   Morgan Stanley (MS) , the investment bank that said
this month it will cut 1,600 jobs globally, may eliminate 580 of
those positions in  New York City , according to a filing this
week with state labor regulators.  The “rolling layoffs” began Dec. 15, the New York-based
firm said in paperwork submitted to the state’s Department of
Labor.  Americans will be helped by Congress’ decision last week to
pass a two-month payroll tax cut extension and continue expanded
unemployment benefits. Yet fiscal policy uncertainty remains
over whether the tax cuts will be extended for the full year and
as debate continues over cutting the  budget deficit  by $1.2
trillion over 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  