-- Investec Loyal Takes First Sydney-Hobart Win After Jury Dismisses Protest
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-12-29T03:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/investec-loyal-survives-protest-to-win-first-sydney-hobart-sailing-race.html
Investec Loyal was confirmed as the
line honors winner of this year’s Sydney to Hobart yacht race
after a protest accusing a crew member of seeking outside
assistance was dismissed.  An international jury ruled after a hearing today that
Loyal didn’t breach race rules when its tactician asked a
television helicopter crew about the sail setup on rival
supermaxi Wild Oats XI. Loyal beat Wild Oats to the line by 3
minutes, 8 seconds yesterday in the closest finish since 1982.  “It was great moment that got cut short,” Loyal owner and
skipper Anthony Bell said at a televised news conference after
the hearing. “In saying that, I’d prefer if there was a
question mark to have actually dealt with it properly and gone
through a process like this.”  The race committee had lodged the protest against Loyal for
allegedly soliciting help from an outside source. Bell, the
chief executive officer of Sydney-based financial services firm
Bell Partners, said that Loyal’s tactician Michael Coxon had
inquired about the sails on Wild Oats out of concern because
he’s the managing director of the company that supplied them.  In a recording posted on the Australian Broadcasting
Corp.’s  website , Coxon is heard asking: “Can you confirm, does
Wild Oats have their trysail up? What color is the sail, the
mainsail they’ve got up?”  “Michael Coxon’s question was not to gain any advantage
for our boat at all but rather to test and check how the product
that they bought off him was going,” Bell said. “He doesn’t
charge any money to sail with us. His day job is selling sails
and I can understand why it was bothering him.”  ‘Commercial Concerns’  The jury agreed, saying that it was “satisfied that the
question asked by Michael Coxon was based on commercial concerns
and not for reasons of race information.”  Since leaving Sydney Harbour on Dec. 26, 100-foot (30-
meter) supermaxi rivals had dueled for the lead in the 67th
edition of the race that takes competitors down  Australia ’s
southeast coast and across Bass Strait to the island state of
Tasmania.  It was the second straight year that the first boat to
finish faced a challenge to its victory. Wild Oats claimed its
fifth win from six starts in 2010 after a jury dismissed a
protest that it breached the rules.  “We will continue to keep the governance of this sport at
the highest level,” Garry Linacre, commodore of race organizer
the Cruising Yacht Club of Australia, told reporters after the
hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  