-- Iowa’s Weather Could Make Tougher Paul’s Quest for Caucus Win
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-12-29T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/iowa-s-weather-could-make-tougher-paul-s-quest-for-caucus-win.html
Unseasonably warm and dry weather
forecast in Iowa for the state’s presidential caucuses could be
one of  Ron Paul ’s worst enemies.  The best scenario for his Republican presidential bid would
be a blizzard in Iowa on Jan. 3, when voting at 1,774 precinct
caucuses officially starts the party’s nominating process,
political experts say. That’s because supporters of the Texas
congressman are so committed they’ll turn out whatever the
conditions, while other candidates appear to have more fair-
weather backers.  “Ron Paul is the man to beat in Iowa,” said  Craig
Robinson , editor of the  Iowa Republican  website and a former
state party political director. “The combination of his
passionate supporters, grassroots organization and impressive
media campaign have put Paul in a position in Iowa that his team
no longer just hopes to win -- they now expect to win.”  Clear skies, like those predicted next week, could benefit
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, if more mainstream
Republicans turn out in an election year when they are eager to
unseat President  Barack Obama . Romney held a slight advantage
over Paul in a poll of likely caucus-goers released yesterday.  About 120,000 Republicans participated in the 2008
Republican caucuses, when former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee 
beat Romney. Aides to Romney say higher voter-turnout next week
would benefit their candidate.  Weather Prediction  The  extended forecast  for  Des Moines , Iowa’s largest city,
calls for a high of 36 degrees Fahrenheit (2.2 degrees Celsius)
and zero chance of precipitation. The  normal high  temperature
for Jan. 3 is 31 degrees Fahrenheit (-0.5 degrees Celsius).  Iowa Republicans, from Governor Terry Branstad on down,
have called Paul’s organization in the state the most robust of
any of the Republicans presidential contenders. Even if few
predict he will ultimately be his party’s 2012 nominee, his
campaign apparatus has fueled expectations in  Iowa .  Robinson pointed to Paul’s campaign having an office in
Jackson County, a thinly populated area in eastern Iowa.  “It’s a county that some candidates will not even visit
during the campaign, and yet Paul’s campaign is mining the
county for votes,” he said.  Paul, 76, returned to Iowa yesterday for the first time
since a quiet campaign period in observance of Christmas. He
remained quiet -- at least in one way -- by refusing to answer
questions from reporters after his campaign events.  The libertarian-leaning congressman was in second place in
Iowa with the support of 22 percent of likely caucus-goers -- 3
points behind Romney -- according to the  CNN /Time/ORC
International poll released yesterday.  Romney-Paul  Romney hasn’t targeted Paul for criticism, in part because
a strong showing by the congressman in Iowa would be less
troubling to Romney’s long-range prospects than one by former
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who ran fourth in the CNN poll
with 14 percent after leading it less than a month ago.  In an interview yesterday with CNN, Romney said he would
support Paul if he were the Republican nominee because he’d be a
better president than Obama.  “I don’t agree with a lot of the things that Ron Paul
says,” Romney said. “I would vehemently oppose many of his
initiatives.”  That’s the opposite of what Gingrich said in an interview
with the network a day earlier, when he said he likely wouldn’t
vote for Paul if he were the nominee. Gingrich called Paul
“totally outside the mainstream of virtually every decent
American.”  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , who at
16 percent moved into third place in the CNN poll in Iowa, has
also attacked Paul’s foreign policy views in recent days.  ‘Not Electable’  And former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who has focused
his Republican presidential candidacy on  New Hampshire , said of
Paul at an event in that state last night: “He’s not electable
at the end of the day, let’s be real about it”  Paul has achieved cult-like status in his third run for the
presidency, in part because of his unwavering views on a few key
issues. He supports auditing and then scrapping the  Federal
Reserve , withdrawing U.S. troops from overseas war zones and
cutting $1 trillion in federal spending in one year, including
closing five government agencies.  Paul’s ‘Warning’  “Ron Paul traversed Iowa four years ago, warning of
economic calamity if we did not get the government’s debt and
spending under control,” said Iowa strategist Tim Albrecht, who
worked on Romney’s 2008 campaign and now works for Branstad.
“Four years later, he is appearing in the same hotel ballrooms
here having had his point proven, and it’s resonating with those
same Iowans.”  Still, Albrecht said he suspects news stories about
incendiary statements in newsletters produced under Paul’s name
in the mid-1990s will hurt him in Iowa.  “Ron Paul is about to learn a very important lesson this
week, and that is if you are the front-runner, you will have to
defend everything you’ve ever done,” he said. “The newsletter
issue for Ron Paul is going to pull him off message this week,
at a time when he needs to close the deal with Iowans.”  Paul drew about 120 people yesterday to a midday event at
the  Iowa Speedway  in Newton, where he said he’d cut spending for
military bases outside the  United States .  “The money that we spend overseas should be the easiest to
cut,” he said. “How long do we have to stay in  Korea ? I mean
we’ve been there since I was in high school.”  He didn’t mention recent uncertainty in the region created
by the death of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-il.  New Backer  Paul yesterday picked up the endorsement of Kent Sorenson,
a state senator who resigned his post as Iowa campaign chairman
for U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota .  “There is a clear top tier in the race for the Republican
nomination for president, both here in Iowa and nationally,”
Sorenson said in a statement provided by Paul’s campaign. “Ron
Paul is easily the most conservative of this group.”  As he made his closing argument ahead of the caucuses, Paul
said voters should steer clear of “status quo politicians” and
pick him instead.  “Right now, I sense that people are ready for a change in
our foreign policy,” he said. “They are ready for a change in
our domestic spending policy. I think that probably is an
indication why we are doing a little bit better in the polls.”  Rex Nelson, 38, a shipping company auditor who lives in
Newton, Iowa, was one of those who saw Paul speak yesterday. He
plans to caucus for Paul and has convinced his parents and
sister to do the same.  “The mainstream candidates haven’t been making a
difference,” Nelson said. “So, I’m looking for someone outside
the mainstream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Newton, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  