-- Lira Rebounds After Bank Lends Cash at Higher Rate, Sells Dollar
-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n
-- 2011-12-29T16:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/lira-rebounds-from-record-low-as-bank-increases-borrowing-cost.html
The lira rebounded after the central
bank increased the annual rate it charges lenders for weekly
borrowing to 10.63 percent from 5.75 percent and continued to
sell dollars.  The lira strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.9163 per dollar at
5:03 p.m. in Istanbul, paring this year’s losses to 19 percent,
the worst performance among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Yields (TRABNBM)  on benchmark two-year
bonds fell for the first time in four days, declining nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 10.98 percent, a Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc index of the securities showed.  The central bank in Ankara lent 15 billion liras in a one-
week repo auction at 10.63 percent after receiving bids for 58.2
billion liras. It also sold $150 million in its daily dollar
auction, the same as yesterday.  “The amount and rate in the one-week repo auction were
positive,” Ugursal Onder, a fixed-income analyst at Is
Investment Securities in Istanbul, said in a phone interview.
“The bank’s dollar sale was also in line with its strategy for
‘exceptional’ days. These moves helped to normalize the market
after yesterday’s volatility.” A decline in  Italy ’s borrowing
costs at today’s auction also supported the recovery in Turkish
markets, she said.  Governor Erdem Basci said yesterday the central bank may
stop charging 5.75 percent for its weekly repurchases and,
instead, lend at higher rates on “exceptional” days. It will
seek to influence the  exchange rate  by how it provides funding
to banks, deciding on its policy daily, Basci said. The bank
will also offer more than the targeted $50 million in daily
dollar auctions on “exceptional” days under a plan which will
continue until the next monetary policy committee meeting on
Jan. 24, he said.  The lira weakened to a record low of 1.9219 per dollar
yesterday and benchmark yields jumped to the highest since July
2009 after Basci’s comments raised uncertainty over monetary
policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  