-- Italy Auctions $25.8 Billion of Bonds in Week as ECB Buoys Investor Demand
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2011-12-29T15:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/italy-to-tap-markets-with-11-billion-sale-of-bonds-as-monti-eyes-growth.html
Italy  auctioned 7 billion euros ($9
billion) of debt to bring the total raised this week to almost
20 billion euros, underscoring how the  European Central Bank  is
helping the world’s fourth-biggest borrower tap markets.  Today’s sale by the Treasury in Rome fell short of the 8.5
billion-euro target even as borrowing costs declined from last
month. Italy sold 9 billion euros in bills yesterday at about
half the rate of the previous sale last month in its first
auction since the ECB loaned 489 billion euros to banks to ease
credit amid the region’s debt crisis.  “Italy was not able to raise the maximum amount they
wanted to, but the fact that they managed to sell this much at
the end of the year should be taken as a positive sign,” said
Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc in
 London . “The level of excess liquidity from the ECB will remain
elevated for a while and some of that may get recycled into
sovereign debt. That should support short-dated peripheral
bonds.”  With an economy sinking into its fourth recession since
2001, Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government expects to raise
almost half a trillion euros from bond and bill sales next year.
It has to repay about 53 billion euros in bonds in the first
quarter from the region’s total maturing bonds of 157 billion
euros, according to Swiss lender UBS AG.  Monti’s Defense  At a year-end press conference in Rome today, Monti said
Italy’s borrowing costs -- more than triple  Germany ’s for 10
years -- were unjustified. He said he was preparing measures
aimed at cushioning the economic slump, including deregulating
labor markets and lowering fuel prices.  “I’m an economist and realize that the measures we’ve
adopted have many negative points,” said Monti, calling for a
“European” solution to the debt crisis. “We aren’t the ones
who set goals like balancing the budget in 2013; it’s a goal
that was accepted by the previous government” and agreed upon
“with European institutions.”  Monti, a former European Union commissioner, pushed through
a 30 billion-euro package of austerity and growth measures last
week after taking over in November from former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi , who lost his majority in Parliament as
Italy’s borrowing costs soared to record highs amid the
worsening debt crisis.  Euro Declines  The euro fell to its lowest against the dollar since
September 2010 and 10-year Italian notes slid after today’s
sale, keeping their yield above 7 percent, the level that led
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. Short-term
securities rose.  The Frankfurt-based central bank bought Italian bonds
today, according to two people with knowledge of the
transactions who declined to be identified because the trades
are confidential. An ECB spokesman declined to comment when
contacted by phone.  Italian 10-year  bonds (.IT10)  stayed lower after the auction. The
10-year yield was 7.01 percent at 3:41 p.m. Rome time, pushing
the difference with German bunds to 514 basis points. The five-
year yield was down seven basis points at 6.16 percent, as
investors pointed to the ECB as buoying the shorter-term debt.  Yields Ease  The Treasury sold today 2.5 billion euros of securities due
in 2014, less than the 3 billion euro maximum for the sale, to
yield 5.62 percent. That was down from 7.89 percent at the
previous sale on Nov. 29. The Treasury priced 2.5 billion euros
of its 5 percent 2022 bond to yield 6.98 percent, compared with
7.56 percent on Nov. 29. Italy also sold about 2 billion euros
of bonds due 2021 and a floating-rate security due 2018.  “Italy’s 2011 auction program has ended on a slightly
optimistic note,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in London, said in a phone interview from
London. Still, “buying 10-year Italian bonds is a leap of faith
which investors are prepared to take only at very high  interest
rates .”  Italy yesterday auctioned 9 billion euros in treasury bills
for 3.251 percent. That was about half the rate from the
previous auction on Nov. 25.  Italian lenders borrowed 116 billion euros as part of the
ECB’s offer of unlimited three-year funds on Dec. 21, according
to a person with knowledge of the loans.  “Relative to where we were a month ago, before the three-
year operations were announced, the funding outlook looks
easier,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “Italy
can afford to fund at high yields like 7 percent for much longer
than the market tends to fear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  