-- Japan to Double Sales Tax by 2015 as Noda Fights Off Ruling Party Revolt
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2011-12-30T09:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/japan-ruling-party-reaches-agreement-on-doubling-sales-tax-to-10-by-2015.html
Japan’s ruling party agreed on a
plan to double the  sales tax  by 2015 after weeks of internal
debate and a member revolt as Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda
fights to head off another credit-rating downgrade.  The proposal would raise the sales tax from 5 percent to 8
percent in April 2014 and to 10 percent in October 2015. A panel
headed by Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  approved the measures
today, clearing them for discussion with an opposition led by
the  Liberal Democratic Party , which has already hinted at its
disapproval.  “It will be very tough,” Jun Okumura, a former Japanese
trade ministry official and a consultant at the Eurasia Group
risk consulting firm in Tokyo, said today by telephone. “The
bill may not pass parliament as the LDP may oppose the
 Democratic Party  of Japan bill for political reasons.”  Noda is staking his job on raising the sales tax, a stance
that already contributed to his predecessor’s resignation.
 Standard & Poor’s  said last month it was considering lowering
the country’s sovereign rating, already cut in January to AA-,
as Noda’s government makes little progress tackling the
country’s debt burden.  The DPJ wants to submit the sales tax bill to parliament by
March, policy chief  Seiji Maehara  told reporters today, adding
that economic conditions would be assessed before raising the
levy.  Low Growth  With an aging population and two decades of low growth
fueling the world’s largest public debt, the burden is projected
to exceed 1 quadrillion yen ($13 trillion) in the current fiscal
year. Still, Noda faces dissent within his own party as he
pushes to raise the sales tax, with at least nine members citing
the party’s failure to keep campaign promises as their reasons
for resigning two days ago.  After the defection, LDP leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  said Noda
should call an election.  “The DPJ promised not to raise the sales tax and they’re
going to raise it,” Tanigaki told reporters on Dec. 28. “Noda
is staking his job on this, so he should call an election to ask
the public.”  Noda’s approval rating dropped to 31 percent from 40
percent last month, according to an Asahi newspaper telephone
survey of 1,655 voters taken Dec. 10-11. The same survey showed
the public divided on doubling the sales tax by 2015, with 45
percent in favor and 45 percent opposed. Asahi didn’t give a
margin of error.  “Unless we send a message that we’ll maintain social
security and fiscal discipline, we could find ourselves in a
crisis,” Noda told party members yesterday.  Tax Pledges  Japan  introduced a sales tax in 1989 and raised it to 5
percent in 1997, a decision blamed for pushing the nation into a
20-month recession that caused then Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto’s LDP to lose a majority in the lower house of
parliament for the first time.  When the DPJ took power in 2009, former Prime Minister
 Yukio Hatoyama  pledged not to alter the 5 percent tax during the
current lower house term, which ends in August 2013.  Naoto Kan ,
who followed Hatoyama as premier, began pushing for a debate on
raising the sales tax while he was still finance minister.  While Kan cited his response to the March earthquake and
tsunami for stepping down, his support within the party waned
after it lost an upper house election in July 2010 as he
signaled he aimed to raise the consumption levy.  “Prime Minister Noda will work on implementing the plan no
matter what happens,” Yoshikiyo Shimamine, chief economist at
Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in  Tokyo , said by telephone.
“As long as Japan maintains the stance to raise taxes, the risk
of a downgrade will be eased to some degree for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  