-- Japan to Rate Immigrants With Point-Based System Next Year, Mainichi Says
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2011-12-29T05:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/japan-to-rate-immigrants-with-point-based-system-mainichi-says.html
Japan will begin rating some foreign
immigrants with a point system next year that gives visa
preference to those with higher education and skill levels, the
Mainichi newspaper reported.  The program may begin as early as next spring and aims to
to attract as many as 2,000 workers, the Mainichi said today,
citing the Justice Ministry. The rankings will work similar to
those in  Canada  and the U.K., the newspaper said.  The world’s third-largest economy is under pressure to
admit more overseas workers to maintain competitiveness as its
population ages and shrinks, said Noriaki Matsuoka,  an
economist at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. Japan’s
 working-age population  will drop to 80 million by the end of
next year from a peak of 87 million in 1995, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates.  “This experiment is the first step to a more open
country,” Matsuoka said by telephone today.  But “even if you
have the policy in place, you need to address linguistic and
cultural barriers as well.”  Under the plan, foreign professionals with higher scores
will be allowed to stay in  Japan  for a longer period of time and
be given priority for processing their immigration paperwork,
Mainichi said.  Specialists such as professors, doctors and corporate
managers deemed highly skilled will be allowed to stay in Japan
for five years and face relaxed requirements to apply for
permanent residency. Their spouses would also be allowed to work
in the country, according to the report.  A foreigner with a doctorate degree and at least 10 years
of practical experience would be awarded 55 points, the Nikkei
newspaper said. Another 10 to 50 points could be given based on
salary and more for passing a Japanese-language exam.  Foreigners would need at least 70 points to qualify for
benefits under the program, Nikkei said, citing the Justice
Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  