-- Japan’s Ruling Party Struggles to Agree on Sales Tax Increase Amid Dissent
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2011-12-29T11:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/japan-s-ruling-party-struggles-to-agree-on-sales-tax-increase-amid-dissent.html
Japan ’s ruling party is struggling
to agree on a plan to double the sales tax by 2015 over the
objection of lawmakers who have resigned from the group saying
the stance violates a campaign promise.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is pushing  Democratic Party 
of Japan members to settle their position on the increase by the
end of this month. So far party executives have proposed raising
the levy from 5 percent to 8 percent in October 2013 and to 10
percent in April 2015.  “Unless we send a message that we’ll maintain social
security and fiscal discipline, we could find ourselves in a
crisis,” Noda told party members today, urging them to decide
on the tax. “I want you to include the rates and timing of the
tax increase in our draft.”  An aging population and two decades of low growth have
saddled Japan with debt projected to exceed 1 quadrillion yen in
the current fiscal year.  Standard & Poor’s  said last month it
was considering lowering the country’s sovereign rating, already
cut in January to AA-, as Noda’s government makes little
progress at tackling the burden.  Noda’s push for the levy as he struggles to tackle the
world’s largest public debt may end up hurting his public image,
said Koji Nakano, an associate professor of political science at
 Sophia University . Nine DPJ members submitted their resignation
yesterday, citing the DPJ’s failure to keep campaign promises,
the DPJ’s Acting Secretary-General Shinji Tarutoko told
reporters.  ‘Doesn’t Understand’  “The public doesn’t understand why Noda is trying to force
through the tax increase against the party’s campaign pledge,”
Nakano said by telephone today. “There will be more defectors
next year.”  A former DPJ prime minister said in 2009 the party wouldn’t
raise the  sales tax  during the current lower house term, which
ends in August 2013. Opposition Liberal Democratic Party
Secretary-General Sadakazu Tanigaki highlighted the defections
yesterday.  “The party has started collapsing and Noda’s ground is
breaking down,” Tanigaki told reporters.  Once DPJ members agree on the tax, a government panel led
by Finance Minister Jun Azumi must approve the measures before
discussing them with opposition lawmakers. The government is
unlikely to complete that process this year,  Kyodo News  said
today, without citing anyone. The DPJ may modify the timing of
the first step of raising the tax in 2013, Kyodo said.  Noda’s approval rating dropped to 31 percent from 40
percent last month according to an Asahi newspaper poll
published Dec. 13. The phone survey of 1,655 voters taken Dec.
10-11 didn’t provide a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  