-- Japan May Plan ‘Good Tepco, Bad Tepco’
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2011-12-29T03:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/japan-may-plan-good-tepco-bad-tepco-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  may be
approaching the end of its life as a private company as the cost
of the Fukushima nuclear disaster drains cash and the government
considers nationalizing the utility.  “We’re probably seeing the beginnings of the end of Tepco
as the entity that we know,” said Penn Bowers, a utilities’
analyst with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Tokyo. The government
may “wrap up the bad assets from Fukushima into a ‘Bad
Tepco,’” and leave other assets as a ‘Good Tepco’ that could be
listed, Bowers said.  Yesterday, shares in Tepco plunged to the lowest in at
least 37 years after Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano 
said the company needs to consider being nationalized. Edano,
who served as chief cabinet secretary and government spokesman
in the months following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, now
runs the ministry overseeing the nuclear power industry.  The same day he spoke of a government takeover, Edano’s
ministry said in a statement it was studying changing rules
governing  Japan ’s electricity industry to make distribution
networks independent of power generators to spur competition.
Those studies will form part of a new national  energy policy  to
be drawn up by summer.  Change Will Come  “Certainly the industry will change and there will be an
opportunity for new entrants or companies that are already
involved,” said Bowers who named  Electric Power Development
Co. (9513) , known as J-Power, and  Tokyo Gas Co. (9531)  as having independent
power production businesses.  Tepco dropped 4 percent to 178 yen at the afternoon open in
Tokyo trading after declining 12 percent yesterday. The
government may consider folding “bad Tepco” assets in with
other operating atomic plants in Japan to create a state-run
nuclear utility, CLSA’s Bowers said.  Japan’s 10 regional utilities dominate production,
transmission and distribution of power in Japan, generating
combined annual revenue of 15.7 trillion yen ($200 billion),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tepco, which supplies power to 29 million people in
metropolitan Tokyo, the world’s biggest city, needs support from
the government’s Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund to
avoid bankruptcy. It may face 4.5 trillion yen in compensation
payments by 2013 to those who lost livelihoods and homes as a
result of radiation fallout from the Fukushima atomic station.  The utility this week requested 689.4 billion yen in
additional  government aid  to pay compensation.  Bad Idea  Giving Edano’s ministry, known as METI, control over Tepco
through any nationalization scheme is masking over issues that
need to be confronted at the utility, said Shigeaki Koga, an ex-
METI bureaucrat.  Koga was forced out of the ministry for going public with
criticism of the handling of Tepco after March 11 and insisting
it should be put into bankruptcy.  “Injection of government funds into Tepco without
clarifying responsibility of the shareholders, creditors and
management just protects those entities,” Koga, who now serves
as a special adviser to Osaka-city mayor Toru Hashimoto, said in
a phone interview yesterday. “Edano should fire all Tepco’s top
management before using taxpayers money and Tepco should be
liquidated to reduce the financial burden on the public.”  Calls to Noriyuki Mita, METI’s director for the power
industry’s policy planning division, for a response were
unanswered. Edano has said he wouldn’t allow the bankruptcy of
Tepco as it would restrict cash available for Fukushima
radiation evacuees.  METI was the regulator and promoter of nuclear power in
Japan and as a result is not qualified to restructure the
industry after Fukushima, Koga said.  “You have to remember the METI officials handling Tepco
matters now are pro-intervention, not pro-reform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  