-- Jets Have 6% Chance of Making NFL Playoffs, According to Nevada Oddsmakers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-29T15:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/jets-have-6-chance-of-making-nfl-playoffs-according-to-nevada-oddsmakers.html
The  New York Jets  have a 6 percent
chance of reaching to the National Football League playoffs for
the third straight year, based on Nevada oddsmakers. Even coach
 Rex Ryan  is tempering his expectations.  “We wished we controlled our own destiny,” Ryan told
reporters this week. “We don’t, but shoot, we still have a shot
at the playoffs.”  Ryan said a week ago that the Jets were New York’s best NFL
team, before a loss to the  New York Giants  cost them the
opportunity to make the playoffs by winning their final games.
Now, the Giants have a 57 percent chance to reach the postseason
while Ryan’s crew needs a win over the  Miami Dolphins  in their
Jan. 1 season finale and losses by three other teams to claim
the American Football Conference’s final wild-card berth,
according to sports books in Nevada.  Wild-card spots go to the two teams in each conference with
the best record among non-division winners.  Based on the point spreads from bookmakers, the Jets’ odds
of making the playoffs are 16-1 -- or 6 percent -- according to
RJ Bell, the founder of Las Vegas-based handicapping information
website  Pregame.com .  The Jets (8-7) are 2 1/2-point underdogs in Miami, odds
that give them a 43.5 percent chance to win the game. They also
must rely on losses by the Cincinnati Bengals,  Tennessee Titans 
and either the  Oakland Raiders  or Denver Broncos.  The Bengals (9-6) are 2 1/2-point underdogs at home against
the Baltimore Ravens (11-4), who are seeking to stay ahead of
the Pittsburgh Steelers for the AFC North Division title.  Three Favorites  The other three teams in the Jets’ scenario are all favored
by oddsmakers: the Titans (8-7) by 2 1/2 points on the road
against the Houston Texans, the Raiders (8-7) by 3 points at
home against the San Diego Chargers and the Broncos (8-7) by 3
1/2 points in Denver against the Kansas City Chiefs. The Texans
have locked up a playoff berth, while the Chargers and Chiefs
are out of postseason contention.  The Jets and Titans both kick off at 1 p.m.  New York  time
on New Year’s Day, while the Bengals, Raiders and Broncos start
about three hours later.  “We’re just focused on the things we can control and
that’s trying to play well against Miami and coming up with a
win,” said Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez, who helped his team
reach the AFC championship game the past two seasons. “After
that, we’ll see what happens. Hopefully, we get a win and once
we land, on the plane, we find out everything worked out in our
favor, but all we can control is winning.”  The Broncos and quarterback  Tim Tebow  have a 78 percent
chance of taking the AFC West title, needing to win or have
Oakland lose. The Raiders have a 22 percent chance of a victory
and a Denver loss to win the AFC West, according to
Pregame.com’s Bell.  Giants’ Odds  The Giants have a 57 percent chance of gaining the National
Football Conference’s East division title, favored by 3 points
over the  Dallas Cowboys  at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford,
 New Jersey . That game starts at 8:30 p.m., the finale of the
regular season.  A week ago, the Giants’ odds of making the playoffs stood
at 28 percent. That was before they beat the Jets as underdogs
while the Cowboys lost to the  Philadelphia Eagles . Now the
winner of Dallas-New York takes the NFC East and heads to the
playoffs.  “These are the situations you want to be in -- at the end
of the season, a chance to make the playoffs, win one game and
you’re in,” said Giants quarterback  Eli Manning , who threw for
400 yards and two touchdowns in a 37-34 comeback win in  Dallas 
on Dec. 11. “This is exciting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  