-- JPMorgan, Ally Sued by HSH Nordbank on Losses
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2011-12-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/jpmorgan-ally-sued-by-hsh-nordbank-over-losses-on-mortgage-securities.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets, and  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) . were among the
financial institutions blamed by the German lender HSH Nordbank
AG in lawsuits over losses on about $293 million in mortgage
bonds.  Offering documents for the securities contained “material
misrepresentations and omissions” about the loans backing the
securities, HSH Nordbank said in summonses filed yesterday in
 New York  State Supreme Court.  Wrongdoing by JPMorgan, Ally and other defendants named in
three separate cases “led directly” to losses on the
securities, HSH Nordbank said.  Barclays Capital Inc. (BARC)  and Credit
Suisse Securities (USA) were also among those sued for their
roles in different offerings, according to court papers.  HSH Nordbank also claims that offering materials contained
misrepresentations about the legal validity of assignments of
loans to mortgage-securitization trusts and the rights of the
trusts to receive interest and principal payments on the loans,
which are used to pay investors.  In one case, HSH Nordbank, based in Hamburg,  Germany , is
suing over $130 million in mortgage securities. Another covers
about $117 million in bonds, and a third concerns $46 million,
according to court papers.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined
to immediately comment on the lawsuit. Steven Vames, a  Credit
Suisse (CS)  spokesman, declined to comment. Representatives for
Barclays and JPMorgan didn’t respond yesterday to e-mails
seeking comment.  The cases are HSH Nordbank AG v. Ally Financial Inc.,
653651-2011, HSH Nordbank AG v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
653656-2011, and HSH Nordbank AG v. Barclays Bank Plc,
653652-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 