-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for December (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2011-12-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-december-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity eased slightly in December,
but expectations for future months improved somewhat. Price
indexes were mixed, with a rise in monthly prices but fewer
increases expected in the months ahead.  The month-over-month composite index was -4 in December, down
from 4 in November and 8 in October, and the first negative
reading since December 2009 (Tables 1 & 2, Chart). The composite
index is an average of the production, new orders, employment,
supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes.
Manufacturing activity slowed in both durable and nondurable
goods-producing plants, particularly for food and fabricated
metal products. Most other month-over-month indexes also fell
somewhat in December. The production and shipments indexes moved
into negative territory, and the new orders and order backlog
indexes fell further. The employment index dropped to its lowest
level since mid-2009, and the new orders for exports index edged
down. Both inventory indexes decreased considerably.  Growth in year-over-year factory indexes slowed in December. The
composite year-over-year index dropped from 22 to 11, its lowest
level in over a year. The production, shipments, and new orders
indexes all inched lower, and the employment index decreased for
the second straight month. The capital expenditures index fell
from 23 to 17, but the new orders for exports index continued to
increase. The finished goods inventory index dropped from 23 to
10, and the raw materials inventory index slowed to 0.  Most future factory indexes improved from the previous month,
and remained at relatively solid levels. The future composite
index inched higher from 12 to 14, while the future production
index was unchanged. The future shipments, new orders, and
employment indexes all rose moderately, and the new orders for
exports index climbed from 4 to 9. The future capital
expenditures index remained stable at 17, while the future order
backlog index slowed slightly. The future raw materials
inventory index increased from 0 to 5, but the future finished
goods inventory index edged lower.  Price indexes were somewhat mixed this month, with increases in
monthly price growth but some moderation expected in coming
months. The month-over-month raw materials price index climbed
higher from 12 to 28, and the finished goods price index also
edged up slightly. The year-over-year finished goods price index
slowed somewhat, and the raw materials price index decreased
from 70 to 64. The future raw materials price index eased from
58 to 55, and the future finished goods price index moved lower,
indicating slightly fewer firms plan to pass recent cost
increases through to customers. 