-- Kenya Commercial, Co-operative Bank Rise on Renewed Confidence
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2011-12-29T09:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/kenya-commercial-co-operative-bank-rise-on-renewed-confidence.html
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. (COOP)  and
 Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB)  led gains by lenders in the east
African nation on renewed investor confidence on speculation the
industry may report better earnings.  Co-operative Bank, the fifth biggest lender by market
value, rose as much as 4.9 percent to 12.85 shillings before
trading up 2 percent as 12:15 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi,
heading for its highest close in a month.  Kenya Commercial Bank , the biggest lender by assets and
outlets, climbed 2.7 percent to 16.95 shillings, its highest
intraday price in five weeks.  “With our country macros showing improvement and yields
likely to top out soon, there is still value in the banking
sector which has seen a lot eroded in share prices this year,”
Alistair Gould, head of trading and business development at
Nairobi-based Old Mutual Securities Ltd. said by e-mail.  Diamond Trust of Kenya Ltd. (DTKL) , a lender publicly traded in
Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, rose 1.1 percent and  Equity Bank
Ltd. (EQBNK) , the biggest lender by customers, climbed 0.6 percent.  “There has been some position-taking across a number of
counters and people have some renewed confidence in the banking
sector after statistics showed that the sector had overcome the
tough second half of the year we have had to report better
earnings across the board,” Gould said.  Bank assets rose to 310.1 billion shillings ($3.65 billion)
in September from 281.9 billion shillings in June, the  Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics  said Dec. 21. Domestic credit grew
10.3 percent to 1.48 trillion shillings over the same period,
the Nairobi-based agency said.  In the 11 months to November, pretax profits by Kenyan
lenders surpassed earnings for the whole of 2010,  Business Daily 
said yesterday, citing statistics from the  Central Bank  of
Kenya. Earnings increased by 5.71 billion shillings to 80
billion shillings, the Nairobi-based newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  