-- Nakheel Names Palm Island Homeowners Who Haven’t Paid Their Service Charge
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2011-12-29T11:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/nakheel-names-palm-island-homeowners-who-haven-t-paid-their-service-charge.html
Nakheel PJSC, the Dubai-based
property developer embroiled in a dispute with residents over
the use of facilities on its palm-shaped island, posted the
names of homeowners who owe the company service fees in an
attempt to force them to pay.  Lists posted today at the entrance of each apartment
building at the Shoreline complex on  Palm Jumeirah  contained the
owners of about 90 percent of the homes, along with the amount
of money owed to Nakheel. A spokeswoman for Nakheel, Dubai’s
largest developer by assets, declined to comment.  Earlier this month, Nakheel told Shoreline’s residents that
they were banned from using the complex’s private beach,
swimming pools and gyms unless they pay an additional 5,000
dirhams ($1,360) per household. Real Estate Regulatory Agency,
Dubai’s  property regulator , said Dec. 27 that Nakheel cannot
deny anyone who has paid services fees approved by the regulator
from using the facilities.  Dubai developers are looking at new ways of generating
income after the global credit crisis forced them to shelve
projects across the emirate. Nakheel has incurred 78.6 billion
dirhams in losses since the crisis began in 2008.  Many owners of homes on the man-made island haven’t yet
paid their service charge and Nakheel required temporary
security cards to prevent those who haven’t paid from accessing
the facilities, Marwan bin Ghalita, RERA’s chief executive
officer, said in a Dec. 27 interview. Residents will continue to
have access to gyms, pools and a private beach provided they
have paid their service fees, he said.  Nakheel charges residents service charges based on the size
of their apartments, according to Rakesh Sharma, a property
consultant at RBA Real Estate, which manages properties at
Shoreline. The fees amount to about 25 dirhams per square foot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 