-- New Political Buzzwords Obscure Same Old Problems: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2011-12-29T00:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/new-political-buzzwords-obscure-same-problems-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Happy Fiscal New Year, Americans. In
2012, your paystub will feature an increasingly progressive
income-tax structure and a temporary two-month partial payroll-
tax holiday.  If there is no paystub in your mailbox, you may enjoy an
(also temporary) extension of  unemployment  insurance and perhaps
an earned-income tax credit, if your spouse works.
At the same time, your lawmakers will be making the rich pay
their “fair share” while assiduously pushing through cutbacks
under the time-honored federal system of “baseline budgeting.”
And if you know what all that means, you win an Android phone.
But most of us don’t know. As it happens, more young Americans
know what  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system is than know
some basic facts about our politics, according to  the Pew
Research Center  in Washington.  And who can blame them? Politics these days is dominated by
phrases such as “baseline,” “progressivity” and “ payroll tax .”
These words are budget-ese, lexical obscurities. We accept on
faith that when officials use such phrases the outcome won’t be
too bad. Politicians always spoke budget lingo in the past, and
their doing so didn’t seem to bring catastrophe on the country.  The problem is that this time, the budget-ese we’re not
learning is allowing our legislators to get away with some
deeply misleading claims, and it’s threatening to make our
 fiscal problems  much worse.  First example: “budget cuts.” Lawmakers talk about the need
for them all the time. Voters, for their part, welcome such cuts
because they assume that such reductions make the government
smaller. What the electorate often doesn’t understand is that,
in the federal case, budget cuts often yield bigger government.  Bigger and Bigger  That’s because the federal government uses “baseline
budgeting.” Under this method, the government assumes it will
grow at a certain rate. Any reduction in the assumed rate of
increase is counted as a cut, even as the government grows
bigger and bigger. Larger government will mean higher taxes down
the road, and, probably, higher costs for mortgages. That’s
especially true now, because the government’s debt is at levels
that generally provoke interest-rate increases. Because voters
don’t want to confront that reality, they tolerate the lie of
the baseline talk.  Second example: “making the rich pay their fair share.” The
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is circulating a 
petition  lambasting the  Tea Party  for opposing tax increases for
top earners. The Tea Party types are wrong, the petition
suggests, because they “don’t think millionaires and
corporations should pay their fair share.”  So what is a fair share? In the rest of the English
language, “fair” means proportionality. “Share” implies equality
by percentage. A bigger man lifts a bigger load, in proportion
to his size. But our tax system isn’t proportional. It’s
progressive, with a graduated scale, so that the wealthier man
pays more than his share. The bottom half of all earners pay
less than 5 percent of the income tax.  Many Americans don’t know the difference between
progressivity and proportionality, and that’s convenient to
revenue-hungry  Washington . When politicians tell voters that
Congress is asking the rich to pay their fair share, voters
typically approve. But there’s a limit to how many times the
wealthy will tolerate these adjustments for fairness. When
marginal tax rates approach 50 percent, as they do now, many of
the wealthy are likely to decamp to jurisdictions outside the
U.S., where taxes are lower. And they’ll probably bring their
companies with them.  Another Betrayal  And a final, fatal confusion: the payroll tax. Just last
week, President  Barack Obama  and leading Democrats shamed
Republicans into going along with their payroll-tax holiday by
telling the country that the Republicans were betraying their
own commitment to tax cuts.  Actually, the Democrats are doing the betraying this time.
That’s because the payroll tax isn’t a tax. It’s a pension
payment into an insurance program created by the founder of the
modern  Democratic Party : President  Franklin D. Roosevelt . Social
Security is the jewel in the party crown. Because the mechanism
that pays for the program is called a “tax” in budgeting lingo,
many workers don’t realize this distinction. A holiday on your
payroll tax now threatens to hurt your pension later, while
tarnishing that jewel in the process.  It might seem odd that younger voters, especially, fail to
recognize the perversity of the so-called payroll-tax holiday.
Odd until you realize that Republicans have no problem with
voter ignorance, either. The  Republican Party  doesn’t like
 Social Security  precisely because it was Roosevelt’s. They want
to expose it as a  Ponzi scheme  immediately. If Democrats want to
engage in tax rewrites that accelerate the demise of this
hallowed social program, Republicans think that’s just fine.  But without entitlement reforms, including a strengthening
of Social Security, our budget troubles can’t be outgrown. When
the federal debt gets high enough, and payouts from programs
like Social Security get low enough, people will get angry. And
they will start to learn the federal lexicon. By then, though,
it will be almost impossible to reform entitlements or prevent
high  interest rates .  To get a head start, the best way is for Congress to make a
New Year’s resolution: This session, we speak English.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 