-- North Korea Ends Mourning With Eulogies Heralding Start of Kim Jong Un Era
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2011-12-29T05:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/north-korea-ends-mourning-with-eulogies-to-bolster-kim-jong-un-as-leader.html
Kim Jong Un,  North Korea ’s new
leader, stood on a balcony above Pyongyang’s Kim Il Sung Square,
named for his grandfather, where tens of thousands of people
gathered to hear eulogies ending a period of national
mourning for his father.  State television today broadcast Kim Yong Nam, president of
the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly, praising the
achievements of Kim Jong Il, and images of a smiling portrait of
the dictator erected in the square. Red banners adorned
buildings with the words: “Let’s serve the idea and leadership
of respected Kim Jong Un with steadfast loyalty!”  The memorial services, which featured silent prayers,
artillery salutes and vows of allegiance to Kim Jong Un, are
designed to bolster the standing of the new leader. The
stability of North Korea, which the U.S. estimates has enough
plutonium for a half-dozen nuclear devices, may depend on
backing the younger Kim gets from regime stalwarts like Kim and
Politburo member Choe Thae Bok.  “The fact that veteran politicians like Choe and Kim were
today’s keynote speakers, shows that the regime will for the
time being maintain the status quo -- a system centered around
the young Kim with key elders supporting him,” said Yang Moo
Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies in
 Seoul . “The ceremony marked the end of a Kim Jong Il-era, thus
proclaiming the de facto start of a Kim Jong Un era.”  At both yesterday’s funeral and today’s ceremony, Kim Jong
Un was surrounded by members of the North Korean ruling elite.
His uncle, Jang Song Thaek, walked behind him yesterday as they
accompanied the hearse carrying Kim Jong Il’s body through the
capital’s snow-covered streets.  ‘Bloody Tears’  “With bloody tears for our deceased Great General, we vow
to hold Kim Jong Un high as another general, supreme leader of
ours,” Kim Yong Nam said in his eulogy, according to a report
by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency.  People in the square stood with their heads bowed as a
three-minute siren sounded, marking the end of the period of
mourning. State-run KCTV broadcast a military choir singing
“The Song of General  Kim Jong Il ” as the ceremony ended.  State media have sketched the image of the younger Kim,
thought to be 28 or 29, solidifying his hold on succession,
referring to him as “supreme leader of the revolutionary armed
forces” and “great successor” to his late father and
grandfather.  “Authorities are trying to indirectly communicate to the
people that the transition is stable, that the new leader is
stable,” Kim Yong Hyun, a professor of North Korea studies at
 Dongguk University  in Seoul, said after yesterday’s funeral.  Regime Hierarchy  Concerns that the political outlook in the North could
worsen contributed to a slump in  consumer confidence  in  South
Korea , which fell to a three-month low in December, according to
a survey released Dec. 27. The Kospi slid 3.4 percent on Dec. 19
when Kim Jong Il’s death was announced, then rallied 4 percent
the next two trading days. The Kospi was up 0.4 percent at 2:32
p.m. today in Seoul.  Observers around the world are scrutinizing images from the
memorial and yesterday’s funeral for signs of changes in the
regime’s power hierarchy under its new leader.  It is difficult to tell whether a regency-type system will
develop, led by Kim Jong Un’s uncle Jang Song Thaek, Kim said.
“For now, it’s evident that the system is being centered around
Kim Jong Un,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  