-- North Korea Handover Adds to Substantial Economic Risks in South, BOK Says
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2011-12-29T03:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/north-korea-handover-adds-to-substantial-economic-risks-in-south-bok-says.html
South Korea ’s central bank
highlighted potential threats to growth from instability in the
North as the neighboring nation held a ceremony in Pyongyang to
mourn the death of its leader,  Kim Jong Il .  “Geopolitical risks” relating to the North have the
potential to escalate, unnerving financial markets and causing
consumption and investment in the South to contract
“severely,” the Bank of Korea said in a statement released in
Seoul today after a board meeting.  Officials pledged to monitor closely the North Korean
situation and  Europe ’s debt crisis, which they said contribute
to “substantial” downside risks for  Asia ’s fourth-biggest
economy next year. Monetary policy will focus on ensuring stable
prices and sound growth, the  Bank of Korea  said.  The government and central bank have pledged preemptive
action if needed to support financial markets and the economy
after the news of Kim’s death sent the won and stocks lower on
Dec. 19, before recouping the losses in following days. South
Korea’s Kospi index of equities was little changed as of 12:26
p.m. local time.  In Pyongyang, Kim Jong Un, North Korea’s new leader, was
among tens of thousands of people who gathered for memorial
services today featuring silent prayers and artillery salutes.
The stability of the nation, which has the world’s fourth-
largest army and 70 submarines, may depend on the ability of him
and his supporters to establish a firm grip on power, according
to analysts including Rod Lyon, a program director at the
Australian Strategic Policy Institute.  ‘Risk Factors’  “Given the high degree of uncertainty surrounding the
domestic and international economies, the bank will keep a close
eye on the evolution and knock-on effects of risk factors such
as the situation in  North Korea  and the sovereign debt crisis in
Europe,” the Bank of Korea said.  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 3.25 percent on Dec. 8 for a sixth month, the longest pause
since tightening began in July 2010. It projected this month
that the economy will expand 3.7 percent in 2012 from 3.8
percent this year.  “After showing signs of a mild slowdown for some time,
domestic economic growth is forecast to recover from the second
half of the year, but the downside risks will be substantial due
mostly to the possibility of external conditions deteriorating
and to uncertainties concerning North Korea,” the central bank
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  