-- NRA Raises $200 Million as Gun Lobby Toasters Burn Logo on Bread
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n   a n d   J o h n   C r e w d s o n
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/nra-raises-200-million-as-gun-lobby-toasters-burn-logo-on-bread.html
A toaster that burns the  National
Rifle Association ’s logo onto bread fetched $650 at an auction
last month, just one reflection of the money-making power in the
gun group’s brand.  The NRA, which  began  as a grassroots organization dedicated
to teaching marksmanship, enters the 2012 election season as a
lobbying, merchandising and marketing machine that brings in
more than $200 million a year and intends to help unseat the
incumbent president. From 2004 to 2010, the group’s revenue from
fundraising -- including gifts from gun makers who benefit from
its political activism -- grew twice as fast as its income from
members’ dues, according to NRA tax returns.  More than 50 firearms-related companies have given at least
$14.8 million to the Fairfax, Virginia-based group, according to
the NRA’s own list for a donor program that began in 2005. That
same year, NRA lobbyists helped win passage of a federal law
that limited liability claims against gun makers. Former NRA
President Sandy Froman  wrote  that it “saved the American gun
industry from bankruptcy.”  “Unlike organizations which start out controlled by
industry and created by industry, like lobbying groups for coal
or oil, they really started out as a grassroots organization and
became an industry organization,” said William Vizzard, a
former agent of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
who’s now a professor of criminal justice at  California  State
University in Sacramento. He studied the NRA for a 2000 book on
gun policy.  Going After Obama  One of the group’s latest political objectives is to get
President  Barack Obama  out of office next year, even as gun-
control advocates express disappointment in his administration.
Obama has done little to “confront the core weaknesses in our
gun laws,” said Dennis Henigan, acting president of the Brady
Center to Prevent Gun Violence.  That didn’t stop NRA Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre from citing what he called “a massive Obama conspiracy
to deceive voters and hide his true intentions to destroy the
Second Amendment in our country” during a September speech to
the Conservative Political Action Conference in  Orlando .
LaPierre said the NRA would work to defeat Obama in 2012.  The NRA funds its educational and political missions in
part with contributions, merchandise sales and various
sponsorship deals and “affinity” partnerships. A short-lived
company that helped H&R Block Inc. market tax services to NRA
members in 2001 had financial ties to wives of NRA executives
and the association’s treasurer, court records show.  Sources of Income  Combined, sources such as fundraising, sales, advertising
and royalties produced about $115 million in 2010, just over
half the NRA’s $227.8 million in income, according to the
group’s tax return. Most of the rest, about $100.5 million, came
from membership dues. Other sources included program fees, sales
of assets, investment income and subscriptions.  The businesslike approach extends to the NRA Foundation, an
affiliated charity that files separate tax returns and last year
distributed $21.2 million in grants -- including $12.6 million
to the NRA itself. At least $5.5 million went to hundreds of
local recipients, including 4-H organizations, shooting clubs
and university rifle teams. In 2010, the foundation began
requiring many such grantees to spend their cash gifts at its
own online “merchandise center.”  Grant Discrepancies  Representatives of four recipients told Bloomberg News they
received less than the foundation reported giving them on its
2010 tax return. Failing to provide correct information to the
 Internal Revenue Service  could subject a tax-exempt organization
to fines of $100 a day, said David S. Miller, a tax attorney
with Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in  New York . If there’s a
reasonable explanation for inaccuracies, the law doesn’t impose
a penalty, he said.  LaPierre declined requests for an interview. Andrew Arulanandam, the association’s chief spokesman, e-mailed the
following statement:  “The NRA will not participate in agenda journalism driven
by a news organization owned by an avowed enemy of the Second
Amendment -- a politician who has been aggressively working
against the interests of the NRA, our members and the nation’s
gun owners for years.”  New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is the majority owner
of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News. He is co-
chairman of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, a 600-member coalition
that advocates tightening required background checks of gun
buyers. Under Bloomberg’s administration, New York sent
undercover investigators to gun shows where they purchased
firearms without such checks, according to city  reports . This
month, the city  announced  that 77 of 125 online gun sellers
agreed to make sales even after an undercover buyer said he
“probably could not pass” a background check.  ‘Cavernous Loopholes’  “The mayor and the coalition support the Second Amendment
and legal gun ownership, but we have proven time and again that
our laws are either not enforced or have cavernous loopholes,
resulting in dangerous people acquiring guns and committing
crimes,” said Marc La Vorgna, a Bloomberg spokesman. “Polling
shows the majority of actual NRA members -- as opposed to their
 Washington  lobbyists -- support the coalition’s efforts to keep
weapons from ending up in the wrong hands through better
enforcement and common-sense laws.”  Bloomberg has not had a role in the day-to-day operation of
Bloomberg LP for more than a decade, La Vorgna said.  Membership Numbers Vary  The number of NRA members is unclear. One NRA website says
it’s “ approximately  4.3 million.” On another, it’s “ nearly 
four million.” A “sponsorship prospectus” for the group’s
2012 annual meeting  offers  ad placements in e-mails that will be
sent to the “house file of 2 million NRA members.”  Those 2 million are “our most active and interested
members,” the prospectus says.  Before its modern incarnation as a political force, the NRA
was mostly identified with promoting rifle sports. Dismayed by
their troops’ lack of marksmanship in the Civil War, Union
veterans Colonel William C. Church and General George Wingate
formed the group in 1871, according to an NRA  history . For
decades the only mention of the group in the New York Times
concerned results of its sanctioned shooting matches.  While the association established a legislative affairs
division in 1934, it didn’t begin lobbying until the mid-1970s
as gun-control laws emerged after the political assassinations
of the 1960s. In the 2000 presidential campaign, the NRA’s
opposition to  Al Gore  hurt him in his home state of  Tennessee 
and contributed to his loss in the presidential race to  George W. Bush , according to former President  Bill Clinton .  No Perceived Threat  Success brought its own challenges, according to Richard
Feldman, a former lobbyist for the association.  “There was no perceived national threat to gun ownership”
after Bush was elected, said Feldman, who wrote a 2007 book
titled “Ricochet: Confessions of a Gun Lobbyist.” “The NRA’s
membership dropped to under two-and-a-half million, although
they never admitted it.”  NRA member Joe Gregory, the former vice chairman of
Bristol, Tennessee-based King Pharmaceuticals Inc., said he
pitched the idea of soliciting deep-pocketed donors during a
2003 conversation with LaPierre, the executive vice president.  LaPierre was “talking about how proud he was of the
association and how it was built on the strength of $10 and $25
donations,” Gregory recalled during an interview he gave to an
NRA-produced radio program in April. He said he responded:  “But with over 4 million members, there’s got to be a few
people who’ve been fortunate to be blessed to live and work and
prosper in this country and they can give more than $25. And we
ought to look for ways that we can encourage them to do that.”  ‘Ring of Freedom’  The NRA’s “ Ring of Freedom ,” a donor-recognition program,
began in 2005, according to the association’s website. The NRA’s
Office of Advancement solicits contributions from companies,
foundations and individuals.  Gregory, the chief executive officer of Gregory Management
Co., an investment firm in Bristol, is part of a more exclusive
group called the Golden Ring of Freedom. Its members, who have
contributed at least $1 million, wear custom-tailored gold
jackets at NRA gatherings. He referred questions to the NRA
staff.  The NRA received $71.1 million in donations last year, up
54 percent from $46.3 million in 2004, according to its federal
tax returns.  Gun Makers Give  The gun makers Sturm, Ruger & Co.; Remington Arms Co. in
Madison,  North Carolina ; and  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  all
contributed this year, according to news releases.  Sturm Ruger, of Southport,  Connecticut , announced a goal in
May to sell 1 million firearms by March 31 and donate $1 for
each sold to the NRA. The company said last month that it
expects to contribute $556,100 by Dec. 31. Remington became a
“ defender ” sponsor of an NRA fundraising program, a  designation 
that involves a $35,000 donation. Springfield, Massachusetts-
based Smith & Wesson signed on as the “ exclusive pistol
sponsor ” of an NRA TV show; it’s unclear how much the company
paid.  One of the NRA’s 27 websites calls such donors “ corporate
partners ,” while another says the association is “ not
affiliated  with any firearm or ammunition manufacturers or with
any business that deals in guns and ammunition.”  At about the same time the NRA began seeking more in
contributions, its lobbying arm, the Institute for Legislative
Affairs, notched political successes that benefited the firearms
industry. In 2004, ILA lobbyists helped ensure the end of the
federal assault weapons ban; U.S. makers’ annual rifle
production has increased about 38 percent since, according to
ATF data.  Lobbying Victories  In 2005, NRA lobbyists helped pass a law limiting liability
claims against gun makers. Cities, led by New Orleans, had
sought damages from such companies for health care costs and
other expenses associated with gun violence. The “Protection of
Lawful Commerce in Arms Act” helped end the suits, according to
Mike Fifer, the CEO of Sturm Ruger.  The law, “which is one of the cornerstone achievements of
the ILA, is probably the only reason we have a U.S. firearms
industry anymore,” Fifer told an NRA interviewer in May.  Sturm Ruger has benefited from another NRA lobbying effort,
a decades-long campaign in U.S. statehouses for laws allowing
permits to carry concealed weapons. After Wisconsin became the
49th state to allow such licenses in July, Fifer said on an
earnings call that he expected a sales boost in the state.  More Than Doubled  Annual U.S. handgun production has more than doubled over
the past decade. Sturm, Ruger was the leading U.S.-based
producer in 2009, the most recent year for which the ATF has
 published  data. Kevin Reid, general counsel for Sturm, Ruger,
didn’t return calls seeking comment. Representatives for other
gun companies that gave to the NRA this year also didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  Rank-and-file NRA members say they’re unfazed by the
organization’s soliciting corporate contributions, or
representing gun-makers’ and gun-dealers’ interests.  “As a gun owner, I already support the firearms
industry,” said Bob E. Kelly, 59, an NRA member in Rindge,  New
Hampshire , in an e-mail. “I expect the NRA to solicit their
support. And I expect the NRA to support them. How can I own
guns if no one can manufacture them?”  Like other organizations, the NRA has also tried to derive
extra income from its members by selling corporations access to
them. Affinity partnerships with various companies “have paid
the NRA tens of millions of dollars in royalties,” the
association said in a 2003 court filing. NRA Treasurer Wilson
Phillips and the spouses of two other NRA officials had
financial ties to a for-profit company that marketed access to
NRA members in 2001, court filings show.  Tax Service Deal  Phillips was chief financial officer at Memberdrive.com
Inc., records show. LaPierre’s wife, Susan LaPierre, and Holly
Marcario, the wife of NRA membership director Robert Marcario,
worked there too, according to the documents. The company made a
deal with the tax firm H&R Block that paid Memberdrive a
commission for new clients generated from the NRA’s members.
Memberdrive was to pay 70 percent of that commission to the NRA
itself, records show.  After protests from gun-control advocates led H&R Block to
cancel the partnership, Memberdrive in June 2002 sued HRB
Management Inc., a subsidiary.  Held Stock  Phillips held stock in the startup, according to
charitable-registration documents Memberdrive filed with the
state of Washington in 2002. The company named Susan LaPierre
one of its three highest-paid employees in a 2001 registration
form filed with the same office. Memberdrive was sold for an
undisclosed sum about a year after its lawsuit was dismissed in
October 2003.  NRA officials declined to make Phillips, Marcario or Susan
LaPierre available for this story. H&R Block spokesman  Gene King 
said the company doesn’t comment on litigation.  The top name on the NRA’s list of corporate contributors is
MidwayUSA, Inc., a Columbia, Missouri-based retailer of gun-
related products, including ammunition and high-capacity
 magazines . It has contributed more than $6.5 million to the NRA
and its lobbying arm since 1992, according to the company’s
 website .  That year, MidwayUSA owner Larry Potterfield began asking
his customers to “round up” their purchases to the nearest
dollar and donate the difference to the gun-rights group,
according to the company’s website. More than 50 other
businesses have since joined the round-up program or a similar
“add-a-buck” effort in which customers can contribute a dollar
to the group at the point of purchase, the NRA says. Potterfield
didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Dealer’s Complaint  At least one dealer, Champion Shooters Supply LLC, of New
Albany,  Ohio , isn’t as happy with the NRA. The company, which
deals in target-shooting equipment, complained last year that it
was losing business because the NRA Foundation had established
an online store where its grant recipients were required to
purchase scores of commonly used items, including ammunition and
targets.  Many items in the foundation’s store were priced higher
than at Champion Shooters Supply, according to a letter written
by Susan D. Rector, an attorney for the company.  “This Spring, Champion Shooters began receiving inquiries
from several of these clubs, that are its loyal customers,
asking why they can no longer use NRA Foundation grant funds to
purchase supplies and ammunition from Champion Shooters,” the
letter said. Rector declined to comment, as did Sandy Joost, the
co-owner of Champion Shooters.  ‘Get the Goods’  Before 2010, recipients were allowed to spend the
foundation’s grants where they chose. Under the new system, “we
open a page on some website,” said Richard Lynch, president of
the True Sportsman Club near  Sacramento , California, which
received a $27,183 grant from the foundation last year. “That’s
where we do our shopping. It’s the same stuff as before, except
that there’s no cash anymore. We just get the goods.”  At least 22 items in the online store are sold by
Champion’s Choice Inc., a dealer in LaVergne, Tennessee. Charles
Pearson, the company’s president, said his products were
featured in the store because they’re custom-made, and that his
company was the sole source for them. Asked which of the
products fit that description, he declined to answer.  Miller, the tax lawyer with Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft,
said he’d “never heard of anything remotely related to” a
charity telling its grant recipients “that you have to purchase
from a specific place.”  He and Marcus Owens, an attorney with Caplin & Drysdale in
Washington, agreed that the arrangement might confer a private
benefit on vendors who supply goods for the merchandise center.  Tax-Exempt Status  If a significant percentage of the NRA’s grants could be
spent only with a limited number of companies, “then it is very
serious, perhaps sufficiently so to jeopardize tax-exempt status
for the foundation,” said Owens, who was the director of tax-
exempt organizations for the Internal Revenue Service from 1990
to 2000.  Last year, the foundation granted at least $5.5 million to
local clubs and organizations, according to its tax return. It’s
unclear how much was spent in the online merchandise center.  Representatives of four grant recipients said in interviews
that they received lower amounts of grants in 2010 than the NRA
Foundation reported giving them. The foundation reported a grant
of $25,829 to the Whitney Rifle Club in Albemarle, North
Carolina, on its 2010 tax return.  Mike McSwain, Whitney’s president, said in a telephone
interview that the club had received $12,093.  Youth Programs  The NRA told the IRS it gave $20,347 to Morganton, North
Carolina, city officials to support youth programs. The city
says it received $8,412, a difference of $11,935.  Oklahoma State University, which supports a number of youth
shooting programs across the state, received $107,758 from the
NRA Foundation during 2010, according to documents the
university provided to Bloomberg News under its state open
records law. The NRA Foundation told the IRS it gave OSU
$125,778, a difference of $18,020. OSU officials said they had
no explanation for the discrepancy.  Tom Slaughter, president of  Arizona  Outdoor Sports Inc. in
Mesa, Arizona, said his group got $5,000 worth of ammunition for
clay-target shooting last year from the NRA Foundation. The
foundation reported giving Slaughter’s group a $1,135 cash grant
and $10,105 in non-cash assistance for “program materials.”  ‘Helping Kids’  “I don’t believe all of those went through us,” Slaughter
said in an interview. He added: “I’m a volunteer. I’m good at
helping kids. I’m good at working with kids. I’m a terrible
accountant.”  Accounting issues were far from the agenda at a Friends of
NRA banquet at King Kamehameha’s Kona Beach Hotel in Kailua-
Kona,  Hawaii , last month. Friends of NRA, billed as a
nationwide, grassroots fundraising program for the NRA
Foundation, holds more than 1,000 such events each year. It has
a  network  of corporate sponsors as well, according to an NRA
website. At the first “Friends” fundraiser in 1992,
Potterfield of MidwayUSA played host.  While dining on mahi-mahi and crab salad, attendees at the
Friends dinner in Hawaii bid on firearms and hunting equipment.
What really got them talking was the NRA toaster, said Glennon
Gingo, who organized the dinner. It sold for $650, he said.  Gingo joked that using the appliance is a great way to vet
your social circle. “You can make ‘em toast in the morning and
see how many friends you really have,” he said.  “I understand that they’re planning on putting out a
waffle iron next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net ;
John Crewdson in Washington at 
 jcrewdson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  