-- Oil Trades at One-Week Low as Demand Concern Outweighs Iran Supply Risk
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2011-12-29T13:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/oil-trades-at-one-week-low-as-demand-concern-outweighs-iran-risk.html
Oil traded near the lowest level in
a week in  New York  as rising U.S. crude inventories outweighed
concern that tensions with  Iran  will lead to a disruption in
Middle East exports.  Crude was little changed after falling yesterday as record
 European Central Bank  lending signaled the growing risk of the
region’s crisis. Crude inventories rose 9.57 million barrels
last week, according to the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute . A U.S. aircraft carrier, which Iran said it spotted
during naval exercises, passed through the  Strait of Hormuz  on
Dec. 27 on routine transit, the U.S. 5th Fleet said.  “Growth concerns continue to weigh on sentiment,” said
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Group in London. “Large
players will remain absent until early 2012 while ongoing macro
uncertainty and geopolitical risk jitters continue to deter
willing buyers from entering the market just yet.”  Crude for February delivery was at $99.73 a barrel, up 37
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:25 p.m. London time. The contract closed at $99.36
yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 21. Prices are up 9 percent
this year after climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for February settlement was unchanged at $107.56
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European contract’s premium to New York crude was $7.85,
compared with a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Routine Transit  Iran (OPCRIRAN)  pumped 3.56 million barrels a day of crude in
November, making it the second largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The country will block oil shipments
through the Strait of Hormuz if sanctions are imposed on its
crude exports, state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency  reported
on Dec. 27, citing Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi.  U.S. inventories of distillate fuels, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, gained 554,000 barrels, while
gasoline stockpiles rose 1.86 million barrels, the API’s weekly
report showed.  A separate report on stockpiles from the U.S. Energy
Department, due later today,  may (DOEASCRD)  show crude supplies fell by 2.5
million, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Heating oil and
gasoline inventories are also poised to fall, the survey showed.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its inventory
data at 11 a.m. today in  Washington , a day later than usual
because of the Christmas holiday.  Gasoline demand fell by 7 percent last week to 9.8 million
barrels a day, the API reported. That was the largest percentage
decline since the week of Oct. 7. Distillate consumption dropped
by 11 percent to 5.1 million barrels daily, the biggest change
since Sept. 2, data from the group showed.  The ECB’s balance sheet soared to a record 2.73 trillion
euros ($3.53 trillion) after it lent financial institutions more
money last week to keep credit flowing to the economy during the
debt crisis, the Frankfurt-based bank said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  