-- Oil Trades Near One-Week Low on U.S. Stockpile Gain, European Debt Crisis
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2011-12-29T08:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-on-u-s-stockpile-gain-european-debt-crisis.html
Oil traded near the lowest price in
a week after a report showed U.S. crude stockpiles surged,
indicating fuel demand may be weakening as  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatens to slow the global economy.  Futures in  New York  were little changed after sliding 2
percent yesterday, the first decline in seven days, as record
European Central Bank lending signaled the growing risk of the
region’s crisis. Crude inventories rose 9.57 million barrels
last week, according to the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute . A U.S. Department of Energy report today was  forecast (DOEASCRD) 
to show supplies fell 2.5 million in a Bloomberg News survey.  “In order for bears in the oil market to build on
yesterday’s weakness we are going to need to see the DOE
corroborate the API report,”  Stephen Schork , president of
Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said in a report.
“Yesterday oil markets traded lower in sympathy with post-ECB
reactions in the currency and equity markets.”  Crude for February delivery was at $99.59 a barrel, up 23
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 4:15 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday fell $1.98
to $99.36 in the biggest decline in two weeks. Prices are up 9
percent this year after climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for February settlement was up 29 cents at
$107.85 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European contract’s premium to New York crude was
$8.26, compared with a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Fuel Stockpiles  U.S. inventories of distillate fuels, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, gained 554,000 barrels, while
gasoline stockpiles rose 1.86 million barrels, the API’s weekly
report showed.  The Energy Department report may show declines of 650,000
barrels in heating oil and 500,000 barrels of gasoline,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The agency is scheduled to
release its inventory data at 11 a.m. today in  Washington , a day
later than usual because of the Christmas holiday.  Implied demand for gasoline fell by 7 percent last week to
9.8 million barrels a day, the API reported. That was the
largest percentage decline since the week of Oct. 7. Distillate
consumption dropped by 11 percent to 5.1 million barrels daily,
the biggest change since Sept. 2, data from the group showed.  The ECB’s balance sheet soared to a record 2.73 trillion
euros ($3.53 trillion) after it lent financial institutions more
money last week to keep credit flowing to the economy during the
debt crisis, the Frankfurt-based bank said yesterday. The euro
slid to the lowest level since January against the dollar,
curbing investor demand for commodities priced in the U.S.
currency.  “There is a tendency for the euro and commodities to move
in the same direction,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-
derivative sales manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo . “Under such
circumstances, the upside for commodities will also be
limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  