-- Lose Your Iphone, Find Giant Rat, Lighthouse on Uruguay Beaches
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L u o n g o
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/lose-your-iphone-find-giant-rats-lighthouse-on-uruguay-beaches-travel.html
As I stood clueless in the patch of
sand that is Cabo Polonio’s downtown, a local provided
directions to my hotel that were perfect for a Uruguayan beach
village lacking conventional electricity and roads.  “Keep heading up the path and make a right at the boats on
the beach and follow the ocean,” said Santiago Pereda, an
American-Uruguayan English teacher.  The 15-room Perla del Cabo was built more than 40 years ago
by fishermen. Waves lap its porch, where dining tables mingle
with hammocks. Rooms range between $80 and $200.  During my Uruguay visits over the years, I had heard rumors
of this tranquil, carefree, dune-rich town and decided to see it
for myself. At the hotel, I met Jaclyn Balkan, a Fordham
University graduate student, and her boyfriend, banker  Chris
Brown , who said they had learned of Cabo Polonio from Uruguayan
friends.  “There’s a sensation of discovery when you stumble upon a
place like this,” Brown said. Balkan enjoyed the solitude and
the roar of the ocean just a few feet from her window.  “It definitely has a remote feel,” she said. “I like the
lack-of-electricity vibe.”  There are a few Uruguayan beach villages like this that
retain an almost unspoiled, undeveloped character. They tend to
attract the young and bohemian, along with Montevideo residents
seeking to disconnect from modern life on vacation. Yet there
are always threats to Eden, as the word gets out and developers
smell profit.  A World Away  Cabo Polonio is in the state of Rocha, which borders
Maldonado, home to the Miami-esque resort of Punta del Este.
Rocha’s beach towns, many still largely fishing villages, begin
about 90 minutes northeast of, and a world away from, Punta.  The village’s one-story buildings are strewn along sandy
paths within a national park. Strict development and
environmental rules protect the miles of sand dunes surrounding
the town. Solar panels and generators provide intermittent
electricity, while at night the beam of an 1881 lighthouse
offers the moon and stars a little competition.  The Atlantic coast of Uruguay, rough with shoals and rocks
at points, was a danger for shipping in the 1800s, a period when
many of the country’s several lighthouses were built using
British technology. Today, that same treacherous seacoast is a
boon to surfers.  Pereda, 25, uses the town as an escape valve from
Montevideo as often as possible, and saves money by fishing and
gathering mussels off the rocks for dinner. He epitomizes the
town’s hippy atmosphere.  No Plugs  “It’s so stressful, the real world,” he said. Here he has
“no electrical plugs, so no computer, and no cell phone.”
Increasingly, though, he sees more visitors.  “Three years ago, there was almost no one here. There were
only Uruguayans,” Pereda said. Now “walk down the street and you
hear different languages.”  A less-isolated Rocha resort is Punta del Diablo. While it
isn’t environmentally protected like Cabo Polonio, its
development size is restricted. The town is famous for thatch-
roofed A-frame Hansel and Gretel houses, built by fisherman to
rent to vacationers. Fishermen’s boats and stalls where they
sell their catch remain the shoreline’s most prominent feature.  I stayed at  Nativos , a 10-room hotel and restaurant that
opened in 2008. It’s really an overgrown log cabin, and it gave
me a feeling of summer camp for adults.  The owner is a skinny fellow named Eduardo Vigliola from
Montevideo, who said about 10 percent of his guests are North
American.  ‘It’s Virgin’  “They like it because it’s virgin, it’s different from
Punta del Este,” he said, even if it has nowhere near the same
services. Still, he worries about overdevelopment.  “Punta del Diablo is changing so fast,” he said.  I heard that theme again from Martin Abasto, of  Buenos
Aires , whom I met one afternoon on the beach where he had come
to surf with friends.  “This is a fishermen’s village, discovered by tourists,”
Abasto said. “People who come here look for tranquility, peace.
They don’t want craziness. They want to have more of the beach
to themselves.”  It was late in the season, which runs from November to
March, with few people around. That’s deceiving, however. Each
year, “it’s more touristy than before,” he said.  Punta del Diablo’s growing popularity is often attributed
to the El Diablo Tranquilo Hostel and Playa Suites, two
complexes first opened in 2007 by 28-year-old Wisconsinite Brian
Meissner.  Boutique Hostel  I told him that virtually every young non-South American I
met was staying with him.  “We’re like a boutique hostel with a large emphasis on the
social aspect of travel,” Meissner said. “They’ll eat tonight
with 60-year-old retired lawyers.” He offers dorm rooms that
range from $10 to $60 and private rooms between $40 and $170.  Yet Meissner also worries. From the top floor of one of his
buildings, he points out boxy developments built by Uruguayans
and Argentines and strewn throughout the town. Referring to
Europeans and Americans, he says, “the best development in Punta
del Diablo is foreigners doing developing in the traditional
style.” He seems not to see the irony that his own buildings,
also large and nontraditional, will never be mistaken for A-
frames.  A construction boom might be on, yet nature still abounds.
Vigliola took me to a nearby ecological zone called Laguna Negra
with an astounding array of avian wildlife -- owls, falcons,
parrots and the ostrich-like nandu.  Giant Rats  Vigliola calls a puddle a “carpincho Jacuzzi,” referring to
the world’s largest rodents. Carpinchos, which remind me of
furry pigs, grow to as much as 175 pounds (79 kilograms). But it
isn’t the creatures from the Black Lagoon bothering me. In
shorts and flip-flops, I’m bitten by large green insects as
spiky grasses cut my feet.  My last day in Rocha was spent in La Paloma, another resort
marked by a lighthouse and plentiful surfers, but one that has
sacrificed some charm to gain in pizzerias, retailers and even a
condominium high-rise. No fishermen, no hippies -- and I
couldn’t see the stars.  Being here made me appreciate Cabo Polonio and Punta del
Diablo all the more. You’d better get to Rocha soon.  From  North America , fly to Montevideo and take COT or other
buses to Rocha beach towns, approximately three hours away. At
Cabo Polonio, authorized 4X4 buses cross into the park to
connect to the town, a half-hour ride over dunes. For tourism
information:  http://www.turismorocha.gub.uy  or
 http://www.puntadeldiablo.com.uy . Rocha beach towns are
accessible by buses from Punta del Este and Montevideo; schedule
information:  http://www.cot.com.uy . Additional websites for
hotels mentioned:  http://www.nativos.com.uy ,
 http://www.eldiablotranquilo.com )  To contact the writer of this column:
Michael Luongo at  mtluongo@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 