-- Toyota’s New Camry Wins Recommended Status From Consumer Reports
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2011-12-29T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/toyota-s-new-camry-wins-recommended-status-from-consumer-reports.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s revamped Camry,
the best-selling sedan in the U.S., won a “recommended” review
from Consumer Reports magazine, which has been critical of some
of the Japanese automaker’s models.  The 2012 Camry, which went on sale in October, was
evaluated for the February 2012 issue of the magazine published
by Yonkers, New York-based  Consumers Union , a non-profit group.  “The Camry has a nicer interior, more responsive handling,
and better fuel economy than before,” the review said. “In
fact, the four-cylinder model’s 27 mpg overall ties with the
 Hyundai Sonata (005380)  for the best fuel economy among conventional
gasoline-powered family sedans.”  Carmakers seek favorable reviews from the magazine as they
are considered among the most objective because of its policies
of accepting no advertising and buying every vehicle it tests.
While Toyota has historically fared well in  Consumer Reports 
reviews, the magazine said in 2007 it would scrutinize the brand
more closely due to problems it found in the Tundra pickup,
Lexus GS luxury car and previous V-6 engine Camry sedan.  The magazine declined in August to recommend Honda Motor
Co.’s 2012 Civic, a car it previously favored. The Tokyo-based
automaker has since said it’s considering revisions to the
Civic, without elaborating.  Best-Selling Model  Camry has been the best-selling car in the U.S. for 13 of
the past 14 years, and its Toyota City, Japan-based maker has
vowed to retain that position. The company is targeting U.S.
sales of 360,000 Camrys next year, below 2007’s record 473,108.  Sales this year through October fell 8.8 percent from a
year earlier to 251,564, the result of reduced output after
 Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami cut supplies of parts, according
to the company. The Camry decline mirrors Toyota’s 8.8 percent
U.S. sales slide during the same period.  Some investors in  Asia  were concerned two months ago that
U.S. sales of the Camry would be “poor,” though those concerns
were probably premature, BNP Paribas SA wrote in a note Oct. 28.  Reviews for the 2012 Camry have been  generally favorable ,
with the Los Angeles Times noting an improved driving
performance while Edmunds.com cited the size of its cabin and
high crash-test scores. Most also note that the new car’s
styling is more conservative than midsize rivals including
Hyundai Motor Co.’s Sonata.  Toyota builds Camrys in Georgetown,  Kentucky , and at an
assembly line at affiliate Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.’s Subaru
plant in Lafayette,  Indiana .  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  