-- Palm Oil Futures Drop From a One-Month High as Soybeans Fall
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2011-12-29T10:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/palm-oil-futures-decline-from-a-one-month-high-as-soybeans-fall.html
Palm oil  dropped after a rally to
the highest level in more than a month prompted some investors
to lock in gains, and as soybeans, crushed to make a competing
cooking oil, declined.  The March-delivery contract fell 0.9 percent to close at
3,155 ringgit ($992) per metric ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives
Exchange. Futures rose to 3,185 ringgit yesterday, the highest
price at close since Nov. 21. The edible oil has plunged 17
percent this year, heading for the first annual loss since 2008.  Heavy rains in Malaysia, the second-biggest grower, have
pushed prices up 4.5 percent this month on concerns that
flooding may disrupt harvesting during the seasonally low output
period.  Production (PALPCPO)  typically peaks between July and October
before tapering off with the lowest output usually in January
and February.  There may be some profit-taking after the steep rise
yesterday,  Ben Santoso , a plantation analyst at DBS Vickers
Securities, said by phone from  Singapore . “It will still
continue on a rising trend towards the first quarter.”  Prices may trade between 3,000 ringgit and 3,350 ringgit in
the first quarter of 2012, depending on the severity of floods,
which for the time being seem to be hitting more populated
areas, instead of plantations, Santoso said.  “Everybody is still on a wait-and-see attitude in terms of
how bad the flooding would be,” he said.  Rain  Intermittent to occasionally moderate rains may continue
until tomorrow in the state of Johor, which could cause floods
in low-lying areas, the  Malaysian Meteorological Department  said
on its website. Johor represents about 14.5 percent of planted
area, making it the nation’s third-largest grower, according to
 data  from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.  Palm oil was also tracking the decline in soybeans, Santoso
said. March-delivery soybeans fell 0.8 percent to $11.9825 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Futures reached $12.19
yesterday, the highest since Nov. 7.  South American corn and soybean crops face increasing
damage in the next five to 10 days should forecasts for mostly
dry weather eventuate, industry researcher Oil World said
yesterday. Damage so far has been mainly to corn, and stress on
soybeans will increase in coming days if the necessary moisture
doesn’t arrive, it said.  Palm oil for delivery in May dropped 0.3 percent to close
at 7,966 yuan ($1,261) per ton on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange 
and  soybean oil  for September delivery ended little changed at
8,968 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  