-- Panamericano, BTG Sign Agreement to Buy BFRE for $502 Million
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2011-12-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/panamericano-btg-sign-agreement-to-buy-bfre-for-502-million.html
Banco Panamericano SA (BPNM4) , the Brazilian
lender that was purchased by BTG Pactual SA after a bailout last
year, signed a non-binding agreement to acquire  Brazilian
Finance & Real Estate SA , the country’s biggest issuer of real
estate-backed securities.  Panamericano seeks to buy Brazilian Finance & Real Estate,
known as BFRE, excluding its asset management business, for
940.4 million reais ($502 million), according to a regulatory
filing today. Under terms of the agreement, BTG Pactual would
acquire BFRE’s asset management business for 275 million reais.  The memorandum of understanding is valid until Jan. 31,
2012.  “We see a lot of potential in the real estate financing
business in Brazil and buying a specialist in this market will
help us to jump a lot of steps in the growing process,” said
Jose Luiz Acar Pedro, chairman of Panamericano in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  “The bank didn’t operate yet in this market, but the
activity is complementary to consumer and middle market
finance,” he said. Panamericano will continue to invest in
developing its real estate financing business and may make other
acquisitions, he said.  BFRE is the biggest mortgage securitization company in
Brazil and has issued more than 8 billion reais in real estate-
backed securities known as certificados de recebiveis
imobiliarios, or CRIs. It also offers financing for households
and construction companies and has committed 800 million reais
to construction loans, according to Fabio Nogueira, BFRE’s
director and co-founder.  Capital increase  Panamericano will propose in Jan. 18 a  shareholders’
meeting  to increase its capital by 1.8 billion reais through the
private placement of as many as 297.5 million new shares,
according to the filing. The company would place 137 million
preferred shares and 160.5 million voting shares.  BTG and Caixa Economica Federal plan to maintain their
stakes in Panamericano, Acar Pedro said. BTG owns 37.6 percent
of Panamericano shares and Caixa Economica Federal owns 36.6
percent.  The investment fund TPG-AXON Capital Management LP, which
has 45 percent of BFRE’s non-voting shares, is interested in
swapping its stake for shares in Panamericano, Acar Pedro said.  Expansion  The partnership with Caixa, which has 70 percent of the
Brazilian market for real estate financing, will be fundamental
to strengthening BFRE, Nogueira said in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo.  Mortgage and real estate lending has grown 40 percent this
year and should continue to grow at this pace, Nogueira said.
 Brazil ’s real estate financing represents only 5 percent of
gross domestic product, compared with 15 percent of GDP in
 Mexico , he said.  Nogueira said Ourinvest Real State Part SA, which controls
BFRE with 70.5 percent of its voting shares, will sell its
entire stake. Nogueira and fellow co-founder Moise Politi plan
to continue working under Panamericano management, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo newsroom at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  