-- Sales of U.S. Homes Beat the Forecasts
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/pending-u-s-home-sales-climb-more-than-forecast-7-3-on-declining-prices.html
The number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes rose more than forecast
in November as falling prices and low borrowing costs boosted
demand.  The index of  pending home sales (USPHTMOM)  increased 7.3 percent to
the highest level since April 2010 after climbing 10.4 percent
the prior month, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . Economists forecast a 1.5
percent gain, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The industry that triggered the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009 is showing signs of stabilizing as
 construction (CNSTTMOM)  picks up, builder confidence improves and the
number of houses on the market declines. Nonetheless, another
wave of foreclosures may weigh on real-estate values next year.  “It looks like buyers are becoming more confident and are
attracted to record-low  mortgage rates ,”  Aaron Smith , a senior
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. At the same time, he said,
“activity still looks depressed by historical standards.”  Estimates for pending home sales ranged from a drop of 3
percent to an increase of 11 percent, according to the median of
30 forecasts in the Bloomberg survey.  Pending home sales were up 6.9 percent from November 2010.  All four regions showed an increase in contract signings
from a month earlier, led by a 14.9 percent surge in the West
and an 8.1 percent jump in the Northeast. Pending sales climbed
4.3 percent in the South and 3.3 percent in the Midwest.  Housing Affordability  “Housing affordability conditions are at a record high and
there is a pent-up demand from buyers who’ve been on the
sidelines, but contract failures have been running unusually
high,” NAR chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a statement
accompanying the release. “Some of the increase in pending
sales appears to be from buyers recommitting after an initial
contract ran into problems, often with the mortgage.”  Today’s report showed an index level for pending home sales
of 100.1 on a seasonally adjusted basis. A reading of 100 is
consistent with the average level of contract activity in 2001
and coincides with “historically healthy” home-buying traffic,
according to the NAR.  Because they track contract signings, pending home sales
are considered a leading indicator. Existing-home sales are
tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or two
later.  Home Sales  Reports last week showed a pickup in demand for houses.
 Sales (ETSLMOM)  of previously owned homes, which make up about 94 percent
of the market, rose 4 percent to a 4.42 million annual pace, the
most since January, the National Association of Realtors said
Dec. 21.  Purchases of  new single-family properties (NHSLTOT)  advanced 1.6
percent to a 315,000 annual pace, a seven-month high, figures
from the Commerce Department showed Dec. 23. The increase pushed
the number of new homes on the market to a record low.  “As the stabilization process moves forward, we are seeing
inventory levels continuing to ease in many of our markets,
which is a prerequisite for a housing recovery,”  Jeffrey Mezger , chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based  KB Home (KBH) ,
said in a Dec. 21 conference call with analysts.  Even with the increase in sales, residential real estate
prices continue to fall, showing a broad-based decline that
indicates the market continues to be weighed down by
foreclosures.  Home Values  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
dropped 3.4 percent from October 2010 after decreasing 3.5
percent in the year ended September, the New York-based group
said this week. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey projected a 3.2 percent decrease.  The threat of continued declines could keep potential
buyers waiting until they believe the market has bottomed, even
as cheaper properties may make purchasing a home more
affordable.  U.S. policy makers have initiated programs designed to
revive the housing market. The Obama administration this month
started a new version of the federal Home Affordable Refinance
Program, or HARP, after the original plan helped less than a
quarter of the people targeted to lock in lower mortgage rates.  At the  Federal Reserve , officials this month reiterated
that they will keep their benchmark  interest rate  near zero
until at least mid-2013. The central bank in September decided
to reinvest maturing housing debt into new mortgage-backed
securities instead of Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  