-- Perry’s Bid to Stop Printing of Virginia Ballots Rejected by Federal Judge
-- B y   B o n n i e   V .   W i n s t o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2011-12-29T20:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/perry-bid-to-stop-printing-of-virginia-ballots-rejected-by-federal-judge.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  failed in
his bid to stop Virginia election officials from printing or
distributing primary ballots without his name on them.  A federal judge in Richmond said today that he wouldn’t
stop the printing before the next hearing in the case, scheduled
for Jan. 13. He didn’t rule on the merits of Perry’s challenge.  Perry, a Republican, was informed this month by state party
officials that his campaign failed to collect enough signatures
to get him on the ballot for the March 6 primary, including 400
from each of the state’s 11 congressional districts.  Perry filed an emergency motion yesterday seeking a
temporary restraining order halting printing of the ballots or
requiring his name be placed on them. In a lawsuit filed Dec. 27
in federal court in Richmond, Perry claimed that the state’s
requirement that petition circulators be eligible or registered
qualified voters in  Virginia  violates his constitutional rights.  “This is probably a case that should have been filed
beforehand, not when things went sour,” U.S. District Judge
John A. Gibney Jr. said at a hearing in Richmond. He said that
regardless of the merits of Perry’s claims, his campaign failed
to gather the 10,000 signatures required by state rules.  “How can I put Mr. Perry on the ballot in light of the
requirement?” Gibney asked Joseph M. Nixon, an attorney
representing the Texas governor.  Romney, Paul  Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of Texas are the only Republicans to make it onto the
ballot for Virginia’s primary on so-called Super Tuesday, the
 Republican Party  of Virginia said this month.  “Our goal is to protect the constitutional rights of
citizens and candidates to proper ballot access in Virginia,”
 Ray Sullivan , a spokesman for the Perry campaign, said in an e-
mail following the hearing. “We are pleased the court is
scheduling a quick trial date for this important constitutional
ballot access issue.”  Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli  said in an e-mail
to supporters this week that Virginia should relax ballot
requirements for candidates. He said aides to  Michele Bachmann ,
the Minnesota congresswoman also running for president, informed
him that Virginia’s ballot restrictions were the third-toughest
in the country.  Publishing Deadline  E. Duncan Getchell Jr., Virginia solicitor general, said
during the hearing that primary ballots must be sent to the
printer by Jan. 9 for state election officials to have
sufficient time to send them to absentee and overseas voters.  Gibney said that if Perry prevails in the case, state
election officials may have to print the ballots a second time.  The judge also questioned the comments by Cuccinelli,
asking whether the Virginia attorney general has a conflict in
the case. The attorney general’s office is defending the State
Board of Elections in the lawsuit.  Getchell said he didn’t consider Cuccinelli’s comments a
problem.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  also failed to get the
required signatures from registered voters. Gingrich said
yesterday that someone hired to collect signatures provided
false ones.  Gibney set a deadline of Jan. 6 for the other Republican
presidential candidates to intervene in the case. Arguments on
Perry’s request for a preliminary injuction are scheduled for
Jan. 13 at 10 a.m. in U.S. District Court in Richmond.  The case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bonnie V. Winston in Richmond, Virginia, at 
 bvwinston@yahoo.com ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  