-- Perry, Gingrich Hit by Party’s Drive to Block Voters: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2011-12-29T00:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/perry-gingrich-hit-by-party-s-drive-to-block-voters-ezra-klein.html
Rick Perry said the laws were “among
the most onerous in the nation,” and possibly even
unconstitutional.  Newt Gingrich  compared their impact to  Pearl
Harbor .  Michele Bachmann ,  Jon Huntsman  and  Rick Santorum  were so
intimidated that they simply slunk away without a fight.  Social Security? Obamacare? Dodd-Frank? Nope. Virginia’s
ballot-access laws. Of the seven candidates still in serious
contention for the Republican nomination for the presidency,
only two of them --  Mitt Romney  and  Ron Paul  -- will be
appearing in the Virginia primary on March 6.  Republicans are furious. Some of them blame the candidates
who failed to qualify. Ed Morrissey, writing at the conservative
website  HotAir.com , says Perry and Gingrich are “failing the
competence primary.” He’s more sympathetic to Bachmann, Huntsman
and Santorum, as he sees their failure to qualify in  Virginia  as
“a strategic deployment of very finite resources.”  But other Republicans -- and most of the candidates -- have
turned their fire on Virginia.  Ken Cuccinelli , the state’s
attorney general, was particularly unsparing about the access
laws. “Virginia won’t be nearly as ‘fought over’ as it should be
in the midst of such a wide open nomination contest,” he wrote
in an  e-mail  to supporters. “Our own laws have reduced our
relevance. Sad. I hope our new GOP majorities will fix this
problem so that neither party confronts it again.”  He hopes, in other words, that Virginia will make it easier
for Republican candidates to get on the ballot, so Virginia’s
voters are better able to participate in the election. It’s a
noble goal, and one many Republicans share right now. But it
runs directly counter to the efforts Republicans have mounted in
dozens of states to make it more difficult for ordinary
Americans to participate in the 2012 election.  Block That Vote  In a  paper  published by New York University’s Brennan
Center for Justice, Wendy R. Weiser and Lawrence Norden
described the changes made to the voting laws since the 2008
election particularly bluntly. “Over the past century, our
nation expanded the franchise and knocked down myriad barriers
to full electoral participation,” they wrote. “In 2011, however,
that momentum abruptly shifted.”  The changes take a few different forms. Thirty-four states
have introduced -- and seven have passed -- strict laws
requiring photo IDs. That may not seem like a big deal, but as
Weiser and Norden note, “11% of American citizens do not possess
a government-issued photo ID; that is over 21 million citizens”
-- and poor and black Americans are disproportionately
represented in that total.  It’s not just photo ID laws, of course. Thirteen states
have introduced bills to end same-day and election-day voter
registration. Nine states have introduced laws restricting early
voting, and four more have introduced proposals to restrict
absentee voting. Two states have reversed decisions allowing ex-
convicts to vote, and 12 states have introduced laws requiring
proof of citizenship. Nationally, House Republicans voted to do
away with the  Election Assistance Commission .  As Ari Berman detailed in an  article  this summer for
Rolling Stone, these laws have mostly been introduced by
Republicans, who have justified them largely on fraud-prevention
grounds. The only problem is that it’s been extremely hard for
advocates of more restrictive voting laws to prove that fraud is
a problem.  As Berman wrote, “A major probe by the  Justice Department 
between 2002 and 2007 failed to prosecute a single person for
going to the polls and impersonating an eligible voter, which
the anti-fraud laws are supposedly designed to stop. Out of the
300 million votes cast in that period, federal prosecutors
convicted only 86 people for voter fraud -- and many of the
cases involved immigrants and former felons who were simply
unaware of their ineligibility.” Joked  Stephen Colbert : “Our
democracy is under siege from an enemy so small it could be
hiding anywhere.”  Changing the Rules  One of the most restrictive laws in the nation, in fact,
was signed by Texas Governor  Rick Perry . The bill, which Perry
fast-tracked by designating it as “emergency” legislation,
enforces a photo ID requirement that can be met by a concealed
handgun permit but not by a student ID from a state university.
And under the law only a Texas citizen who has passed a
mandatory training program can register voters.  That would be the same Perry who is now challenging
Virginia’s rules. But the differences between the law Perry
signed, and the law he’s challenging, are instructive.  Perry is an experienced politician who has hired a
professional staff for the express purpose of navigating the
logistical hurdle of ballot access. And he still failed to make
the Virginia ballot, despite the fact that the rules were well
known and unchanged since the last election.  In  Texas , however, Perry has sharply changed the rules,
changed them on people who do not have a staff dedicated to
helping them vote, and in fact made it harder for outside groups
to send professionals into the state to help potential voters
navigate the new law.  I would normally end a column like this on an ambivalent
note. Something like: “Perhaps Perry’s recent experience with
applying for Virginia’s ballot will make him -- and his
colleagues across the country -- rethink the laws they have
passed making it harder for ordinary Americans to get their
ballots counted.” But they won’t. The open secret of these laws
is that they hurt turnout among Democratic constituencies --
students, minorities, low-income voters, etc. -- which helps
Republican politicians get elected. Virginia is just an odd case
where restrictive ballot-access laws are hurting Republican
politicians.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed here are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 