-- Philippine Peso Completes 2nd Monthly Loss on Europe; Bonds Gain
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2011-12-29T08:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/philippine-peso-completes-2nd-monthly-loss-on-europe-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso declined for a
second month on signs investors favor less risky assets such as
the dollar as  Europe  struggles to resolve its debt crisis. Bonds
rose on speculation local  interest rates  will be cut.  The currency completed a second quarterly drop as this
year’s losses in the MSCI  Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks deepened
to 18 percent on concern the financial crisis will push the
world into recession. Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
on Dec. 21 that cooling inflation and the weakening economic-
growth outlook in the  Philippines  leaves room to lower borrowing
costs next year.  “The ongoing worry about the ability of European nations
to pay their debt affected demand for Asian currencies,” said
Rafael Algarra, executive vice president and treasurer at
Security Bank Corp. in Manila. “Because growth is now more of a
concern than inflation, we expect a low interest-rate
environment next year, which is positive for bonds.”  The peso depreciated 0.5 percent this month to 43.845 per
dollar in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency
advanced 0.3 percent today and was little changed for the year.
Local markets are shut tomorrow for a holiday.  The government is due to report inflation data for December
on Jan. 5. Consumer prices rose 4.8 percent last month from a
year earlier, slowing from a 5.2 percent gain in October.  Yields on the government’s 6.5 percent bonds due April 2021
fell 45 points, or 0.45 percentage point, this month to 5.15
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate
rose three basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  