-- Plaza Injury Suit Latest Against Company Tied to Manhattan Elevator Death
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2011-12-29T18:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/plaza-injury-suit-latest-against-company-tied-to-manhattan-elevator-death.html
Transel Elevator Inc. , which two
weeks ago was servicing an elevator hours before it killed a
 Manhattan  advertising firm employee, was sued this week over an
accident at New York’s Plaza hotel, the latest in a series of
similar suits filed against the company.  Cecilia Xirouhakis, a Plaza housekeeper, was injured when a
freight elevator she was in last year rapidly descended and came
to “a sudden and violent stop,” according to a complaint filed
Dec. 27 in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan. Her
lawyers said in the filing that Transel maintained and repaired
the freight elevators at the Plaza.  On Dec. 14, New York-based Transel performed electrical
maintenance on an elevator at 285 Madison Avenue. Later that
day, it malfunctioned and killed Suzanne Hart, according to the
 New York  City Buildings Department. Hart, 41, had stepped on to
the elevator in the lobby en route to her office at Y&R, the
Manhattan-based  advertising agency  formerly known as Young &
Rubicam. The car shot up, pinning her between the elevator and
the wall, police said.  An investigation into the accident by the New York City
Department of Buildings is continuing, Tony Sclafani, a
spokesman for the department, said. The department is also
inspecting elevators in the city serviced by Transel, Sclafani
said.  This week’s lawsuit by Xirouhakis is one of several
elevator-injury claims filed in New York during the past few
years against Transel. The company specializes in construction,
repair and maintenance of residential and commercial elevator
systems, according to its website.  Elevator Shaft  In another case,  John Goldsmith  claimed in a 2007 complaint
that he fell into an elevator shaft at a building at 17-19 Union
Square West in Manhattan. Goldsmith stepped through the elevator
door at the ground floor, fell 20 feet, and landed in the
concrete elevator-pit, court papers stated. Transel was
responsible for maintenance, repairs and installing safeguards
at the elevator, according to the complaint, which named other
defendants.  Ellen Knight sued Transel in April, alleging she was
severely injured at a building at 29 West 35th Street in
Manhattan. Transel, which installed and maintained the elevators
at the building, allowed a dangerous and “trap-like
condition,” according to the complaint.  Allegations Denied  A spokesman for Transel didn’t return a call seeking
comment on the lawsuits. Transel denied the allegations in the
Goldsmith complaint and asked that it be dismissed, according to
a court filing in 2008. The company also denied claims in
Knight’s lawsuit and said any injuries were caused in whole or
in part by her conduct and that of other defendants, according
to a court filing.  After the accident this month that killed Hart, Transel
said it was cooperating with the city’s investigation, adding
that the safety of its elevators is a “top priority.”  Transel and other defendants in the Plaza lawsuit have yet
to file answers to the complaint in that case.  New York’s Plaza hotel reopened in March 2008 after a two-
year restoration that cost more than $400 million. El-Ad
Properties bought the building on Fifth Avenue for $675 million
in 2004. The new Plaza was designed with 282 hotel rooms and
suites and 181 condominium apartments.  Fractured Bones  Daniel Friedman, an attorney at the  law firm  representing
Xirouhakis, a New Jersey resident, said the sudden stop of the
Plaza’s freight elevator was so severe she fractured bones in
one of her feet.  “She was working with pain and kept plugging on until it
became overwhelming,” Friedman said in an interview.  Xirouhakis’s complaint also named El-Ad Properties NY LLC,
Fairmont Hotels & Resorts (U.S.) Inc. and Kingdom Holding Co. as
defendants. El-Ad’s Victoria Robles declined to comment on the
case. A representative of Fairmont didn’t return a message
seeking comment. Kingdom Holding officials couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  The case is Cecilia Xirouhakis v. El-Ad Properties NY LLC,
11-114486, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 