-- Pricing, not Piracy, Hurts Culture Trade (Part 3): William Patry
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P a t r y
-- 2011-12-29T00:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/pricing-not-piracy-hurts-copyright-part-3-commentary-by-william-patry.html
The universal nature of music, art
and literature explains their enduring appeal and allows their
creators the opportunity to reach a global audience.  The ability of copyright owners to be paid for exploitation
of their works beyond their own national boundaries has been
important since at least the late 18th and early 19th centuries.
Beethoven, Haydn, Mozart and other composers entered into
simultaneous publication agreements in order to prevent
unauthorized printing of their works in other countries.  Including intellectual property within trade agreements is
a relatively recent strategy -- originally developed by the U.S.
in the early 1980s. In such agreements, intellectual property
issues are subsumed within a larger trade agenda. For large,
intellectual property-exporting countries such as the U.S.,
obtaining ever-stronger rights is seen as a way to obtain ever-
stronger control over foreign markets. But what are the benefits
for countries that are net importers of intellectual property?
Few if any. On the contrary, they experience a net loss.  When the  United States  was itself a developing country, it
rejected the pleas of Britain and other developed countries to
protect foreign authors. From 1790 to 1891, the U.S.
deliberately denied protection to foreign published works, and
this policy greatly benefited American economic development.  Not surprisingly, developed countries argue for strong,
uniform intellectual-property laws worldwide. A rising tide
lifts all boats, they say.  Rising Tide  That metaphor promises equality for all, and if the yachts
are lifted up a bit more than dinghies, the dinghies might not
complain so long as they are lifted up, too. The implied promise
is that developing countries will end up with the same access to
pharmaceutical drugs, the same creative works and so on as
developed countries have. Yet countries that lack an educated
citizenry, adequate domestic research-and-development companies,
meaningful participation in financial markets and effective
means to bring domestic innovations to market will not realize
the benefits.  Consider, for example, how a small domestic record industry
in a developing country can be easily eliminated if the
floodgates are opened to foreign  record companies .  The rising-tide metaphor can also be thought of in
conventional economic terms. In the 18th century,  Adam Smith 
claimed that an increase in the size of markets leads to
increases in the diversity of offerings. Trade among countries
increases this diversity by introducing people in one country to
the goods, services and cultures of others.  In the 19th century, however, Alexis de Tocqueville took a
different view. After studying life in the U.S., he concluded
that “market growth serves as a magnet, pulling creators
towards mass production and away from serving niches.” And he
said this results in “a culture of the least common
denominator.”  De Tocqueville’s view seems to have prevailed. There is
considerable evidence that our best-selling creations are dumbed
down. (In 2010, the top-grossing film in the U.S. was “Toy
Story 3.”)  At the same time, large markets such as  New York City  do
provide diverse, niche offerings. And the growth of Internet
platforms such as YouTube and blogs has provided fantastic
offerings for specialized tastes. The economist Tyler Cowen had
it right when he said, “Markets bring more homogeneity and more
diversity. This dual trend characterizes consumer taste as well
as cultural products generally.”  Cultural Dominance  Yet dominance of U.S. cultural works leads to a dominance
of U.S. culture, and it is easy to see why. No country can
foster the creativity of its own citizens if the financing,
production and distribution of works is controlled by large,
wealthy foreign corporations.  The conventional notion in the U.S. that stronger copyright
laws can deter bootlegging of DVDs and the like is a fallacy.
Unauthorized markets arise when demand for copyrighted works is
created but not met. So the best way to prevent the sale of
unauthorized goods is to flood the market with authorized goods.
The vast unauthorized markets that exist around the world are
not a sign of moral shortcomings among people in those
countries; they’re simply the result of copyright owners
clinging to failed business models.  Multinational corporations make the bulk of their profits
in developed-country markets, and thus have little interest in
serving other ones, especially when doing so means that they
need to compete in terms of price.  In a comprehensive study of how media is consumed around
the world, the  Social Science Research Council  concluded:
“Media piracy has been called ‘a global scourge,’ an
‘international plague,’ and ‘nirvana for criminals,’ but it is
probably better described as a global pricing problem.”  Where goods owned by multinational corporations are sold at
all in  developing countries , they are offered at the same prices
as in developed countries, or at comparable prices that place
the goods out of reach of all but the wealthiest consumers.  This pricing problem is strikingly absent from most
discussions of intellectual property. Policy makers are still
focused on enforcing tough copyright and trade regulations. Yet
the Social Science Research Council found “no evidence -- and
indeed no claims -- that enforcement efforts to date have had
any impact on the overall supply of pirated goods.” In none of
the nations studied was the comparative price -- the price that
reflects cost-of-living differences --the same as in the U.S.  Soybeans for Software  Consider the example of Microsoft’s Office 2007: In 2004,
Marcelo D’Elia Branco,  Brazil ’s liaison between the open source
community and the government, estimated that one license for
Microsoft’s Office suite meant Brazil had to export 60 sacks of
soybeans. As then-President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  observed,
“For the right to use one copy of Office plus Windows for one
year or a year and a half, until the next upgrade, we have to
till the earth, plant, harvest and export to international
markets that much soy. When I explain this to the farmers, they
go nuts.”  The solution here is simple: Offer the same goods at
different prices in different countries, based on people’s
ability to pay. There will still be those who engage in large-
scale unauthorized copying. And going after the very small
number of those who are doing most of the harm is entirely
justified. What’s unjustified is threatening the broad
population with lawsuits and crippling penalties.  Copyright owners should support the good guys by providing
reasonably priced and convenient authorized goods. If they can’t
do this, no copyright law can help them.  (William Patry, senior copyright counsel at Google Inc., is
the author of “Moral Panics and the Copyright Wars” “Patry on
Copyright” and “Patry on Fair Use.” This is the first in a
three-part series of excerpts from his new book, “How to Fix
Copyright,” to be published Jan. 5 by  Oxford University Press .
The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer on this article:
William Patry at  williampatry@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 