-- Princeton Brews Trouble for Us 1 Percenters: Michael Lewis
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L e w i s
-- 2011-12-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/princeton-brews-trouble-for-us-1-percenters-commentary-by-michael-lewis.html
To: The Upper Ones, From: The
Strategy Committee, Re: The Alarming Behavior of College
Students  The committee has been reconvened in haste to respond to a
disturbing new trend: the uprisings by students on elite college
campuses.  Across the  Ivy League  the young people whom our Wall Street
division once subjugated with ease are becoming troublesome. Our
good friends at Goldman Sachs, to cite one example, have been
forced to cancel their recruiting trips to Harvard and Brown. At
Princeton, 30 students masquerading as job applicants entered a
pair of Wall Street informational sessions, asked many obnoxious
questions (“How do I get a job lobbying the U.S. government to
protect Wall Street interests?”), rose and chanted a list of
charges at bankers from JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, and,
finally, posted videos of their outrageous behavior on YouTube.  The committee views this latter incident as a sure sign of
trouble to come. The whole point of going to  Princeton  for the
past several decades has been to get a job at Goldman Sachs or,
failing that, JPMorgan. That Princeton students are now
identifying their interests with the Lower 99 percenters is, in
its way, as ominous as the return of the Jews to  Jerusalem .  Having fully investigated the incidents in question, we are
now prepared to offer strategic recommendations. Going forward
all big Wall Street banks, when visiting college campuses,
should adopt the following tactics.  No. 1. Send only women. You may not have fully understood
why you hired them in the first place, but now is their moment
to shine. For some time now the standard recruiting mission has
included at least one woman and one person of color, to
“season” the sauce. But typically, in the interests of keeping
it “real,” there has been on the scene at least one white male
recruiter.  Anyone who studies the Princeton-JPMorgan video will see
that we can no longer afford to keep it real. The camera passes
forgivingly over the JPMorgan women -- the viewer feels sorry
for them, for some reason -- and comes to rest on the lone white
Morgan man. The viewer doesn’t feel sorry for him. Get him out
of there. Now.  No. 2. Having identified your female employees, gather them
together to explain that they have no obligation to justify your
behavior, even to themselves. They shouldn’t give college
students the satisfaction of thinking that you have devoted so
much as a passing thought to the following subjects: Why it is
OK for Wall Street banks to create securities designed to fail;
why it is OK for them to game the ratings companies; why it is
OK to get paid huge sums of money while working for companies
rescued, and still implicitly backed, by the U.S. government;
why it is OK to subvert attempts by politicians to reform the
financial system?  Avoid taking questions from college students. For that
matter, avoid engaging them in substantive conversation of any
sort. Your women need to shift the conversation from content to
form. They must say things like, “I don’t mind what you are
saying, I just mind how you are saying it.” And “I don’t
understand why you can’t treat other people with respect.”  They must cast themselves not as extensions of a global
financial empire but as guests. Everyone at Princeton can agree
that it is wrong to be rude to ladies on a visit.  Happily, many Princeton students, hiding behind aliases,
have already taken up this cry on campus  websites . Encourage
those who still want to work for big Wall Street banks to blog
and post our new defense. Don’t offer jobs to these students who
agree to help, however. They are better suited to being Wall
Street customers than Wall Street bankers.  No. 3. Focus on what actually angers these angry young
people, rather than what they say angers them. The character of
Princeton students didn’t change overnight; what changed is
their circumstances. They think they are pissed off at us
because of what we did. They are actually pissed off at us
because we can no longer afford to hire them all. To that end
...  No. 4. Engage, quietly, with the ringleaders. Of course,
all variations of the Occupy movement claim to be leaderless. We
on the committee aren’t buying this. With the possible exception
of Bank of America, there is no such thing as a leaderless
organization, only organizations in which the leaders operate in
the shadows.  Sources inside inform us that one of the leaders of the
Princeton-JPMorgan protest -- the young man who led the so-
called “ mic check ” -- is a comparative literature major named
 Derek Gideon . Sources further indicate that for his senior
thesis Mr. Gideon is writing -- get this -- a poem.  This poem of his apparently leaves him with a great deal
of time and energy to stir up trouble.  “My goal is to change the dominant campus culture,” he
has been quoted saying, “the culture that assumes that going to
work for Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan is the most prestigious
thing you can do, without having any critical sense of their
current role in society. We’re very privileged to be here. We’re
getting an incredible education. All just for us to be sending
30 percent, 40 percent of our graduates to the finance sector?”  Unsurprisingly, Mr. Gideon doesn’t know precisely what he
is going to do with his life after he graduates. This young man
strikes the committee as an ideal candidate for a job at Goldman
Sachs. Yes, in our experience, even the Gideons of this world
can be persuaded. After all, what better way for him to improve
our behavior than to become one of us? Put that way, he almost
has an obligation to take his natural resting place among us.  As awkward as it is to find ourselves in a war with
students inside our own trade schools, we cannot simply cease to
deal with them. After all, many are our own children.
Disinheritance is messy. And, anyway, what’s the point of
winning the estate-tax battle if we have no heirs?  More important, the students at  Ivy League  schools are our
most devastating ammunition in this looming cultural war. They
show the Lower 99 that today’s  economic inequality  isn’t some
horrible injustice but a financial expression of the natural
order of man. The sort of people who become Upper Ones are
inherently different from the sort of people who become Lower
99s. The clearest sign of this inherent difference is that we
begin our adult life by getting into places like Princeton.  Win the battle at Princeton and we might still win this
war.  (Michael Lewis, most recently author of “Boomerang:
Travels in the New Third World,” is a columnist for Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Michael Lewis  at  mlewis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 