-- Rail-Freight Surge Before Holiday Shows U.S. Skirting Recession
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2011-12-29T19:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/rail-freight-surge-before-holiday-shows-u-s-skirting-recession.html
North American railroads’ freight
volumes surged 17 percent last week, the most in a year, in an
indication that the  U.S. economy  will avoid a second recession.  Rising shipments of retail goods helped drive the jump in
carloads for the period ended Dec. 24, the  Association of
American Railroads  said today. The trade group released the
results after government data showed U.S. jobless claims fell to
a three-year low in the past month.  The double-dip recession “that people feared only six,
eight, 10 weeks ago never materialized,” said Tony Hatch, an
independent railroad analyst in  New York . “Things are going
pretty well in a variety of the commodities that the railroads
carry.”  Analysts focused on pre-Christmas rail traffic this year
because record retail sales over the Thanksgiving weekend
suggested that the seasonal peak in freight shipping might
extend into December. Many retailers delayed building inventory
amid concerns that the economy was weakening.  Commodity carloads such as chemicals posted the second-
largest jump of 2011, up 12 percent. Intermodal carloads, which
can move by rail, road and sea and often move retail goods, rose
23 percent, the most in a year.  The increase in freight traffic may also signal that
shippers put more long-haul cargo on trains instead of trucks as
railroads improve reliability for last-minute deliveries.  “The rails are getting stuff off the road,” said Lee Klaskow, a Skillman, New Jersey-based analyst with Bloomberg
Industries.  Carriers such as Omaha, Nebraska-based  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) ,
the biggest U.S. railroad, and  Warren Buffett ’s  Burlington
Northern Santa Fe (BNI)  tend to be leading indicators of economic
health, Klaskow said.  “Have we skirted a double-dip recession? According to the
rail tea leaves, yes,” Klaskow said. In addition, “the
economic data appears to be showing some sort of economic
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  