-- Rapeseed Output in India May Drop 21% This Year on Lower Area, Group Says
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2011-12-29T08:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/rapeseed-output-in-india-may-drop-21-this-year-on-lower-area-group-says.html
Rapeseed production in  India , the
world’s second-largest importer of cooking oils, may decline
this year as winter rains elude the nation’s biggest growing
region, hampering crop sowing, a processors’ group said.  Output may drop as much as 21 percent to 5.5 million metric
tons in the crop year that started Oct. 1, from 7 million tons a
year earlier, Vijay Data, vice president of the  Solvent
Extractors’ Association  of India, said by phone from Jaipur.
Lower production and rising domestic demand may boost vegetable
oil imports to more than 9 million tons this year from 8.67 a
year earlier, he said.  An increase in Indian purchases may help pare losses in
Malaysian palm oil prices, heading for the first annual decline
since 2008 on higher global production and concern that demand
may be curbed by the European debt crisis. The South Asian
nation meets almost 50 percent of its edible oil demand through
imports and is the largest palm oil buyer from Indonesia and
 Malaysia , the top producers.  “Lower production expectations and cold weather conditions
in the growing areas will boost prices,” Vimala Reddy, an
analyst at Karvy Comtrade Ltd., said by phone from the Indian
city of Hyderabad. “We may see a decline of 5-10 percent in
India’s vegetable oil production.”  Rapeseed for delivery in January on the National Commodity
& Derivatives Exchange Ltd. jumped as much as 2.9 percent to
3,645 rupees ($68) per 100 kilograms, the highest level this
year, and traded at 3,589 rupees at 1:26 p.m. in Mumbai.  Prices may jump by 6 percent in two months before
harvesting picks up pace, Reddy said.  Lower Area  Rapeseed was sown in 6.38 million hectares (15.8 million
acres) as of Dec. 23, compared with 6.78 million hectares a year
earlier, the farm ministry said last week.  Overall planted area under rapeseed is 4 to 5 percent less
than a year ago “as we didn’t receive rains in the last quarter
of this year,” Data said. “So late sowing was not possible”
in Rajasthan state, the biggest grower, he said.  Rapeseed, usually planted from October to November and
harvested from February to March, accounts for more than 70
percent of the nation’s output of winter-sown oilseeds. Its
yellow-colored oil is the third-most used cooking oil in India
after palm oil and soybean oil.  Exports of  rapeseed meal (RPM0HMM1)  from India may be less than 1
million tons this year,compared with 1.2 million tons a year
earlier, Data said.  Costly Dollar  “The dollar is costlier so we are getting better prices
for meal exports, but if you do not have enough stocks you
cannot export,” he said. “Consumption in India is also
growing.”  India’s rupee is  Asia ’s worst performer this year, losing
16 percent and reaching a record low of 54.305 a dollar on Dec.
15 on concerns  Europe ’s debt crisis will slow the global economy
and damp demand for emerging-market assets.  Overseas  purchases (SEAIETTL)  of palm oil and soybean oil may be
unaffected by the plunge in the rupee as demand remains robust
and stockpiles low, Data said.  “Imports will certainly be over 9 million tons due to less
production,” Data said referring to India’s overall vegetable
oil purchases. “There may be some shrinkage in oil consumption
as the cost of all imported oils have gone up by 20-25
percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  