-- Repsol Agrees to Acquire Russian Oil Explorer Eurotek for $230 Million
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2011-12-29T16:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/repsol-agrees-to-acquire-explorer-eurotek-of-russia-for-about-230-million.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Spain’s largest oil
producer, agreed to buy Russian explorer Eurotek for about $230
million to expand its international business.  Repsol will incorporate Eurotek’s assets in western Siberia
into its new Russian venture with Alliance Oil Co., the Madrid-
based company said today in a statement. It agreed this month to
form a $840 million partnership with Moscow-based Alliance,
which will contribute assets in the Volga-Urals region.  The Spanish company is investing in assets abroad,
including in Russia, Brazil and the U.S., to drive output growth
and reduce reliance on mature fields in countries such as
Argentina, while countering the effect of fluctuating refining
margins at home.  “It’s good that Repsol is diversifying and becoming a real
 oil company  instead of simply being a refiner,” said  Christine Tiscareno , a London-based oil analyst at  Standard & Poor’s .  Repsol rose as much as 2.4 percent to 23.40 euros in Madrid
trading, and was at 23.39 euros as of 5:01 p.m. local time.  The Eurotek transaction gives Repsol the Syskonsyninskoye
gas field, which is at an “advanced” stage of development, and
the Yuzhno-Khadyryakhinskoye deposit, the Spanish company said.
As a result of the deal, Repsol will transfer 115 million
barrels of oil equivalent in proven and probable reserves to its
venture with  Alliance (AOIL)  in 2012.  The venture with Alliance is 49 percent-owned by Repsol and
51 percent by the Russian company.  On Dec. 22, Repsol said it would spend $250 million to buy
a share in SandRidge Energy Inc.’s oil and gas fields in Kansas
and Oklahoma to boost reserves and production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri at   mbaigorri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  