-- Republicans, Lost in Moderation (Part 2): Geoffrey Kabaservice
-- B y   G e o f f r e y   K a b a s e r v i c e
-- 2011-12-29T00:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/republicans-lost-in-moderation-pt-2-commentary-by-geoffrey-kabaservice.html
Although there are many possible
explanations for the current political dysfunction in the U.S.,
a leading suspect is the conservative transformation of  the
Republican Party  over the past half-century.  The conversion of the party into an ideological vehicle,
against the preferences of many of its voters, is a phenomenon
without precedent in American history. At the center of this
story is the collapse of the moderate wing of the Republican
Party.  Within the party today the word “moderate” is a term of
abuse.  Mitt Romney , who built his reputation as a moderate
governor of  Massachusetts , must run as far to the right as
possible to have any chance of succeeding in the  2012 Republican
presidential primaries . Romney has thereby turned his back not
only on his own accomplishments, but also on the moderate
Republican tradition of which his father, Governor George Romney
of  Michigan , had been a shining example.  Much of the current conservative movement is characterized
by this sort of historical amnesia, which seeks to undo critical
aspects of the Republican legacy such as Ronald Reagan’s
elimination of corporate tax loopholes,  Richard Nixon ’s
environmental and labor safety programs, and a variety of
Republican achievements in civil rights, civil liberties and
good-government reforms.  Thinning Ranks  Just as this moderate Republican heritage has faded from
the public memory, so has moderate Republicanism crumbled as a
political force in Congress. According to Congressional
Quarterly, which uses votes to calculate the relative political
standing of members, by 1984, the final year of  Ronald Reagan ’s
first term in office, the ranks of Republican moderates and
progressives were already thinning.  House Republicans  who
qualified as such shrank from half of the delegation in 1982 to
one-third in 1984. After the 2010 elections, only a handful of
moderate Republicans remained in all of Congress.  To some extent, the moderates’ downfall was caused by
forces beyond their control -- population shifts, cultural
change, the civil rights movement, along with fading memories of
the Depression and World War II. But there are other factors.
Moderates have, historically, seen their lack of a rigid
ideology as an advantage, leaving them free to examine each
issue according to merits. But they have never lived down the
conservative claim that their lack of fixed ideology implies
absence of principle or a finger-in-the-wind approach that
merely splits the difference between the two parties.  There were also tactical miscues. Because they were unable
to commit to one presidential candidate in 1964, moderates were
ultimately powerless to block  Barry Goldwater  from gaining the
nomination. Although moderates had potentially dominant forces
in the Senate and the ranks of Republican governors during the
1960s and ‘70s, they were again unable to coordinate their
efforts, failing to mobilize themselves as conservatives did.  With all of its flaws and failures, why should anyone
lament the passing of moderate Republicanism? The most important
reason is that the moderates upheld values and positions no
longer adequately represented in American politics. Although it
may be fitting to equate moderation with a bygone culture of
compromise, no one should take at face value the judgment of
 Rush Limbaugh : “By definition, moderates can’t be brave -- they
don’t have opinions! … Brave moderates? ‘Great Moderates in
American History’? Show me that book.”  Force for Change  In fact, moderate Republicanism has long been a distinctive
political philosophy, different from both Democratic liberalism
and Republican conservatism. Moderate Republicans helped shape
many of what are typically thought of as Democratic
achievements, from Progressive Era and  New Deal reforms  to the
architecture of the post-World War II global order and civil
rights legislation. Particularly during the critical decade of
the 1960s, moderates defended civil rights and civil liberties,
often in the face of Democratic and Republican opposition.  Historically, the moderates were the strongest advocates of
good government. Although they were skeptical of the Democrats’
impulse toward centralization and bureaucratization, they didn’t
pretend to hate government as many conservatives did. As a
result, the moderates were better than either liberal Democrats
or conservative Republicans at exercising fiscal responsibility
and seeking effectiveness and efficiency in government. Because
they believed in the disinterested consideration of the issues,
they were able to work with Democrats to solve problems, and to
maintain a level of balance and civility in politics that has
long since vanished.  If, as many observers believe, the American political
system proves unable to make necessary reforms to meet the long-
term challenges posed by energy dependence, environmental
degradation, and the rising tide of government deficits and
pension liabilities, the absence of the moderate Republicans may
be the single greatest reason. If American politics can be
compared to an ecosystem, then the disappearance of the moderate
Republicans represents a catastrophic loss of species diversity.  The moderate die-off has also harmed the  Republican Party .
Many of the party’s proudest achievements were typically the
result of negotiations among Republican factions. Internal
dispute, for the Republican Party, was often an indication of
vitality. Some critical moderate assumptions came to permeate
the party, and moderates paradoxically helped reshape and
strengthen conservatism as well.  Welcome in Tent  Moderates engaged in productive dialogue and debate with
thoughtful conservatives like William F. Buckley Jr., and worked
with Reagan, who restrained the furies of movement conservatism
while offering enough leeway to moderates to keep them in the
party’s tent. The most successful Republican presidents of
modern times tended to be those like Nixon and Reagan, who
understood that they had to mediate between a  conservative party 
base and a moderate public, and who reserved a role within the
party for moderates rather than expelling them for ideological
heresy.  Moderate Republicans allied themselves with the first
generation of neoconservatives and shaped the domestic policy
approaches and interpretations that still determine many of the
party’s positions. Moderates such as William Steiger, George Gilder and  Jack Kemp  were among the original champions of
supply-side economics. Moderates supplied not only the ideas but
also many of the individuals who later became prominent leaders
of the conservative movement, including Bruce Chapman,  Newt Gingrich ,  Dick Cheney ,  Donald Rumsfeld  and  Mitch McConnell .  In this respect, the moderate wing of the Republican Party
performed much the same role in the last half of the 20th
century that the  Liberal Party  played in the U.K. in the first
half: In 1926,  John Maynard Keynes  observed, “The brains and
character of the Conservative Party have always been recruited
from the Liberals, and we must not grudge them the excellent
material with which ... we are now preserving them from
intellectual starvation.”  (Geoffrey Kabaservice is the author of “The Guardians:
Kingman Brewster, His Circle, and the Rise of the Liberal
Establishment.” This is the second of two excerpts from his
forthcoming book, “Rule and Ruin: The Downfall of Moderation
and the Destruction of the Republican Party, From Eisenhower to
the  Tea Party ,” to be published Jan. 4 by  Oxford University
Press . The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 .)  To contact the writer on this article:
Geoffrey Kabaservice at  Geoffrey.Kabaservice@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at  mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 