-- Russian Manufacturing Pace Slows From Eight-Month Peak, HSBC Survey Shows
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2011-12-29T15:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/russian-manufacturing-pace-slows-from-eight-month-peak-hsbc-survey-shows.html
Russian manufacturing growth eased
in December from an eight-month high after new orders slowed and
export demand weakened, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  The HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 51.6 in
December from 52.6 a month earlier, HSBC said today in an e-
mailed  statement , citing data compiled by London-based Markit
Economics. A level above 50 signals an expansion.  Russia is counting on domestic consumption, fueled by
rising wages and slowing inflation, to boost the economy.
Slowing demand abroad led  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the country’s largest
fertilizer maker, to cut its 2012 output target this month. A
downturn in Europe, which accounts for almost half of  Russian
trade (RUCREC) , poses “significant” risks to the economy next year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said this month.  “Momentum in manufacturing eased in December, following
the surprising spike in economic activity in the previous
month,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for Russia and the
Commonwealth of Independent States at HSBC in Moscow, said in
the statement. “Manufacturing keeps growing, but slowly.”  The  Micex Manufacturing Index (MICEXMNF)  of 11 stocks fell 1.5 percent
to 1,697.87 at the close of trading in Moscow, the lowest level
since Oct. 7. The exchange’s benchmark gauge rose 0.3 percent to
1,387.06.  Lower Orders  New orders for manufacturers, the most important component
of the index, were lower than in November, and new export
business fell for the first time since September, HSBC said. The
gauge, which measures overall business conditions, averaged 51.8
this year, the same as in 2010, according to the statement.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, may expand as
much as 4.5 percent this year after a 4 percent gain in 2010,
according to Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach . Economic
growth will slow to 3.7 percent in 2012, the government
forecasts. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said he is seeking
increases of at least 6 percent annually to make Russia one of
the world’s five largest economies.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s largest company by market value, said
yesterday that exports of gas to markets outside the former
 Soviet Union  will be lower than forecast this year. OAO TMK, the
country’s No. 1 maker of pipes for the oil and gas industry,
said in November that a worsening economy would slow growth in
the fourth quarter.  Chinese Conditions  The steel industry has also faced more difficult conditions
as  China , the world’s second-largest economy, tries to contain
inflation by raising  interest rates  and curbing  growth (CNGDPYOY) . Economic
expansion there fell in the third quarter to the slowest pace in
two years.  Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel (MAGN) , the Russian steelmaker
controlled by billionaire Victor Rashnikov, said this month it
was operating at about 80 percent capacity in the fourth
quarter, down from 90 percent in the previous three months.  OAO
Mechel (MTLR) , the nation’s biggest producer of coal for steelmakers,
said it reduced capital spending and was reviewing fourth-
quarter production after declines in coking coal prices.  There is a “higher probability” that growth in
manufacturing will slide further, HSBC’s Morozov said. Russian
companies are relying on domestic demand to boost new orders, he
said in the statement.  “Output growth is faster than growth of new orders, which
suggests that output growth should moderate,” Morozov said.
“Secondly, new export orders stopped growing again in December,
which usually translates into a moderation of overall growth
momentum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  