-- South Korean Inflation Above Target Signals BOK May Hold Off on Rate Cut
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2011-12-30T01:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/s-korea-s-consumer-prices-rise-4-2-in-december-from-year-ago.html
South  Korea ’s inflation exceeded the
central bank’s target and all forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey, limiting the scope for an interest-rate cut in January
even as threats to growth mount.  Consumer prices (KOCPIYOY)  rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier,
matching November’s gain, Statistics Korea said today in a
statement. The median estimate of 12 analysts was 4 percent.
Prices rose 0.4 percent from the previous month, the biggest
gain since August.  Europe ’s debt crisis is cutting export demand and  North
Korea ’s leadership handover to Kim Jong Un threatens confidence
by adding to the risk of instability on the Korean peninsula.
The central bank said yesterday that monetary policy will focus
on stable prices and “sound” growth amid “substantial”
downside risks for  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy.  “Persistent inflation concerns will definitely limit the
scope for an early rate cut.” Park Sang Hyun, chief economist
at HI Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul , said.  The won rose 0.3 percent to 1,151.82 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark Kospi stock index gained 0.03 percent.
The domestic financial markets were closed today.  A rate cut “may be premature for now,” said Wai Ho Leong,
a senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in  Singapore .  Energy, Food  An increase in electricity prices contributed to this
month’s inflation. The government raised charges after the
state-owned Korea Electric Power Corp. reported a loss for the
first nine months of the year.  Core prices (SKCIYOY) , which exclude energy and food costs, advanced
3.6 percent in December from a year earlier, compared with a 3.5
percent gain in November, today’s report showed.  The  Bank of Korea  kept borrowing costs on hold for a sixth
straight month on Dec. 8, the longest pause since it started
tightening in July 2010. The benchmark interest rate was raised
three times this year, most recently in June, to 3.25 percent.  The central bank said yesterday that its five latest rate
increases are estimated to have the effect of lowering price
gains by 0.5 percentage point each in 2011 and 2012. The central
bank projects inflation will ease to 3.3 percent next year from
4 percent this year.  Inflation Target  The Bank of Korea will likely cut  interest rates  by March
to support growth as average consumer price gains moderate to
2.6 percent next year and production is set to be weakest in the
first quarter of 2012, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The central bank targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent through 2012 and aims for the midpoint of the range in
the medium term.  South Korea ’s  industrial production (KOIPIMOM)  unexpectedly fell in
November for a second straight month, according to a government
report yesterday. Overseas shipments, equivalent to half the
economy, probably rose 6.3 percent in December from a year ago,
the smallest gain in more than two years, according to a
Bloomberg survey ahead of a Jan. 1 report on exports.  The central bank also said yesterday that “geopolitical
risks” relating to the North have the potential to escalate,
unnerving financial markets and causing consumption and
investment in the South to contract “severely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  