-- SEC Says Deutsche Telekom Violated Corrupt Practices Act at Magyar Unit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-29T16:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/sec-says-deutsche-telekom-violated-corrupt-practices-act-at-magyar-unit.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Europe ’s biggest phone
company, of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The SEC sued the Bonn-based company and its Budapest-based
Magyar Telekom unit in federal court in  Manhattan  today. The
court filing doesn’t indicate whether a settlement has been
reached.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the filing. Elpida Trizi, a Deutsche Telekom spokeswoman,
declined to immediately comment on the lawsuit.  In a separate suit today, the agency accused three former
Magyar Telekom officials of violating the FCPA. The defendants
are former Chief Executive Officer Elek Straub, former Director
of Central Strategic Organization Andras Balogh and former
Director of Business Development and Acquisitions in the Central
Strategic Organization Tamas Morvai.  All three are Hungarian citizens believed to be residing in
that country, according to the complaint.  Magyar Telekom,  Hungary ’s former phone monopoly, in June
said it set aside 11.7 billion forint ($48.7 million) as it
negotiates a settlement with the SEC over Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act violations.  New Competitor  In January Bonn prosecutors said an investigation turned up
no evidence of wrongdoing against Deutsche Telekom Chief
Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  related to the bribery
allegations in Hungary and the  Republic of Macedonia .  According to the complaints filed today, Straub, Balogh and
Morvai in 2005 and 2006 executed a plan to bribe government
officials in Macedonia to delay or prevent a new competitor from
operating in that country and to obtain regulatory benefits,
according to the complaint. Magyar Telekom paid $4.88 million
euros ($6.3 million) during that period to an intermediary under
the guise of consulting and marketing contracts, according to
the complaints.  “The former executives also offered or promised Macedonian
political party officials a valuable business opportunity in
return for the party’s support of Magyar Telekom’s desired
benefits,” the SEC wrote.  In 2005, Straub, Balogh and Morvai conducted a second
scheme in which they authorized Magyar Telekom to make
7.35 million euros in corrupt payments to Montenegrin officials
to facilitate the company’s acquisition of Telekom Crne Gore AD
in Belgrade,  Serbia , according to the SEC.  Cash Payments  “At least two Montenegrin government officials involved in
the TCG acquisition received cash payments made through the
bogus contracts,” the SEC said.  Lawyers for the three former executives couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment about the lawsuit.  AT&T Inc. ended its $39 billion bid to acquire Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile USA on Dec. 19.  The cases are U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Magyar Telekom Plc, 11-cv-9646, and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Straub, 11-cv-9645, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Manhattan federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 