-- Serbian Economy Grew 0.5% in Third Quarter, Final Data Shows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2011-12-29T14:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/serbian-economy-grew-0-5-in-third-quarter-final-data-shows-1-.html
The Serbian economy expanded 0.5
percent in the third quarter and may grow as much as 1.9 percent
this year, the country’s  Statistics Office  said.  The energy, construction and mining industries contributed
the most during the year to growth, while trade and services led
declines, said Dragan Vukmirovic, head of the statistics office.  Serbia ’s central bank revised its forecast for full-year
growth in November to 2 percent from 2.5 percent on the effects
of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and dwindling demand in the
European Union, Serbia’s main export market. It also cut the
outlook for 2012 to 1.5 percent from 3 percent previously, in
line with the  International Monetary Fund  with whom the Balkan
country has a 1.29 billion euro ($1.66 billion) precautionary
loan arrangement.  “The slowdown was stronger in the third quarter than in
the second, so it will probably be months before we seen an
upturn,” Vukmirovic said at a press conference today in the
capital Belgrade. Growth for the third quarter was revised from
0.7 percent in a flash estimate.  Trade and processing industries contributed the most to the
slowdown during the quarter, contracting 7.7 percent and 1.6
percent respectively, while telecommunications and construction
led growth, with 9.3 percent and 9.2 percent respectively.  Industrial Production   Industrial production grew 2.2 percent, its first positive
quarter since mid-2010. Agriculture is seen growing 0.8 percent
this year and retail trade may fall as much as 17.7 percent,
even as wholesale probably avoided contraction, he said.  Inflation may end the year at 7 percent, slowing from a
peak in April of 14.7 percent, according to the data.  The office also revised second-quarter growth to 2.5
percent from 2.4 percent previously. Seasonally adjusted numbers
showed that the economy stagnated in the third quarter against
the previous three months, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  