-- Siano Sets Sights on U.S. Mobile-Television Market, Possible IPO
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2011-12-29T02:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/siano-sets-its-sights-on-u-s-mobile-tv-market-moving-toward-possible-ipo.html
Siano Mobile Silicon Ltd. , an
Israeli maker of TV chips for mobile devices, is planning a push
into the U.S. next year, setting the stage for an initial public
offering filing as early as 2012.  Siano, whose chips let gadgets receive digital TV signals,
has had conversations with bankers and is weighing a U.S. filing
next year or in 2013, Chief Executive Officer Alon Ironi said in
an interview. The company hasn’t set a date for the move, and
the timing may depend on how quickly digital mobile TV takes off
with Americans, he said.  Siano, the largest provider of digital mobile-TV receiver
chips in  China  and  Latin America , is preparing to make inroads
in the U.S. in 2012. The effort will get a boost from
broadcasters, which are planning to introduce a service that
lets consumers watch shows on phones and tablets, as well as in
cars. Siano aims to overcome a dim perception of the technology
in the U.S., hurt by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s failed Flo TV service.  “We need to see the creation of a positive perception of
the mobile-TV market in the eyes of the financial community,”
Ironi said. “It’s almost a condition for going public. Right
now, if you talk to an average analyst, all they know about
mobile TV is it failed.”  The global market for mobile-TV receiver chips may reach
159.4 million units in 2015, up from 99 million chips this year,
according to research firm Forward Concepts Co. While Asia
currently leads in mobile-TV adoption, success in the U.S. is
key for holding an IPO here, Ironi said.  Small Number  After years of companies promoting the idea, only 24.7
million Americans watch video on mobile devices, according to  IE
Market Research Corp.  Qualcomm’s Flo service, which required a
subscription, was shuttered earlier this year.  Still, other companies look to re-energize the market.
 MobiTV Inc. (MBTV) , a maker of software that lets smartphone users
watch live television, filed for an IPO in August. The
Emeryville, California-based company posted a sales gain of 24
percent in the first nine months of 2011 to $59.9 million. Its
loss in the period narrowed to $10.9 million from $13 million.  “For MobiTV to do well would be a huge positive for the
industry,”  Tom Taulli , an independent IPO analyst, said in an
interview. The introduction of new services also would help,
Taulli said.  Broadcaster Alliance  The Mobile500 Alliance -- an organization of 48
broadcasting groups, including McGraw-Hill Cos. and  Gray
Television Inc. (GTN/A)  -- will begin testing mobile TV technology in
 Seattle  early next year, Executive Director John Lawson said.
Trial participants will be able to access TV broadcasts by
attaching a special gadget, with Siano’s chip, to their mobile
devices, he said. Consumers will be able to watch free, local
programming without having to pay for a wireless data plan.  The Mobile Content Venture -- an industry alliance
comprised of  about a dozen broadcasting groups , including Fox
Entertainment and NBC Universal -- has its own effort. The group
has encouraged TV stations blanketing half the country to add
mobile TV transmitters. It will start rolling out devices that
can receive the signals next year, said Salil Dalvi, a co-
general manager at Mobile Content Venture.  The question is whether Siano can succeed in a market where
Qualcomm failed, said Will Strauss, president of Forward
Concepts. Qualcomm, based in  San Diego , is the world’s largest
maker of mobile-phone chips and the Flo service was a bid to get
Americans to use their devices in new ways. Qualcomm even
promoted Flo TV during the  Super Bowl  in 2010.  ‘A Skeptic’  “I am a skeptic,” Strauss said. “Qualcomm got out of it
-- it may be a clue.”  In May, Siano  raised  $20 million in funding, led by Israeli
venture firm Jerusalem Venture Partners. The money was aimed at
helping the company gain traction in  North America .  The startup isn’t alone in supplying chips for mobile TV.
Its competitors include Telegent Systems Inc., which was
purchased by  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  earlier this year.  Siano has sought to build market share by teaming up with
many of the largest device manufacturers. It works with Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., Samsung Electronics Co.,  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570) ,  ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Huawei Technologies Co.  Customers may show prototypes of their consumer gadgets at
next month’s  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas , with
products becoming available in the first quarter, Ironi said.  Siano expects to gauge whether the U.S. market is gaining
traction by mid-2012, Ironi said. The company has annual sales
of about $40 million, he said. Revenue quadrupled in 2010 and
doubled in each year between 2007 and 2009, Ironi said,
declining to elaborate further on Siano’s finances.  New mobile-TV services won’t require a wireless data plan,
helping sidestep a weakness of Qualcomm’s Flo TV, Ironi said.  Broadcasters also can put their marketing muscle behind
promoting the new service, said Mobile Content Venture’s Dalvi.  “We got access to a pretty big megaphone to promote mobile
TV,” Dalvi said. 