-- Singapore Economy Probably Contracted as Factories Hurt by Global Slowdown
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2011-12-30T03:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/singapore-gdp-probably-fell-in-fourth-quarter-on-manufacturing.html
Singapore ’s economy probably
contracted in the fourth quarter as manufacturing slumped,
increasing pressure on the island’s policy makers to stimulate
growth even as inflation accelerates.  Gross domestic product (SGDYTY)  probably dropped an annualized 5
percent in the three months through December from the previous
quarter, when it rose 1.9 percent, according to the  median (SGAVYOY)  of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The report is scheduled
for release at 8 a.m. on Jan. 3.  Singapore forecasts economic expansion will moderate next
year as a faltering global recovery weighs on demand for goods
and services. The island’s exports have dropped even after the
 central bank , which uses the local dollar to manage inflation,
moved in October to slow gains in the currency, which has
retreated 4.5 percent against the dollar in the past two months.  “Singapore is one of Asia’s most vulnerable economies to a
slowdown in global growth,” said Sukhy Ubhi, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “The upshot is we think that
the Monetary Authority will loosen its policy settings at its
next biannual review in April.”  Other Asian nations from  Thailand  to Indonesia have reduced
 interest rates  to shield their economies from the protracted
European debt crisis. Taiwan’s central bank yesterday left
borrowing costs unchanged for a second straight quarter after
boosting its benchmark earlier in the year to damp inflation.  2012 Outlook  China ’s manufacturing contracted for a second month in
December as global growth faltered and Premier Wen Jiabao
prolonged a crackdown on speculation in the housing market,
according to an index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today.  Still, Asian stocks climbed in the last trading day of 2011
after rising U.S. home sales signaled the world’s largest
economy is weathering  Europe ’s turmoil. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index trimmed its biggest yearly decline since 2008, adding 0.2
percent as of 11:42 a.m. in  Tokyo . The measure is set for an 18
percent drop this year.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong may give some economic
estimates in his annual New Year message tomorrow. The
government expects GDP to expand about 5 percent in 2011 and
predicts growth will slow to 1 percent to 3 percent in 2012.  The island’s  inflation (SICPIYOY)  was 5.7 percent in November,
matching the fastest pace since 2008. The Monetary Authority of
Singapore has joined most other Asian policy makers who have
allowed their currencies to depreciate this year to defend
exports even as the step boosts inflation risk by making
imported goods more costly.  The  Singapore dollar  weakened about 5.5 percent in the
second half of 2011. The  Indian rupee  lost about 16 percent in
the same period, the biggest decliner in  Asia , followed by the
South Korean won.  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait, is among the first countries in
the region to report fourth-quarter data. GDP advanced 4.3
percent on a year-on-year basis, according to the median
estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  