-- SK Holdings’s Vice Chairman Chey Is Arrested on Suspicion of Embezzlement
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2011-12-29T02:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/sk-holdings-s-vice-chairman-chey-is-arrested-on-suspicion-of-embezzlement.html
SK Holdings Co. (003600)  Vice Chairman Chey
Jae Won, the second-ranking executive at  South Korea ’s third-
largest industrial group, was arrested today on suspicion he
embezzled money from company affiliates.  The Seoul Central District Court issued an arrest warrant
as there is a risk Chey would destroy evidence, Cho Won Kyung, a
judge and spokeswoman at the court, said by phone. Chey’s arrest
was also broadcast on local television. SK declined to comment
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News.  Chey, 48, the second son of SK Group founder Chey Jong Hyon, is accused of misappropriating 100 billion won ($87
million) from SK affiliates to make up for futures investment
losses incurred by his elder brother and SK Holdings Chairman
Chey Tae Won, Yonhap reported today. The elder Chey was also
summoned by prosecutors on Dec. 19.  The chairman hasn’t used any company money inappropriately
and will prove his innocence, the group said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg on Nov. 8. The government
of President  Lee Myung Bak  pardoned Chey Tae Won in 2008 of a
fraud conviction that had earned him a suspended three-year
prison term.  “If this is finished at the vice-chairman level, Chairman
Chey can stay in management, which means ongoing M&As and
businesses will not be affected much,” said Im Jeong Jae, a
Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $28 billion.  SK’s Businesses  SK Holdings, through its units, has businesses including
oil exploration and refining, chemicals, telecommunications and
transportation.  SK Telecom Co. (017670) , South Korea’s No. 1 mobile-phone
operator, agreed last month to pay 3.4 trillion won for a
controlling stake in Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  Prosecutors searched the offices of SK Holdings and other
group companies in November to investigate allegations the
group’s founding family misappropriated funds.  SK Holdings, the de facto holding company for the group,
fell 1.7 percent to 118,500 won as of 10:42 a.m. in Seoul
trading while the benchmark Kospi index dropped 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  