-- Sleeping-Bag Maker Wins Obama Help With Bangladesh Imports
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2011-12-29T23:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/sleeping-bag-maker-wins-obama-s-help-fighting-bangladesh-imports.html
An  Alabama  maker of sleeping bags
fighting low-cost competition from Bangladesh won a victory as
President  Barack Obama  excluded the imports from U.S. tariff
reductions for developing nations.  The move announced yesterday by the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office came in the annual review of the
reductions, known as the Generalized System of Preferences. The
benefits lapsed at the end of 2010 and were renewed in October
along with approval of free-trade agreements with  South Korea ,
Colombia and Panama.  Exxel Outdoors Inc. of Haleyville, Alabama, petitioned to
exempt sleeping bags from Bangladesh from the tariff reductions.
The company’s founder, Harry Kazazian, has said cheap imports
endangered the jobs of 84 employees at his plant. Republican
Senator  Jeff Sessions , who represents Alabama, blocked the
renewal of the trade preferences for 129 nations last year in
support of Kazazian’s campaign.  “This is an amazing Christmas gift,” Kazazian said in an
interview yesterday. “It’s something we’ve been fighting for
two years on behalf of our workers and industry.”  The Generalized System of Preferences removes duties on
imports such as silver jewelry, radial tires and raw materials
from eligible nations through July 2013. More than $22.6 billion
in goods entered the U.S. duty-free under the preferences in
2010, according to the U.S. International Trade Commission,
giving companies such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Campbell Soup
Co. a combined $689 million in savings.  One Product Removed  “President Obama determined that one product -- certain
non-down sleeping bags -- should be removed from eligibility for
duty-free treatment under GSP because it is import-sensitive,”
the U.S. Trade Representative’s office said in an e-mailed
statement.  Sessions praised the decision, saying in an e-mailed
statement that it “defends the rights of workers in Alabama and
throughout the nation.”  A separate petition to remove two types of self-adhesive
plastic tape was denied, according to the trade representative’s
office.  The Obama administration is reviewing petitions seeking to
withdraw or limit preferences based on countries’ practices, and
the trade agency said it plans to hold a hearing on Jan. 24 on
worker rights in Bangladesh,  Georgia , Niger,  Philippines ,  Sri
Lanka  and Uzbekistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  