-- Soho China to Pay $632 Million for 50% in Land Venture on Shanghai’s Bund
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-29T08:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/soho-china-to-buy-632-million-of-land-in-shanghai-from-greentown-zendai.html
Soho China Ltd. (410)  will pay 4 billion
yuan ($632 million) for a stake in a site on  Shanghai ’s historic
Bund that’s partly owned by  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900) , the
builder seeking to improve  cash flow  from the sale of projects.  Soho, the biggest developer in Beijing’s central business
district, will buy 50 percent of the plot from Greentown and
 Shanghai Zendai Property Ltd. (755) , according to a statement to Hong
Kong’s stock exchange today. Greentown, which owns 10 percent of
the site, will receive 1.04 billion yuan from the sale, the
company said in a separate statement.  Chinese developers are considering selling land and other
assets for cash as government curbs to damp escalating  home
prices  are pulling down sales.  China  intensified measures this
year including home-purchase restrictions in 40 cities and
higher mortgage requirements.  Although private asset sales by developers are not rare,
“a deal of this size and involving three listed companies would
send a clearer signal that consolidation has begun,” said Kris Li, a Shanghai-based analyst at SWS Securities Co. “Soho
certainly has enough cash for the purchase and it’s in line with
the company’s strategies” of focusing on commercial properties.  Soho has at least 17 billion yuan of cash currently, Li
estimated.  Fosun International owns the remaining 50 percent of the
site, with about 45,472 square meters (489,456 square feet) for
mixed office, retail, financial, art and culture development,
according to the statement.  More Project Sales  Shares of Soho rose 0.2 percent to HK$5.12 at the 4 p.m.
close in  Hong Kong , reversing an earlier loss. Greentown
declined 1.5 percent to HK$3.38, after earlier falling as much
as 3.8 percent. Shanghai Zendai shares were halted.  Greentown is in discussion to sell more of its projects to
raise cash, Chief Financial Officer Simon Fung said in a phone
interview today, adding that he is “satisfied” with the
selling price of the Bund site.  Fung declined to say which projects Greentown is planning
to sell.  Shanghai undertook a three-year renovation of the Bund, the
city’s colonial-era waterfront boulevard, lined with historic
buildings, ahead of the World Expo the city hosted in 2010.  China’s home prices posted their worst performance this
year with more than half of the 70 biggest cities monitored in
November recording declines after the government reiterated
plans to maintain property curbs.  Soho is “not optimistic” about China’s home market in
2012, Chairman  Pan Shiyi  said on a conference call with
reporters today after the announcement. Office prices in less
affluent second- and third-tier Chinese cities will decline next
year, Pan said.  --Zhang Dingmin, Kelvin Wong. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  