-- Sons of Conover Made Iraq Sacrifices as Small Towns Hit Hardest
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2011-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/sons-of-conover-made-iraq-sacrifices-as-small-towns-hit-hardest.html
This month, as the last U.S. combat
forces left  Iraq , the holiday parade in Hickory, North Carolina,
featured a first: marchers carrying the names of all the state’s
troops who died in that war and in  Afghanistan .  “The older men stood and saluted; some people cried,”
said Mike Beasley, an ex-Marine who organized the display
through his church. “It opened a lot of people up to what had
happened.”  Places like Hickory, with a population of 40,010, bore much
of the burden of Iraq war casualties. Roughly half of those who
died came from towns with fewer than 50,000 people, and of
those, about a quarter were from places with less than 10,000, a
Bloomberg analysis of U.S. Census figures suggests.  The all-volunteer military gets many front-line troops from
rural areas, where there’s a culture of patriotism, a tradition
of service and often limited economic opportunities, said
 Michael O’Hanlon , a senior fellow in defense policy at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington.  “Infantry forces, which take the brunt of a lot of the
casualties, do tend to draw predominantly from these regions,”
O’Hanlon said.  The losses hit hard in Hickory’s neighboring town of
Conover, where the economy struggled for years before the
recession hit the rest of America. The town of 8,165 people gave
up two of its sons to the war.  Conover’s Fallen  Benny Gray Cockerham III, a high school soccer standout who
attended college before joining the Marines, won two Purple
Hearts in Iraq before being killed during his second tour by a
roadside bomb near Al Amariyah on Oct. 21, 2005. The blast threw
the 21-year-old corporal into a canal, which had to be drained
so his body could be found about a week later, relatives said.  Jason “Jay” Huffman, a 23-year-old Army corporal from
Conover who played saxophone in the high school marching band
and ran cross country, was killed by a roadside bomb in Hawijah,
Iraq, on Dec. 6, 2006. During almost nine years of conflict,
three other residents of surrounding Catawba County were killed.  The departure of combat troops from Iraq brought holiday
reunions with families in western  North Carolina  where local
economies crumbled over the course of the war.  The Hickory metropolitan area, which includes Catawba
County, has lost almost 26,000  manufacturing  jobs -- a 42
percent decline -- since the U.S. invaded Iraq in March 2003,
according to U.S. Labor Department data. Employment in  furniture
manufacturing , a mainstay of the region, plunged 49 percent. The
number of textile mill workers dropped 57 percent.  ‘So Long’  In Conover, where “Merry Christmas” banners hang across
downtown streets lined with two- and three-story storefronts,
Adam Campbell, 27, said young adults whose classmates may have
served in Iraq became disillusioned as the conflict dragged on.  “There was a big hype at the time -- it was, ‘here we go,
we’re going to take care of it and it’s going to last 90
days,’” said Campbell, an engineer who commutes 90 minutes to a
job in  Charlotte . “It just went on so long.”  Campbell’s mother, Penny Corpening, 53, owns Conover
Hardware and said that, for many, economic troubles came to
overshadow concerns about the war.  “You are worried about the economy, about keeping the
business afloat,” she said. “Are we ever going to get jobs
back, so that my son can come home to work? You have to ask
whether it was worth it.”  Plant Closings  Unemployment  in Catawba County peaked at 15.2 percent in
early 2010 and was 11.6 percent in October. More than 200 jobs
were lost when  Corning (GLW)  Cable Systems, a Corning Inc. unit that
makes fiber-optic cables, closed a Hickory assembly plant in
2009, according to the Catawba County Economic Development Corp.
A Clayton Marcus Co. furniture plant closing in 2008 eliminated
230 positions, following more than 300 job cuts in 2007 at a
Progressive Furniture Inc. plant.  “We’ve been in a downward spiral for a decade, for the
entirety of the  Iraq war ,” Conover City Manager Donald Duncan
said.  North Carolina’s unemployment rate was 10 percent in
November, compared to 8.6 percent nationwide.  Stressing that there’s no comparison between wartime
military service and economic struggles, Conover Mayor Lee Moritz said people in his town “have our own rebuilding that
we’re having to do.”  Swing State  While North Carolina will be a swing state in next year’s
election -- President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, won there in
2008 by about 14,000 of 4.3 million ballots cast -- Catawba
County has been solid Republican territory. The 2008 Republican
nominee, Senator  John McCain , got 62 percent of the county’s
vote. In a Senate race last year, Republican incumbent  Richard
Burr  was favored by 67 percent of county voters.  Patriotism runs deep around Conover, said Moritz, a retired
Army lieutenant colonel, who said Cockerham and Huffman “are
heroes here.”  Cockerham, born on the base at Camp Pendleton,  California ,
may have been destined to follow his father into the Marine
Corps.  “The hardest thing when he was growing up was convincing
him that just because you wear camouflage pants, it doesn’t make
you daddy,” said his father, Ben Cockerham, who owns a small
business that provides and maintains heavy construction
equipment.  ‘All Gung Ho’  “He was all gung-ho that first tour -- then he saw some
things,” Cockerham said during an interview at a fast-food
restaurant near Conover. “He went from being 20 thinking like
he was 18, to 20 thinking like he was 50, in the course of seven
months.”  At the younger Cockerham’s alma mater, St. Stephens High
School, a memorial soccer game is held in his honor.  “He was the first person we know that had been killed
there,” said the school’s principal, DeAnna Taylor. “It was
just devastating.”  Taylor said the war’s goals were worth fighting for, though
she worries that changes in Iraq won’t last. “It’s kind of a
melancholy feeling,” she said.  At Bunker Hill High School, where Huffman graduated, his
former principal, Jeffrey Taylor, says he plans to have
Huffman’s name added to a memorial wall honoring students who
have died.  “He would have been one of those students you look back on
in 10 years and are amazed at how he’s done,” said Taylor. “He
was the silent majority: hardworking, honest, a down-to-earth
kid.”  Quiet End  Cockerham’s father said the war ended quietly because many
people stopped paying attention and aren’t aware of the
sacrifices others made.  “It’s not that people don’t care,” he said. “It’s that
they don’t know, and they don’t want to know. They want somebody
to take care of them, and they don’t want to know what it
takes.”  Cockerham paused to compose himself as he recalled his
experience boarding a flight to bring his son’s casket home.  “This luggage is moved out of the way and put back on,”
he said. “And everybody is getting on the plane, walking by the
casket. And they’ve got their earphones on, talking on the
phone, while all this is going on in front of them.”  The plane held until a Marine escort signed off.  “You could hear people bitching, saying ‘Let’s go,’ and
’What are we waiting for?’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net 
 Catherine Dodge  in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  