-- Korean Won Rebounds, Paring Annual Loss, on Intervention Talk; Bonds Gain
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2011-12-29T07:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/south-korean-won-declines-set-for-first-annual-loss-since-08-bonds-gain.html
South  Korea ’s won rebounded from the
lowest level in more than a week on speculation policy makers
sought to curb exchange-rate losses. Bonds advanced as a report
showed industrial output unexpectedly fell.  The currency gained for a second day as Yang Jae Ryong, a
statistics official at the Bank of Korea, said the nation’s
 current-account  surplus may exceed $27.2 billion this year as
November’s figure was bigger than expected.  South Korea  is
prepared to intervene in markets as the threat of geopolitical
risks following the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il 
clouds the outlook for an economy already facing weak export
demand, central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo said Dec. 19.  “Some banks placed orders suspected to have come from the
authorities to defend the won,” said Nam Kyung Tae, a Seoul-
based foreign-exchange trader at state-run Industrial  Bank of
Korea . “Market players were wary in the morning that they would
step in” to keep the won from falling beyond 1,160 per dollar,
he said.  The won strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,151.82 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell as much
as 0.5 percent earlier to 1,160.79, the weakest level since Dec.
20. Today’s gain pared the currency’s declines this year to 2.2
percent, its first annual loss since 2008.  Financial markets will be closed tomorrow and will resume
trading one hour later than usual at 10 a.m. on Jan. 2,
according to the Seoul Foreign Exchange Market Committee.  Central banks intervene in  currency markets  to try and
influence exchange rates.  Stock Outflows  The won fell earlier as exchange data showed overseas
investors sold 14.5 billion won ($13 million) more shares than
they bought today.  Industrial production shrank 0.4 percent in November from
October, Statistics Korea data showed today. The median estimate
of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.4 percent
gain. Foreigners sold a net $8.6 billion worth of local shares
this year through yesterday, according to exchange data. The
Bank of Korea refrained from raising  interest rates  for a sixth
month in December to support economic growth.  Five-year  government bonds  rose the most since October.  The yield on the 3.5 percent bonds due September 2016 fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.44 percent,
Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. The rate slid 64 basis points
this year, a second year of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  