-- Spanish Drugmakers See Austerity Reducing Sales 15% as Rajoy Readies Cuts
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2011-12-30T10:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/spanish-drugmakers-see-austerity-reducing-sales-15-as-rajoy-readies-cuts.html
Spanish drugmakers’ sales may drop
10 percent this year and more than 15 percent in 2012 because of
government spending cuts amid the nation’s worst economic crisis
in decades, the lobbying group Farmaindustria said.  Profit will keep falling until 2015, said Humberto Arnes,
director general for the Madrid-based organization. Companies
such as  Almirall SA (ALM) , the biggest Spanish drugmaker by market
value, may learn today of further measures that threaten sales
when Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  announces his first round of
budget reductions since taking office this month.  “The entire industry is in danger,” Arnes said in a
telephone interview. “It’s impossible for drugmakers to recover
in such a tough environment and many may have to relocate. The
effects are devastating.”  As Spain takes on the euro region’s third-largest budget
deficit, government moves to cut health-care costs, such as a
decision in August limiting doctors’ prescriptions to active
pharmaceutical ingredients rather than brand-name drugs, have
reduced earnings in the country’s medical industry.  Almirall stock slid 1.7 percent and  Laboratorios
Farmaceuticos Rovi SA (ROVI)  fell 2.8 percent, underperforming Spain’s
benchmark  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  index, which was up 0.2 percent at 11:15 a.m.
in Madrid.  Almirall Profit Drops  Almirall, which sells the multiple-sclerosis treatment
Sativex, has  tumbled (ALM)  22 percent this year in Madrid trading.
Nine-month net income dropped 27 percent to 88.8 million euros
($115 million) as sales fell 13 percent, and the company
forecast a similar sales trend in 2012. Faes, which makes the
allergy treatment bilastine, has plummeted 52 percent this year,
making the Bilbao-based drugmaker the worst performer in Spain’s
pharmaceutical industry.  “The industry has already slashed its workforce and
research and development spending, which may undermine its
future,” said Jordi Molina, Almirall’s head of  investor
relations . “More measures would be very harmful.”  On top of spending cuts, health companies and pharmacists
are being strangled by increasing payment delays. Public
hospitals owe pharmaceutical companies 5.83 billion euros and
the average payment time is 468 days, according to
Farmaindustria.  800 Days Late  Medical-device supplier  Prim SA (PRM)  is suffering payment delays
of more than 800 days from regions such as Valencia on the
Mediterranean coast and Andalusia in the south, said  Carlos Rodriguez , secretary general of the Madrid-based company. He
said he expects additional budget cuts that hurt earnings.  Austerity measures and widening payment delays pose a risk
for pharmacists and patients, said Daniel Cerdan, a pharmacist
from Zaragoza.  “Unless more balanced measures are approved, the industry
won’t be able to supply all drugs needed in 10 or 15 years,”
Cerdan said. “Before, it was bizarre not being paid by the
regional administration and now it’s rare to actually be paid.”  No one at Spain’s Health Ministry was available for comment
on when contacted by phone and e-mail.  Maria Victoria Moraleda, a pharmacist in Toledo, in  Spain ’s
Castilla-La Mancha region, has no faith she will get back
140,000 euros of unpaid bills since June. “We’ve had to ask for
loans and put our own assets as collateral,” said Moraleda from
her pharmacy.  The cutbacks, while painful, are necessary, said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG Valores.  Doctor Visits  “Spaniards used to go the doctor twice as much as Germans
or British and way too much money was spent on the health
system,” he said in a phone interview. “During the last few
years pharmaceutical spending has been too high and now the
entire health system needs to be rationalized, both the number
of prescriptions and its use by patients.”  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest cancer-drug maker, is
enforcing its payment terms with hospitals to make sure it
collects outstanding bills, said Severin Schwan, chief executive
officer of the Basel, Switzerland-based company.  Javier Lopez-Belmonte, chief financial officer at Rovi, a
Madrid-based drugmaker that gets 65 percent of revenue from
Spain, said he expects more reductions in the health system,
which could impact sales and profit margins in 2012.  “We’ve gone through two years of cuts and it seems there
will be more next year,” he said.  Risk to Companies  The government may avoid further health cutbacks because
drugmakers already are in a critical situation and more
constraints would force some companies to shut down operations,
said Faes General Director Gonzalo Lopez.  Some small drugmakers may be forced out of business because
of the spending cuts and the high amounts of debt owed by public
hospitals, Ignacio Ortiz de Mendivil, a Madrid-based analyst at
Banco BPI, said by phone.  “This has been a really tough year for the entire industry
and next year will continue to be a difficult one,” he said.
“Spanish pharmaceutical companies will have to survive thanks
to new products and patents while bolstering their presence
abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid   at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  