-- Sri Lanka Secures First Test Victory in South Africa to Tie Series at 1-1
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2011-12-29T16:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/sri-lanka-secures-first-test-victory-in-south-africa-to-tie-series-at-1-1.html
Sri Lanka  recorded its first Test
win in  South Africa  to tie their three-match cricket series at
1-1 ahead of next week’s decider.  Spinner Rangana Herath claimed five wickets as Sri Lanka
bowled out the hosts for 241 in their second innings at
Kingsmead in Durban to win by 208 runs. South Africa had been
set a target of 450.  “It was everyone chipping in, everyone giving it 100
percent,” Sri Lanka captain Tillakaratne Dilshan said at the
post-match presentation. “When we play our brand of cricket,
we can beat any team.”  Sri Lanka had managed to avoid defeat in only one of its
eight previous Tests in South Africa, a draw in December 2000.
It was also without a win in 10 Tests, home and away, this year.  The Sri Lankans lost the opening game of the series in
Centurion by an innings and 81 runs. The third Test in  Cape Town 
starts on Jan. 3.  The visitors began day four on 256-7 and added a further 23
runs.  Dale Steyn  collected two of the wickets to fall this
morning to finish with figures of 5-73.  South Africa was 86-1 at lunch, with only captain Graeme Smith losing his wicket -- caught at second slip by Mahela Jayawardene off the bowling of Dilhara Fernando for 26.  Jacques Rudolph was dismissed at the start of the second
session and wickets continued to tumble, with Jacques Kallis
failing to score for a second time in the match. Hashim Amla led
the resistance with 51 before being run out.  AB de Villiers (69 runs) and Steyn (43) then shared a 99-
run partnership to frustrate Sri Lanka before Herath trapped De
Villiers leg before wicket soon after the introduction of the
new ball. It sparked a collapse and the last four wickets fell
in less than four overs.  “From the word go, we haven’t been good in this Test
match,” Smith said. “We’ve been outplayed in every facet of
this game. Credit to them, we were poor and we’ve got to find a
way to bounce back.”  South Africa has now lost four straight Tests at Kingsmead,
after defeats to Australia, England and  India  since March 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 