-- Stealthy Christmas Truce Offers Way Forward for Medicare: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-29T00:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/stealthy-christmas-truce-offers-way-forward-for-medicare-view.html
The curious document released Dec.
15 by Democratic Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon  and Republican
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  was eclipsed almost as
soon as it appeared by the House Republicans’ hapless stand
against extending the payroll tax cut for two months.  But it’s worth dusting off the  Wyden-Ryan Medicare plan  for
a closer look. For one, its actual title is mysterious --
“Guaranteed Choices to Strengthen Medicare and Health Security
for All” -- and the motives of the two lawmakers appear more
mysterious still.  “Guaranteed?” “Health Security for All?” Those are, to
use another phrase taken from the plan, the sort of “iron-
clad” claims that rarely attach themselves to social insurance
programs these days, especially when a prominent Republican is
one of the authors.  Yet Wyden and Ryan have been around this policy block
before; each was more or less run over after venturing into the
mean streets of health-care reform. In 2008, Wyden teamed up
with Republican Senator Robert Bennett of  Utah  on a bipartisan
health-care overhaul that won praise from wonks but went nowhere
in the Senate. (At least Wyden still has a job. Bennett,
summarily convicted of the crime of working with a Democrat, was
turned out of his Senate seat by a Tea-Party-dominated
Republican state convention.)  For his part, Ryan wrote the  House Republicans’ 2012
budget . Like the Wyden-Bennett bill, Ryan’s blueprint was a dead
letter in the Senate, after House Republicans voted for it en
masse in April. They’ve been trying to figure out how to defuse
the plan’s politically explosive mix of deep cuts in Medicare
and huge tax cuts for the wealthy ever since.  Premium Support  The plan Wyden and Ryan produced together lacks the details
necessary to gauge its full merit. But the outline is
intriguing. Ryan’s previous proposal would have transformed
 Medicare  into a premium support system with vouchers supplanting
government insurance. The plan also capped increases in federal
spending on health insurance for senior citizens at 1 percent a
year, a steep cut when one considers that Medicare’s costs have
increased at an annual rate of 8.2 percent over the last 15
years. Eventually, the failure of the premium support to keep
pace with  health-care inflation , and the lack of additional
downward pressure on costs, would have broken the system.  The Wyden-Ryan plan is also a premium support plan -- but a
more generous and realistic one if the goal is to ensure that
 Medicare  is a viable health-insurance program for Americans over
65. Beginning in 2022, the plan caps Medicare spending at 1
percent more than the nation’s rate of gross domestic product
growth, plus inflation. Because health-care costs have been
growing far more rapidly than that, and because those costs are
the biggest driver of future  budget deficits , the plan still
needs other ways to save money. It proposes the creation of
highly regulated health-care exchanges, where private health
plans would compete to serve Medicare beneficiaries.  If that sounds familiar, welcome to 2009. What Wyden and
Ryan have proposed is remarkably similar to the Affordable Care
Act -- aka Obamacare -- for the over-65 set. The only difference
is that they’ve embraced a “public option” -- traditional
Medicare -- to compete with private insurance plans on the
exchanges.  Some liberals were quick to accuse Wyden of providing
political cover for Republicans seeking a retreat from Ryan’s
last plan. If that’s true, it’s unclear how effective it will
be. The House vote in April is a matter of public record; it
can’t be easily expunged.  Republican Challenge  Although Wyden was the one accused of aiding and abetting
the enemy, it’s actually Ryan who traveled the greater, and
perhaps more perilous, distance. By replacing his previous plan
with one that, at first blush, appears more realistic and sure-
footed in safeguarding seniors’ access to  health care , he is
creating both an opening and a challenge for his party,
especially in the House where Republicans have thrown themselves
into partisan warfare and symbolic protests at the expense of
governing.  Ryan’s Republican colleagues made him a hero earlier this
year. The question they must answer now is very simple: If
Wyden-Ryan’s premium support plan with a public option is a
perfectly good idea for a 65-year-old, how is it that a more
free-market approach -- premium support without a public option
-- constitutes socialist tyranny for a 64-year-old? Wyden-Ryan
might offer some modest political cover for  House Republicans ,
but it also exposes the incoherence of their attack on health-
care reform.  In a less-polarized environment, the Wyden-Ryan plan might
offer the building blocks for fusing  Medicare  and health-care
reform for those under 65 into one comprehensive system. The
plan even suggests as much in its final page, with sections on
“Maximizing Options for Workers” and “Ensuring a Smooth
Transition into the Medicare Program.”  Nothing of consequence will happen on the plan in 2012,
when serious fixes remain on hold while the parties fight what
is sure to be a fierce, ugly election contest. Without a change
in the political culture, such fixes may not happen at all. But
during a holiday season in the capital that was notable largely
for its acrimony, Wyden and Ryan showed that good will, combined
with good sense, can still inspire policy entrepreneurs. Now if
only the entrepreneurs can find a market for their wares in
 Washington .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 