-- Sumitomo Mitsui Will Maintain Support for Olympus, Bank’s President Says
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2011-12-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/sumitomo-mitsui-will-maintain-support-for-olympus-miyata-says.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) ,  Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s biggest shareholder, will maintain support
for the world’s largest endoscope maker and help it keep its
global lead, as the camera maker reels from a $1.7 billion
accounting fraud, the bank’s president said.  “Olympus has developed one of  Japan ’s most vital
technologies,” Koichi Miyata said in an interview on Dec. 21.
“We’ll stand by the company as its most intimate lender because
it is important to protect the technology, where Olympus has 70
percent of the market.”  Miyata’s remarks follow those of Katsunori Nagayasu,
chairman of the Japanese Bankers Association, on Dec. 15
expressing continued lender support for the manufacturer.
Japanese prosecutors raided Tokyo-based Olympus’s offices on
Dec. 21, more than a month after the company admitted to hiding
investment losses over more than a decade.  Olympus on Dec. 14 restated more than five years of
earnings to avoid being automatically delisted from the  Tokyo 
Stock Exchange after admitting to the 13-year cover-up. The
company inflated fees to advisers on the 2008 acquisition of
Gyrus Group Plc and overpaid in purchasing three Japanese
companies with the intention of increasing goodwill, an
independent panel investigating the fraud said Dec. 6.  While being a listed company is a key to Olympus’s access
to financial tools for its recovery, Sumitomo Mitsui’s financial
support for the company wouldn’t be changed if it was removed
from the exchange, Miyata said.  Olympus President Shuichi Takayama has said he will
consider all options to restore capital after slashing net
assets 70 percent following the restatement.  The camera maker’s long-term loans with  Sumitomo Mitsui 
totaled 153.7 billion yen ($1.98 billion) as of Sept. 30,
according to an Olympus document distributed at its meeting with
banks on Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 