-- Surveillance Law Upheld While Lawsuits Allowed to Proceed
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2011-12-29T23:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/surveillance-law-upheld-while-lawsuit-allowed-to-proceed-1-.html
The U.S. government’s decision to
shield telecommunications companies from lawsuits alleging an
anti-terrorism surveillance program violated consumers’ privacy
rights was upheld by a federal appeals court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco ruled today that
an amendment to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or
FISA, granting immunity from lawsuits to  AT&T Inc. (T)  and other
companies doesn’t violate constitutional due process rights of
citizens who sued carriers whom they alleged assisted the
government in illegal wiretapping.  While they can’t sue telephone companies, phone customers
can proceed with lawsuits against the government over the
warrantless surveillance program, the court said, reversing a
federal judge who dismissed lawsuits challenging what the
plaintiffs allege is a “communications dragnet of ordinary
American citizens.” The lower-court judge had ruled that the
alleged spying wasn’t shown to be sufficiently linked to the
plaintiffs.  The appeals court disagreed, ruling that the phone
customers’ “allegations are highly specific and lay out
concrete harms arising from the warrantless searches.”  Billions of Dollars  More than 40 lawsuits seeking billions of dollars in
damages were filed in 2006 against phone companies alleging they
helped the government wiretap suspected terrorists without court
approval. Congress passed a measure in 2008 granting phone
companies immunity from the lawsuits if the U.S. Attorney
General certified that they assisted the government pursuant to
a special court order or other criteria.  Other lawsuits by telephone customers targeted the
government rather than the telecommunications companies. The
appeals court sent those cases back to district court with
instructions to consider whether they are barred because they
could reveal “state secrets” and damage national security.  The first case is Hepting v. AT&T, 07-17132, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ). The second case
is Jewel v. National Security Agency, 10-15616, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  