-- U.S. Regulators Settle Bribery Case With Deutsche Telekom for $95 Million
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-29T17:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/u-s-regulators-settle-bribery-case-with-deutsche-telekom-for-95-million.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Europe ’s
biggest phone company, and its Magyar Telekom unit will pay $95
million to settle allegations they violated the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.  Magyar Telekom, based in Budapest, will disgorge $31.2
million and pay a $59.6 million criminal penalty as part of a
deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Justice Department,
according to a statement today by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The Bonn-based parent company will pay
$4.36 million as part of a DOJ non-prosecution agreement, the
SEC said. Both companies settled a civil suit filed today with
the SEC.  “Magyar Telekom’s senior executives used sham contracts to
funnel millions of dollars in corrupt payments to foreign
officials who could help them keep competitors out and win
business,” Kara Novaco Brockmeyer, chief of the SEC Enforcement
Division’s FCPA Unit, said in the release.  Magyar Telekom,  Hungary ’s former phone monopoly, in June
said it set aside 11.7 billion forint ($48.7 million) as it
negotiated a settlement with the SEC over FCPA violations.  Separate Lawsuits  The SEC filed separate lawsuits in federal court in
 Manhattan  against the companies and three former executives of
Magyar Telekom. The defendants are former Chief Executive
Officer Elek Straub, former Director of Central Strategic
Organization Andras Balogh and former Director of Business
Development and Acquisitions in the Central Strategic
Organization Tamas Morvai.  “Deutsche Telekom has not been accused of violating the
ban on bribery,” the company said in an e-mailed statement
forwarded by spokeswoman Elpida Trizi. “The settlement
terminates the investigations against Deutsche Telekom without a
criminal charge.”  “The final settlements recognize the DOJ’s and the SEC’s
consideration of the company’s self-reporting, thorough internal
investigation, remediation and cooperation with the DOJ’s and
the SEC’s investigations,” Magyar Telekom said in a statement.  Lawyers for the three former executives couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment about the lawsuit. All three
are Hungarian citizens believed to be residing in that country,
according to the complaint.  In January Bonn prosecutors said an investigation turned up
no evidence of wrongdoing against Deutsche Telekom Chief
Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  related to the bribery
allegations in Hungary and the  Republic of Macedonia .  New Competitor  According to the complaints filed today, Straub, Balogh and
Morvai in 2005 and 2006 executed a plan to bribe government
officials in Macedonia to delay or prevent a new competitor from
operating in that country and to obtain regulatory benefits,
according to the complaint. Magyar Telekom paid $4.88 million
euros ($6.3 million) during that period to an intermediary under
the guise of consulting and marketing contracts, according to
the complaints.  “The former executives also offered or promised Macedonian
political party officials a valuable business opportunity in
return for the party’s support of Magyar Telekom’s desired
benefits,” the SEC wrote.  In 2005, Straub, Balogh and Morvai conducted a second
scheme in which they authorized Magyar Telekom to make 7.35
million euros in corrupt payments to Montenegrin officials to
facilitate the company’s acquisition of Telekom Crne Gore AD in
Belgrade,  Serbia , according to the SEC.  ‘Bogus Contracts’  “At least two Montenegrin government officials involved in
the TCG acquisition received cash payments made through the
bogus contracts,” the SEC said.  AT&T Inc. ended its $39 billion bid to acquire Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile USA on Dec. 19.  The cases are U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Magyar Telekom Plc, 11-cv-9646, and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Straub, 11-cv-9645, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Manhattan federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 