-- China, Vietnam Wind-Tower Makers Draw U.S. Petition
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2011-12-30T16:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/u-s-wind-tower-companies-seek-duties-against-china-vietnam-1-.html
(Corrects project location in tenth paragraph.)  Wind-tower producers from  China  and
 Vietnam  are selling their renewable-energy equipment below cost
in the U.S., according to an attorney for American producers
that petitioned the U.S. to impose anti-dumping duties.  “The Chinese and Vietnamese industries are using unfair
pricing practices to capture critical sales from the U.S.
industry,”  Alan Price , an attorney at Wiley Rein LLP
representing the Wind Tower Trade Coalition, said in a statement
on the complaint filed yesterday with the U.S. International
Trade Commission and Commerce Department.  The  law firm  also represents the U.S. unit of  SolarWorld AG (SWV) 
in a pending complaint on imports of Chinese solar panels. The
new petition, on metal towers that hold turbines aloft at wind
farms, expands an international dispute over pricing and
government subsidies for alternative energy.  The wind-tower complaint was filed by  Broadwind Energy
Inc. (BWEN) ;  Otter Tail Corp. (OTTR) ’s DMI Industries; a unit of Trinity
Industries Inc.; and Katana Summit, Price, who is based in
Washington, said in an interview.  The wind-tower companies also filed a countervailing-duty
complaint against China. The U.S. uses more than 300 anti-
dumping and countervailing duty orders to shield American-made
goods, from honey to bedroom furniture, against global
competition it deems unfair and damaging to U.S. companies.
About half the orders target iron and steel products.  Anti-dumping duties apply to goods sold overseas at or
below the price in the home country. Towers from China sell at
64 percent of their normal value and those from Vietnam at 59
percent, according to the petition by the U.S. companies.
Countervailing duties aim to offset the benefits of government
subsidies to industries.  Government Subsidies  China accounts for a third of all U.S. actions on imports,
the most of any country, including about 100 anti-dumping and
more than two dozen countervailing duty orders, according to the
U.S. trade commission.  Calls and e-mails seeking comment from Broadwind spokesman
John Segvich weren’t immediately returned. DMI Industries’
Belinda Forknell couldn’t be reached by telephone. An e-mail to
the Chinese embassy wasn’t immediately returned, and a phone
call to the Vietnamese embassy wasn’t answered.  Xinjiang Goldwind Science and Technology Co. (2208) , China’s
second-biggest maker of  wind turbines , relies on U.S. sources
for its expansion there, Colin Mahoney, a spokesman for Goldwind
USA, said in an e-mail.  The company’s Shady Oaks project in  Illinois  used towers
made in Texas and Wisconsin, Mahoney said. “In one case, as a
result of the Shady Oaks project, a U.S. manufacturer retained
and rehired positions it had previously eliminated,” he said.  Solar Imports  The U.S. trade commission took the first step toward adding
tariffs on Chinese solar imports on Dec. 2, saying subsidies for
the products harm equipment makers such as Bonn-based
SolarWorld.  Chinese solar-equipment makers have said tariffs sought by
U.S. competitors would make it harder to expand the use of
renewable energy.  China and the U.S. are among nations encouraging the use of
renewable-energy sources, driving costs down, so it would be
unfair to penalize China, Richard Weiner, an attorney for the
Chinese Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery
and Electronic Products, told investigators with the U.S. trade
commission in Washington on Nov. 8.  Solyndra LLC, a California maker of solar panels that
received $535 million in U.S. loan guarantees, blamed cheap
Chinese imports for its collapse in September.  Chinese Companies  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and Trina Solar Ltd., two of the
biggest China-based makers of crystalline silicon panels, have
argued against duties. China-based Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co.’s U.S. unit, Canadian Solar Inc.’s U.S. unit and San
Francisco-based Recurrent Energy also have argued against the
tariffs.  “The  United States  will do everything we can to defend our
core interest and make sure our manufacturers are not
discriminated against or put in to a competitive disadvantage
because of another country’s industrial policy,” U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  said Nov. 7 in an interview. “All we
ask, we want everybody to play by the rules.”  The Obama administration filed a trade complaint against
China at the  World Trade Organization  in December 2010 over its
support for wind-energy manufacturers through aid tied to the
use of locally produced content. China agreed to end hundreds of
millions of dollars in such subsidies, the U.S. trade office
said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  