-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Dec. 27 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2011-12-29T13:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-dec-27-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Weather Summary:  Back-to-back storms produced heavy rain
in much of the Southeast, including drought-affected areas from
eastern Texas to the southern Appalachians.  Meanwhile, snow
blanketed the southern Rockies and adjacent High Plains.
Farther north, mild, dry conditions persisted across the
northern Plains and upper Midwest. Elsewhere, cool, unusually
dry conditions persisted west of the Rockies, except for some
beneficial precipitation in Arizona.  In  California ’s Central
Valley, dry conditions and low overnight temperatures led to
stunted pasture growth, forcing some ranchers to keep their
animals at higher elevations or provide supplemental sources of
food and water.  Northeast:  The snow season has gotten off to a slow start in
much of the Northeast.  Through December 24, New York locations
such as Buffalo (3.0 inches) and Rochester (2.2 inches)
experienced record-low season-to-date totals.  Previous records
had been set with respective totals of 3.1 inches (in 1998) in
Buffalo and 2.6 inches (in 1939) in Rochester.  Precipitation
moved into the Northeast on December 26-27, but higher amounts
again bypassed the pockets of abnormal dryness (D0) in northern
portions of  New York  and New England.  Southeast:  Substantial rain fell in most drought-affected areas
west of a line from the western Carolinas into western Florida,
resulting in widespread one-category reductions in drought
intensity.  From December 20-26, Pensacola, Florida, received
7.30 inches of rain.  Farther west, December 20-26 totals topped
4 inches in a multitude of locations across  Louisiana  (e.g.
Alexandria,  Lake Charles ),  Mississippi  (e.g. Jackson, Meridian,
Natchez), and neighboring states.  However, significant rain
bypassed a few areas, including the central  Gulf Coast  and
southern Atlantic regions.  In particular, abnormal dryness (D0)
continued to gradually expand across Florida’s peninsula on the
strength of very dry conditions since November 1.  With rainfall
totaling only 0.17 inch from December 1-27, Sarasota-Bradenton,
 Florida , was on a pace to experience its driest December since
1949, when 0.03 inch fell.  Southern and Central Plains:  In the wake of the December 19-20
storm, a few additional improvements in the drought depiction
were made on the central Plains.  A second storm followed the
December 19-20 event, resulting in substantial snow (and some
drought relief) on the southern High Plains.  Pueblo, CO, was
affected by both storms, reporting 16.0 inches of snow from
December 19-22.  Farther south, December 22-24 snowfall reached
10.0 inches in Roswell, NM, and 6.4 inches in Midland, TX.  By
the morning of December 25, snow depths included 8 inches at
Roswell and Clayton, NM, as well as Pueblo, CO.  As a result of
the widespread snowfall, the core area of exceptional drought
(D4) centered over western  Texas  and southeastern  New Mexico 
diminished in size.  As more precipitation has fallen, the focus
of the southern Plains- drought has begun to shift toward
groundwater recharge, reservoir replenishment, and long-term
recovery from the damage done to rangeland and pastures.  Northern Plains and Midwest:  Unseasonably mild, dry weather
persisted in the areas affected by dryness (D0) and drought (D1
and D2).  Since this region’s normal winter precipitation is
typically very light, changes in the drought depiction have
been, and will continue to be, very gradual.  The Southwest:  Like the southern High Plains, the southern
Rockies were graced with abundant, drought-easing snowfall.  By
December 27, the water equivalent (SWE) of the high-elevation
snow pack generally ranged from 100 to 200% of normal, with a
few higher values, in most watersheds across  Arizona  and New
Mexico.  California, the Great Basin, and the Northwest:  In stark
contrast, extremely dry conditions persisted in northern and
central California and the Great Basin, where many basin-level
SWE values were less than 25% of normal for late December.
Effects have not yet become significantly hydrological in
nature; for example, California’s 154 intrastate reservoirs held
125% of their normal water volume for December 1.  However,
agricultural impacts are beginning to mount, especially in parts
of California’s Central Valley.  According to USDA, “rangeland
had started to deteriorate due to lack of rains” and
“supplemental feeding of livestock [will] continue until new
vegetation [gains] strength.”  Due to short-term dryness, D0 was
broadly expanded southward into California and eastward into the
Great Basin.  The coverage of dryness also increased across the
interior Northwest, while some moderate drought (D1) was
introduced in an area centered on the California-Nevada-Oregon
triple point.  Hawaii :  Heavy showers dotted Hawaii’s windward locations,
especially on the Big Island.  As a result, extreme drought (D3)
was eliminated from the southeastern portion of the Big Island.
Elsewhere on the Big Island, Hilo’s December 1-27 rainfall
climbed to 19.45 inches, 188% of normal.  No changes were
introduced elsewhere on the Hawaiian Islands.  Looking Ahead:  During the next 5 days (December 29, 2011 -
January 2, 2012), a pattern change will bring an increase in
storminess to the Nation’s northern tier, while little or no
precipitation will fall across the southern two-thirds of the
nation.  Five-day precipitation totals could reach 2 to 8 inches
in the Pacific Northwest and 2 to 4 inches in the northern
Rockies.  Generally light precipitation will fall from the
northern Plains into the Northeast, with some locally heavier
snow in the Great Lakes region. Much of the U.S. will experience
near-or above-normal temperatures through week’s end, but colder
air will arrive in the East early in the New Year.  The CPC 6- to 10-day outlook for January 3-7, 2012, call for
above-normal temperatures across the western two-thirds of the
U.S., while colder-than-normal weather will prevail in the East.
Meanwhile, drier-than-normal conditions across the majority of
the nation will contrast with near-normal precipitation in
western  Washington  and from the lower Great Lakes region into
 New England .  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  