-- Missile Defense Agency Will Fight Parts Defects
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-29T17:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/u-s-missile-defense-agency-to-crack-down-on-poor-quality.html
U.S. missile defense contractors for
the first time will be held financially responsible for poor-
quality parts, such as those that have caused failures and
delays to multimillion-dollar tests, according to documents and
congressional testimony.  A new “Contractor Accountability For Quality” clause will
be included in the Missile Defense Agency’s contract for ground-
based missile defense development and sustainment.  Boeing Co. (BA)  of
 Chicago  is pitted against  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda,
 Maryland , for the potential $600 million-a-year contract.  The contract may be awarded as soon as tomorrow or next
week. It will be the first to include the provision, the Missile
Defense Agency told the Senate Armed Services Committee in
correspondence that was not publicly released.  The provision allows the agency to reduce or even eliminate
performance fees “when our prime and subcontractors fail to
follow their own best practices, internal processes or accepted
industry standards that result in quality problems,” the agency
told the committee in a statement.  Penalties would apply to “quality escapes” in building
missiles, radar and other sensors that make up the U.S. missile
defense system, it said.  The provision is not meant to penalize a contractor for all
failures. In advancing state-of-the-art technology, “we should
expect such failures from time to time,” the agency said.  Separately, the agency will announce as soon as next week
that Lockheed Martin will receive an initial contract valued at
as much as $1.96 billion to sell Thaad missile interceptors,
launchers and radar to the  United Arab Emirates , a U.S. official
said.  Threat of Penalties  The threat of penalties is necessary because the missile
defense program has been hit with repeated quality shortfalls,
said Christina Chaplain, an associate director at the U.S.
Government Accountability Office who follows the agency.  The  Missile Defense Agency  “has been taking a stronger
stand with provisions like this and with increased attention to
quality,” she said in an e-mail. “Until the space and missile
defense sector gets a better handle on quality, provisions like
this are probably the best tool around to incentivize and hold
contractors accountable.”  Parts defects have affected nearly every major space and
missile defense program, causing millions of dollars in cost
overruns and many months of schedule delays, she said.  ‘Botched Tests’  For the MDA in particular, quality issues “have led to
botched tests, which take many months to plan and are very
expensive,” Chaplain said. “Often the quality problems we see
are the result of contractors not following basic procedures or
policies.”  In February 2010, David Altwegg, then the MDA’s executive
director, told reporters that the agency is “very, very
disappointed” with “quality design issues, but more with
products delivered, which results in rework.”  “It costs the taxpayer more,” he said.  Yet in most cases, because of the contract structures, the
government is limited in “its ability to hold contractors
responsible for sloppy work or inattention to procedures already
on the books,” Chaplain said.  Test Failures  A $100 million missile interceptor test failed in January
2010 when a  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  warhead thruster malfunctioned because
of a missing “lockwire,” the agency said.  A separate $41 million test of Lockheed Martin’s Thaad
interceptor failed in December 2009 when an aerial target
provided by an  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  unit had an
incorrectly rigged connector.  In a third instance, a $100 million missile defense test
was delayed at least eight months in 2008 because of a component
failure in a data transmission device made by another L-3 unit.  Until now, many missile defense contracts have been cost-
plus types that require the U.S. to pay for cost overruns and
missile failures. The MDA has the recourse to dock contractors
some award or all of their incentive fee.  Still, the agency is “evaluating our ability to go beyond
the scope we currently have and extending it to a much greater
pool of fee, to include even past awarded money,” Army
Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly, the agency’s director, told
U.S. Representative Michael Turner in a written statement.  ‘Egregious Errors’  “This will enable the government to be compensated for
egregious errors in quality control,” O’Reilly said in his
statement to Turner, an Ohio Republican who is chairman of the
House Armed Services subcommittee on missile defense.  Raytheon is teamed with Lockheed on the competition, and
Northrop Grumman Corp. is with Boeing.  Asked to comment on the new provision, Lockheed Martin
spokeswoman Lynn Fisher wrote in an e-mail that the company is
“committed to providing quality products to our customers.
Given that we are in a competition, we defer questions related
to contractual terms to the Missile Defense Agency.”  Boeing spokesman Scott Day said, “Boeing places the
highest priority on quality, authenticity and the reliability of
every component the company utilizes in our systems.  ‘‘There have been, and continue to be extensive and broad-
based reviews -- all across our supplier base -- aimed at
enhancing our processes and procedures to prevent problems and
support our customers with the highest level of mission
assurance,’’ he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  