-- Consumer Comfort Fell From Five-Month High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-29T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/u-s-consumer-confidence-falls-from-five-month-high-bloomberg-index-shows.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
retreated last week from a five-month high, showing an
improvement in sentiment will take time to develop.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (COMFCOMF)  dropped to minus 47.5
in the period ended Dec. 24 from minus 45 the prior week, the
highest reading since July. A gauge of the buying climate fell
by the most in three months.  Declining  home prices (SPCS20Y%) , stagnating wages and an  unemployment
rate  at 8.6 percent may be weighing on sentiment. At the same
time, household spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the world’s largest economy, continues to increase.  “While consumer sentiment has shown signs of stabilizing,
it is still quite fragile,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Households remain
stressed, and it would not be surprising to see further declines
in sentiment in early 2012 once the bill for the recent increase
in  consumer spending  comes due.”  Two of the three components in the weekly comfort index
worsened. The  buying climate (COMFFBUY)  index declined to minus 52.5 from
minus 46.9, and the gauge of personal finances fell to minus 4.9
from minus 2.5. The measure of Americans’ views of the current
state of the economy rose to minus 85 from minus 85.8.  Stocks climbed as concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis eased
after Italian borrowing costs declined at an auction. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,254.83 at 9:35
a.m. in New York.  The  average number (INJCJC4)  of Americans who have filed applications
for  unemployment benefits  during the last four weeks fell to
375,000, the lowest level since June 2008, Labor Department
figures showed earlier. Applications rose for the first time in
a month in the week ended Dec. 24, climbing by a more-than-
forecast 15,000 to 381,000.  Presidential Politics  Confidence among Americans is also being influenced by
politics, as the U.S. heads into a presidential election year,
today’s confidence report showed.  Sentiment “usually is substantially lower among Democrats
than it is among Republicans, who tend to be better off,”  Gary
Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.
“But Democrats are now expressing greater economic confidence
than usual, Republicans less so, as an apparent reflection of
their political preferences.”  Sentiment among  Democrats (COMFDEM)  was at minus 44.4 last week,
compared with minus 45.2 for Republicans. The former has
exceeded the latter in seven of the past nine weeks, the longest
such stretch in records going back to 1990, which include  Bill
Clinton ’s presidency.  Wealthier Households  Households making more than $100,000 a year are among those
whose confidence is stagnating. Their comfort index of minus
16.3 last week was the 33rd consecutive negative reading,
compared with an average of 9.9 for the group going back to
2005.  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began in December 1985,
has averaged minus 46.8 this year compared with minus 45.7 for
all of 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-year reading
on record, the report showed.  Nonetheless, Americans are spending more. Sales at
retailers rose 4.5 percent last week from a year earlier,
according to a chain-store sales index released yesterday by New
York-based International Council of Shopping Centers and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  Merchants kept stores open longer than ever throughout this
holiday season. Almost all 600 Toys “R” Us Inc. locations in
the U.S. remained open from Dec. 20 to Christmas Eve -- or 112
hours straight.  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  also
extended hours to lure bargain-hunting shoppers.  Other Measures  Other sentiment indicators have rebounded. The Conference
Board’s  index of confidence (CONCCONF)  in December climbed to an eight-
month high, and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
index of consumer  sentiment (CONSSENT)  in December rose to the highest
level in six months.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
age 18 and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  