-- U.S., Saudi Arabia Sign $29.4 Billion F-15 Fighter Deal Backed by Congress
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-29T20:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/u-s-saudi-formally-sign-boeing-f-15-jet-deal-proposed-in-2010.html
The Obama administration has signed
an agreement with  Saudi Arabia  that Congress approved in 2010 to
sell Boeing Co. F-15 fighters to the Gulf ally.  “Valued at $29.4 billion, this agreement includes
production of 84 new aircraft and the modernization of 70
existing aircraft as well as munitions, spare parts, training,
maintenance and logistics,” the White House’s principal deputy
press secretary,  Josh Earnest , said in an e-mailed statement.
The jets “are among the most sophisticated and capable aircraft
in the world,” he said.  The sale, signed on Christmas Eve in  Riyadh , “will send a
strong message to countries in the region that the  United States 
is committed to security in the Gulf,” said Andrew Shapiro,
assistant secretary of state for political-military affairs, at
a State Department briefing announcing the deal’s completion.  The announcement came after  Iran  threatened to block the
Strait of Hormuz, a major shipping channel for Persian Gulf oil,
if economic sanctions are increased. The sanctions are aimed at
stopping the Islamic Republic from acquiring a nuclear bomb.  Shapiro cited Iran as a threat to the Gulf region, though
he denied any link between the announcement’s timing and Iran’s
recent threats.  “We did not gin up a package in response to current events
in the region,” he said.  Israel  Keeps ‘Edge’  He also said the deal “will not have an impact on Israel’s
qualitative military edge” in the  Middle East .  The first of the new warplanes will be delivered to Saudi
Arabia in early 2015. Upgrades to existing planes will begin in
mid-to-late 2014, according to James Miller, principal deputy
undersecretary of defense for policy.  About 5,500 Saudi personnel will get training with U.S.
forces through 2019, said Miller, who joined Shapiro at the
State Department briefing.  The planes are equipped with advanced radars, missiles and
infrared sensors, Miller said. A common communications system
will allow U.S. and Saudi pilots to operate in the same
airspace, he said.  Building the  Boeing (BA)  planes will support 50,000 U.S. jobs
for at least a decade and aid 600 suppliers in 44 states,
Shapiro said. The annual economic impact to the U.S. will be
$3.5 billion, he said.  “Boeing views Saudi Arabia as a market with great
potential and has made it a priority to invest in Saudi Arabia’s
aviation industry,” said Boeing Chairman Jim McNerney, in a
written statement.  Last Sale in 1992  Saudi Arabia’s last significant U.S. weapons purchase was
for 72 F-15s in 1992, a transaction valued at as much as $9
billion. The final installment of those planes was delivered in
November 1999.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier, used F-15s
and Apache helicopters in late 2009 to fight Muslim Shiite
rebels who crossed the border from  Yemen  and seized territory
inside the kingdom.  “This agreement reinforces the strong and enduring
relationship between the United States and Saudi Arabia, and
demonstrates the U.S. commitment to a strong Saudi defense
capability as a key component to regional security,” Earnest
said.  Separately, the administration also is increasing arms
sales to another Gulf ally, the  United Arab Emirates . The U.S.
this week reached an agreement with the Emirates to sell them
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s Thaad missile interceptors for an
initial contract of $1.96 billion in a deal potentially valued
at $3.49 billion.  Congress this month also approved a $304 million sale to
the Emirates of 4,900 guided-bomb kits, including 600 for
bunker-buster munitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  