-- UAE Said to Sign Lockheed Thaad Pact Valued to $3.49 Billion
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-29T21:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/uae-said-to-sign-lockheed-missile-deal-valued-to-3-49-billion.html
The U.S. and the United Arab
Emirates have signed a deal valued at as much as $3.49 billion
for the first international sale of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
newest missile interceptor, according to government officials.  The initial installment of a so-called “undefinitized
contract action” is valued at about $1.96 billion, according to
a U.S. government official. The Pentagon may announce the
contract action as soon as next week, said the official, who
wasn’t authorized to discuss the signing prior to its
announcement.  The interceptors are a centerpiece of the regional defense
that the Obama administration plans to deploy in the  Middle East 
against Iran’s medium- and long-range ballistic missiles.
Batteries of land-based interceptors would be linked with the
U.S. Navy’s detection systems on Aegis-class destroyers and
cruisers.  Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, missile
interceptors are produced in Troy, Alabama, and the fire control
equipment and launchers are made in Camden, Arkansas. Lockheed
Martin is based in Bethesda, Maryland.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , of Waltham, Massachusetts, provides the
radar, and  Honeywell Inc. (HON) , of Morris Township, New Jersey, makes
the missile’s mission computer. Aerojet, part of  GenCorp Inc. (GY) ,
based in Rancho Cordova, California, makes the Thaad rocket
motor. The U.S. subsidiary of the U.K.’s  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) 
produces the missile seeker.  Lockheed Comment  Lockheed Martin spokeswoman Jennifer Whitlow said the
company was continuing to work with the Pentagon’s Missile
Defense Agency on the contract. She declined to discuss the
timing of any announcement.  Shares of Lockheed closed at $81.52, up 58 cents or .72
percent on the New York Stock Exchange.  The UAE would be the first Thaad international buyer. In
September 2008, when it was first proposed for congressional
approval, the Pentagon said the deal would be valued at as much
as $6.95 billion if all options were exercised.  In August 2010 the UAE scaled back the sale by about one-
third. It “adjusted its requirement” to 96 interceptors from
144.  The UAE also reduced its purchase -- from four to two -- of
Raytheon’s AN/TPY-2 mobile search and tracking radar. The new
radar plan supports two missile batteries, rather than three,
according to a  Missile Defense Agency  document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  