-- Singh Caps ‘Annus Horribilis’ With Anti-Graft Law Stymied by Upper House
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2011-12-30T12:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/uproar-over-india-graft-laws-sinks-singh-vote.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  failed
to win passage of his anti-corruption bill as an uproar broke
out in India’s upper house of parliament, capping a year of
setbacks that stirred concern over a wrecked economic agenda.  Proceedings were adjourned late yesterday after a lawmaker
snatched papers from a minister and flung them across the
chamber. The leader of the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata
Party  in the upper house,  Arun Jaitley , accused the government
of scripting the disturbance as it realized it was unable to win
a vote on the measure that would create a graft-fighting agency.  The rebuff is the latest disappointment for Singh, 79,
whose championing of free-market policies two decades ago helped
 India  become the second-fastest growing major economy.
Allegations of corruption in his cabinet triggered mass protests
this year, while a failure to contain inflation and a reversal
on foreign investment in the retail industry sapped confidence
in his administration.  “This is an annus horribilis for the government and the
worst thing about it is that the problems are of their own
making,” said  Samir Arora , founder of Singapore-based hedge
fund Helios Capital Management Pte, referring to the ruling
Congress party’s failure to bring along its allies. “The
government is in complete disarray,” Arora, who focuses on
investments in India, said.  Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal said more
time was needed to consider 187 amendments to the bill that were
proposed by both opposition parties and allies of the
government. The bill passed in the lower house on Dec. 27.  ‘Running Away’  “The government is running away from the house because it
is in a hopeless minority,” Jaitley said. “A government which
did not have the numbers in the house has consciously
choreographed” events so as to avoid a vote, he said.  A spokesman for Singh’s Congress party, Janardan Dwivedi,
denied Jaitley’s accusations and said the government’s rivals
hadn’t been serious about wanting to pass a bill to counter
graft. “There was a problem of a time limit,” he said. “Had
the opposition cooperated, the bill could have been passed.”
The winter session of parliament had been extended by three days
until Dec. 29 to allow for debates on the so-called Lokpal bill.  The setback may reinvigorate demonstrations led by anti-
corruption campaigner  Anna Hazare , who called off his latest
fast to demand tough anti-corruption laws a day early on Dec. 28
after finding fewer supporters than he attracted for an earlier
effort this year.  Ally Anger  Hazare, 73, grabbed headlines in August with a 13-day
hunger strike that prompted Singh’s government to agree to
consider many of the demands presented by activists.  Proposals for a corruption ombudsman have been introduced
to parliament nine times since 1968 without being passed. The
government, which is 28 seats short of a majority in the upper
house, failed to win the support of one of its largest
parliamentary allies, the Trinamool Congress.  “This is a shameful day for India’s democracy,” said
Derek O’Brien, a Trinamool upper house lawmaker, adding his
party couldn’t back the bill because it infringed on states’
autonomy. “The government handled this situation very badly.”  The failure to pass the Lokpal bill is symbolic of a year
during which Singh’s administration has been unable to clinch
parliamentary support for promised policies to overhaul a
justice system clogged with millions of cases, change rules on
how farmland is acquired for factories and protect officials who
expose fraud.  Singh Silent  All are backed up in a legislature that this year passed
just 22 laws, the second-fewest since 1952, according to the New
Delhi-based PRS Legislative Research.  Singh, who was in the chamber, made no statement and there
was no indication whether parliament will meet before its next
session scheduled to begin in February. The prime minister’s
efforts were undone in part by opposition from his party’s
allies, an echo of what happened to his proposal to let foreign
companies buy majority stakes in Indian retailers.  That move, suspended Dec. 7, would have let in companies
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., with the aim of helping overhaul
a national distribution system whose inefficiencies see 40
percent of fruit and vegetables rot before they can be sold.
Singh said in an interview this month that he plans to revive
the measure after regional elections early next year.  Bureaucracy Slashed  The prime minister’s record of attempts to unshackle the
economy from regulation, bureaucracy and corruption date back to
his tenure as finance minister in the early 1990s, when he
dismantled government monopolies, cut import tariffs and
welcomed foreign investment.  Corruption is an emotional issue in India, where at least
12 whistle-blowers were killed and 40 assaulted after seeking
information under a new Right to Information Act aimed at
exposing local graft, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from January 2010 through mid-October 2011. Enacted by Singh six
years ago, the legislation became the most powerful tool for
fighting wrongdoing in politics and business, with 529,000
requests filed in the year through March.  With the legislation to set up the federal anti-graft
agency, Singh failed to overcome resistance from his allies,
opposition parties and social activists. The debate became the
most divisive political issue since his government came close
being toppled in 2008 over a civil nuclear accord with the U.S.  State Polls  The ruling Congress party faces state elections from
January, including one in  Uttar Pradesh , home to a sixth of all
Indians. The polls will offer an indication of the government’s
support two years before national elections are due.  Economic growth is slowing after the central bank raised
 interest rates  by a record pace in its effort to tame the
fastest inflation among BRIC nations, which include Brazil,
Russia and China.  India’s economy  grew 6.9 percent in the three
months through September, the weakest since the second quarter
of 2009.  The central bank’s campaign has had little impact, with the
benchmark wholesale  price index  climbing 9.1 percent in November
from a year before, compared with the 9.5 percent pace at the
start of this year. By comparison,  China ’s inflation rate was
4.2 percent in November.  The rupee has weakened about 16 percent against the dollar
this year,  Asia ’s worst performer, as an exodus by investors
sent the Sensex index of stocks down 23 percent, more than the
18 percent drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Telecoms Sale  Opposition to the Lokpal bill centered on two main
criticisms: the lack of direct control over the country’s
leading criminal  investigation agency  that parties said robbed
the legislation of powers to punish the corrupt; and that it
infringed on the rights of states by forcing them to mold local
graft-fighting agencies to the federal law.  The ombudsman that Singh’s government wanted to create
would have been able to scrutinize the prime minister except
over issues of national security. It wouldn’t have had direct
oversight of junior bureaucrats responsible for everyday acts of
petty corruption that blight business and governance.  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja ,
bureaucrats and business executives are on trial accused of
conspiring to award cellphone permits to ineligible companies in
a 2008 sale that India’s chief auditor says might have cost the
government $31 billion in foregone revenue. Other charges have
been brought over contracts for the hosting of last year’s
Commonwealth Games.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  