-- Former HP CEO Hurd Tried to Cajole Fisher Into Sex, Letter Says
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2011-12-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/hurd-pursued-sex-with-contractor-jodie-fisher-while-ceo-of-hp-letter-says.html
Former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  tried to persuade Jodie Fisher to
have sex and kissed and touched her inappropriately while she
was a company events contractor, according to a much-contested
letter that was ordered to be released by a court yesterday.  During dinners, hotel-room visits and other meetings in
cities such as Los Angeles, Atlanta, St. Louis and  Madrid 
between 2007 and 2009, Hurd kissed and embraced Fisher, brushed
his hand against her breast and attempted to initiate an affair,
according to the letter sent to Hurd on June 24, 2010, by
Fisher’s lawyer,  Gloria Allred . Hurd, who is now a president at
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , wasn’t found to have committed sexual harassment
by Hewlett-Packard, and Fisher herself later said the document
contained inaccuracies.  “You had designs to make her your lover from the onset
using your status and authority as CEO of HP,” Allred said in
the letter to Hurd, the contents of which were first reported by
Bloomberg News. “At times you would behave professionally
seemingly ‘getting’ that she was not going to have sex with you.
At other times, not, and you would relentlessly attempt to
cajole her into having sex with you.”  The letter, which sought a settlement for sexual
harassment, was obtained after a ruling by the Delaware  Supreme
Court  that it should be unsealed as part of the evidence in a
shareholder lawsuit against the  Palo Alto , California-based
company. Hurd’s relationship with Fisher led to his resignation
as CEO on Aug. 6, 2010, after a company investigation found he
had violated its standards of business conduct. Hurd settled
with Fisher the week he resigned.  Hurd’s Aftermath  Since Hurd’s departure, Hewlett-Packard has struggled to
revive sales and seen its stock tumble 45 percent. He was
replaced last year by  Leo Apotheker , who himself was ousted on
Sept. 22 and replaced by  Meg Whitman .  Allred and Michael Thacker, a Hewlett-Packard spokesman,
declined to comment.  In settling with Hurd last year, Fisher and Allred said
there was no romantic or sexual affair between the two. Hewlett-
Packard’s investigation found that he didn’t violate the sexual-
harassment policy.  Fisher told Hurd in a 2010 letter, also obtained by
Bloomberg News, that the Allred document had “many inaccuracies
in the details” and that the CEO’s behavior didn’t hurt
Hewlett-Packard or its reputation.  Contrasting Views  The Allred “letter was recanted by Ms. Fisher,” said Ken Glueck, a senior vice president for  Redwood City , California-
based Oracle. “She admitted it was full of inaccuracies.”  Allred’s letter portrays Fisher as being nervous in Hurd’s
presence because of his advances. In contrast, e-mails from
Fisher to Hurd show her enthusiastically discussing her job. The
messages, also obtained by Bloomberg News, depict her politely
inquiring about Hurd’s family and describing him as “fun” to
work with.  The eight-page letter from Allred to Hurd portrays a two-
year romantic pursuit of Fisher,  an actress  and former
contestant on the reality show “Age of Love.” She worked as a
greeter at Hewlett-Packard events around the world. Her job was
to introduce key customers to Hurd at the events.  According to Allred’s letter, Hurd, who is married with two
daughters, made sexual advances toward Fisher during dinners and
other meetings. During an October 2007 visit to her hotel room
at the Ritz Carlton in Atlanta, Hurd twice touched Fisher’s
breast and asked her to stay in his room for the night, the
letter said. Two months later in a hotel room in  St. Louis , he
embraced her and quickly kissed her on the lips.  ‘Major Strings Attached’  At another meeting, Hurd told Fisher he had girlfriends in
 New York  and San Francisco, according to the letter. He also
told her that many women were “crazy about” him, including
singer  Sheryl Crow , the document said. Jay Cooper, a lawyer at
 Greenberg Traurig LLP  who represents Crow, said he’d never heard
her name in connection with Hurd.  At a final meeting in Boise,  Idaho , in October 2009, Hurd
“grabbed and kissed” Fisher, the letter said. The meetings
made her nervous and worried about her employment status,
according to the document.  “She felt tired, irritated and depressed, sad and mad with
the growing unbending realization that her great new job had
some major strings attached,” said Allred, who works at  Allred
Maroko & Goldberg  in  Los Angeles .  EDS Deal  Hurd also told Fisher of plans to buy technology services
company Electronic Data Systems Corp., a deal that was
ultimately completed in 2008 for $13.9 billion, according to the
letter. During a meeting in Madrid in March 2008, Hurd walked
Fisher to an ATM and showed her his checking account balance of
more than $1 million to impress her, the document said.  Amy Wintersheimer, an employment attorney for Hurd at the
firm Allen Matkins, said in an e-mailed statement that she
sought to keep the letter confidential because it is “filled
with inaccuracies.”  “The truth is, there never was any sexual harassment,
which HP’s investigation confirmed, and there never was any
sexual relationship, which Ms. Fisher has confirmed,”
Wintersheimer said.  Hewlett-Packard  shareholder (HPQ)  Ernesto Espinoza sought the
letter, along with company books and records, in a suit aimed at
investigating possible corporate wrongdoing in conjunction with
the payment of Hurd’s severance package of as much as $40
million, according to court papers.  After Hurd received Allred’s letter, he turned it over to
Hewlett-Packard’s general counsel. Espinoza’s lawyer has said
publicizing the letter would help “air out” details of Hurd’s
departure from the company.  This week’s court decision followed Oct. 12 arguments in
Dover challenging a ruling in March by Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Donald Parsons Jr. that most of the letter should be
released.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  