-- Fatal Turkish Strike on Civilians Was Error by Forces Seeking PKK Members
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2011-12-30T11:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/turkish-jets-kill-more-than-35-people-in-strike-on-southeastern-province.html
Turkish warplanes targeting members
of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party instead killed 35 smugglers and
other civilians, triggering protests that may undermine
government efforts to end unrest.  More than 20 people were wounded in the attack two days ago
and the count was increasing, Hasip Kaplan, a legislator with
the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, said by telephone
yesterday. Huseyin Celik, a spokesman for the governing  Justice
and Development Party , said civilians were struck due to an
“operational error” and that most of the dead were cigarette
smugglers.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  faces the challenge of
pushing ahead with efforts to end Kurdish unrest while fighting
terrorism. Last week, Deputy Prime Ministers Bulent Arinc and
Besir Atalay said the government must recognize Kurdish identity
and give the country’s biggest ethnic minority more
constitutional and cultural rights.  “It’s not right to politicize this event and get on the
government’s case,” Arinc said today in televised comments in
Ankara. “Turkey is combating terrorism and in that fight
incidents like this may occur. If there’s neglect, a mistake or
intent in this event, then the people responsible will be
revealed and they will bear the consequences.”  Protests, Detentions  Thousands of Kurds demonstrated in Istanbul, Ankara and
other cities after the attack as pro-Kurdish parliamentarians
called for three days of mourning. Turkish authorities detained
20 protesters, who broke windows of city buses, damaged bus
stops and threw stones at the police, the newspaper Vatan
reported. Security forces used water cannons and tear gas to
disperse the crowds, according to the Istanbul-based newspaper.  About 40,000 people, mostly Kurds, have been killed in
three decades of fighting between the military and the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, or PKK, a separatist group labeled terrorists by
the U.S. and European Union.  Turkey ’s National Security Council, a forum of military and
civilian leaders, said that operations against the PKK will
“continue with determination.”  “The situation is likely to get worse with the military
response getting ramped up and the democratic opening remaining
just a bunch of statements,” said Robert O’Daly, a senior
analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “That leaves Kurds even more frustrated
and convinced that the government isn’t serious about Kurdish
rights.”  Condolences Sent  The Turkish armed forces sent condolences to the relatives
of the people killed in the bombing in a one-sentence  statement 
on the General Staff’s website.  The  air force  struck near the Iraqi border for about one
hour starting at 9:37 p.m. on Dec. 28, the military said in a
 statement  yesterday. The bombing was in response to images,
transmitted from drones, of a group crossing into Turkey, it
said. The army had intelligence of a planned attack from the
area, which is frequently used by the PKK, according to the
statement. An investigation has begun, it said.  “Contrary to the allegations, we don’t have a camp,
staging area, movements or preparations for an attack,” PKK
commander Bahoz Erdal told the pro-Kurdish Firat news agency.
“We call on all the people of Kurdistan to show their reaction
to this massacre.”  PKK members have sometimes disguised themselves as
smugglers and the Turkish army targets large groups crossing
from northern  Iraq , where the PKK is headquartered, Salih
Akyurek, a former army colonel and researcher at the Wise Men
Center for Strategic Studies in Ankara, said in a telephone
interview.  Democratic Opening  Turkey has killed at least 150 PKK members in air and
artillery bombardments since August, according to the military.
The PKK staged its deadliest attacks since the 1990s in October,
killing more than 30 soldiers, policemen and state-employed
militiamen in the southeast.  Companies including Petrol Ofisi AS, Turkey’s biggest fuel
retailer and a unit of  OMV AG (OMV) , have complained that smuggling
from northern Iraq provides unfair competition.  Erdogan, who sent troops into northern Iraq in August to
hunt down PKK members, has approved proposals to renew his
government’s so-called democratic opening of 2009.  The initial measures would include faster prosecution of
people accused of terrorism, said Atalay, who is leading the
effort. Also among the steps are ending long pre-trial
imprisonments and lifting arrest warrants on those members of
the PKK who voluntarily surrender and disarm, Sabah newspaper
reported Dec. 27, without saying how it got the information.  Since coming to power in 2002, Erdogan’s party has
bolstered rights for Kurds, including allowing teaching in the
Kurdish language to adults and easing other cultural and
language restrictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  