-- Uruguay May Keep Rate on Hold to Gauge Impact of European Crisis
-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 2011-12-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/uruguay-may-keep-rate-on-hold-to-gauge-impact-of-european-crisis.html
Uruguay’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  at 8 percent today as policy
makers wait to gauge the full impact of Europe’s debt crisis on
economic growth and inflation.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Mario Bergara, will leave the rate on hold for a second meeting after
raising it from 7.5 percent in June, according to three of five
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One analyst forecast an
increase to 8.5 percent and one expected a half-point cut. The
board will announce its decision about 3 p.m. New York time.  Inflation accelerated to 8.4 percent in November from 7.9
percent the month before, above the upper limit of the central
bank’s 4 percent to 6 percent target range for the 23rd month.
 Europe ’s debt crisis has yet to affect the $44 billion economy,
which expanded 7.5 percent in the third quarter from the same
period last year, the central bank reported Dec. 20.  “The committee will wait to have the information of the
fourth quarter of 2011 due next March to make a decision,” said
Pablo Moya, an economist at Montevideo-based Oikos Research Co.
“It remains to decipher what will be the impact of the
international crisis on the country.”  Inflation will slow to 7 percent next year from 8.2 percent
in 2011, according to the median estimate in a central bank
survey of 11 economists, banks, pension administrators and
industrial chambers released Dec. 14.  “The Policy Committee will keep the interest rate
unchanged given the high inflation rate,” said Ramon Pampin, an
economist at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Montevideo.  Bergara said on Dec. 8 that the government is determined to
stem price increases.  “The central bank will take steps to make credible its
policy of  price stability , but we are in a very volatile and
increasingly uncertain context,” Bergara told reporters in
Montevideo. “Therefore, we must balance inflationary pressures
with productive and competitive aspects.”  The Policy Committee will next meet in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 