-- Uruguay Unexpectedly Raises Rate to 8.75 Percent as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 2011-12-29T21:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/uruguay-unexpectedly-raises-rate-to-8-75-percent-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Uruguay’s central bank unexpectedly
boosted its benchmark  interest rate  to 8.75 percent today as
policy makers affirmed their commitment to containing prices in
the face of accelerating inflation.  The five-member Policy Committee, led by bank President
Mario Bergara, raised the rate to 8.75 percent from 8 percent.
The median estimate from five economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the bank to hold the rate at 8 percent, and the highest
estimate, from one analyst, was for an increase to 8.5 percent.  Inflation accelerated to 8.4 percent in November from 7.9
percent the month before, above the upper limit of the central
bank’s 4 percent to 6 percent target range for the 23rd month.
 Europe ’s debt crisis has yet to affect the $44 billion economy,
which expanded 7.5 percent in the third quarter from the same
period last year, the central bank reported Dec. 20.  “The central bank reacted strongly and gave a strong
signal of commitment to the goal of containing inflation,” said
Marcelo Sibille, an economist at Montevideo-based KPMG research
company. “Price increases were out of the target range and
there was a risk of losing credibility.”  Inflation will slow to 7 percent next year from 8.2 percent
in 2011, according to the median estimate in a central bank
survey of 11 economists, banks, pension administrators and
industrial chambers released Dec. 14.  “Even if the international context negatively impacts on
domestic production trends, we must face this eventuality with
lower inflation figures,” the bank said in its report
accompanying the decision today. “The committee noted that the
inflation rate has accelerated and that expectations remain
notoriously over the target range.”  The Policy Committee will next meet in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 