-- Vietnam Stock Index Poised for ‘Turnaround’: Technical Analysis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/vietnam-stock-index-poised-for-turnaround-technical-analysis.html
Vietnam’s benchmark  stock index (VNINDEX) ,
 Asia ’s worst performer this year, may fall another 6 percent
before reaching a “strategic buy point,” according to Viet
Capital Securities Co.  “We should pay close attention to the 330 level as we
expect this to be a strong support, which could mark a strategic
buy point and the low for 2012,” Raphael Wilhelm, the
brokerage’s Ho Chi Minh City-based director of technical
strategies, wrote in a report dated Dec. 28. The index has
slumped 28 percent this year, closing at 350.51 yesterday.  The VN Index has plunged on concern tighter monetary policy
to combat Asia’s fastest  inflation (VNCPIYOY)  will hurt economic growth and
corporate earnings. Consumer prices climbed 18.13 percent from a
year earlier in December. Gross domestic product grew 5.89
percent this year, compared with 6.78 percent in 2010, the
General Statistics Office said yesterday.  “We believe that we are close to a medium-term turnaround,
based on pure price analysis,” Wilhelm wrote. “As well as
that, we feel there are are just too many pessimists out
there.”  The 76.4 percent  Fibonacci (VNINDEX)  support measured from the 2009
high and 2009 low “is around 328,” he wrote, indicating the
index may not drop beyond that level. Wilhelm upgraded his
medium-term rating on the  index (VNINDEX)  for the first time since Nov.
11, raising the outlook to “neutral” from “down.”  Technical analysts look at price charts to forecast
resistance levels, or ceilings restricting further price
increases, and support levels, or floors limiting declines.
Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that securities rise
or fall by specific percentages after reaching a high or low,
and that those percentages provide support or resistance levels.  Viet Capital Securities advised Vietnam National Petroleum
Corp., the nation’s biggest fuel supplier, on its privatization
process before it held an initial public offering in July. It
also advised PetroVietnam Gas Corp., a unit of Vietnam Oil & Gas
Group, before its IPO in September last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  